There was a accidental but successful double spend during the recent hard fork (sorry, can't remember reference but it's on this forum). I found these two sister sites through reddit. Escrow is handled very easily for you. http://www.bitescrow.org/  http://www.bit2factor.org/  Here is the thread on reddit introducing them. They seem very well done.I have neither tried nor studied them. Presumably they run in browser javascript. If only BFL would accept this for payment for a jalapeño! During our meeting I mentioned deniably encrypted filesystems with multiple hidden volumes and complicated block analysis thwarting: rubberhosefs and phonebookfs. I can't find a link to phonebookfs anymore, though I do have the source code somewhere. I remember I tried compiling and using them as an academic exercise without success.Rubberhose filesystemMore info at http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deniable_encryptionedit: found it: phonebookfsalso, Bruce Schneier says a bit about rubberhosefsanother edit: forgot to say, these systems are obsolete, unmaintained and probably insecure. Hey, I just realised this is the first time I've paid for dinner, or any food, with bitcoins! Thanks to all, great meeting. I'm gonna think some more about the ideas we spoke about. http://blockchain.info/tx/a1c25ceceee7b4eaf47bc3395d7f08024f8c3423d96975175ad65a48596927ddCurious about that blazr link. Nothing illicit changed hands so it's a bit bizarre that the police would manage to get a warrant. I expect you need a warrant to intercept post too. I wonder would it be clever to pre-print a receipt in two copies before meeting someone, with a declaration along the lines of "The bitcoins being exchanged for XXX at exchange rate YYY/BTC to be sent to address 1ADDRESS, will not be utilised for any illicit activity and the buyer indemnifies the seller of any responsibility thereof." Then ask the buyer for ID which you photograph and fill in on the receipt before accepting any money, both parties sign and take a copy. At least then you have a written record to show a judge, just in case.edit: I wonder will blazr be getting letters from the revenue authorities. 500 in cash is probably enough to raise a flag. Actually, anybody using this forum, or localbitcoins or similar, and has left a meatspace trail, has probably been flagged by now. I owe some of ye some coins - 0.03 for Mahkul and notooccupanther and 0.06 for simplydt. Can ye post them here or in PM? Too much noise at the Bull & Castle. We've moved to the Lord Edward pub across the road. We're upstairs at the Bull & Castle right now, at the far end of the bar, in a dark, gloomy corner as far from the big screens as you can get really. Look for the three guys that look like bitcoin heads. I'm still on for the meeting. 4pm Saturday at the Bull & Castle, Lord Edward St. Seems there'll be 8 or 9 of us. See ye there. Remember - bring a PGP key for signing if you like and maybe a couple of paper wallets with a bitcent preloaded (~1), for tips. OP, you didn't answer my question. Tor registrations are not permitted on bitcointalk, so your registration IP might reveal something about you. Or did you use an anonymous VPN like molecular did at the time? Howdy, I've created another graph showing the recent fiasco.In the new graph you can see that there was a steady exponential growth for two months from mid-january to mid-march.Then cyprus went beserk, leading to an immediate and crazy exponential period with a doubling every 11.5 days! To make it clear, this doubling was even faster than the June 2011 bubble. See the linked post for the image showing that.So, I can offer a hypothesis. When the Cyprus crisis went public, many people thought "Ahh, Cypriots are going to be buying bitcoins, ahhhh, all of Europe will want to be buying bitcoins, ahhhh, the whole world will want to buy bitcoins."So speculators saw a chance and pushed the price way way up.I happened to read an article a while ago which stated something like Cypriots, and the whole world, never did go crazy buying bitcoins after all(can't remember where). So this always was (as many many people predicted) just a speculative bubble. I guess MtGox lag and possible DDOS didn't help.The good news is that we've more-or-less returned to a longer term trend. In fact, if the Cyprus crisis and subsequent bubble hadn't happened, but the Jan-Mar trend had continued, we'd be right where we are now.For reference, you can also see the long term trend which has been holding since roughly Jan 2011. I have only an idea how webbugs work, but it seems everybody says OP is using tor, including theymos.  However, I thought registration on this forum through tor was not permitted, so theymos should have OP's real IP address from that - though IIRC, molecular used a VPN-through-tor to register for his "findmeifyoucan" thread - can you confirm molecular?  Theymos, does your post refer also to OP's registration IP?  If not, then: OP, are you willing to let theymos reveal your registration IP?I can't help with the technical aspects of this hunt, even though I'd love to be more capable of that.  Would it be possible to trawl through every post made on this forum and gather timing statistics for each member?  Assuming OP is still posting under his real username, then there might be a strong correlation with this anonymous id though it would probably take a while longer, and plenty more posts, to weed out the false positives. For the prize of 2.5BTC you could afford to make over 100 trials though (though it's not clear if the donation should be 0.02BTC or 0.005BTC).Here's some linguistic analysis, which is all I can really offer:This might suggest American English, though -ize is common in the "Queen's English" lands now. OP also has another post with "synchronize".This suggests colloquial English. Most foreigners would say "I need..." because they are taught that English requires that the subject be explicitly specified (unlike, e.g., Spanish, Italian where the verb specifies the subject, or Japanese where I understand the subject is usually implied). So either OP didn't know that (which seems unlikely given the quality of his English) or he is familiar enough with English to know that, casually speaking, it's not always necessary, eg: "Went swimming yesterday, bumped into a fish so I ate it up" - it's clear I am the subject.Whereas this suggests non-English language origin. OP should say "... in the bitcoin community"More stuff suggests non-English mother tongue.  OP should say "definitely gone" or "definitively gone" or "gone for certain" instead of "for sure".  This is not a hard and fast rule, though.  Just in my personal experience, lots of non-native English speakers say "for sure" more than you might otherwise expect.This is not a trivial linguistic construction, but for all I can see there are no errors.So, all I can offer, is the following. OP's first post was asking to be whitelisted to get out of the newbie jail https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=15911.msg1621951#msg1621951.  Then he replies to a bunch of newbie questions with what seems to be very good English. Then he starts asking about escrow and penetration testers and we see a couple of mistakes creeping in, though a couple of posts still come through perfectly well. Then there are a couple more replies to newbie questions only now there are some errors:So, all-in-all, OP seems to be a non-native English speaker but with very good English. Or he is deliberately introducing errors. Or... maybe... there might be more than one person writing. Last possibility, OP says he is following most of the advice from molecular's findmeifyoucan thread - my advice in that thread was to use an automatic translator (e.g. google) to translate everything he is writing.  Anyone here work at google and willing to search the translate history for a match, assuming the history is kept?     (that's just a joke, doing that would probably get you fired!)Sorry if this post seems a bit confused.  I'm pulling info in from a bunch of different tabs at once.edit: hmm, rereading this again after I posted yesterday - a substantial part of OP's posts are better than any automatic translation. Scratch that theory. I have given paper wallets to a few friends and family, with an expiry date, and I kept a copy of the private key. I've told them that if the bitcoins are still there at the expiry date, I'll take them back. At the current rate, it will a couple of hundred dollars back in my pocket in a few months, assuming things don't crash. Bull & Castle seems ok to me. Only doubt: if we want to talk then it's no good if there'll be constant loud music - that's why I suggested a hotel lounge. But if this place fits the bill, then I'm game.We have:dbulinbrianmahkulnereerfergalishNeither bowen151 nor blazr have replied again. I'd PM again, but I already told them about this thread, so I'd prefer not to spam.Hey - let's turn it into a PGP signing meeting, so bring your key fingerprint, and, I'd say, bring a couple of paper wallets each with a couple of euros - we can use them for tipping the bar staff.So, excepting indications to the contrary, the date is set for April 27th at the Bull & Castle, Lord Edward Street.  There are only 4 definites, so I'd say to meet there at about 4pm.Get your brains working about how to increase bitcoin adoption in Ireland! I would add that the bitcoin foundation should reduce its membership fees too. They were introduced when bitcoin was, what, maybe $7, meaning membership was about $18 per year, or $180 lifetime. Now it's $180 per year or $1800 lifetime (gasp!). Ok. Unless someone else can come up with a reason against, I herewith call the meeting for the 27th afternoon in Dublin. Any suggestions for the location? I haven't lived in Dublin for 20 years, so I don't know what hotel might have a decent lounge and a good but reasonably priced restaurant.If there are enough of us (say, more than 5), I'd say to meet for lunch, maybe tea & sandwiches from the bar, and if anyone's has anything particular to say we could rig up a timetable with informal seminars delivered from a laptop. More likely, if there only 3-5 of us, then we'll meet around 4pm and just chat.Are there any miners operating in Ireland? I've had a couple of replies. One from Derry, one from somewhere, and I'm in Cork. The most logical place to hold it would be Dublin - it's the de facto centre of the island's transport web.How about the last weekend in April? We could meet in some city centre location for lunch on Sat. 27th, then chat all afternoon, and finish off with dinner and say goodbye. And then finish off for real with a pint or two.Would we want something so formal as a meeting room, maybe with a projector, or will it be enough to occupy the corner of a public house, or maybe a hotel lounge? I'd go for the hotel lounge.So far we have:bowen151blazrmahkuldublinbrianfergalishAny additions? I've just PMd everyone who has posted in this thread, fortunately there aren't many. Let's see who responds. Damn... that easy, huh. Just click on "image". Thx. I would, but I don't know how... I'm sure it's really easy. Can anyone else provide please? I updated the graph with another interesting curve. Bitcoin first hit the news in 2011 with a couple of slashdot and wired posts. So if we take from there to today, and fit an exponential, we get a doubling every 150 days or so.  So with this hindsight it's clear to see that the June'11 bubble was truly a bubble. Growth since then has been intermittent but constant over the long term. I'm not one to speculate, but the graph suggests bitcoins bought today will be worth 4 times as much in 12 months.http://imgur.com/Hs6zMoi@timo: I wouldn't say exponential growth is necessarily bad, but it is certainly always unsustainable. Perhaps that's what the bitcoin critics refer to.
Just made a thread about exponential growth before noticing this thread:A singluarity (mathematically) means the price would start to diverge; i.e. much faster than exponential. There is no indication of that in the graph.How do you include a graphic directly in the post? Hi, I just made a graph of the data from bitcoincharts.com for MtGox USD, taking all 6-hourly data since their records begin. Bitcoin seems to go through phases of exponential growth, which probably means that it spreads virally through a new class of user before saturating its presence in that group. I had a pet theory a while ago that each new phase of expansion of bitcoin would always be slower than the last, but this latest increase to $65 is actualy faster than the previous two. However it is significantly slower than the June 2011 bubble, which saw the price double almost 3 times as fast as it is doubling today.http://imgur.com/L3raefvFor those that don't know, exponential expansion indicates that, on average, every entity participating in some network is bringing in another entity in some fixed time. It could be rabbits breeding, or cells dividing in a foetus. From 1 cell or rabbit, you get two. From 2, you get 4. From 4, 8. And so on. Each doubling occurs in the same time.Right now, bitcoin price is doubling every 33 days or so. If this were to keep up (which it won't, I'm certain) until year end, bitcoins would be worth about $16k each, and market cap would be about $200 billion. However, each of the previous exponential expansions lasted typically about one or two months each. Which would suggesting we're near the end of this one, assuming no externalities to disrupt the trend (like global banking collapse). I would have bought a couple of units, but increasing the price 3 times for substantially the same hardware seems a little... abusive? If the exchange rate drops significantly it's unlikely that these units would recover the investment. Howdy. With the recent bump in price, I'm seeing that there's gonna be a lot of people and alot of companies curious about bitcoin and wanting to try it on for size. Anyone fancy a meeting? I'd suggest aiming small and soon, maybe mid-April. There's lots to discuss:1. Promoting bitcoin in Ireland2. Organizing an (inter) national bitcoin conference (we'd need funding)3. Law & taxationand more? My first thought when I read about this ruling was, like many, "great! bitcoin is legal!". Now I'm unsure again. I've always held nagging doubts about bitcoin, and how amazingly effective it would be as a 1984-esque tool for population control and governance. To recap, just suppose BigGovt gains >51% of mining, and suddenly the only transactions getting through are government-approved transactions, to government-approved bitcoin addresses - it would be the ultimate Big Brother.  Yeah, yeah, yeah, I know, many people more clever than me have suggested measures against this, but I'm still not convinced.So, now what, are these bitcoin "money transmitters" going to need to register their bitcoin address(es) with some government department so they can be monitored for compliance? How exactly are they going to police this ruling?This ruling seems positive for bitcoin, but I'm seeing it more as a shot across the bow: "bitcoin: we're coming for you." In fact, many threads have said that the weak point in the bitcoin ecosystem is the fiat exchangers. How about that.I call on the devs to prioritize a modification to the block approval code in the client, to reject blocks that do not include enough valid and well-broadcasted transactions. We need better discussion on this in order to establish exactly how to proceed. I saw this thread got bumped, and it got me thinking. Well, if you buy & sell bitcoins, or if you trade for bitcoins, the tax implications should be fairly clear. I think in the former case, you declare capital gains when you realise the profit, and in the latter, you declare a dollar-equivalent income at the time of the trade. Right?The interesting thing is mining. How do you tax wealth that comes "out of nowhere"? Well, let's examine more closely where it does actually come from.Well, suppose I were to invent a new currency based on... peculiarly shaped stones that only I can find. Well, if no-one accepts my new currency the value is zero. If people start accepting them, then by their very acceptance, they ascribe a value to the stones. So, it's more like a gift than anything. So I might hold up a stone and shout to the masses: "what'll you give me for this?" and everyone shouts back "$100", and someone "gifts" me $100 for my (previously) worthless stone.Of course, now that bitcoins are somewhat established, and mining is a big business, I suppose calling it a gift wouldn't cut any more. Yeah, it'd have to be income-taxed. I'm pleased to say that my order with bitcoinin arrived this morning. I ordered 9 books on the 2nd or 3rd March, it was shipped on the 7th (from US) and arrived today (EU) - 6 days shipping instead of the stated 2 weeks. All was perfectly in order.Actually, regards the discussion of the name "bitcoin in, stuff out", when I saw "bitcoinin" first, I thought of the verb "to bitcoin" meaning to deal in bitcoins, then "bitcoinin" would be a groovy way to say "bitcoining".  Like "to google" became a verb, so could "to bitcoin". I'm bitcoinin' dudes, I'm bitcoinin'...+1 for bitcoininCheers. Hmm. What if the algorithm could be contained within the transaction's scriptsig? So, suppose I'm betting on.... who the next pope will be. The contracting parties decide on their authoritative news source (e.g. cnn.com). When the next pope is decided, cnn publishes a page stating "The new pope is Alice"  (yeah, revolution in the church, a female pope!) and they sign that statement with the bitcoin key which was presciently written in the original transaction. Now, since I was betting on Alice becoming pope, I simply download cnn's message and the signature, both of which match the transaction's requirements, construct a transaction with them, and redeem my winnings.So, this would require the scriptsig to:a) match the text "the new pope is Alice"b) verify the signature from cnnThis would remove any subjectivity in the decision - you'd still have to trust your news source, but in any case, the outcome of the contract is defined. The news source *could* be corrupt and publish false news in order to profit. I presume what you're trying to do is implement a user-friendly interface for implementing M of N transactions (which, I think, is not a trivial task). Are you thinking of going further and investigating an implementation of smart property (http://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Smart_Property), or at least an interface where smart property contracts can be registered and an API the smart property itself can interact with?The outcome of some M of N contracts could be actually reduced to algorithms (e.g. betting on the value of MtGox_7day_USD which, I suppose, can be obtained programatically) - would you implement an interface where the writer of the contract can specify the algorithm which decided the outcome? I wonder which type of language that would use. I'd be interested in such a project, but I think it will be quite some time before there would be any real world example of it being necessary. I mean, bitcoin would have to take off before these complex features of bitcoins will be required, I think. That would do fine too. I like it. Would be reviewed periodically by developers - much like the transaction fee, now at 0.0005BTC. If bitcoins jump to $100 or $200, the minimum transaction fee will probably be reduced to 0.0001BTC. What I mean is, with fiat currency, there is a minimum transaction - $0.01.  Actually, in Canada, isn't it CAD$0.02 ?  I gather some European countries don't even use 0.01 coins anymore.So the devs would introduce a minimum recommended transaction output of 0.01 BTC. According as 1 BTC buys more and more potatoes, the minimum transaction should be reduced accordingly. In any case, the minimum transaction output should ALWAYS be greater than the minimum transaction fee, so that these spammy outputs can always pay for their own redeeming and be eventually pruned. But you still could. Look at it this way. On Friday the house shuffles all the card decks for the week's games (it has to be some time before the decks are used). For each game, it performs SHA256 of the deck, resulting in files like this:Decks.txt:MondayGame1Deck: KingSpades,AceDiamonds,4Clubs,..........MondayGame2Deck: .........SundayGame1000Deck: ....Hashes.txtMondayGame1Hash: sha256....MondayGame2Hash: .........So, you publish Hashes.txt on the preceeding Friday, and burn *it's* hash into the blockchain somehow.Now at the start of each game, the players say their magic words, and these magic words shuffle the deck according to some fixed algorithm, and the game is played.Now, in the event that no player says any magic words, or that JohnDoe is a regular player and he *always* says "abrekadabra", we need to prove that the house is not somehow filtering their decks (i.e. on Friday, the house shuffles their decks, applies "abrekadabra" and checks to see if the deck is favourable to them, given that JohnDoe comes in to play every Tuesday evening at 8pm). This would require an extra source of random shuffling from an externally verifiable source of entropy. e.g., the blockchain. So the shuffling algorithm need only insert an extra "lucky phrase", which is the block hash, or the merkle root, of the latest block in the block chain. Given that the house can't possibly know this value on Monday morning when they shuffle all their decks, this would absolutely prove that the house is not pre-filtering their decks.After the game is played you allow the players to view:1. the hash of the initial shuffle which is burned into the blockchain via the file Hashes.txt2. the initial shuffle3. the players magic words, the latest block|merkle hash, and the shuffling algorithm4. the new shuffled deck5. the play6. the winner(s)Oh... gosh, if we wanted to be *really* paranoid, the house *might* technically have a choice over which blockhash to use - the latest one, or maybe the one before that. If one or the other turn out to be more advantageous (again assuming the players say nothing, or say something entirely predictable), the house could claim they hadn't received the latest block at the time of the game. This would be solved by putting a visible blockchain counter in each gaming room though, or maybe writing it into the chat.Hot damn, I should build myself a casino! How about a solution like this. A transaction can include outputs that anyone can spend, without requiring a private key to unlock; let's call them "free" outputs. So, the smaller any single output is, the more free outputs the transaction must have, with each free output equal to the standard transaction fee.Obviously the free outputs will be claimed by clients that relay or mine the transaction. Some clients might not relay the transaction if all the free outputs are already taken, therefore in the interest of propogation, a single relaying client will not be tempted to immediately claim all the free transactions.However -- I'm not sure about a technical aspect of this. Suppose I send a transaction with two free outputs. The first relay claims one and leaves another blank. The transaction is then mined, so the miner claims the second. However: could the miner also *erase* the claim on the first free output, and insert a new claim on it?  In other words, can the original transaction be derived from the one in which the first free output is claimed?An alternative solution is this. At the moment, the fee is TXFEE * TXSIZE, where TXFEE is 0.0005BTC and TXSIZE is measured in kB, right?  And the fee must be applied if: a) the priority is low b) TXSIZE > 1 or c) any output < 0.01 BTC. How about changing the fee to:  TXFEE*TXSIZE + SUM_{OUTPUTS<0.01}(TXFEE*log2(0.01/outputvalue)).  Let me explain:TXFEE*TXSIZE is the same as before.0.01/outputvalue = 1.0 if outputvalue=0.01                        = 2 if outputvalue=0.005                        = 8 if outputvalue=0.000125and so on.log_2(...) = 0 if outputvalue=0.01              = 1 if outputvalue=0.005              = 3 if outputvalue=0.000125and so onSo, for each output below 0.01BTC (threshold which depends on bitcoin value, currently ~$40), every time the output halves in value, the transaction fee must increase by TXFEE.So, a 750Byte transaction with outputs (0.5, 0.01, 0.009, 0.001, 0.00000001) will require a fee on the last three outputs only:   TXFEE*[log2(0.01/0.009) + log2(0.01/0.001) + log2(0.01/1e-8)] = TXFEE*[0.15 + 3.32 + 19.93] = 23.4 * TXFEE.As you can see, the 1 satoshi output really costs alot of fees.The problem is that this will merely make the transaction more expensive benefiting the miner - it will not reward non-miners for having to store, relay and validate the output (though that might be impossible anyway). I'm on minecraft chatting with murderscene & dooglas about the provably fair betting. What I'd like to see is the sha256 of each game's "secret" *before* I play.So, you could shuffle the deck, take the sha256sum, and write it in the blockchain the day before you use it. Then you take the user's lucky words, reshuffle accordingly, and play the game. On the results page (bitvegas.net/....) you can show the whole process which is verifiable.EDIT: this allows the user to know that the original shuffle was generated before the game was played.See http://btcmultiplier.com/keys.php for how they wrote a 40 year list (!) of sha256s into the blockchain with a single transaction.Edit2: I'm just thinking, it would be far better to use a public source of entropy. For example, assuming a 3-player game in which no-one says any lucky words (or some people say predictable lucky words), what's to stop a casino from tending to favor decks with top cards: A,2,5,8,K,4,6,9, so that the dealer gets A & K blackjack! So the deck should be reshuffled with a random number just before the game, but that the random number can be proven to be outside the control of the casino.  e.g. btcmultiplier use the transaction ID.In short, I'm saying that, assuming bitvegas is using, and not filtering in it's favor, a good random number gen, then the fairness is provable. It would be great if you could also prove the randomness.Any thoughts? Higher fees is not the solution to this. At present the miners are already massively profiting; their electricity costs are far below the income from solving a block, even for GPU miners, and even if you include depreciation of equipment.Quick estimate:  4xGPU = $1000, lifetime 12 months, equals a cost of roughly $0.02 per block.Current difficulty, roughly 4 million, meaning you need to perform 17x10^15 = 17 PetaHashes PH to solve a block. The card will perform 1.5MH/J, meaning you need about 10GJ of energy to perform all those 17 PH.  10 GJ of energy is equal to about 2700 kWh which, at $0.20 each, will cost maybe $550.  The 25BTC reward from the block, right now, gets you over $1000. Leaving a profit of $1000 - $550 - $0.02 = $449.98 per block solved, which you can expect roughly every 150 days (17 PH per block divided by 1.3 GH/sec for the 4 GPUs). Data from https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining_hardware_comparisonNaturally a clever miner will have 40 GPUs instead of 4, and earn those $449.98 every 15 days instead. Or maybe 400 GPUs.Of course, a clever *and* lucky miner, will be running an ASIC, say, a BFL minirig, churning out 1.5TH/s (no consumer versions online yet, supposedly), solving perhaps 7 blocks per day but requiring only 17 MJ per block solved, roughly 5 kWh or $1.00. Depreciation of the minirig ($35000) over, say, 36 months will cost $0.22 per block.  So the BFL minirig miner would profit by $1000 - $1.00 - $0.22 = $998.78 per block solved, or roughly $7,000 per day. How bad!I did ignore the fact that the difficulty will increase in these estimates. If I made any other glaring mistakes, please point them out.Typical Tx fees per block are now maybe 0.3BTC. So even if that were to go up by a factor of 10, it would still be far less significant than the block reward.Bearing in mind that the purpose of the transaction fee is to attract miners and secure the network, it should be clear that increasing fees at this time is not going to achieve its designated purpose. The block reward is already much more than sufficient for that. And it certainly won't create more block space. What it *will* do, however, is alienate users.Insisting on higher fees because miners have a monopoly on a commodity (block space) with an artificially imposed scarcity... well, really just sounds like the big boys club all over again, doesn't it? rNpgwk26YMnni8Pcf7mL6fj1EhTkZes1z3I'd like to learn more about ripple pay, but how do I extend credit to others? I don't know anyone who has signed up for ripple pay, so I'm "outside the network" right? Your confidence in your fellow humans is inspiring, but let's be serious. But western standards of mathematical literacy are pretty bad, and certainly well below the requirements of cryptography. I didn't mean to insinuate that other people are stupid, rather that the concepts behind bitcoin are not at all simple and, more importantly, completely change our understanding of "money", and that the banks and the police and the government's finance department won't be able to fix our money problems anymore. I think most people won't be able, or have the necessary time to dedicate, to understand it. And that's why ASICs will centralize power in the bitcoin world. Bitcoindom is surely dominated by geeks, for want of a better word.But it reminds me of a joke: "just think how stupid the average person is.... yeah, half of 'em are stupider!" You might or might not find that funny, but most people on this forum should be able to tell why it's actually wrong (mathematically speaking). I also think ASICs are bad news for democracy in bitcoin-dom. ASICs will simply never be as widely distributed as CPUs. I would turn the whole bitcoin network back to CPU mining only, if only there was an algorithm which could not run on GPUs FPGAs or ASICs. Trouble is, anything you can softcode on a CPU, you can hardcode into an ASIC.We *could* perhaps try a non-parallelizable algorithm, ohhhh, such as:HASH_i = SHA256(BLOCKDATA + NONCE + HASH_(i-1))and iterate at least N times where N is a measure of the difficulty. However, this would take as long to verify as it does to compute, so that's no good.  In fact, I'm not there there could possibly exist a long-running non-parallelizable algorithm which is difficult to compute but simple to verify. Any information-theorists out there that can shed light on this?It makes me think of the phrase "the ultimate form of wealth is energy" (or something similar, origin unknown to me), except I'd modify it and say "the ultimate form of wealth is the efficient use of energy". Those with the energy and the means to use it efficiently, get the money. Only thing is, John Doe won't ever understand why *he* should buy a BFL Single or similar in order to protect the network. Right now the police and the banks protect our money from forgers and thieves, and we all understand that. Telling people that the only way to protect their bitcoins is to expend *energy* doing so, is so completely far out that majority of people will just glaze over and talk about the weather instead.  The curious minority will shrug their shoulders and wonder if there wasn't a simpler way but will trust that "someone else" will do it. The geeky ultra-minority will try to understand why, and some of those will actually go out and buy a mining rig. Well, once your transaction gets into the blockchain, that's when everyone's client will write (txid,vin) to the appropriate input transactions. You'd have to exploit some bug in the code to convince the client to do that, but presumably there would be no code written which would actually re-overwrite with 0x00... since that's never a thing you'd want to do. Oh, except in blockchain reorgs maybe.I mean, you could write whatever values you wanted into *your* copy of the blockchain. But that's not really much use to you - you'd have to convince everyone's client to do so. Here's a suggestion - please bear in mind I don't know exactly how transactions are stored in the database, so it could be this is already incorporated. Also, I know 0.8 stores the data in a different container which I have not yet studied.At the moment, in order to verify a transaction, a bitcoin client has to dereference the inputs, then trawl the whole blockchain making sure it has not already been redeemed. Is that correct?  If so, then: wouldn't it be clever to leave enough bytes (50 or so) inside each transaction output in the blockchain, to store the eventual redeeming transaction & vin?So for example, at the moment, transactions are stored as (simplified):       txid, (txid:vout, txid:vout, ...), (addr:value, addr:value, ...)where the first parenthesis are the inputs, and the second the outputs.I would change that to:       txid, (txid:vout, txid:vout, ...), (addr:value:0x00000, addr:value:txid:vin, ....)where the first output has not yet been redeemed and has 50 bytes of empty 0x0. The second output has been redeemed and the 50 bytes of 0x0 have been overwritten with the (txid,vin) with which this transaction output has been redeemed.  This would reduce verification on each transaction input to a single db lookup on a unique index (the txid).edit: from https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Protocol_rules#.22tx.22_messages, step 14 of verifying a transaction is:"For each input, if the referenced output has already been spent by a transaction in the main branch, reject this transaction"I suppose this is just one more database query, right? So maybe this suggestion is not so useful given that it would add 50 bytes or so for each tx output. ok, never mind.
You'll all have to excuse my stupidity, but what's wrong with unlimited (*) blocks? Let each miner set his own transaction fees and free market competition will ensure that transaction fees are kept low while still keeping the network secure. Surely putting some artificial limit on blockchain size in order to drive up fees is little different to central bankers imposing QE or inflation targets on a currency.Of course, bitcoin mining will migrate to where there is cheap energy, but this might have a beneficial side effect - more effort will be put into building cheap energy sources (read: renewable (**)) so any given geographical region can contribute to mining and so benefit from incoming tx fees ("free money" for want of a better description).(*) up to some reasonable limit that shouldn't ever be reached, which will depend on how widespread bitcoin adoption is - visa handles a peak of about 10000 tx per second, assume normal use is 3000 tx/sec, assume 250 bytes per transaction and you'd need on average 0.5GB sized blocks every 10 minutes. For the immediate future, I think there's no reason the blocksize should increase beyond 10MB at the outside.(**) hopefully renewable but admittedly, not necessarily so. This is a really awesome project and I wish you the best with it. I prefer to only ever beat the house so I don't ever gamble. But I can see that I'd probably log in sometimes and play for chump change. Better than playing hearts against the computer.I find it hard sometimes to click and exit the blackjack chairs. Is there a list of instructions anywhere? Tried to connect, says I'm not whitelisted. I read once, I can try to find the reference, that if the Irish provincial kings had united they would have easily repelled the invaders. However, the invaders practised the very successful "divide and conquer" method, and exploited differences and petty wars to actually have the Irish fight themselves. Medieval Ireland was not an AnCap society. It was hierarchically structured. Peasants paid obligatory tithes (taxes) but were protected by their lord or king, and other posts have already noted that slavery was present. Everybody in the society had a rank:Source:The video contains some truths mixed with misleading simplifications. The English weren't the first to conquer, but they were the last. Previous conquistadors were subsumed into the existing society - the phrase "more Irish than the Irish themselves" refers to this phenomenon. This "AnCap" society was not able to defend itself.As the video says, smaller petty kingdoms were slowly amalgamated into larger, each with an "over-king". However the entire island was ruled by a High King (who also commanded taxes) - though much of the historical record is lost to legend by now. There was a highly complex legal system to which obedience was not optional.For example, the video suggests people could easily change from one tuath to another. Not so; members of a tuath were unquestionably subjects of their lord or king.To summarize, there are some truths in what the video states, but the real truth is much more complicated - I'm certain it wasn't the AnCap paradise you're thinking of. Though, on reflection, my own interpretation of AnCap and, to a large extent, libertarianism, is that people with more money will be able to afford better "justice" than those without. So, actually, maybe you're right. It's not what you're thinking I'm sure, but I'll bet AnCap would end up fairly similar to medieval Ireland, only with guns and telecomms instead of swords and fast horses. The video admits that there were wars between petty kingdoms, calling them "minor things". I have a problem with this as an example of how an AnCap society can go wrong - when two "defence" contractors and their respective "mediators" cannot come to a satisfactory solution, the only valid response in war (given the absence of a society-wide independent judiciary - though see below). Notably ever since Ireland became a unified independent republic there have been no more wars within or across its borders, with the sole exception of terrorism.One thing that interests me most is that the video states the king as also subjected to an independent judiciary - this is, to my knowledge, true (with the caveat that a king's word held more weight than a peasant's). I haven't finished the book I've quoted (it's a tough read), but I'd like to learn more about the judiciary's independence. One of the big failings of AnCap/libertarianism, in my opinion, is that it cannot guarantee an independent judiciary. Umm, he sleeps in one of those travel cots (we're tight for space, but fortunately it's decent enough).  So it's just 6 inches off the floor.  The walls are fabric stretched over a light aluminium frame and, on one end, there's a door that zips up.  A bit like a tent, I suppose, only being a cot there's no roof, and being a cot for small people (i.e. < 5 years), it would be a pretty small door for a real tent -- unless, I guess, if it was a tent for similarly small people   Well, he walks proudly up, unzips the door, and climbs into bed. I need only zip the door closed again, put the covers over him, and voilà, he's done, all ready for sleepies. Admittedly, the first time he did this I was speechless. Didn't even know he knew how to operate zips. But, not wanting to lose the initiative, I took it in my stride and made him opening his own cot-door a part of the night-time routine   I used to sit beside or lie on the toddlers' bed and make up a story. Once I made up a really nice story about a little bird that lost a feather and couldn't fly any more, until a friendly spider spun a giant web and caught the feather in it! They *LOVED* to hear made-up stories. It was the one sure method of getting them to calm down and listen. Sometimes they'd even make up their own stories.After the little story I would chat to the kids about this or that, or sing a little song. Then, sooner or later, I would interrupt with some reason to leave like, oh, I need to pee (kids understand that), I need to wash the dishes, I need to do a make a phone-call, something, anything, but *ALWAYS* with "wait there, I'll be back in 5 minutes".  9 times out of 10 they'll be asleep when you get back. If not, rinse & repeat. Eventually you won't have to go back no more.Apart from that, the earlier message about developing a routine is vital.Instead of having the young ones in your bed, much preferable is for you or your SO to squeeze into bed beside them - obviously it's better if you just sit there, but I'm considering the hypothesis that you're dead tired and need to sleep. You'll get uncomfortable soon, wake up, and can then go to your own bed. That way, they will become used to sleeping in their own bed.Our bedtime ritual is now pure joy. We bring 'em upstairs, they climb into bed (the youngest even unzips the door on his own cot and voluntarily climbs in!), a short song or story, kisses all around, and awaaaaayyyyyyyy! I'm not so sure. If a large stake-holder could ruin the value of the current blockchain, they might increase the value of their own blockchain or their own fiat currency as the case may be. It would remain to be seen whether they would enjoy a net surplus in the process. Of course, this would require bitcoin's market cap to be comparable to (e.g., if we're talking about fiat US$) US GDP. At that stage, presumably, the bitcoin network would be unassailable by any earthly economic power.Cunicula, I don't entirely understand your proposal. Correct me if I'm wrong - you're suggesting that people that run a full node *AND* engage in heavy mining get to preserve their stake. In your scenario mining contributes to the network security, as does running a full node with full blockchain history. So then, what about people that only maintain a full node without running a mining op? I'm sure I misunderstood. As an armchair wikipedia-surfing economist, I can see that Friedman was not the diehard libertarian I'd previously assumed. This quote here, again from wikipedia, suggests he promoted a Minimal State, and was certainly not advocating giant centralized states as suggested by Zanglebert above:In fact, the wikipedia article suggests he was predominantly liberal, but was unfortunate enough to be paid by Keynesians to decide policy in a Keynesian world, so he did the best he could:Today I learned something more about economics. Cheers, forum! I can see that, in a future with thousands of transactions per second, today's TOR network couldn't supply enough bandwidth. I've run a full node over tor for a long time, and I've never had any problems.I'm trying to differentiate between *identifying* a 51% attack and *defending* against it. Everybody on this forum will happily wax lyrical about how hard it would be for govt to eliminate bitcoin. And yet, nobody seems to notice the contradiction in declaring how easy it would be to exclude govt from bitcoin.Good post. I would add that some defence against a 51% attack should be implemented ASAP. If I were a central bank, I'd be buying up as many ASICs as possible to gain > 51% hashing power, or better still, > 90%. For the moment, then, I'd leave them hashing according to the standard rules and not make any hostile moves until I were certain how best to proceed. Does wikipedia need correcting? I tend to compare today's western societies more to Huxley's "Brave New World". But, really, I think of room 101 in 1984 as the "stick" and soma in Brave New World as the "carrot", both getting people to be docile citizens. Put in 2020 if you prefer, I'm sure you did realise that the actual year wasn't the important part of what I wrote. Touchè! I guess it's just so ingrained in my mind that I didn't realise I made the swap. True, there may well be good Big Business. When I look at politics, and how it is influenced by lobbying, I genuinely feel that an abolition of big business would do much more good than harm for most people on the planet. Perhaps I'm biased.Ok. So let's look at the idea of why BigBusiness would *promote* libertarianism. Just like the Christians took what they liked from a plethora of cults before them, and promoted it as their own, maybe BigBusiness did the same with libertarianism. What would the "true" founders of libertarianism have to say about huge multinational corporations, some with budgets the size of countries?This seems logical. I'd add another upside: elimination of large-scale state-monopolized violence. No entity could challenge the BigCorp's security division. Depending on whether it was a GoodBigCorp or BadBigCorp, this would be a correspondingly good or bad thing. Right?So when BigCorps now push liberal agendas, do libertarians tend to think this is a good thing? Or do they watch with scepticism and wonder... "Why, what's in it for them?" Imagine a policeman in the year 2040. The state pays him in GovCoins (thx for the name, bitcooper) over which it exerts full control. Would he accept those coins? In the case of a BigGovt, where a sizeable fraction of citizens are paid in GovCoins, do you think a majority of shops and businesses will accept GovCoins? In that scenario, could GovCoins represent a larger fraction of the economy than the (let's assume) outlawed bitcoins? In that scenario, would the government have unprecedented control over, and information of, companies' and people's spending habits? Would it be a 1984-esque situation, only more tyrannical?  If such a situation came to pass, in any one nation, or in all nations, or globally, would you say that bitcoin and blockchain technology are crucial to enabling that situation?If it helps, I agree with you - GovCoins would indeed be little different from the current paradigm of money of which, I think you'll probably agree, most people are ignorant of the problems. Cognitive bias does not apply to non-cognitive systems. Think again. To my knowledge I don't actually have a "favorite" insult - I prefer to use a variety. Feel free to enlighten me though, a dog never can smell his own scent (or so they say).Woah, you'll have to educate my sorry ignorant ass here. What, are you gonna ask mtgox to ignore blocks coming from tor aswell? Identifying a 51% attack must needs be based in properties of the blocks mined, not which IP they come from. Andresens' crude PoS, for example, linked in this thread would work on block properties.I think cunicula means to increase the cost of *saving* money. Though I'm not sure that a simple linear tax on bitcoin-days would do the job. Let's get back on topic.  The article says:1. Big business created libertarianism2. Friedman, its representative, was a scumbag.Well, saying libertarianism is terrible because of point 2 would certainly seem to be an invalid argument. Point number 1, however, is very relevant. What would big business stand to gain from libertarianism?All the pro-libs here suggest that evil big corporations will suffer under libertarianism because they'll be out-competed by smaller "nicer" outfits in the free market.  So, why would big business promote libertarianism then?[note: I'm assuming the article is factually correct regarding the facts it states, to wit, that big business did, in fact, create and promote libertarianism. I'm neither an historian nor an economist so I can't judge the truth of these statements] Be careful - don't naively underestimate your opponents' skills.tor This is interesting, and it seems like a valid defence, though I can spot two weaknesses. First is that having more bitcoin-days is "easily" accomplished by having more than half the bitcoins. So you'd need 51% of hashing and 51% of bitcoins. Second is more subtle. If people get paid (e.g. civil servants) in the govt-approved blockchain, then they'll have to use that chain to spend their money. If there are lots of civil servants, then the govt blockchain will be correspondingly more important.They'll switch to TOR. Is there any way to block a miner from participating over tor that doesn't involve compromising tor itself?Not possible with paper money. VERY possible with a blockchain.Depends proportionately on how many people depend on the govt-blockchain.Let's pose the problem another way. Suppose tomorrow the US government issued a statement to the effect that they really like the idea behind bitcoin and would be commencing work on a new government-mined blockchain, complete with a new genesis block; obviously with some different mining and block verification procedures. Police, military, doctors, teachers, ALL employees in ALL branches of government would be paid in that new blockchain. How do you see that situation evolving?  Now ask yourself, how is that situation any different from executing a surreptitious 51% attack on the current blockchain?Actually, thinking about that scenario myself, it would seem to be a much more logical path for government to follow. Hah, I just shot myself down   One answer: in your country!  Alternative answer: in any country. The attack I outline could be carried out by any country and its citizens could therefore be subjected to perfect financial regulation. Other countries might seek to join that blockchain, or they might have one of their own.I disagree. Current network hash rate is ~ 25TH/s. BFL says they'll give you 1.5TH/s for $30k in a single box. You'd need only about 20 of them to gain > 50% of the hash rate, that's $600k. Six hundred thousand dollars! So let's suppose someone tries to set up this attack in the future when there are already, let's say, 10000 such boxes already running and connected. You'd still only need about $300 million (ignoring price reductions due to efficiencies of scale, and improved technology) - that'd still be small change to a central bank that's printing, what, $40 billion per month? Suppose there were 1 million such boxes running - that'd cost $30 billion, 8 months of QE3. Let me emphasize, the attack would have to be surreptitious so as not to raise suspicion. ASICs coming online would be the *perfect* moment to implement the attack because nobody will be worried at sudden massive increases in hashes-per-sec.ASICs will be great for bitcoin if they become truly distributed, but it should be obvious to all that they'll never be as uniformly distributed as CPUs. Any argument on that point?If civil servants get paid in a particular blockchain, then they'll use it. And if the police understand that their bitcoins become more valuable by beating on 'blackchain' exponents, then you can be sure they'll do just that. Put two apples on a table to your  left, then put two apples to your right (use the globally (and for all we know, universally) accepted definition of "2").  Now join the two sets of apples together.  For the globally accepted definition of "4", ask yourself if there are now 4 apples on the table.  If so, then you have successfully tested, and verified, that 2+2=4, given the accepted definitions of "+" and "=".If not, then you probably shouldn't eat those apples :-)
I see some merit in what cunicula has to say. However, I don't think any central bank could abruptly gain 51% (and thus, obviously, 100%) of hashing power - it would cause an instantaneous backlash, and there would be an immediate hard blockchain fork with the bank's servers being blockaded (caveat - what if the bank connects over TOR?).  However, in the far future of bitcoin, when many people depend on the blockchain for the salaries and groceries, then a central bank that managed to gain 51% surreptitiously could quite easily begin to levy a tax. They'd have to walk a fine line between rejecting untaxed blocks mined by others, and not arousing too much suspicion. And it would be easier as bitcoin became more accepted as a mainstream currency.I have to say, the development of ASICs has me plenty worried. Hypothesize if you will a scenario where bitcoin mining is restricted to licensed entities only. Well, everyone can still have their GPUs for gaming, and even FPGAs have legitimate uses. But ASICs that only know how to SHA256(SHA256()) could have only one plausible, and therefore illegal, use. No-one could easily compete on mining, and since building ASICs requires big factories and investment, it would be easy enough to shut down unlicensed manufacturers. Think, the Treasury would be replaced by an ASIC factory.  I would be *very* happy to see the devs change the mining protocol to be ASIC unfriendly, if such a thing is possible; even better would be to make it FPGA and GPU unfriendly, and bring back CPU mining only -- only then will mining be truly fully distributed.Of course, if this scenario came to pass, you'd still have other miners mining away, probably on an underground black-market blockchain - like I said before: "the blackchain": The legality of these technologies, including the internet, are now well established, unlike bitcoin. Also, it accepting bitcoin donations now could never promote bitcoins as much as it successfully defending bitcoin in some future legal action. If accepting bitcoin donations could compromise that... well, that'd be a pity. So... No, leave the EFF alone. Ah, you can also get the BTC amount associated with each "sending" address. Substitute the printf command with:printf "Input address: ",rawtxdec_in['outputs'][vout_number]['destination_address'], "Amount: ", rawtxdec_in['outputs'][vout_number]['amount']Or something similar. You'll have to read the documentation to find out the precise syntax, structure, and array keys. You can get the previous addresses.  The transaction structure contains a list of prior transaction outputs which it is redeeming and which, necessarily, have never been spent before.  We get the list of those (txids,vout) pairs and find which address is associated with each output.  What about something like this pseudocode, where tx0 is the transaction which gave coins to your address:%START PSEUDOCODErawtx = getrawtransaction(tx0)rawtxdec = decoderawtransaction(rawtx)for (input in rawtxdec['inputs'])    %LOOP OVER ALL INPUTS   {   tx_in=input.txid   vout_number=input.vout   rawtx_in = getrawtransaction(tx_in)   rawtxdec_in = decoderawtransaction(rawtx_in)   printf "Input address: ",rawtxdec_in['outputs'][vout_number]['destination_address']   }%ENDPSEUDOCODErawtxdec['inputs'] is an array of transaction inputs, each element of which contains the TXID and VOUT of prior outputs it is redeeming.rawtxdec['outputs'] is an array of transaction outputs.rawtxdec['outputs'][vout_number] is a single transaction output we are interested in.rawtxdec['outputs'][vout_number]['destination_address'] is the address of that output.I understand that the sender of the transaction might not know anything about the sending address (it could be change from a previous tx), and they might be using a web wallet and so not even have that address in their own personal wallet. The point is not to reconstruct the object. The point is: the information is not destroyed. It is preserved, but completely randomized and mixed far beyond our, probably even theoretical, ability to decode. It gets lost in heat. I have to admit that I would follow Shannon's theories though - information IS entropy. So when the article you cite talks about information being erased, and so necessarily increasing entropy, I would argue that the information is preserved in the increased entropy. We simply can't decode it, though according to Hawking, it might be theoretically possible (if I understand Hawking correctly).I looked at the linked PDF from ArXiv, but it's beyond me. I don't understand why they say "information causes gravity" when one can simply say "mass-energy causes gravity, and encodes information". Their interpretation would somehow suggest that information endows (something) with mass. Two sides of the same coin maybe? All I can say is that I studied relativity and, at the time, I even understood it. So from that point of view Occam's razor rules, and I have to accept Einstein. But I'll keep an open mind. It would be interesting to see how this info-centric view of the universe relates to string theory. Actually, the case of the broken egg *is* analogous. Imagine if we had a Super-Duper Universal Quantum Scanning Machine (SDUQSM) which could scan any specified region of space-time and store all quantum information it found there. Now let the egg roll off the table. Afterwards, we could take the information from our SDUQSM - how the egg rolled just so, how that spatter interacted just so with that molecule of gas, and then with that atom of floor, and so on.... and so on....., well, we could reconstruct the egg just the way it was before. The information is perfectly preserved in the dynamic evolution of the system.Now let's point our SDUQSM at a black hole, and then throw an egg into it - into the black hole, that is, not into the SDUQSM, it's a very expensive and delicate machine :-)Well, by knowing the initial quantum state of the black hole (I mean, all the information "written" on it's surface), and by observing how it behaves after the egg falls in - that is, by carefully recording all information given off as the black hole evaporates over a period of googillions of years, well, we could reconstruct the egg again. You should read "George's secret key to the universe" by Hawking. It's a book written for children, but it does explore the possibility of reconstructing something that falls into a black hole.  The point being, the information is NOT lost or destroyed. Merely, let's say, randomized, or encrypted in a certain sense. Stephen Hawking sez so?:Unfortunately you'd have to ask Hawking himself to explain it better. I looked at the proof, but it's greek to me - no offence, greeks :-)1) you do  2) there is.1) What else will you store it with? Please be specific.2) The upper limit, presumably, would be encoding a bit of usable information in each of the quantum properties of, e.g., an atom or subatomic particle (so: spin, polarisation, color, etc).The amount of information in 1kg of silicon SDRAM wafer is almost precisely the same irrespective of whether is contains Shakespeare's sonnets, or just uninitialized random junk straight from the factory. This is because each bit (for us) is made up of millions of quantum bits of information about the state of the atoms composing that single macro-bit. So, in the analogy of the coin-toss, think of each silicon nano-bit reading off either heads or tails, randomly. The infomation in the silicon is *far* greater than the additional info obtained from Shakespeare's sonnets. I mean orders of magnitude greater.A black hole does not minimize or information, and it doesn't 'create' or 'increase' or 'store' gravity. If you want to talk about black holes, there is only one valid framework in which to do so - General Relativity. (scientists are trying to apply quantum mech. to BHs too, but not yet successful). The gravity, therefore, does not originate in the black hole, but is a 'symptom' of the bending of space-time due to the mass contained within the black hole. Incidentally, mass is one of the three defining characteristics of a black hole: mass, spin and charge. Once you know those, you know all there is to know about a black hole - just like the Pressure and Temperature of an ideal gas. You still won't know anything about the speed of individual molecules, or about the single bits of information leaked by black hole evaporation, but as far as knowing how the black hole, or ideal gas, behaves, there is nothing more to know.Have you read any of Shannon's theories? Information is 'turned into' gravity by virtue of the fact that the information is carried by massive particles which contribute to the black hole's mass and so alter the nearby gravitational field.Let me ask you something: does a digital camera create or merely capture information? The internet, even considering it as somehow a 'hive' mind (the whole is greater than the sum of the parts etc) isn't creating anything. "It" is merely processing and memorizing information "it" finds interesting. This wikipedia entry is a bit misleading. If the coin toss is truly random, then irrespective of whether it's fair or not, then there is still no way to predict the next toss based on previous tosses - each toss is still completely unpredictable. I don't know enough to say how many bits of entropy there are in a weighted coin toss; according to the definition quoted above, it would still be one bit, since there are always two possible outcomes, even if (e.g.) the coin is weighted 99% in favor of heads. But that seems a little strange since the string of bits from a 99% weighted coin would be much more compressible than a fair 50% coin.AFAIRemember, a best compression algorithm *does* exist. However, it is either impossible, or is NP-hard, to prove that any algorithm is actually the best possible one (can't remember which).  This relates to Turing's work, and also Godel. A better expert than me is surely visiting these forums. AFAIK information cannot be destroyed. You can change its form, you can scatter it so it looks nonsensical to us, but the information is still there. In the case of dropping a harddisk, you can hardly say that the magnetic bits have vanished.Next, when something falls into a black hole, its information is preserved. Assuming you knew PRECISELY everything that had ever fallen into the black hole, and you were willing to wait a VERY long time to observe ALL information that the black hole gives out as it evaporates, then you could THEORETICALLY reconstruct the object you lost to the black hole.Shannon's theorems prove that information is equivalent to entropy. The entropy of the universe is continuously increasing, therefore so it the information contained in the universe. In the "heat death" scenario of the universe, in the far far faaaar future (let's say, far enough away that bitcoin keys might be cracked [anyone wanna do the calculation to see which will happen first?]), the entire universe is a uniform cloud of individual, randomly placed, particles. Since a random signal contains maximal information, the entropy of the universe will at that point be maximal.OP should look at the "Holographic Principal". To put it briefly, imagine a pile of computer memory chips. You can imagine adding more and more chips to the pile, increasing their density, and so forever increasing the density of information in the pile. Eventually, however, the pile will be so dense that it will collapse into a black hole, and the surface area of the black hole will be directly proportional to the amount of information in the pile. In a certain sense, all the information about everything that ever fell into the black hole is "written" on the surface.  Now instead of a black hole, and consider the whole universe, and the inescapable conclusion is that we, and all our 3D universe, is actually a hologram, being equivalent to, and derivable from, information and laws governing the interaction of those quanta of information, all written somewhere, very far away, on the 2D surface enclosing the (observable) universe. Fascinating, eh? New Scientist had a great article describing it a few years ago, but it's paywalled.Now, after that tangent, OP is confusing correlation for causation. Just 'cos transistors are getting smaller and using less mass, therefore decreasing the gravity due to a single bit of human-stored information, doesn't indicate that the lesser gravity is due to information itself somehow requiring less 'gravity', but due to humans requiring less 'gravity' in order to encode information.  Think, once upon a time you needed a 10kg stone to write 100 bytes or so (think Moses).Finally, the amount of quantum information in the memory chip of your computer is far far far more than the bytes of memory it contains. OP should read more of Shannon's theories of informational entropy. That's the theory you're looking for. The 'internet' is not creating information. It is merely storing information (very inefficiently, at that) that is already available, if only we could somehow understand it.Whoops! 9 new posts since I started. It is not clear that bitcoin will solve the world's economic woes either. There *was* once a gold standard, you know, and even then there were still market crashes, recessions, booms, and all that. Not on today's global scale, though, but that might be just as much a symptom of globalization.Tell the truth, I wouldn't be surprised if there's a yet undiscovered fundamental law of economic systems which states that a static economy is either impossible or is a contradiction in terms. I'm thinking of something along the lines of Einstein's proof that a static universe is not possible according to general relativity. I triedthe panopticlick service with a few browsers:1. standard firefox profile, with tor proxy set (as OP did for this thread [with chrome])2. torbrowser bundle3. torified w3mResults are:1. unique browser fingerprint (in over 2.5million tested!)2. 1 in 4400 browsers have the same fingerprint3. 1 in 500000 browsers have the same fingerprintSo - like I suggested earlier - don't use w3m as an anonymous browser!edit: just in case it's not clear - torbrowser bundle is the best of the bunch. Can anyone get better? I suppose this is a dynamic image. The server grabs your IP address, writes the text into an image and serves that image. Still wouldn't get you a TOR user's real IP address.The thing that freaked me out was that I misunderstood OpenYourEyes' post to mean he could embed arbitrary flash or java code into a simple HTML forum post AND make it execute on the victim's computer automatically and so, through these systems' bypassing of proxy settings, learn joe23's real IP. This would be a very serious security flaw, I expect.Can anyone suggest a web page where the privacy of your web browser is tested? Like one that tries java, js, flash, html, php, other bug exploits to track an IP, even behind tor?  I know panopticlick from the EFF. Anything else? I feel less stupid now. The internets haven't suddenly changed the rules after all.   Ah, I had looked at the "previous post", but there was no image. I guess he edited the post to remove the image so. Guess I'd better not take up a hacking career - I'd not get very far.   Even took me a couple of minutes to figure out 1337est.  But wait, OpenYourEyes said he was using a flash beacon to catch the IPs. I found this which shows how to embed flash code into a forum post, and the first reply says "allowing users to embed flash is a security risk". So... what gives?  OpenYourEyes can't have just used a regular image because that would have gone over joe23's TOR connection - he specifically tried flash which often ignores proxy settings. Fascinating! How can you possibly embed such code in a forum post? Surely this indicates a serious bug in SMF, the forum software?One of the IP addresses you mention is mine, and I'm not joe23. Thanks for doing the xx.xx'ing - I'd hate to have a bunch of you guys suddenly trying to hack my box! It's funny that no-one seems to be able to give a decent explanation right here.  How about this: you make the land more fertile. This could be:1. You remove all the rocks & stones making plowing, seeding, harvesting all easier.2. You engage in crop rotation for some years, and improve the range of nutrients in the soil.3. You construct some irrigation channels.4. You otherwise add some nutrients, e.g., with manure or fertilizer - organic, if necessary.5. You do other stuff that somehow renders the land more useful or productive.Is this the kind of answer you're looking for? This is a great thread. If I had to make a suggestion, I would connect to some translation service over tor, translate what you want to write into some other language, then translate back to English, then post it (better would be to install a local translator). Your English is almost perfect - definitely better than any automatic translation - but that only narrows it down to, oh, maybe 400 million native English speakers. The few mistakes I noticed could either be genuine typos, or maybe deliberate. If I wanted to try, I'd ask you a question which requires an answer with a word such as "randomi(s/z)e" or "trunk/boot" (US & UK respectively for those with English as 2nd language). I just can't think of a suitable question right now.To connect, I would use TAILS. It sets up two virtual machines within an OS running from an USB drive - one of the vm's runs a TOR server, the other vm's network card is routed through that TOR instance. The user interacts only with the 2nd so no need to worry about DNS, java, flash leaks etc - except if something breaks the vm enclosure I suppose. I haven't tried it out, but it seems really good.Someone suggested running firefox through x11 forwarding in the torified ssh tunnel. I'd have to say that'd be really slow. You might get away with w3m or lynx maybe, but that might narrow you down even more - how many text-based browser users can there still be in the world? norinori2222 doesn't sound so very depressed. She just came to a realization and is trying to avoid a premature midlife crisis. Actually, she sounds like my kinda gal but unfortunately I fail 6--9 conditions and probably would lose out on another two which probably should be mentioned - to wit: I don't live in Japan and already have a SO.Problem, though, is that she's approaching the situation with a very analytical mindset - get as many approaches as possible, filter them, then (presumably) trial and error until one solution works. I'd be willing to bet that anyone that satisfies her 28/30 conditions will turn out to be unsatisfactory for other reasons, and the one that is (could be) satisfactory overall will fail quite a number of her conditions. The configuration space of humans has much more than 30 dimensions!She should write a blog about her progress. It would unquestionably be a hit. Maybe it's Satoshi... Still, you are telling me that I may not type, on my own keyboard, something like (pseudocode): "copy from: myrkulsPC:/dirs/wallet.dat to: myPC:"  Do I own my property or not?This is what I'm trying to get at. If you foolishly leave your records where an unscrupulous person can get them, then it's your own damn fault. What if you leave them on an old Win98 computer full of hackable bugs? Where does it cross the line? Let's try something else, suppose you leave your private keys written on your desk. And I look in the window with a pair of binoculars and write it down?  Now suppose your keys are in the same place, but covered by another sheet of paper. So I walk up to the (open) window and blow in - the sheet moves, and I copy the key. Is that ok? Is blowing in the window an act of trespass?In any case, this thread seems to conclude that hacking is equivalent to trespass. This is something I would largely agree with, so I'm willing to leave it at that, particularly since no strong anti-IPR pro-bitcoin person rose to the occasion. However, I have to say that the forum's defence is only this: "it is not permitted to hack someone's computer to obtain a private key; anyone doing so should be fully responsible for the results of that act of trespass, including loss of value to the victim". This is not what I wanted to address in this thread, but I wanted to address whether the key itself is protected; not whether obtaining a copy of the key is some form of crime or not.So, in alternative, let me hypothesize this. Suppose I can get a copy of your private key without trespassing?  E.g., your estranged and embittered wife/husband gives me a copy. It is now utterly unnecessary for me to interact at all with your property. May I now openly and legally transfer the associated bitcoins to my account or is use of the private key somehow protected?I can see that if I pay a thief to steal your key, then I would be largely responsible. But suppose a thief steals your key on his own initiative, then tries to sell it to me? The thief is responsible for the trespass and "loss of value" to you. I would be merely copying a number from him and doing some stuff with that number, need I say, with only my computer.
Ask any anti-IPR if copying an mp3 is a crime. Then ask any Hollywood producer. What you, or I, "think", is irrelevant. The point of a legal system is to reduce conflict and have a fair method of resolving any residual conflict not already covered by the "law".I, at least, agree with this. The next question is whether private keys can be considered "property" at all - given the nature of the bitcoin network, all that matters is possession.  Let's move, then, from an anti-IPR world to an anti-VP "anti-Virtual-Property" world, where it is not possible to define non-physical objects as property - specifically, in this case, data (such as an mp3, or a private key).First of all, it is not possible to *forge* a bitcoin transaction.Second, even if I agree that hacking a computer is equivalent to trespass, then you would have to show me which property I trespassed upon. The hard disc? Looks just the same to me, no damage done. The CPU? No damage there either. Really - I'm not *touching* your property, only mine - my keyboard, my mouse. All you can say is that the *data* on your computer (the privkey) has been interfered with (copied), and if you want your data to be legally protected from copying, then I fail to see why an mp3 cannot be also legally protected from copying.  I get the difference that, to copy an mp3, you don't need to hack Lady Gaga's computer, or her publisher's. But, even if we allow for the trespass argument, all I need is for your privkeys to "somehow" find their way to my computer and I can fully legally, without any possible accusation of trespass transact the BTCs to myself.Insurance companies often won't pay a claim if it can be shown that the claimant did not take reasonable steps to secure the property. So, if you leave your door open, to use the argument above, then it's still illegal to enter and steal BUT tough luck, the insurance company won't pay up. Therefore, if your computer is not adequately programmed to protect against hacking, then you would be responsible for the loss.And even the "arbitrary code execution" is still just avoiding the point - if you want *your* computer secure, then *you* should make sure there are no bugs which would permit arbitrary code execution.**EDIT: Most of the people contributing here seem to agree that private keys should be somehow legally protected. My intention is not to say that they shouldn't be protected, but to see what "purist" libertarians think, by which I mean libertarians who declare that data (such as an mp3) cannot be declared as property of any sort but, being on this forum and liking bitcoins, think that private keys *should* somehow be declared as property.  To make it clear, I link again to NghtRppr's post. For the present argument, I might say: "Telling me what I can and cannot do with my computer is equivalent to claiming ownership of my computer, which amounts to little more than theft, hence a violation of NAP". Holding a knife to someone's throat would already be a violation of the NAP, I presume. Likewise entering someone's property.So either switch yours off, or disconnect it (from me), or secure it.  But even still, let's separate the hacker who gains access to your computer, from the criminal mastermind, who eventually obtains your bitcoin keys and the associated bitcoins. What is your argument now to regain the bitcoins?  Let me quote nybble41's post (boldface mine):Though I must add that the contracts argument, though admirable, couldn't ever be effective - it's not working in today's regulated world, never mind a libertarian world. How could you ever enforce that all internet users the world over have a contract with ISP's, upstream providers, and backbone providers, which prohibits hacking - and that such contracts will all be enforced? And then, suppose someone hacks the ISP and gains "illegitimate" access to the internet? Back to square one. I'm sure nybble41 was aware of this though and was merely pointing out the futility of relying on contracts to eliminate hacking. I'm trying to revolutionize the world, of course (like any self-respecting scientist). And this is the part I'd like to keep secret for a while longer, though I'd say google could probably tell you why if you search around the topic a bit. And my masterplan requires me to generate CO from H2 and CO2; reduction of O2, CO2 or H2O with C is not an option. The 'victim' would have to establish that the bitcoins were his. Since both parties have the private key, there is no way to establish that, unless you institute a single central incorruptible authoritative registry of bitcoin keys and their owners.I'm not so sure. Suppose I create an mp3 and I sell copies in order to buy bread. If you sell it, then that would constitute a fraudulent source of funds for you. Of course, you could just give away copies for free. But then, someone could steal my bitcoins and give them away for free too, in which case the second receiver would be free to do as he pleases.If the data is copied, the 'owner' still has the original, therefore there is no theft - nothing has been lost. The rest, executing instructions and mathematical functions on a computer, is not a violation of NAP. See this post below from the thread I cited before; it's the second post in that thread and is quite representative of many who contributed there (boldface mine):nybble41 has already answered this above - I cannot instruct your computer to do anything it is not already programmed to do. Refusing me permission to interact freely with my computer would be a violation of the NAP.nybble41 replied to this much better than me.The thread I quoted seems to suggest otherwise. But I accept your statement. This is precisely why I started this thread talking about anti-IPR - I wanted to avoid generalizing to libertarianism and risk getting it wrong.Can you explain a bit more? It would be great if someone holdings NghtRppr's (of the quote above) views would contribute here because I really feel that copying and using an mp3 is very similar to copying and using a bitcoin private key. Or, alternatively, you'd need an arbitrary law like "numbers that make up an mp3 are not protected, but numbers that make up a BPK are protected". (a) Yes. (b) Me too (agreed).Yes, I agree.I can agree with all this, except the very last sentence. See this quote from the thread about legal research I cited in OP (which, however, refers to our current world, not the imaginary anti-IPR world) (emphasis original):If you think bitcoin fraud is similar to credit card fraud, then why couldn't I claim the same thing for mp3 fraud? However, since you are in favor of IP, you're probably the wrong person to ask.There is property in this society. Just not intellectual property. Yes, the reverse WGS reaction - I wish to generate CO. I sent you a PM about it. Just for anyone else listening - I know CO is abominably dangerous and no, I'm not trying to top myself. The 4 species would have some equilibrium ratio, dependent on T & P, so I would need a method for extracting the CO and H2O so as to favor their continued production - exactly the opposite of the article you cite.I sent you a PM about it a couple of days ago, but I realize the PM notification is hardly noticeable. I think I haven't explained myself clearly. I'm not trying to say bitcoins and mp3s are IP, or that IP is good, or IP is bad or anything similar. Here's what I'm trying to do:I'm hypothesizing a [libertarian] society where there is no such thing as IP and I'm asking a question about that society. Now, in this society, it is not permitted to regulate any persons use of their private property, as long as they does not infringe on anyone else's property rights and do not violate the NonAggressionPrinciple (NAP). Read the IP thread I linked to in the OP for more details.Thus, in this society, duplicating an mp3 cannot be outlawed - no property has been damaged or stolen, and no aggression has occurred.In these circumstances, therefore, could there be any rational justification for outlawing the copying of a bitcoin private key?  The BPK is not property, and no aggression has taken place.Just to make it clear, I have an anti-libertarian inclination (though I keep an open mind), and I'm trying to present libertarians with a difficult question. In short: "In your libertarian world, how can you abolish IP and still claim a loss if your bitcoins are stolen? Therefore: get ye gone and sully the bitcoin world no more with your libertarian trash."  Ta-da!   Assuming you are actually referring to the anti-IPR society, how is it fraud to copy a number, and execute mathematical functions on it? What exactly have I defrauded you of if I copy they keys in your possession, and transfer the associated bitcoins to a key in my possession.I didn't. I said: "...bitcoin private keys cannot ever be considered physical property. If they are to be considered property at all, it can only be as intellectual property - like an mp3..."I didn't say because, I said like.And remember, I was referring to this hypothetical anti-IPR society. Well, bitcoin private keys are creative works, of a sort - created by a software on the user's instruction. A vanity address might be considered more creative. But, yeah, numbers can't be copyright. Though when the Bluray decryption key (or was it DVD) was cracked, people started putting it on t-shirts shouting "freedom of speech" 'cos the industry tried its damnedest to stop anyone from copying what was, effectively, a number.But, let's remember, I'm not talking about today's society. I'm talking specifically about an anti-IPR society, e.g. a libertarian society. This forum is full of libs and I'm surprised none have weighed in on this thread. How could a lib, in a lib (ie NAP etc) society, justify taking action against someone who copied their private keys? Indeed, this might even apply to GPG keys, SSH keys, any kind of "secret number".I find it interesting what you say about the numbers on a credit card. Yeah, they're jut numbers, but if someone asks you to pay for a new TV and you quote numbers that do not "belong" to you, that'd be considered fraud. In some sense, bitcoin private keys are a bit like a credit card number - a digital money MUST (obviously) be really just a bunch of special numbers. Any society, therefore, that does not prohibit the illicit copying of these numbers cannot use digital money. If it is not possible to apply special protection to certain classes of data, digital money cannot be utilized. No. It's more like you leave your wallet (I mean wallet that holds banknotes etc, not bitcoin wallet) on the table in a restaurant. I pass by, grab the wallet, and take your $100 bill.  In a sense, your wallet is a piece of hardware that dumbly responds to "commands" given by my fingers: "open", "extract $100", "close". Like a hacked computer, in some sense.It is obvious that I could have looked at your driving license and returned the wallet to you, intact. It's further obvious that the wallet and its contents are someone's "property".This is not the case with a bitcoin private key (BPK) - recall I'm hypothesizing anti-IPR. BPKs cannot be considered property, just like an mp3.Let's make another example. It's anti-IPR world again, and Mr. X is a bitcoin user. He doesn't risk leaving bitcoins on his computer so he takes a printout of his BPKs and stores it in his wallet (the banknote kind). Mr Y finds the wallet and, being a good citizen, returns the wallet to its owner complete with all the contents.  However, before doing so he makes a copy of the BPKs and later that day extracts the associated bitcoins. The printout is clearly Mr X's property, but what about the number written on it? I think you have to inject some Nonexistium into the star's core first, but if you don't do it right, then during the implosion a large amount of Urassisgrassium is ejected, so you have to be really careful about it. How can I distinguish and separate the following 4 molecules which are in equilibrium at high temperature: H2, CO, CO2, H2O.This is the water gas shift reaction:  H2+CO2 -> CO+H2OCan you tell me the equilibrium proportions of these four species as a function of temperature?What is a good catalyst to speed the forward reaction? Would the same catalyst also speed the reverse reaction, or would a different catalyst work better? Is this a genuine anti-IPR position, or is it something that just occurred to you now? Is there such a thing as "theft of power"? Wouldn't that be just revolution? I don't understand your reference to "theft of service". What does that mean? Is it possible to steal a service? Wouldn't that just mean enslaving the service provider and so have no relevance to bitcoin private keys?Aren't there any anti-IPR pro-bitcoin libertarians here willing to tackle this issue? Seems thorny enough to me. Inspired by Topic: Legal Research in which there is a debate about whether a bitcoin private key can be considered property which endows rights on the owner, specifically the right to compute some mathematical functions which transfer a perceived value to another individual.Well, there was a previous, very long, thread about intellectual property here, in which many contributors rejected Intellectual Property Rights (call this the anti-IPR position) - for example, if one can somehow obtain a digital copy of a Hollywood blockbuster, then he is fully within his rights to view it and make additional copies at will; no-one can tell him how he should utilize his physical property (the computer). The information bits composing the film (or game or mp3) are not considered property.Well, it seems perfectly clear that bitcoin private keys cannot ever be considered physical property. If they are to be considered property at all, it can only be as intellectual property - like an mp3, they are merely strings of bits.This would seem to be a problem for anyone who holds anti-IPR pro-bitcoin positions. If someone, by manipulating his computer, manages to hack and obtain some bitcoin private keys (and, obviously, the associated bitcoins), then, according to anti-IPR, no theft has taken place and no anti-IPR judicial system will recognize a loss.  Any physical attempt to recover the bitcoins would thus be unlawful.It's not clear to me, though, what the anti-IPR position on hacking is. I mean, a hacker is merely issuing instructions to his own hardware which make it transmit certain bits of information, right? No-one can deny him that...    And the hacked party is free to program his own hardware to act, or not to act, on receipt of those bits of information...  Well, I was thinking about the problem of light clients and having to trust a blockchain server, and I thought, wouldn't it be great if, instead of interrogating a single blockchain server about some transaction's validity, wouldn't it be great if the bitcoin network as a single entity, could respond to such requests with a cryptographically secure and verifiable result.It would be like asking an oracle: "O Bitcoin Network, my buddy Tom wants to pay with this transaction 0xblahblahblah. Canst thou tell me if I should accept it?"In a certain sense, this would be treating the bitcoin network as a computer, or at least, a computing machine. Once you're adequately connected, the system would be quite secure I think.  Being massively parallel would help with verifying many simultaneous transactions. I got as a far as thinking that this ComputingMachine would merely require an authoritative list of transactions, and then I thought, oh, like a blockchain :-/ IANA cryptography expert, but "pressing a button on and off randomly for a few seconds" doesn't seem like a very secure way to generate strong keys.  I mean, if you're storing real wealth in your hardware wallet, you'd have to make sure no-one was videotaping you pressing the button: Dude, he pressed it for 463milliseconds - No way man, that was at least 486ms. :-)Presumably, the only keys at risk would be the first few keys generated. After that, yeah, you could use entropy such as you suggest for subsequent keygen requests. The problem is the known initial factory installed entropy when you take the device out of its package. Inspired by Topic: Physical device to generate public/private key pairs and Topic: Proposal: Hardware wallet.In short, these topics' starters are thinking about how to create a simple hardware wallet, maybe USB driven, with a simple API that (obviously) doesn't include anything like exportprivatekey(), but does include such things as signtransaction(), and a hardware button to approve the transaction. Such a thing could also work over NearFieldComm, wifi, bluetooth, etc, for day-to-day use when buying cigarettes.Well, I got to thinking about random number generators.  Wouldn't a feasible attack be to reverse engineer one of these devices, find out how it generates random numbers, and capture its factory-initialised entropy state.  From there, you could try to work out probable values for the random number sequence it might generate, and so derive a series of probable private keys. Then scan the block chain and profit!!!The only way to eliminate this threat would be to include a real random number generator on board. e.g. a sensor that measures thermal fluctuations (or any physical variable) at a high frequency to a high precision but with low accuracy. Or, even better, a sensor that measures the polarization state of single photons. Yeah quantum RNG rules.edit: Hah! It's already a noted problem: Weak RSA Keys Plague Embedded Devices, But Experts Caution Against Panic bongle(bit dongle)Or bingle if you have to.edit: bongle.com seems taken, but .net is not. Seems that every second week there's another bitcoin scandal - pirateat40, bitcoinica, now glbse. Is it never going to end?So I have some advice for everyone. Now, one of bitcoin's great advantages is, it's like cash because transactions cannot be reversed, it's (not really) anonymous, it's fungible blah blah blah.So, if it's like cash, then treat it like cash.What I mean is, if some dude approaches you on the street and asks for a $100 loan with 5% compounding monthly, would you give it to him?So, whatever investment interests you, think first "Would I put cash in an envelope and mail it to their untraceable anonymous PO box?"And before you tell me about trust ratings, well, just don't bother. No, it's something different. There was something special about this communication method that made it notable. If I could remember that I'm sure I or someone here would find the article. Thanks. Profiteers are doing us a favor, it would seem. Again, thanks pirate?Good questions, to which I have no answers - feel free to treat me just as an ignorant disgruntled consumer. Let me rephrase myself: "I would *try to* charge minimum fees to cover costs".  I'll let you know how it goes if ever I try it out (and I'm trying to try it out, but I'm just not such a good coder - apache2, sql, json-rpc... wtf does json-rpc stand for?).
Thanks for the link - didn't know about it. Unfortunately it's not there.No, it's not commitcoin. It's more an article about using the blockchain to send personal messages. Commitcoin is very awesome but, unless I misunderstand, it's not about messaging. Cheers. Thought I might reply to this, to close the thread. The bottom line is that many here view profiteering as a "natural right" even going to far as to suggest it is better for everyone if the first-mover in a new market deliberately profiteers in order to make space for more efficient competing services at a lower profitability. This is almost logical, but I could reply that I should therefore whip you with a cat o'nine tails, so when you get whipped with a normal whip it won't hurt so much. And it (deliberate first-mover profiteering) would seem to support, though its author would disagree, that fraudsters could benefit the market by rendering consumers more skeptical and therefore resilient to future fraudsters. This was my suggestion: fraud can be legitimized for the same reasons profiteering can be legitimized.Certainly, given recent events (pirate and others), bitcoin-dom seems to be learning some hard lessons. Thanks pirate et al?I haven't seen anyone conclusively answer the question if it's ever possible to be *greedy*. That is, if people really need or want your widgets, is there any upper limit to a fair price?Lastly, I mentioned that if I were to operate any bitcoin service, I would charge minimum fees to cover costs, but also ask for donations. One user replied to say that's exactly how he operates; kudos. Nobody answered to say that they were deliberately profiteering. This can mean one of two things:1. I underestimate the costs involved in providing the services, and actually nobody is profiteering but instead operating at a bare margin, or less (as some suggested).2. People are profiteering but are ashamed or unwilling to say so. This would be somewhat at odds with the moral posit that profiteering is legitimate.Hmmm. Thanks to all that participated. A few months ago, maybe a year, I remember reading a research article about embedding messages into the blockchain. The method was not simply sending ASCII binary transactions (e.g. 0.01101101BTC). As I remember, the process involved something like:1. Alice sends a transaction to some carefully sculpted keypair, and notifies Bob of that address. Alice redeems the coins so the public key is visible.2. Bob performs some operations on the public key and derives an additional keypair, and sends coins there. Alice, knowing which operations Bob would be doing, watches the blockchain until she identifies Bob's transaction.3. Somehow, with this info, Alice and Bob can communicate securely, but maybe also anonymously.I've scoured the forum, and I've repeatedly asked google, but no dice. Can anyone remember the article? At the time, it was presented as a real problem because, while the ASCII transaction above could be detected and maybe discouraged, this method was completely undetectable.Thanks. Yes, I think we can finish the racism and slavery discussions. In NAPland, racism will be stopped by racists voluntarily not carrying out any racist act which damages the target of the racism. Likewise, slavery will be stopped by slavers voluntarily stopping to enslave people. Alternatively, any other completely independent but wealthy or powerful person or entity can, out of human compassion and with no expectation of gain and therefore operating outside the economics of the free market, intervene to put a stop to the situation.Very honorable indeed. Requires defense agencies to put honor before profit.Well, personally, I'm a nice guy (of course). But there are plenty of people who already do hit-n-runs. If the likelihood of not being caught were to increase, then so would the hit-n-runs. For these people, no insurance is necessary. On the other hand there will be the careful drivers who will think they couldn't possibly cause an accident, therefore, don't need insurance 'cos the other party's insurance will have to pay anyway.That my country might be this 'kingdom of the blind' would initially seem so. Nonetheless, it is a remarkably peaceful country. Much more so than the U.S. where handguns proliferate. I was hoping you would bring up the example of an armed man in a unarmed society. That's exactly representative of what happened recently in Norway, where one man with a gun wrought enormous damage. Try to find out if Norway is higher or lower than the U.S. on that global peace index. Try to calculate the homicide or violent crimes rate (per thousand population). Please report back with your findings and draw conclusions about whether they are consistent with your ideals or not.I agree - the diplomats *are* to be commended though also, for other reasons, condemned. I consider myself fortunate to have a reasonably democratic government in place, with the power to negotiate international treaties and agreements on behalf of its people.Under the terms of which contract exactly would he be liable?The raindrop triggered nuke was just an exercise in absurdity, and the discussion (at least, my part in it) culminated in Moonshadow falling into the trap and attempting a "non arbitrary" definition of "acceptable weaponry". Under the NAP, no such definition is possible because there will always be someone who disagrees and therefore you could potentially feel threatened by any person you happen to meet when, in fact, no threat is intended; you (Myrkul) have acknowledged this. Anyone attempting such a definition, therefore, could not live comfortably under the NAP.In short, though you say everyone can be happy under your version of the NAP (howsoever you interpret it), it seems that *you* would be the happiest of all.My opinion of armed soldiers and armed govt is irrelevant and even the fact that you are asking me this suggests *you* think *I* am thinking egocentrically and that I think the world should be as *I* say. You are projecting your thought process onto me. It's easy for things to improve when you're in a shithole. Improving things when you're in a highly complex, functional and wealthy society... not so easy.So any member of a NAP society can leave that society at any time? Therefore he is no longer bound by its rules or his prior contracts.  You're ignoring the fact that any significant NAP society must have some geographic extent. Otherwise it is meaningless - by what authority would a non-NAPster be subject to arbitration with a NAPster?Or perhaps the need to have some of that wealth, therefore not voluntary.They were free to leave:Will there be prisoners in NAPland so? If so, are you suggesting they will be free to leave at any time? Put them all in prison? Impractical, but at least not absurd. Racists tend not to voluntarily stop being racist and in fact tend to oppose any attempts to make them do so.How about Iraqi Sunni and Shi'a? How about whites and blacks in the US? Or in Africa?  How about the exploitation of indigenous South American, Australian, Indian, Chinese (etc) peoples during the age of European conquistadors? If groups don't benefit from racism, how come racist groups have survived, no, thrived? Again I think the history books tell a very different story to what you're saying. You seem to be agreeing that ending racism in a libertarian society 'merely' requires that racists stop being racist.I disagree. Racism saves money. If you could just convince society that all the redheads are somehow less capable, then you can pay them less. Oh wait, you don't actually need to convince anyone - there is already plenty of racism. But you already agree with me:Agreed. Racism is a terrible evil that tends to divide society.Everyone? You're contradicting yourself: I have read about the Stanford experiments. Wikipedia is really just hearsay, but it does reflect the consensus of its contributors. On the page about the Stanford experiment, it says:Suppose it *is* human nature to develop abusive and authorative relationships.  Would you still think libertarianism, allowing each individual to decide what constitutes reasonable behavior, would be an ideal basis for society? Nature is violent and oppressive (A) - observe the underdog in a pack of wolves. We are born of nature (B). We have chosen to suppress our violent nature (C). Eliminate the suppression and our violent nature will re-emerge (D).You might disagree with A, B, C or D, or even with all of them, and that's fine. There is no way to know without experimenting. Libertarians wax lyrical about how wonderful Somalia is, but it recently came last place in the global peace index.The same can be said for any country on earth: if you don't like it, just leave. Saying things like that doesn't help anyone though (either pro or con), so your point about voluntary social contracts can be safely ignored as a pro-NAP argument.I'll use your terminology. Can "power to" lead to "power over"? If it can, does it happen automatically or do people with "power to" deliberately avoid developing a "power over"? I hate to say it, but if you think wealth doesn't eventually and inevitably lead to "power over" then you're ignoring pretty much all of recorded human history. So, if history is correct, your libertarian dream will have the same sort of racial social problems that have plagued societies all over the world. And indeed, will endorse them as an expression of the "free market".So, as if it wasn't already complicated enough, we now have three parties. A, his defense contractor and preferred court of arbitration, B, his defense contractor and preferred court of arbitration and C, his defense contractor and preferred court of arbitration. Are there any further complications we should know about before signing up to the NAP? I'd like to point out that you're using "we" (boldface above) in the same way you did before - and that has not yet been defined to my satisfaction. The mere fact that you use the word "we" suggests your vision of libertarianism is ego-centric.You seem to be concluding that B's defense contractor will not actually come to his defense. How will its other clients react to this, do you think?I have auto insurance because it's obligatory. I don't have health insurance 'cos it's not necessary.  You still haven't refuted the argument. Please do so, or acknowledge that buying auto insurance is economically irrational in a libertarian world. Then address my concerns of previous posts regarding the societal ills brought about by hit-n-run drivers.I'm not a policeman, so I don't know. They tread carefully and with tact, I suppose. In any case, it works. My country came pretty high on the recent Global Peace Index.  The function of police is not to repel invasions, but to keep the peace. There is a standing army which exists to repel invasions. It is very small so I don't think it would repel a determined or well-equipped invader, but I guess that safety from invasions has been established through international diplomacy. I don't understand your "kingdom of the blind".1. In the current system the elimination of slavery is (or at least, should be) carried out by a police force in cooperation with a social security system. No kindness necessary - just an impartial system with rules and regulations. You seem to be suggesting that in order to stop slavery, like your solution to racism, all we need is slavers to stop enslaving people. Simple... or naive?2. Why should he be liable for the damages? He did no violence. Accessory after the fact is a legal construct in the current system, and, personally, I think it is "good". Will there be a similar obligatory construct under the NAP?3. Let me find the ref... here. It's a *really* long discussion but, somehow, the NAPsters were arguing that anyone should be free to carry a fully functional nuclear bomb with them, anywhere, anytime. However, a raindrop triggered nuclear device? Well, somehow, that crossed the line, even if it might have a legitimate use.Does he imply it? I shall read on. YES YES YES. That is PRECISELY what I'm doing.  But I'm doing it in a way (calling it "law") such that it's the same for everyone. We don't have 1000 definitions of "reasonable", we just have one. Everyone knows what to expect. There will always be a gray area but ideally we collectively define it to be as small as possible. It's a bit like a libertarian society where all the members agree to one definition of "reasonable", only you call it the law, and make it obligatory. You can't define "reasonable" in any way other than something that you (you personally) are comfortable with. This willl certainly different from many many many people's opinion on the matter. Baseing a society on a principle that says everyone should behave "reasonably" is inherently contradictory. One man's meat is another man's poison.I agree - law *is* messy. We *do* need courts.  But maybe law is messy, not because govts have made it so (though I agree that is a large problem), but because the sheer variety and nature of human interactions is messy.In most circumstances, I agree that it is convenient to avoid killing someone over a misunderstanding; but not in all circumstances.A NAP society would have a helluva lot more armed guards every place you go than the current western paradigm of society. Personally, I think that modern society is dependent on private property, but also on lots more things, like an independent judiciary with the power to enforce its rulings.  In short, you can't argue that all aspects of society be removed except the NAP, because, as in the thread title, there's nothing special about it. It's just what *you* happen to like.I fully agree with this. If you put 1000 people in a room and ask them to define what constitutes a 'reasonable' perception of threat, you'll get 1000 different answers - it would be a huge vast gray area of what's nice and what's nasty, with some black on one side, and white on the other. Wouldn't it be therefore advantageous if we could somehow convince them all to accept a single unique definition?  For example, you could say "Guns are illegal - the only people who should have guns are those who wish to do harm".  Then, at least, those 1000 opinions will start to converge. The gray area would start to shrink. Taken to its extreme, you're suggesting abolishing a very central part of the human experience. We might as well just collectively eliminate ourselves altogether.  Actually, better off nuking the whole damn planet since the entire natural world is full of violent encounters.  Put the plants and animals out of their misery while we're at it.Alternatively, we could come up with some kind of social contract, which would describe a minimum standard of good behavior to which all society's members are obliged to adhere. That way, we minimize the nasty aspects of humanity, while enjoying the pleasant aspects - like music and good wine to name a couple.And I'd like you to think about wealth and power.  Do you think they are connected? OK. Myrkul pointed me to this thread which I had missed.  Since no NAPsters seems willing to debate anti-NAP, I'll try to raise a couple of objections to this anarchic NAPesque society.@hawker.Suppose we are neighbors.  You are a small scale farmer and I wish to build a truckload of houses on my property.  To do so I need to dig a well into the water table.  You're a clever man so you realize this will cause problems for you 5 or 10 years into the future.  My property is mine, so you cannot prevent me from doing the building.  However there will eventually be a cost to you, so you must take action.  The arbitrators cannot make a rational decision, in the sense that two a-priori equally neutral arbitrators might choose differently depending on their opinions of buildings, water tables, environmental destruction etc.Therefore, your anarchic society, in this case, will fail to defend the rights of its peaceable members and will fail to resolve the conflict between them.  Violence will ensue. Ok then, treat it as just an academic exercise - mental training if you like. See if you can debate the pro-NAP position better than the NAPsters can. At least, afterwards, you won't know less than you already know. Well, I sure as hell missed that thread. You're right - good try Hawker. Shame the NAPsters weren't willing to challenge their own point of view. Suggests a certain degree of insecurity, or at least a stubborn refusal to acknowledge the validity of other people's opinions.  I don't mean the validity of their arguments, just the fact that people are fully within their rights to have a different opinion than yours.Myrkul, why did you bother posting in that thread at all?  Just to spoil the debate? In which thread was it tried?  Can you link please?The point of switching side is more than just an academic exercise - it's definitely more relevant than a high school debate, but that the origin.  If you, an anti-NAPster, try to debate pro-NAP, then you will have to conduct a lot of research to see why and where the anti-NAP argument fails.  Likewise a pro-NAPster will have to dig into the details of why the proNAP argument fails because he is debating anti-NAP.It's like Hawker says - it gets you out of your comfort zone.  It's too easy to reject other people's challenges to your beliefs and opinions, but when you yourself make the challenge, it's not so easy. Maybe it's human nature that creates these kind of circumstances, rather than "the system". You know, power begets power and so on.  Read "Lord of the Flies" for a fictional exploration of this argument (really, this is fundamental reading for anyone interested in politics - it's short and captivating). I agree, however, that the current "system" does accentuate rather than attenuate the probability of abuses and corruption such as this. I PM'd theymos to ask about restricting posting rights in a thread.  He replied with this thread about "local rules".  To put it simply, any OP can give instructions to the moderators.  I've never seen this feature in use, so I guess the OP must simply write "Local Rules: 1. ... 2. ..." in the thread's first post (and have clear unambiguous rules).All we need now are our debaters who are willing to swap sides.  Is there enough interest in this? Oh?  Tell us more.  What changed your mind?
Let me try to summarize.The elimination of racism requires only that racists cease to engage in racist behavior. Tell me, what about paying redheads less than brownheads for the same work? Assume that the redheads have signed a contract. Racism such as this has led to all sorts of social problems all over the world. Will NAP somehow prevent that?Also, any uninvolved person or entity may act violently in order to prevent or eliminate any violations of the NAP, even where he himself is neither the perpetrator nor the victim, nor even related or known to the victim.  He must, however, hope that the perpetrator's defense agency will view his acts as honorable and choose to uphold the NAP and publicly act against the interests of its client.You do not refute my claim that it would be cheaper for all drivers to collectively not buy insurance. Therefore, it is now economically rational for a society to not have insurance, both at the group and individual levels. Even worse, you'll also have to pay an additional premium for those cases in which you are the victim of an unsolved hit-n-run.Now, any individual is entitled to defend themselves against perceived threats; but must consider the possibility that no threat was intended and that he himself is the initial agressor and so be judged a NAP violator despite his best pro-NAP intentions.  I'm gonna go out on a limb here and suggest that you're probably from the U.S.A. where people have been conditioned to think they have a God-given right to bear any arbitrary arms.  Can you see that your opinion (that people can carry AARs) is geographically influenced?  For example, I come from a country where even the police do not carry firearms.Other crucial questions that you missed were:1. Does the elimination of slavery then rely on the kindness of strangers?2. Is [shady repair man] obliged to carry out checks before [repairing cars] or is he free to conduct his business as he wishes? Are the victims of hit-n-runs entitled to engage in violence against him on the possibility that one of his clients is a hit-n-runner?3. A bonus question: were you here for the raindrop-triggered-nuclear-weapons discussion?I'm trying to find the time to read UPB; but I think I can already tell when my opinion will differ from the author's - I'm pretty sure that soon he will imply that, once regulations and majority-endorsed government violence is removed, people will suddenly, magically, start being nice to one another. I give up. I too am guilty of off-topic posting. I would point out just that there has been no clear reason given, for what is so special about the NAP.  It seems to be based on vague feelings, beliefs, and opinions on "Natural Law" and what constitutes "right" and "wrong" behavior. Please CLEARLY define "reasonable" in this context, in such a way as it is clear to EVERYONE when there is, or is not, a threat - let's be honest, we're talking about mortal threats here, it would be a terrible thing if someone got it wrong and two NAPsters ended up, you know, killing each other over a misunderstanding.When you have done that, please explain how that is not like a "law", and why what *you* think should trump what *I* think (I happen to think my perception is perfectly reasonable).Ok.  Here is an argument.  Natural law would suggest there is no such thing as private property, save what you can actually carry on your back and actively defend.  Think about it - humans are the only species with such extensive property rights. All other animals must individually defend their property, be that a fresh kill, or a nest.  Therefore, I reject private property.  If I find your Ferrari undefended, I may claim it.  Your opinion is different, but that is of no consequence. Ahhhhhhhhh I get it. I think you are suggesting that, in order to eliminate racism, all racist people must suddenly stop acting racist. Now I understand why I never got it until now.So any random person can engage in violence against the pimp?  I understood that violence was only justified as self-defense under the NAP. But please answer clearly - you already stated there is no economic argument for eliminating slavery in NAP land. Does the elimination of slavery then rely on the kindness of strangers?  See how you answered; you seem to be contradicting yourself:fergalish: "until some kind stranger decides to eliminate slavery, a NAP society will tolerate it insofar as it will not be actively eliminated, true or false?"myrkul: "false. Any person can take it upon themselves to eliminate any instance of slavery at any time."But now, are you suggesting that any person can take violent action to eliminate (or perhaps even prevent?) any perceived violation of NAP, even if they themselves are not the victim?I must indeed be underestimating shady repair man's risks. What are they? He is merely fixing someone's car. Is he obliged to carry out checks before doing so or is he free to conduct his business as he wishes? Are the victims of hit-n-runs entitled to engage in violence against him on the possibility that one of his clients is a hit-n-runner?On average, the sum of the premiums is at least equal to the sum of the damages and compensations.  Therefore it would be cheaper for all drivers to collectively not pay insurance and fund all damages and compensation claims from their own pockets, simply because then they're not paying the insurance company's internal costs and profits.  In case the driver has no insurance, which insurance company pays?Are you suggesting that people will need to travel armed like that under NAP?  I hope not.  But in any case, I might have a very good aim with poisoned darts and a blowgun.  You're not answering the question:  If I perceive a threat, am I justified in responding with violence EVEN IF (unknown to me) no threat was intended?To answer your question, I'm sure the average Iraqi doesn't like him.  But then, he doesn't intend any harm against pro-NAP Iraqis.  By your argument, they have no cause to dislike him. Indeed those who were persecuted under Hussein's rule might even have cause to welcome him. Do any pro/anti NAPsters wish to propose themselves as the rep?Good points. I suppose the ideal situation would be to discuss how a NAP society might best function long after the transition had taken place. Assuming we actually got that far, we could then move to establish how best to achieve a smooth transition.  If both sides pick good debaters, then I would guess that we won't even get that far, as a good anti-NAP debater actually debating pro-NAP should be indistinguishable from a bona-fide pro-NAP debater, and vice-versa.  Therefore the debate should seem identical to the extant NAP debates which, unless I'm mistaken, have never ended with a bilateral consensus. Yes, you are correct, I wish to see a debate about the merits or drawbacks of a society which uses only the NAP as a guiding principle.  I do not wish to debate the NAP in this thread, merely talk about a NAP debate.  Like a meta-NAP thread.  Let's talk about talking about the NAP. I'd ask who arbitrates when defense companies differ but we've been there before.   But, I'm glad you agree, NAP is not suitable for a bigoted society in which some persecuted minority wishes to peaceably live.  Now, the question is, is there any society (let's say, "country") where that is NOT the case?Sorry, no I hadn't missed it, it slipped my mind. So a slave need merely request assistance and, in your words, "it will be granted".  Is that *guaranteed*?  Suppose a sex-slave says "help, get me out of here" to one of her pimp's clients?  But, more simply, until such a time as some wealthy and powerful philanthropic entity decides to eliminate slavery for no benefit of its own, a NAP society will tolerate slavery; again in the sense that it will not actively eliminate it. True or false?1. No bills to pay if you hit-n-run.  See 3.2. Yes they are tracked down thanks to a national obligatory system of registered license plates, paint layer patterns, national and international police forces and forensic departments, etc etc etc.  Without all this taxation-funded policing, the number of hit-n-runs could only increase.3. Well if someone does a hit-n-run, they'll certainly be well disposed to pay more for repairs.  After all they'll be saving by not paying for insurance - it's merely sufficient for the shady garage repairs to cost less than the insurance for it to be economically rational for an individual to avoid insurance, to hit-n-run, and to go to shady garages for repairs.  And the repairs WILL cost less than the insurance, on average, simply because they will not have to pay compensation to victims.Is that your opinion?  Or is that somehow, like Moonshadow thought, a non-arbitrary definition?  Just to be clear: I disagree, so what you say can only be your opinion. I genuinely would be scared shitless if I saw some random stranger walking down the road carrying an A.A.R.  I would *very definitely* consider it a direct threat to my safety, and would *very definitely* hit him very hard over the head with an iron bar if I thought I could do so safely.  I would then disarm him, and confiscate or destroy the weapons.  How exactly is this not consistent with the NAP, given that I genuinely perceive a threat to my safety? Well, I happened to be debating religion, atheism, agnosticism with a religious friend a while ago.  I remembered something I learned in debating classes a while ago which is, in a real debate, you do not necessarily hold the views you are debating for.  So I challenged my friend to swap sides and debate the pro-atheism case while I debated pro-religion. It was very interesting, and both of us learned something.So I propose that the pro-NAP members elect one (or at most two) representatives who will debate AGAINST NAP, while the anti-NAP people will choose one or two representatives who will debate FOR NAP.  All chosen debaters of the discussion will be honor-bound to debate as effectively, elegantly, persuasively AND correctly as they can and NEVER NEVER within that thread post any message against their assigned side of the debate.I personally would love to hold the honor of being one of the anti-NAP reps (and therefore debating pro-NAP), but I'm only intermittently online and there are many far better anti-NAPsters than me on this forum.This raises a question for Theymos - is it possible for SMF to restrict a thread to just certain members?  It would be most unfortunate if something enlightening came of the discussion but the message got lost in the noise. If not we'll just have to precede each message with a header that goes something like: "Please do not reply here - to discuss this thread please post here [link to another discussion thread]" and ask the mods to remove any unwanted posts.What do ye think?  Is it a good idea? I read it. "A & B, in conflict, choose C & D to select E who decides." You still can't see the problem. Forget it.Correct. Are defense companies somehow impervious to one another? When RedDefense moves to violence against a subscriber of BrownDefense who has aggressed a RedHead, who defends RedDefense from (the much stronger) BrownDefense who will, of course, want to demonstrate how willing they are to defend their clientele.  REMEMBER, the society is bigoted and prejudiced against redheads; the brownheads would clap and cheer at the sight of redheads and redhead-lovers being burned at the stake or driven from society.Well, that's not really free market forces at work there, is it?  That's human compassion - the defense companies who, out of compassion, won't do business with the (wealthy) pimp, and the defense companies who, at their own expense, out of compassion and even against the wishes of their single male clients, will rescue the sex-slaves.  Try to explain with purely rational economic arguments, how purely economic forces in a purely free market will liberate slaves who have utterly no economic or pyhsical/military power.  Human compassion is not economically productive - that's why there are sweatshops, they *are* economically productive.  If you eliminate regulation of sweatshops and institute a market which heavily relies on compassion, the sweatshops will enormously multiply.  Then when you have explained that, please explain why private defense companies, or wealthy philanthropists, or popular social movements have not worked together to eliminate slavery in the admittedly many cases where government regulation and violence has indeed proved itself inadequate.You didn't see the "[/sarcasm]", did you?  You are assuming: 1. All drivers will care about pedestrians and pay for insurance.  2. All drivers will not hit-n-run. 3. All garage mechanics will refuse to repair damaged cars unless the owner can somehow prove that any victims of the incident have been adequately compensated (and that has to be ALL garage mechanics - even a single shady dealer will make a fortune from all the people desperate to replace their damaged fenders/bumpers).Correct me: are these your assumptions?I notice you avoided the question of automatic assault rifles with glaring subtlety. Because libertarians think the right to possess "private property" is written in the stars - if you think "all property is theft" then your opinion goes against what is written in the stars and your opinion is somehow... fundamentally... universally... wrong.  If, as a NAPster, you happen to disagree with the fundamental tenets of libertarianism, then you're out of luck. In fact, if you're anyone, and you happen to disagree with the geographically prevailing opinions of what is right or wrong, you're out of luck.See how Myrul replied to me: he says if two conflicting parties can't agree to a court of arbitration, then they resolve their conflict by agreeing to a court of arbitration.  Silly me, why didn't I think of that huh. [/sarcasm].  In case you can't believe someone could be so self-contradictory in a single sentence, here's the quote:Myrkul, I actually wrote out a reply to this, but then erased it. See if you can figure out what my reply might have been, and then reply to it please. Then see how the discussion is going and do another iteration. If you still can't see the problem, then forget it.Who caters to the defense of RedDefense, in a city where 90% of the people (including the big, muscular, well-armed and well-funded staff of BrownDefense, BlackDefense and BlondDefense) are prejudiced against red hair?I understand, of course - it's difficult to think of all possibilities. So, what you're saying is, all a pretty slave needs is enough freedom, by running away perhaps, to get out of her shackles and find enough money to pay a defense contractor who will beat up her pimp and his defense contractor; until then the NAP society will accept slavery in the sense that it will do nothing to stop it?Because suddenly, all drivers will voluntarily pay money to protect other random people, any driver colliding with a pedestrian will not do a hit-n-run, and all garage mechanics will voluntarily sign up to an ethical code of conduct and refuse to do business with, or accept money from, anyone who arrives with a suspicious pedestrian-shaped hole in their car? [/sarcasm]  [or... maybe... unslash-sarcasm... that *is* what the pro-NAPs think would happen?]This completely ignores the fact that, for some people, there will be no fear of reprisal, and that's implicit, if not explicit, in the system I described.Can anyone answer my question above regarding Moonshadow's post?  Briefly: Moonshadow thinks it's ok for people to walk around with automatic assault rifles.  Suppose another pro-NAP individual perceived this as an immediate threat of violence.  Would he be justified in immediately, violently, defending himself against Moonshadow? The presumption is that they happen to encounter each other under circumstances in which automatic assault rifles are neither explicitly permitted nor banned - there are no rules regarding them.A last question for the NAPsters - I'm sure it must seem to you that I'm as stubborn and/or stupid as a bowl of thick porridge and couldn't see the light of libertarianism if it were shining from my own nose; just as you seem to me - you couldn't see the inherent problems even if you got sucked right into the black hole of libertarianism.  However, do you feel just as addicted to replying to my stupid posts, as I feel to yours?  I try... I try... I try... to stop replying, and I just can't. [cries] This is *exactly* what I'm asking too.  Hypothesis: I oppose the NAP and propose instead that there be *no* limitation whatsoever on people's behavior; EVERYBODY is permitted to act aggressively at all times; only instincts of self-preservation will prevent them from doing so. How is this different from the NAP?In fairness to myrkul, this does sound a bit similar to Freenet's justification - if you like freedom-of-expression use freenet, but don't complain about expressions you don't like. It is not inconsistent, but then I wonder how myrkul would behave when his locality decides that people with red hair may not own property. And before you say that's preposterous, just substitute "locality" for "local defense contractor" and substitute "red hair" for "sunni" or "black".Slavery has been economically feasible for millenia, and will still be economically feasible for millenia to come, or at least until rubber dolls become more appealing to men than the real thing.Manufacturing companies will stop installing them in order to cut corners.  Your argument that people's own self-interest will compel them to insist that the manufacturers continue to install seatbelts may be correct, but that argument fails if you consider crumple zones that protect pedestrians in an impact.I haven't read this, but it seems as though Thoreau referred to a government which enacts a minimum set of laws; not to a geographically minimal government.So, if no court of arbitration is specified and the two parties cannot agree to one, then who does the deciding?  Who is "we" when not explicitly defined?  Just so you can't avoid answering again, please begin your answer with: "When the court of arbitration is not explicitly defined, and the two parties cannot agree to one, the person(s) doing the deciding shall be: ".  In the event you are unable to define this, then how do you suggest the conflict be resolved? Sorry, I've been offline for a while. This is a good post, different from the pro- and anti-NAP flame war currently going on.  Yes, cryptoanarcist, perhaps I did.  But then, if NAP is merely a principle, what is its basis?  Is it a principle of morality?  Of utility? Or maybe religious? An economic principle perhaps?  But if it's any of these, then it is necessarily subjective, and hence it is not universal (in the sense not all humans will consider it obviously useful/good/ideal). As such, it cannot possibly form the basis of a society composed of members with different or competing goals, morals, religions, racial features,..... and so on.---As for the pro/anti NAP flame war, I would say this: two people (say, A & B, not adhering to the NAP, and with no contract ever formed between them) claim ownership of some property. Here is the debate:So, tell me, who is the "we" in your reply? And why would the aggressor be the one who moved in?  Perhaps the aggressor might be the one who refuses to move out.  Is NAP really based on such arbitrary 'gut feelings'? Is the "we" you and your friends, me and my friends, or A's friends, or B's friends?  Is it perhaps a committee formed by all the NAP-abiding neighbourhood?  Is it some arbitrary vigilante group?  Assume neither A nor B, not adhering to the NAP, have not hired any defense contractor.  Or, maybe, suppose the land-registry to which A adheres says the property is his, while B's land registry says otherwise.We've debated on this issue before - NAP is useless at resolving conflicts which are not governed by some contract and for which no court of arbitration is stipulated a priori.  Even worse, since people's interpretation of "violence" is different, then it is completely possible that a meeting between two people, even adhering to NAP, will descend to violence.  See this thread where Moonshadow proposed a non-arbitrary definition of "acceptable weaponry" to which everyone might agree: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=38854.msg547444#msg547444   I won't quote the message here because it's too long, but suffice it to say that I most emphatically do not agree.  (To cut a long story short I never replied 'cos I was out of town for a while, and the thread grew insanely after that). His definition is just as arbitrary as others previously posted in that thread, so it would be enough for Moonshadow, a NAPster, carrying his automatic assault rifle, to encounter another NAPster who considers possession of such a weapon to be a threat of violence and so two sworn NAPsters end up fighting or shooting in the street.  (for those interested, I suggest reading that thread. It's *very* entertaining, but *very very* long)This is my last word on the pro/anti NAP debate.  In this thread I really wanted to find out my libertarians adore the NAP so much - why not get rid of it, and let everyone have true liberty.  No satisfactory replies yet, but I see I have about 100 posts to read through. I'd love nothing better than to have the time to read this, but I don't. I downloaded it, but do you think you could summarise the critical points?Suppose he thinks its his house? Wouldn't it simply be better to ignore the NAP so at least there's no confusion - possession would equal ownership? Or alternatively introduce a complex legal system with a land registry where the true owner is listed. What exactly does NAP solve in this situation? Excellent question. I'd say I'm waiting for an answer, but I can tell the response will probably be "you have to think outside the box. Instead of any one group deciding the rules for any other group, each group decides for themselves." The question to ask is whether such a system could actually work or not. Interesting replies.You call this bunch of pictures "evidence"? 21 instances of kindness are evidence that people worldwide are willing to help stop the suffering of the poor and weak? Heck, even 21 million wouldn't be enough. Anyway, this is more like appeal-to-emotion than a rational argument. I'm far too lazy to actually look, but I'm pretty sure I could spend a couple of hours and find a equally convincing bunch of pictures that would destroy anyone's faith in humanity.It's not obvious to me that when you give people back their tax but take away their new expenses (private police, private health care, road construction etc), that people will have more money available for charity. A NAP society is, by definition, each-man-for-himself, and companies will pay minimum wages in order to compete in the market, so I somehow doubt that private charity will increase; but that's just my subjective experience.nybble41 is wrong. There are two justifications I can give for me to initiate violence against others while they cannot against me.  First, I am stronger. It is only necessary for me to also be clever about never fighting stronger opponents than me, and so I can morally justify being a tyrannical dictator. Second, because I'm hungry, a justification surely inaccessible to the rich capitalist. If nybble41's argument required justification for initiation of violence to be symmetrical between two parties, then it fails.Ah, so therefore there is no basis for the NAP? It is merely an axiom? Well, it's validity is certainly not obvious to me nor, I suspect, to many other forum members. It cannot therefore be an axiom.Fancy conducting a poll to establish if the NAP could be an axiom? Let's debate how to propose the poll to our mutual satisfaction. We could agree that if some minimum threshold of replies indicate it is not an axiom then, by definition, it is not an axiom. I would suggest a threshold of 5% or so (for an axiom to be an axiom, it must be obvious to all people). The question might be:"The only rule in a libertarian society is the Non Agression Pact, NAP, which states: "Do not initiate violence or fraud." Should we try to justify this on logical, economic, moral or ethical grounds (or other grounds, comment below), or is it so obviously valid and practical that it requires no a priori justification? (practical in the sense that it could work in a modern, large, multi-cultural, highly mobile society)."  The options might be:1. The NAP requires no justification. It is obviously a valid and practical principle by which humanity could live contentedly.2. I have doubts about the validity of the NAP. It is not obviously a valid and practical principle by which humanity could live contentedly. I think more-or-less everyone on this forum would agree that the current western paradigm of government is a farce which gives sweeping powers and immunity to those who best abuse it. I hope you can at least agree that OP's proposal is a step forward.Your post suggests you are pro-libretarian. What would your first step be towards returning power to the people? I mean your first step, so please don't reply and say "implement the NAP".  That would be the last step. You seem so convinced about this business of charity. Given our society as we know it, what basis do you have for such a... such a.... such a belief in human philanthropy? (I scorn belief. Present your evidence, and I will accordingly accept or reject your hypothesis.)Saying the NAP's morality is in it's own wording is like saying the bible is a sacred book because the bible says so. If you agree with the NAP, great, then you are morally obliged to agree with it. If you *don't* agree with the NAP, then there is no moral obligation to do so. What I'm asking you for is: on what grounds should people *choose* to adhere to the NAP? Why should no person have the right, a priori, to initiate force or fraud against another?  Again, in both directions - a society that abrogates all but one law, can freely choose to abrogate also the NAP, just as an anarchic society that chooses to create one law, can freely choose to create also others. Why stop at just one law? If NAP's morality is only self-referential, then there is no reason to initially select it. As in the thread title, I ask again: "What's so special about the NAP?", though given that it's only enforcement is self defence, then I could also ask "What's so useful about the NAP?". You need to implement a secure online voting system. Look up CommitCoin, a voting protocol based on bitcoins. Get that working and widespread, and suddenly political representatives will become more-or-less obsolete. Suppose a person is unable or unwilling to defend themselves. How is the NAP enforced then? I'm sure that generations of libertarian philosophers have a better response than simply 'self defence'. And, if, to my disgust, that really is the ultimate basis for libertarianism, then why bother with the NAP at all? Everyone has to go around armed to the teeth anyway so what use is it?Whose moral grounds? Yours? Please state specifically which moral grounding NAP is based on - but remember that for it to work, then ALL members of the lib. society in question must subscribe to that moral structure.I was under the impression that moral absolutism had been more-or-less universally rejected by philosophers the world over; with the exception of, e.g., religious philosophers who have an interest in promulgating an absolutism created by an eternal and unchanging God. Though, even there, the absolutism changes with time - I remember when one couldn't eat meat on Friday. Once upon a time lending money at interest was immoral, as was getting a divorce. Once upon a time homosexual acts were considered perfectly normal, as was interracial marriage. How about pre-marital sex? The list goes on.I'm not a philosopher by profession (unfortunately), so perhaps someone more educated than me could provide better evidence that moral absolutism has been conclusively rejected.There are, one must accept, social groups which probably do behave, within the group, more according to a NAP than anything else. Quakers, for example, though I have no direct experience. Mormons aswell perhaps? Primitive tribes? Inner city streetgangs or mobs? Mafia organisations? Help me out here folks. The problems are two: firstly in such a social group, something as formal as a NAP is unnecessary because members will naturally cooperate for mutual benefit; secondly, where two such social groups interact, you'd need an external authority to reconcile their differing moral values or a bloodbath would ensue. Folks, this thread has turned into a pro-NAP anti-NAP flame war, something I wasn't intending with the OP. My question was specifically asking why libertarians like the NAP so much - forum rules state that we should preferably remain on-topic.So, I wish to consider a society with the maximum freedom, where even the NAP is eliminated. There is no social contract which obliges people not to initiate violence. Now, if anyone *does* go around being violent, they'll eventually meet their match, and so violent people will be eventually eliminated, right? Of course, since there are no restrictions, then all people retain the right to self-defence.Someone in this thread said something like "NAP is a natural law". Well, I have to say, but that's flat out incorrect. Humanity's natural state, as a caveman, was full of violence - fighting for food, for mates, for survival, of one's self and one's offspring would have been a typical day out.Someone else asked, and this was interesting, that if, in a libertarian society, there is no authority which can enforce the NAP, then does the NAP really exist? I mean, if I have to assume that any random stranger I meet might initiate violence, then I'll surely have to be constantly ready to defend myself, and the NAP's utility approaches zero. Of course, the NAP would apply when I meet people, for example, with whom I regularly trade. But then, well, if I regularly trade with them, then I won't really need a NAP now, will I?So: Why The NAP?It can't be to increase productivity and efficiency for a society, 'cos otherwise you could justify a law saying, 'no loud music after 11pm', so that everyone can sleep better (or any other similar example).It can't be on moral grounds - all morality is relative (I hope this is not in dispute).It can't be on utilitarian grounds - same applies as with the loud music after 11pm.So what's so special about the NAP?  Given that it's unenforceable, which calls it's very existence into question, and there appear to be no convincing grounds on which to apply it, then why have it at all?  Eliminate the damn NAP, and go for a *truly* free society.[Just to be clear, I am largely anti-libertarian. I think a lib. society could function for a small group of, at most, a few thousand people; bigger than that and members' honesty and loyalty will take second place to personal greed and self-preservation instincts. That's my opinion.]
Well, maybe (s)he does. This philosophy is quite compatible with anything really - if you happen to think that your well-being is best served by a tyrannical despotic ruler, well, that'll work for you. If you think it's best served by complete lawless anarchy, well, that's what you think. The point is that, when you have sufficiently achieved your own well-being, you can afford to dedicate some of your productive capacity to the well-being of others; the question that arises is whether there exists a moral obligation to do so. Personally, I don't think there is any such a moral obligation, but I do think that it's a sign of greed when people take more cake than they can eat.edit: the real problem with Elwar's statement is that it says nothing about what to do when two people's ideals conflict. Please read the previous posts.  I said it's not a black and white situation.  It's not like $99 is fair, but $100 is unfair - there's no sudden line that you cross.  If something costs $10 to produce, then is $10,000,000 a fair price (suppose you own the only squieegligook mine, and people want squieegligooks)?  Answer my question - is it possible to be greedy when setting a price?Is that your best argument as to why fraud is illegitimate?  Just "because"?  I'm hypothesising a truly free market, where there are absolutely no regulations.  Buyer beware, is the order of the day.Great! Do we agree then, that if I can separate a fool and his money, it matters not how I do that?Wouldn't it be great if all consumers were perfectly good at spotting and avoiding fraudsters? My question remains:Personally I am of the opinion that profiteering is immoral, illegitimate, inefficient and unproductive, and nothing other than a fraudulent misrepresentation of the value of a product or service. It just seems to me that the pro-free-market position is untenable. Why is profiteering considered ok, yet fraud is not? Don't ignore the question by saying it's "orthogonal" like as though that means something.You're equating "those who especially need milk" with "those with the resources to pay elevated prices".  If your corner store raises prices, it won't be the needy that can still buy milk, but the wealthy. These two groups will be almost mutually exclusive (i.e. the needy will probably be poor, and the wealthy will probably not be needy). I agree with all you say and, while I would very much like to be the good philanthropist and put up the $50K you require, well firstly, I don't have it and secondly if I did, there are plenty of other things I'd do with it first.How come you're afraid of being double-spent? Bitcoins don't permit double spending, unless you're doing something specifically to re-expose that risk, such as offering wealth on foot of zero-confirmation bitcoin receipts...? Exchange rate risk... yes, but then, when volatility goes down, you'll be able to (nearly) eliminate the fee for that risk, right?Certainly one should have a buffer of capital to cover for unlikely events, but once you've put enough capital aside to do that, then the fees should come down, right?  i.e. you need $50K to cover for unlucky exchange rates.  So how long, at 0.5% fee, will it take you to put $50K aside?  A few months?  A couple of years?  So do that, then put a big banner on your site saying how you're now able to reduce fees by 0.5% due to the excellent risk management strategy devised by the managerial team.Don't get me wrong - read my OP again. I'm all for a fair price and a fair profit. Seems to me, though, that the "Great Bitcoin Opportunity To Give Economic Power Back To The People" is being abused by some players (and, again, I mentioned some specific websites only as representative examples).I mean price-fixing monopoly cartels. Like OPEC, right? (though maybe their monopoly is dwindling). A powerful monopoly needs no assistance. It can purchase its own violence without requiring the state to provide any. You think it's silly, but that's how the natural world is. A lion would proudly take possession of a cheetah's kill. The ferrari owner is to blame as he stupidly left a very desirable and valuable piece of property undefended. Likewise the rich man, and the small farmer. The thief and bandit are not to blame because, given the society where this takes place, where violence and theft are to be expected, if they had not performed the acts of 'theft' and 'violence', someone else would have.I'm talking about "true libertarianism" in which even the NAP is rescinded. You are truly free to do whatever you want. Rescinding laws until you're left with only the NAP is arbitrary. Give me a good logical argument why libertarians insist on maintaining a NAP, and yet insist on rescinding lots of other laws.  Or, alternatively, why libertarians insist on creating the NAP, yet refuse to create other laws.Of course, people would still have the right to defend themselves; foolish is the bandit who attacks the rich martial arts expert travelling dark lonely streets without bodyguards and foolish is the thief who steals a ferrari with the remotely activated defense systems, and so on. Insofar as a monopoly can occur in a free market, then so can profiteering.  I can't wait for the alternative lower-cost bitcoin services to spring up.  Given that first-movers have the advantage, and second and third-movers will probably just maintain the status quo, well, I'm not so hopeful.  Let me ask you a question.  Do you suppose there are any price-fixing cartels in bitcoin-dom yet? I feel exactly the same way.  I admire bitcoin very much, and the opportunities for an equitable society are plain for all to see; pity it's being usurped by the money-makers.To all those that say "do it yourself", well, if I could, I would. I would cover costs and take no profits, but I would ask for donations. Are you saying that it's not possible to be greedy?  Is there never a point at which an asking price is unfair?How about this.  I could agree with you and say profiteering is legitimate.  I could then go further and say that profiteering through fraud and deception is also legitimate.  Well, why not?  If I can convince someone to part with their money, could I not then put that money to better use in the market?  Give me a really good reason why dishonesty shouldn't be allowed and yet profiteering should.  No appeal to morals, please, nor to "the greater good" or "market efficiency" etc, please, as these are statements about a theoretical markets.  After all, if it's a free market, my dishonesty will soon be discovered and my customers will go elsewhere. What's the problem? In fact, by dishonestly trading, I'd even be helping the economy - think about it, my defrauded customers will become much more careful and discriminating in their future purchases and the economy as a whole will be more resilient and less susceptible to fraudsters..... Can you *logically* refute that and *still* claim that profiteering is natural, moral, legitimate, efficient, and productive?I've realized that there is an analogy to the Non Agression Pact of Libertarianism, and have started a thread apropos: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88184.0Decades, if not centuries, of standard economic theory says demand is a decreasing function of price. Are you saying all that is wrong now? If your product is good value, the shouldn't the free market (eventually) select it even if it's much cheaper than the competition? Wouldn't your customers spread the word about what a great guy with a great product you are? So I started a discussion about what I perceive as profiteering in another thread, and realized that there is a comparison with libertarianism and the Non Agression Pact.  I define profiteering as selling at the maximum price you think your customers will pay; as a genuine free market would fully endorse. One forum user, evoorhees, states:So I wondered, why stop at profiteering? Why should fraud, deception or trickery somehow not be permitted?  Please read that thread for more info there.  Here I just want to discuss the analogy with NAP which, hopefully, is fairly obvious as follows.Libertarians want there to be a minimum of laws, in fact, as I understand, there should be only one: do no violence unto others (where violence is understood to include such things as theft or damage, which implicitly defines such a thing as private property).Well, why no agression? Life is violent by nature - just ask any lion or gazelle; each and every one of us should be obliged to take adequate steps to defend ourselves and those who do not... well... too bad, they were warned. The thief cannot be blamed if that ferrari happened to be there, with the keys in the ignition; the bandit cannot be blamed if the rich man was travelling dark lonely streets without bodyguards; the large-scale farmer cannot be blamed if his small-scale neighbor left his farm unguarded while he was ill.  And so on.A society could have lots of laws, or a few laws, or none. What's so special about having just one law, the NAP? Like I say, life is violent, so people should all be prepared for violence. You can't defend the NAP by appealing to civilisation or that mankind has subjugated its violent nature, because then you're implicitly justifying any other laws that civilisation chooses to enact, or any other behaviors that mankind chooses to subjugate.Indeed, a violent person should be praised for helping the society learn how to defend itself and become even more resilient to external agression.  A bit like hackers getting paid to show banks where their weaknesses are.If you want people to be as free as possible, then stopping at "no agression" seems a bit arbitrary.  It's certainly not written in the stars or the rocks.  What gives? Yeah, maybe, but any player with control over a large percentage of bitcoins could play havoc with the market.  Who would use bitcoins if an iphone costs 10BTC one week, and 100BTC the next?edit: nonetheless, I'm not so worried about this attack.  As LordFrog says, it'd be an expensive way to attack bitcoin. Ahhhhhh, thank you.So, Proudhon, and others, argue that the service fees are, in part, due to transferring wealth in and out of bitcoin-dom (e.g. 1 SEPA transfer etc).  If that were the case, then (and I choose MtGox only as a representative example) MtGox would have smaller fees for changing a USD MtGox balance into a BTC MtGox balance - no external bank transactions necessary.  But the fee is 1.2%.  Is 1.2% of some 50,000 bitcoins per day a reasonalbe amount?  Or, again only a representative example, look at TorWallet.  It exists only in bitcoin-dom with no external bank involvement.  Nobody has refuted my estimate for server and admin costs which would be much smaller than the actual fee.Therefore, Proudhon and others, I reject the claim that bitcoin service fees are related to moving money in and out of the bitcoin economy.  If that were so, then, not only would TorWallet have lower fees (or I've grossly underestimated their costs), but also asdf's hypothesis will come to pass, but I'm not so hopeful:You're oversimplifying.  It's not a black-and-white situation.  If my food and shelter costs were $1000 per month, then it's not like charging $1500 or $2000 is grossly unreasonable.  But suppose I were one of the usual cronies milking the system for what it's worth - a doctor, a lawyer, a politicial, a banker, etc.  And I ask for $10000 per day (think about bankers with $5M yearly bonuses, on top of their salary), is that still reasonable?  Is it reasonable to insist on being paid an enormous amount just because people are willing to pay?  Does it never become "greed"?I've had a similar argument on this forum about the cost of digital goods, e.g. an mp3. My argument was similar to Portnoy's - should I pay $1 for an mp3 because I consider it worth that much to me, or should I pay $0.001 because if 1,000,000 people buy it, then the author will have been abundantly well paid?  Why is it that big-name musicians earn tens of millions of dollars per year, while less known musicians, often of a much superior quality, barely scrape a living?  I am fully aware that this is the free market, but, bearing in mind the root causes of the current economic mess, can't any of you capitalists stop for a moment to thiink: is it fair?  Really - try to think if greed is truly the best way for humanity to shine.  Think about whether rewarding people with fabulous wealth is the best way to attract the best people for a job (be that politician, or banker, etc), or if it's the best way to attract the greediest people.Then why does an e-book, or an mp3 on itunes, have a price which is comparable to the physical book or CD on high-street?  I agree, in an ideal world prices would come down, but I'm just a born sceptic. So the most popular response is: if you don't like it, do it yourself. Maybe it's just me, but that response just that seems so... childish. [sarcasm]Oh yeah, and unpredictable[/sarcasm]. Reminds me of "It MY ball, so if you don't play the way I say, I'm taking my ball back." What, do I have to learn how to do everything? Ever heard of specialisation of labour? I've already chosen my career and it wasn't software dev. Does that mean I have to be a slave to the software devs, or is there not some better method? Is the bitcoin revolution really going to just make *everyone* selfish, as is seems so far, or can we not hope for better?Many people in this forum complain of government protection of the banking monopoly allowing the banks to charge outrageous fees with impunity.  Well look here - all hail the free market - where the fees are just as high. It was.I disagree.  An exchange which holds peoples' (e.g.) USD and BTC balances does not pay any external service (e.g. a bank) when two people trade with one another.  They just move numbers around within their own database.  Of course, this has to be done in a clever way so as not do annoy your users and that requires paying good devs and admins.I realise that.Not a dev. :-(Indeed.  When the price of mixing services comes down (alot), then, I suppose, yes, I will start mixing my coins.  Right now, like I say, this "free market" seems to consist of greedy suppliers and, in any case, is too expensive for me.How about this: I'll open a bank and I'll lend out depositors' monies at interest. I'll charge depositors a fee to keep their money safe.  I'll charge depositors every time they conduct an operation in the bank - I'll charge fees for them to put their money IN the bank, and I'll charge them fees to take their money out.  With ATM bank machines, I can reduce my costs-per-operation to almost zero, but WTF, I'll charge depositors the same amount anyway 'cos, really, all the banks do that anyway and I wanna be part of the BigBankersClub. Now THAT would be fees for using cash.Really, guys, what's the point of a revolutionary new currency if nothing really changes? We'll just get a different cartel of geek bankers? I was hoping for better. [rant warning]Well, everywhere you see bitcoin promoted or advertised, they'll give you the selling points - rapid transactions (hours instead of days), pseudonymous, secure, inflation-proof, and, not least, near-zero transaction fees.This last, the near-zero fees, might be true of the protocol, but it is absolutely not true for all the services that have sprung up.  There are, to my knowledge, very few services that offer less than 0.5% fee, most would be around 2-3% - roughly a credit card transaction fee.What got me started on this was TorWallet's announcement of a mixing service https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=87387.0.  Now, that seems like a wonderful service, but it charges 3% for mixing your coins, while a similar competing service, BitcoinFog, charges 2%.  Let's think about that.  BitcoinFog says he gets "thousands of bitcoins per day" moving through his service (see above thread, msg 17).  2% of thousands is, let's say, 50 bitcoins per day or about $300 per day, or $9000 per month.  Now that is way more than anything you might need to run the server.  A low-cost server might be $10 per month, a high-end might be, what, $50 per month?  So, assuming a high-end server (BTC 0.2 per day) handling 3000 bitcoins per day and an admin costing BTC 4 per day on average, a reasonable fee might be 0.2/3000 ~ 0.005% for server costs, 4/3000 ~ 0.1% for admin.Now you might well say, STFU, go do your own.  Well, I would.  But let me tell you another story.  Where I live, the govt built a nice new bridge over the river.  It cost a lot of money, so there was a toll to go over it.  Now, 30 years or so later, the bridge has gathered enough tolls to be fully paid off many many times over, but the toll keeps getting more and more expensive.  I realise that there are maintenance costs, but they'd be far less than the tolls.Same with bitcoin services - the devs have to be paid for the initial investment.  But if that were all, then you'd expect the fee for a service to reduce over time, and to reduce as more people use the service.  That hasn't happened with any bitcoin service that I'm aware of yet, leading me to think that service ops just want to milk the pundits as much as possible.So - is it possible to use bitcoins with "near-zero" fees?  I don't think so.[/rant] I've tried to discuss this before, see below, and subsequent replies and rebuttals to that thread.  I've never been completely satisfied that there is a defense against this attack.  In short, you'd end up with an 'official' blockchain, where gov't salaries would be paid, and tax would have to be paid in that chain.  And a black market chain, obviously illegal - the 'blackchain'   Yes, indeed.  What is the acronym for a Local Exchange Trading System which is *not* based on credit/debt but rather on value-by-scarcity of some commodity?  How about BitcoinBackedLocalEconomicTradingSystem,PaymentNetworkandCurrency.  BBLETS,PNaC.   This is something I've always thought bitcoin could do.  I've always imagined a world where local, or even national, currencies are backed by bitcoins.  e.g. Your government can prove it has 100,000 bitcoins, and so issues $1 trillion (or whatever) at a fixed exchange rate which citizens use on a daily basis.  When you need to buy a house, you save up your $s, exchange for BTCs and buy the house.  International trade imbalances would be paid off with BTCs.  (aside: I realise that I've made an exchange rate of $1 million per btc, but bear in mind I'm just using the "$" as a symbol to indicate unit-of-currency, not as an indication of the existing US$. We could use, e.g. B$)This could even work with LETS.  A wealthy bitcoin entrepreneur could set up a bank and issue a BTC-backed LETS currency which the local community would use.  Neighboring localities would have their own currency backed by whoever owns bitcoins there, and the exchange rate would fluctuate according to how hard the people worked, and how much produce they manage to export to the surrounding localities in order to bring more BTCs into their own locality.Less-than-honest BTC owners might try to surreptitiously issue more currency, but inflation would always catch up with them.In a way, this would also partly solve the scaling problems with bitcoin (or have they all been resolved?).  If everyone all over the world were to pay for their small transactions with bitcoins, the blockchain would grow by... how much?... 1 TB per day?  And if everyone had, say, 10 non-empty addresses, then you'd need a balance-block of... maybe 5 or 10TB. (these are just guesstimates).  So, like Mageant says, paper currency for day-to-day transactions. We should organise a reward for any libertarian on the forum (with many pro-libertarian posts) who is willing to travel to Somalia, provably live like a peasant in the city for 12 months, documenting their lives as they go with photos etc, then come back and tell us if it was great or not.  I'd offer $100 for that.Secondly, the article talks about, for example, how great telecomms is in Somalia - 9 networks offering services from texting to mobile internet.  I wonder how easy it would be for a new small operator to break into that market - would the existing operators welcome the new competition?  Or would the new operator find his telecomms masts sabotaged?  Or high pricing for rental space on existing masts?  Or maybe his staff threatened?  No law = mafia-esque regulation of the market.  Now don't go telling me the current (western) situation is not much better (e.g. oil, telecomms, agri, industries lobbying to legally protect their market share).  I know. You don't even need to look at Iraq or Afghanistan.  Yesterday (http://www.itn.co.uk/home/45735/School+bombed+in+Italy) a school in Italy was bombed a day before an anti-mafia rally.  The school was named after the wife of a murdered anti-mafia judge, murdered twenty years to the day beforehand.  In the bombing, one child was killed and several injured.  That's the alternative to "government by consent," what many here like to call the "tyranny of the majority" - it's "government without consent," and "tyranny of the minority."  Which do you prefer? This is exactly what I'm asking about.  The Greek govt (and by proxy, the Greek people) implicitly trusted the EU not to flood Greece with worthless euros.  I guess they were also hoping that all of europe wouldn't suddenly go to Greece and spend their euros there.  There are no such guarantees with bitcoins.  If some Greek community decides to adopt bitcoin instead of creating their own local currency, then ALL of bitcoindom could start buying there (e.g. online shops etc), and the area will be flooded with bitcoins, making it hard for regular traders to find equilibrium prices.So, my opinion, is that the switch to euro involved a trusted central bank authority.cbeasts solution is similar to what I suggested above, except he wants to continue using the electronic nature of bitcoins, whereas I suggested using 'the athenian bitcoin bank' which issues paper currency backed by its bitcoin reserves.  Both systems assume that traders will honour the local bitcoin pseudo-currency, and either refuse or impede transactions with 'foreign' bitcoins. (this is what would give the 'green' bitcoins greater value - in the geographical zone of interest, more traders are willing to accept them, therefore their value increases). So... to get back to the topic.  What do ye think then, better to use actual bitcoins, or better to institute a bank which issues as much currency as it has bitcoins in reserve.  Again, this is just to initially regulate the quantity of money in the economy.  It's clear that all merchants in a locality would probably have to cooperate in order for the local economy to be successful, so maybe the semi-centralised solution above, the bank, could be discarded in favour of a self-controlling system whereby each merchant promises to limit their bitcoin intake, or to manipulate prices of goods where necessary.There are two interesting things here.  People are, and should be, responsible for the debts of their elected government.  BUT, not for the debts of private banks which is actually how it has worked out in many countries.  The elected officials either jumped on the bandwagon and are milking the system, or else they thought the economy was too systematically dependent on the banking sector to let it collapse.  Second, I'm really curious to see how things pan out in Europe where, if I understand correctly, the new EU tax treaty will allow the European Commission to dictate the budget of any member nation that can't get it's own budget under control.  Now, suppose you're... let's say Spanish.  Right now your economy is fairly messed up, but suppose the Spanish government messes it up even more so the Eurocrats step in and dictate tax rates, healthcare budget, education budget, the works.  And suppose the Eurocrats mess it up even more.  Now who pays?  The Spaniards pay for the mistakes of non-elected European officials?  The EU is, I think, by and large a positive thing, but this really has the potential to be a disaster.  Sorry - this bit is off topic.  If you want we can start a separate topic to discuss this.
GDP = VelocityOfMoney x MoneySupply = NumberOfTransactions x AverageTransactionIf either Velocity or MoneySupply increase, without the other decreasing to compensate, then the GDP must increase.  If this is just a nominal increase and not brought about by a real increase in production, then that implies there has been inflation.If demand for a product increases, then the price also increases.  It's the first law of supply and demand.  It might subsequently be followed by an increase in supply and a reduction in price. But the immediate reaction is price increase = inflation.  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Supply_and_demand I understand your points.  In the example given, as long as the Athenians could find a way to get bitcoins out of Athens again, then the price should stabilise.The example of dollar tourism is different or Danish crown - those currencies are already established.  Tourism providers in San Antonio use their dollars to buy stuff from elsewhere, so total dollars in San Antonio is constant.  Suppose after 20 years we had a curious situation in which all bitcoins were in Athens - i.e. only Athenian shops accepted them.  Then 1 bitcoin would be valued at GDP(athens)/21million, which is much lower than if bitcoins were accepted worldwide: 1BTC=GDP(world)/21million.So... an influx of bitcoins into one area, without a corresponding outflux, would probably cause bitcoin related inflation in that area.  It wouldn't be stable though - it would become cheaper for Athenians to buy their products elsewhere then, so bitcoins would exit the area.  My question is,... well, I'm not sure what my question is.  I think BTC would increase in value for everyone else if some town/country started using them, but not necessarily in that town/country.  Or at least there would be an initial bumpy period.@edd: if a merchant sees demand for bitcoin priced objects increase, he will increase his bitcoin price.  Simple Supply and Demand.  Value of bitcoin is not related to how many my neighbours *have*, but by how many are in circulation. If my neighbours have lots, and spend lots, then total circulation is higher, and value is lower.@Realpra: suppose someone suddenly came along and bought up half of all Danish crowns.  They would suddenly be worth twice as much.  Likewise, if someone suddenly floods the market with them, they become worth less.  That's the basis of currency exchange. Keep us posted. If there's enough interest, I'd be interested too. I've been thinking about this, in the context of the European crisis, Greek local currencies, Argentinean peso collapse, etc.  My question is: suppose you wanted to convince your locality to begin trade in bitcoins, eventually hoping that bitcoin would dominate the incumbent currency (e.g. you're a politician in Greece, or a popular businessman in Somalia etc.).Well, here's a problem.  As soon as bitcoins start to be accepted somewhere (let's say... Athens!), well then, there would be a large influx of bitcoins to the Athens area from all over the world as people order Athenian products, causing a general inflation.  The effect on sellers would be negative, and the initial failure might even cause people to reject bitcoins.So perhaps a better way to do it would be to create "The Athenian Bitcoin Bank" TABB.  This bank would obtain a reserve of bitcoins and issue a (paper?) currency, let's call it Tabbies, fully backed by their bitcoin reserve.  Anyone wishing to trade, then, would have to go to that bank, cash in their bitcoins and obtain Tabbies.  That way TABB could regulate the number of tabbies in the economy.  As long as the bitcoins at TABB's public address don't go missing, then everyone's tabbies have a fixed bitcoin-backed value.Ok, so it's clear that it might not work out that way.  Even if you think the bank is unnecessary, is it possible that initial localised adoption might trigger increased localised bitcoin velocity and therefore inflation?  i.e. bitcoin has to be adopted everywhere simultaneously, or nowhere?Just thinking. It sounds to me like Intersango should get their account-blocking procedure fixed.  It does not sound like a scam.  Calling it a scam would imply that they are *deliberately* trying to steal your money, and by extension, others' money.  Your over-hyped over-reaction does no good to anyone.  And it's not just you - this behaviour of prematurely shouting SCAM SCAM SCAM at the top of one's voice seems all too frequent in the bitcoin world.Note that I'm leaving aside the question of whether blocking *you* was justified or not; I'm just talking about the technicalities of how to go about blocking an account once it has been determined that an account should be blocked. I think I can understand intersango's motives here.  Firstly there's the valid entrapment argument.  Secondly, they could be charged with knowingly aiding and abetting an illegal act if somehow OP was busted for buying drugs - I'm not saying OP *was* buying drugs, but *if* he was, and LE followed the trail, they might find that intersango knowingly allowed a client to use their services for transferring funds to a known drug trading website.If bitcoin is ever to be widely accepted as a mainstream currency, it would be better that the critical nodes (exchanges, online wallets etc) stay above the law.  Intersango closing OP's account will present absolutely no problems to OP if he wants to continue trading on SR (apart from the immediate problem of getting his money back).  It's like Intersango is wearing a halo and saying "See, officer, we stopped *that* bad guy, aren't we nice and oh-so-legal." while really everybody knows it's bullshit and there's nothing anyone can do to stop people trading on SR.I think the implications are more "irritating" than "disturbing".  OP shouldn't have mentioned SR.  I wouldn't be surprised if the guys at Intersango rolled their eyes and thought "Damn, why did you mention *that*, now WTF do we do".  They're playing ball in two courts at once and OP crossed the line.edit: I think OP should change the title of this thread (if possible). Calling something a scam just because it steps on your toes is an overreaction, and, in this case, has portrayed OP in a much worse light that he was trying for with intersango. Ah, so you mean this civilisation will try to disguise its signals as some naturally occurring radiation which, when deciphered with the right key, turns into intelligible messages.  Like truecrypt's hidden filesystem block header - looks like random data, smells like random data, but when you poke it just...like...that...... poof! out comes sense.  Those on the receiving end need only know when & where to look.Could be, I suppose, though you're assuming some civilisation has reason to hide its messages.  In our case, "we've seen no aliens, therefore why should we hide".  Therefore, anyone hiding themselves would presumably be aware of other aliens.  So... either there are no alien civilisations, in which case there are no messages, or there are (at least) two, in which case they are hiding their messages from each other... and from us. I think this discussion is missing something.  A broadcast would not be detectable because it says "Hello, we are liitle green men" (plaintext) instead of "sfghkjrtzdfbxcvnbzd,jtsdfò" (ciphertext).  It would be detectable because it occurs on a frequency band which does not naturally occur.  Anyone scanning the sky for signals would see *a signal* whether they could understand it or not.  Suppose your country outlawed encryption - the presence of encrypted data on your computer would incriminate you (unless you can prove you're working on random number generators and need lots of random data).  Just because the government could decipher your data wouldn't mean they didn't know it was there. Ah,  I see your point.  Yes, I read OP's intent more as an anonymity testing tool.Still, LE will be very interested in linking identities to bitcoin addresses already and I wouldn't be surprised if some entity is already working on it.  If that is the case, then your bitcoin transactional habits will eventually be known to LE (or advertisement agencies etc) whether you like it or not.  OP, I think, wants to build a service which will show you how non-anonymous you are (and me, and everyone) so that you can pre-emptively adjust your behaviour to achieve your desired anonymity.  Or so the devs can improve the algorithm, if possible.  Unfortunately the only way for *me* to know how anonymous I am is to know how anonymous *everyone else* is.How about this: OP trawls the public web (and onionland maybe) and links bitcoin addresses with people, with forum usernames, with PGP keys, etc.  Then trawls the blockchain to build up a map of transactions between addresses, between wallets and between people.  Puts the data on a tor hidden server and you can interrogate the data base for your own bitcoins by signing some appropriate query string with the private key for those bitcoins.  The data returned will simply tell you your ID, if known, addresses/wallets traced to you, and if your transaction partners' IDs are known (but not who they are). I have to say, I disagree.  Bitcoin can be anonymous *if used correctly*, otherwise it is not.  If this guy wants just to trawl public webpages and categorize publicly available information, then he's not doing anything unlawful.  Of course, if he decides to hack MtGox to get the user<->userid database, well, that'd be different.  And in that sense, he'll be at a disadvantage compared to LE.All it takes is for just one of the people you trade with to reveal their identity, and that will lead straight to you.  Now if you've passed your received coins through a mixer after *every single transaction*, then maybe they won't be able to associate any one of your transactions with any other.  Otherwise, you're on the hook.  And I'd be willing to bet that unless a majority of users take pains to hide their identity, then just about everyone will be visible to data mining.I agree with OP - better that something like this be done in the open, so everyone can see how anonymous they are; otherwise everyone is just falling for the usual internet=anonymous delusion.  In fact, perhaps it would be good to offer a bounty to whoever can do the work, and present it as a navigable flow of interconnected and joined addresses and users (where known).  And then - yeah, see what could be done to the protocol to improve anonymity.  Like each block includes a built-in mixer, say.IIRC there are several requirements for you to remain anonymous:1. Never mix money from different receiving addresses - i.e. each wallet must have only one receiving address2. Pass all received money through a mixer3. Connect to bitcoin (and pools, exchanges etc) only through tor, and give them no personally identifying information.4. Never publish your bitcoin address5. Anything else?Of course, you gotta hope that the mixer op doesn't sell you out. Or else do multiple passes through multiple mixers... losing x% each time. 1. ok.2. Yes, but I'm speaking of _individuals_ making decisions to invest $millions and how _individuals_ will feel if their investment is wiped out by bad key security.  But your point is nevertheless valid.3. ok.4. Yes, but bitcoin is kind of designed to be untraceable.  And a bitcoin thief will presumably be quite knowledgeable about bitcoins and will anonymize them before use.  Again I don't negate what you say.In short - OP's idea is great and more than possible.  But it will require wonderful security, and a great PR team able to convince investors that the security is sufficient.  Cheers, good discussion. Like the recent diginotar revocation?     https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DigiNotar  I understand the problem.  But at least the situation in that case is recoverable.  If I invest $10M in gullible-fools.com, whose SSL key is fraudulently signed by verisgn's root cert, then, given how international banking is structured, I'd have some expectation of recovering my investment assuming I realised my predicament quickly.  The investment could be followed and the final recipient identified - or at least his bank account.With bitcoins, there would be no recovery of investment.  None.  Nada.  Zilch. You both make good points.  But, as the few bitcoin heists have shown - bitcoins are much more stealable once you have the private key.  If verisgn's root cert leaked, it would be a major pain, but the www would be fairly quick about rejecting any certs signed from it I think.  Then they could issue a new one, and business would go on - perhaps not so well for verisign.  AND, and multi-million-dollar transactions carried out through a faked cert could be reversed - right?   Bitcoins, once stolen, do not come back.  For the people who lost them, business would very definitely /not/ go on.I know that the keys can be multiply protected, requiring cooperation from multiple people.  Meh.  So you need 10 private islands instead of just one.Ok, ok, I'm just playing devil's advocate.  But I can see that getting multi-zillionaires to invest is going to require the kind of security that, well you said it, that Verisign have around their root certs.  Maybe? Does the forum really think that some investment banks, hedge funds etc, will really entrust huge sums of money to an entity which must needs guarantee that a 64-byte long hex string [the private key] cannot be copied?  Yeah, there are ways to improve security, but it requires that whoever has access to the off-line private key parts be absolutely incorruptible.  Normally this wouldn't be such a huge problem, but here we're talking about sums of money large enough to buy private islands and mega-yachts... and really nasty hit-men.  Now who said they were incorruptible?  Am I fantasising too much? The "master document" need not actually be all the day's collected documents - just a list of their hashes.  i.e. on day X at time Y in block B, a transaction occurred to a private key equal to the hash of master document Z, which therefore existed at that time.  In document Z, presented here Your Honours, we can see that there is the hash of "bob's_contract_of_employment.doc" exactly as shown here. This is my 3rd time writing this... computer crashes >:-(   It's similar to Vorobyov's idea.1. I mark a clean banknote with "win-bitcoins.com"2. I make a donation to a deterministic address based on the note's serial number's hash, and register the public key at win-bitcoins.com, specifying currency, value, location, date, etc.3. At least one month later, recipient of this note can reclaim ¼ of my donation and enter a monthly draw to win ¼ of all donations received during the month. The person who marked the winning banknote wins another ¼.4. Banknotes already redeemed can be re-entered once into successive monthly draws for the last ¼ of donations, but never to the same user.There is no point in cheating, all I get is ⅓ of my own donation back plus a chance to win the monthly prize AND I'd have to hold on to the banknote for one month.  Any person re-entering a banknote for the jackpot(s) supersedes any previous entries.  This means I could, in principle, save a database of the hashes of all banknotes I come across and enter them all at the end of the month, assuming I could create enough user-ids on win-bitcoins.com.  See rate-limiting below to solve this.Fishing for hash collisions (given the small keyspace of banknote serial numbers) is possible but there are ways to prevent that:1. Use the multisig feature in v0.6, so that donations and prizes can only be redeemed if authorised by win-bitcoins.com.2. Rate-limit interrogations of the database of registered banknote-serial-number-hash-public-addresses to about once per minute from any IP, or once per 30 minutes from any abusive IP (where 'abusive' is defined somewhere).  This should also prevent people trying to enter lots of banknote hashes in the last minutes before the monthly draw takes place.3. The person marking the banknote should also write the date on the note, providing extra search space.  Better still, write some random nonce.Lastly: I'm pretty sure you can't deface legal tender.  Would this be considered defacing in any jurisdiction?  I know this has been discussed before also in the context of blacking out "in god we trust" from dollar notes.  What was the conclusion? At the risk of repeating myself, my point wasn't about the difficulty *achieving* the 51% attack, but more about the power that would come once it's achieved.  However, in answer to your reply, I think that you are being a bit idealistic.  What you say is perfecty possible, but perhaps perhaps not so practical.  It requires either: that lots of small time *individual* miners agree to firewall abusive IPs (and here I'm assuming that there are only a few abusive IPs, not millions such as BigGovt might muster)  OR that the large mining pools are not corruptible (as in, do as BigGovt says or face the chop).  And here bear in mind that the future of bitcoin is lots of non-mining thin clients, and very few large multi-GPU,FPGA,ASIC mining arrays.  Even now the major pools supply 76% of the blocks (http://blockchain.info/pools).And if you want proof, how come nobody has blocked the IP in this story yet?  - it's creating empty blocks: https://www.privateinternetaccess.com/blog/2012/03/bitcoin-war-the-first-real-threat-to-bitcoin/And again, like I say, if you decide to reject blocks that leave valid transactions by the wayside, you risk losing out on approved transactions to you!  You'd probably have to be running two clients - one for the Govt-approved blockchain, and another for the blackmarket chain.  Hey, the "BlackChain".  Dudes, I should copyright that   So you reject on the basis of... IP address?  Would that work?  And in the meantime, the MenInBlack are beating down the doors of all other major mining pools, leaving every individual miner to choose for himself.  And your paycheck just got incorporated in the OfficialBlockChain, so you don't really want to reject /that/ block, but maybe the next one...I guess my point is not how difficult it is to achieve the 51% attack.  My point is that you can do *far far more* than just double-spend if you /do/ achieve it.  You become TheBitcoinOverlord - the BitLord!Damn, with 51%, you could take old coins that haven't moved for N blocks (say, 250,000 blocks, about 5 years).  Declare them 'repossessed' and transact them to your own address.  Yeah, you don't have the private key, but it's just a matter of rejecting any future transactions that refer to those coins, and allowing yourself to mint the same number of coins in a new transaction.  And that's just supposing you decide not to abandon the 21M limitation.  I could be missing some technical details here, so feel free to correct me./If/ bitcoin was to take off and compete with other global currencies, there would be a *HUGE* benefit to achieving the 51% attack.  It would be much worse than the situation with today's fiat currencies, I think. I've written about this a few times.  Bitcoin is BigGovernments *wettest ever dream*.  Imagine the scenario where one entity has the 51% hashing power.  They get to approve - or not - ALL transactions.1. Not an ApprovedBitcoinUser ©?  Rejected!2. Not enough transaction fees (a.k.a. tax)?  Rejected!3. Transacted coins coming from an UncertifiedAddressFromBeforeTheTakeover ©?  Rejected!Think about it.  EVERY SINGLE TRANSACTION is there for the powers-that-be to see, both before and after approval. To put it briefly, the thread started out as a discussion of IP law.  It degenerated into a discussion regarding the very validity of Law itself, and some very absurd examples have come up.The pro-libertarians argue that, irrespective of how absurd a situation might be (e.g. IP rights -> property rights -> personal rights -> weapons -> nuclear weapons), "Law" can never be justified, and market forces will ensure that anti-social and tyrannical behaviour will be eliminated; furthermore that the NonAgressionPact (NAP) will ensure a smooth peaceful society.The anti-libertarians argue that 1) this is no good if the anti-social behaviour has already wrought its damage and 2) market forces would be insufficient anyway, and the free market would eventually lead to tyranny and 3) that in a society with differing values, libertarianism inherently cannot guarantee peace for its citizens.@all: I'm trying to give an objective summary of the arguments presented.  Don't flame, just correct me.
Here are the problems:1. NONE of you (pro-libertarianists) have yet explained how to resolve a conflict which is not somehow addressed by a contract, and therefore for which no court of arbitration is specified.2. NONE of you seem to see that, under the same circumstances of (1), it is contradictory to allow arbitrary behaviour, NAP notwithstanding.  One person's right will infringe another's.3. Libertarianism has failed in the past and will fail again because other nations will exploit its vulnerabilities.  Now this has no bearing on whether lib. is admirable or not, just whether it's practical or not.4. Libertarianism enshrines money and wealth as the ultimate source of power.  Power begets wealth, weath begets power.  All the things you don't like about government will be the same, if not worse, in libertyland; and there would be no public accountability.5. Libertarianism requires cooperation from everyone everywhere and, by definition, cannot demand that cooperation without hypocrisy.  Again, no bearing on whether it's admirable or not, just its practicality. Hey Moonshadow, I'm glad you're back.  I wonder do you have the time to answer this question? Oh, I'm trying to calm down and think about this, somehow without falling off my chair. Tell me, Rassah, why are nukes so expensive?  Because they're rare and highly illegal.  If they weren't highly illegal, then there'd be plenty of them, the market would supply, and the price would drop.  There's PLENTY of fuel for them - the world could probably have a few million nuclear weapons if it really wanted, and that's just considering *fission* weapons.  Fusion weapons... well, whaddya know, they use HEAVY HYDROGEN.  Do you know how much heavy hydrogen there is in the sea?  Go fishing man, ask the fish. Oh what a jolly time we're having so.  Dude, if I ever meet you, I swear I'll buy you a beer.  I haven't laughed this hard in ages.  I'll tell you what, I'll take you seriously the day some guy comes around asking me to contribute to an asteroid defence system...    Oh man.  This is priceless. It *is* a double standard.  You are willing to use force to make me comply with your rules, while you deny me the right to use force to make you comply with my rules.  One standard for you, another for me.  Double standard.  Big difference is you're a hypocrite and I'm not - I say "I will engage in violence to make you comply", and I do, while you say "I will never engage in violence except in defence" but you do.But this is far too entertaining to stop here.  So, all right, let's suppose I accept your NAP (which is, in and of itself an admirable principle), but I reject your definition of property.  I may therefore rightfully enter, without aggression, what you consider to be your property and claim it as my own.  You may not engage in aggression to eject me.  Correct or incorrect?Perhaps you don't understand the meaning of the words "responsible" and "honest"...Oh man, I'm bustin' my sides laughing now.  You couldn't buy comedy this good anywhere.I gotta quit this thread - it's just too addictive.  These guys just *won't* address the problems put to them 'cos the contradictions are inescapable.AND THIS     Oh shit, I'm crackin' up... there are literally tears coming out my eyes... I can't even type... you guys have gotta stop typing dudes, every time I hit "post" there are 10 new replies and I'm just breakin' apart reading them... And there it is, folks.  The ultimate double standard.Reminds me of a couple of recent wars supposedly aimed at liberating oppressed peoples - bringing them 'democracy' on the point of a gun, and stuffing it down their throats.  And that's just in recent times. In principle you're right.  They could just engage in inflation.  Print money to pay for state services, the money finds its way into the economy, inflation ensues.  As long as it's kept under control, it could work.  People just get really upset when they find that their money-in-the-bank has devalued by half.  Somehow, part-tax and part-inflation seems to be understood as more acceptable.  Watch "money as debt". Ok, great - you've agreed with my post from a while ago!  Here it is again:Now, that didn't take too long -- only 26 pages!  Maybe in another 26 you'll admit that MightMakesWinnerMakesRight is actually an unavoidable consequence of resource scarcity.  Now can you give us a reason why would people become responsible citizens in LiberLand when they don't do it *even* under threat of being forcefully imprisoned?  If all you want is a hypothetical discussion of what libertarianism would be like and how nice it would be under certain, perhaps improbable, circumstances, that's fine.  But you seem to believe, in this thread, that you consider the above condition to be a likely possibility.  If so, can you justify yourself?  If not, would you clarify exactly what your argument is please?By their nature, humans do not act humanely.  Reduced to the minimum, man organises into small social groups of maybe a few hundred individuals, each group with a single authoritative leader, and competes with other groups for resources.  The 'invention' of society, facilitated by the discovery of agriculture, changed all that -- and man changed from a nomadic to a social lifestyle.  As social groups grew, thanks to the success of agriculture, members had to learn to cooperate, even where they were not dependent on one another.  There had to be a 'social norm'.  To answer your question: I allow politicians control over me, because I genuinely think that the alternative would be worse for everyone, me included.  And one person having more power than others is nothing new.  It's been like that since time immemorial.  But, ideally, the ruling class should be checked and controlled by the population and, crucially, an independent judiciary.  And also because election time always comes around.  Sadly in our corrupted world, the politicians are literally getting away with murder.I agree with this.  Modern states are corrupt, it has to do with equality and megacorporations.  This is one of the reasons I would not like libertarianism - it would ultimately lead to MightMakesWinner, and mega-corporations controlling all our lives but with no public oversight - no elections, no independent judiciary, 'politicians' accountable to no-one.  Although, instead of politicians, we would have CEOs looking no further than their own pockets.They already did - they regulated the fertiliser trade.  Case closed.Oh but it did.  Do you think that, if the nuclear trade were unregulated, no terrorist organisation or crackpot millionaire would have used one by now?Every day that goes by in which the IRA, and any other terrorist organisations, DON'T set off a nuke, is a glowing tribute to the non-proliferation treaty.Excellent point.Another excellent point.  No-one in Somalia can get nukes because the trade is so well regulated.Rassah, this is a terribly terribly terribly bad question.  Are you somehow suggesting that, in LiberLand, a representative of the Asteroid Defence & Mining Company is going to travel door-to-door, looking for people to pay a contribution so that they'll defend your property from an asteroid?  And what, if you don't pay, and the asteroid looks like it's heading for your property, like, they won't shoot it down (well, up)?I really thought privately held nukes were the limit of absurdity, and I tried the raindrop-triggered nuke just to see if b2c & fb had their limits.  But privately funded asteroid defence???  Man, that wins  What poor worker in a uranium enrichment plant will not sell material at a vast profit to himself, so some crackpot organisation can bomb a city on the other side of the world, in a nation that this poor worker doesn't care about, or maybe even actively dislikes?Actually, it has been tried, in Spain.  Guess what, though?  It failed.  Externalities.  Greek city-states were also a close approximation.  Guess what?  Failed too.  Externalities again.  Sucks huh? It doesn't, at least according to b2c & fb.  All a libertarian society could hope for, it seems to me, is that all along the chain from uranium ore mine, to extraction plant, to purifying plant, to weapons assembly, to transport and eventual sale, and re-sale, and re-sale, and resaleN, that EVERYBODY follows a strict voluntary code of conduct consistent with social safety.  And that's everybody - including the malnourished children picking away at the ore, the underpaid worker who needs money to get treatment for his sick child, everybody follows it.  In EVERY mine, EVERY extraction plant, EVERY EVERYTHING.  Is that the answer you're looking for?edit: and even then, it's enough for a crazy person to *seem* sane, just for long enough to convince the seller that he, for some reason, really needs a nuclear weapon. And you're STILL ignoring the crux of the issue - what about where being armed is neither explicitly permitted nor prohibited.  Like on unclaimed territory, or on claimed territory where the owner is a true libertarian and allows people to decide for themselves.  That's what you want, isn't it?  For people to decide for themselves?  How can you justify infringing my right not to be threatened when you declare that "nothing should diminish [a person's rights]"?  Can you answer that without sidestepping the issue?No, no no no no.  You're wrong.  It's not with government in place, it's with humans in place.  If boycotts really worked in a libertarian society, then they would work in a statist society regardless of government.  You're suggesting that without government, boycotts would work; but we already know they don't BECAUSE when governments don't intervene it doesn't work.  For years people in my country saw plastic bags everywhere, on the street, the sidewalk, the rivers, EVERYWHERE.  Everyone was disgusted and called for everyone else to stop using plastic bags.  Nothing changed.  Nobody stopped.  FOR YEARS.  Then, the government TAXED plastic bags.  The problem disappeared IMMEDIATELY.Ohhhh, how right you are.  How truly truly right you are.  Perhaps you have finally understood the core problem. This is so far beyond absurd that I almost pissed my pants laughing at it.  In liberty land, everyone is intrinsically allowed to juggle smallpox on their lawn, or live grenades on the street, or knives on a life raft.  BUT, because people are not stupid, and because they don't do ridiculous things, well, the pro-libertarianists argue that this is not something we need to worry about.BUT, suddenly, in democracy-land, where these kind of things are explicitly forbidden, we have to worry that, suddenly, *ALL OF SOCIETY* will want to be allowed to do that AND to expose themselves to the unknown and unknowable dangers.  Not just one crackpot or extremist, but EVERYBODY is a crackpot.I'll grant that bittertea is probably using sarcasm as a tool to avoid resolving the problem, but, bitcoin2cash, your post has nothing, NOTHING, to suggest anything other than naive sincerity. @Moonshadow: I'm still waiting for your non-arbitrary definition of "acceptable weaponry", and if it's not a simple static list then please outline the valid circumstances for a few representative weapons.  If it's truly non-arbitrary, then I'm sure myself, FirstAscent, Ayeyo, Hawker *and* bitcoin2cash, Rassah, FredericBastiat will all instantly realise that the definition cannot logically be otherwise - or at least, we will after some (finite) debate.So HOW can you justify entering armed into a room where I am (where being so armed is not explicitly permitted)?  You are implicitly threatening me with mortal violence, and I have the right not to be threatened.That's a load of crap.  Boycotts don't work except where the market is close to the production line.  Globalism and outsourcing ensures that any company now can abuse people in one jurisdiction while it's consumers on the other side of the world blissfully buy buy buy unawares - and a libertarian free market would facilitate that even more.  People have been boycotting Nestle for at least 20 years now and it's still doing just fine.  Look at all the bad publicity about sweatshops, child exploitation, people working with toxic chemicals to recycle computer components, genocide in the Congo to feed the cell-phone market... the list goes on and on and on.  If people don't actually *live* the abuse, they don't give a shit.  Boycotting a company is an irrational economic decision except where the cost-benefit analysis (and that's what we *all* do every time we buy something) indicates that not boycotting will incur greater future cost.  This is not so where an abusive factory is far away from the buyer.LOL.  So tell us, exactly, who are you boycotting right now?  Computer manufacturers?  Oil companies?  Gym shoe manufacturers?  Clothes manufacturers?MightMakesWinnerMakesRight.  You can rant all you like about it, you can rant about how it's not fair and how subjugated you feel.  It has always been that way, it will always be that way.  You won't change anything, but you can keep ranting.I was hoping someone would mention smoking.  In liberty-land, I would consider it my right to throw a cup of water over anyone smoking in my vicinity (if not otherwise explicitly permitted), in order to reduce my exposure to toxic chemicals.  If they reacted with violence to my rightful behaviour, I would re-react in kind.  Can anyone tell me how such behaviour is not consistent with Hobbes' savage natural world of man against man? Can't sleep :-(  Came here to find friends ;-((  I've amalgamated several replies into this post; some of them are repetitive and boil down to the same point, but worded differently in order to address yer comments.Thanks for this, no sarcasm intended.  I can't agree with your argument of "crazy little ladies" not buying nukes.  Ok, maybe for crazy little ladies and nukes, you're right; but crazy big guys, and semtex bombs, no - you're wrong.  And the pro-libertarian camp seem to think that, just because no-one would ever try to buy a nuclear weapon for personal use even if free to do so, that nuclear weapons should be freely available.  Furthermore, given that hypothesis, that therefore no-one will ever buy lesser weapons for personal use and therefore they should all be freely available too.Moonshadow, you yourself have stated that not all definitions of "acceptable weapons" are arbitrary, that some weapons *really are* different to others.  Hmm.  Then you argue that what is important is not the weapon, but the set of circumstances under which it's employed.  This latter sentence is somehow better, but it's equivalent to saying that there exists some pre-defined absolute line of "unsafe circumstances", and all weapons either fall on this side, or that side of the line.  So imagine if there was some new kind of weapon invented... use your imagination... let's imagine it uses 'sub-space harmonics' to make an assailant melt into a dead blob of jelly, and it has two dials, one controlling the range over which it operates, and another the intensity.  What you're saying is that there is some non-arbitrary line, which will be obvious to *everyone*, what the maximum range and intensity of such a weapon should be; and furthermore that this non-arbitrary line would be obvious to everyone.But you miss the point.  ALL weapons become automatic once they are deployed.  A bullet from a handgun becomes automatic once the trigger is pulled - it can't identify between a teenager playing with a water pistol and a teenager trying to shoot you.  Or: could I legitimately use a landmine if I were 100% certain that the victim would be an intruder (or otherwise, an 'enemy')?If a non-arbitrary definition did actually exist, it would be obvious to everyone (at least after debating).  But here we've seen that the pro-libertarian camp don't even think that privately held nukes are unacceptable.  And I don't doubt that someone, somewhere, perhaps a victim of a knife attack, would be very happy if all knives everywhere had a tamper-proof protective sheath that would only retract when in the immediate vicinity of carrots to be chopped, or that knives be only available from govt-approved shops after presentation of ID and motivation for requiring a knife.But here - I'll tell you what - if not all such expressions (of "acceptable weaponry") are arbitrary, then PLEASE tell us what the single, unique, non-arbitrary one is.  If it could be guaranteed that *everyone* would abide by that definition, then I would too, WHATEVER it is.  But then that would be the Law, right?  Or not?-----------I'm not certain I agree with this.  My problem with libertarianism would persist *even if* the underlying framework was utilitarian rather than deontological.  To put it better: utilitarianism seeks to maximise "human happiness", deontology "human morality" (correct me if I'm wrong).  In a utilitarian society, if everyone was free to interpret "human happiness" as they see fit, the same problems would arise.  Analogously in a deontological society, if there was a system-wide definition of "human morality", then I see no problem.The problems arise specifically and solely because people can and will have differing definitions of what's acceptable; and sometimes these definitions will be in conflict.  My own personal philosophy is neither utilitarian nor deontological.  My ideology could be summed up as "Everybody must obey the same rules; the rules must be impartial; the rules should seek to be comprehensive and minimise conflict."Where is the contradiction in my idealogy?  I'm not defying you - I realise there may be contradictions it it, let's debate if you like.  In a different thread, if you prefer, but however we debate, it will also be applicable to IP law.I can even see that there is little difference between my idealogy and libertarianism.  It all depends on how many rules you want, and how many conflicts you want to address really.  The difference between complete chaotic anarchy, and a totalitarian nanny state.  Wouldn't it be great if we could apply a cost-benefit analysis, not to whether a given law should exist or not, but to how many, and which, types of conflict should the law address.  i.e. the more conflicts you address, the bigger and more costly the government becomes.  At some point, the additional cost of instituting and enforcing a law will exceed the benefit benefit derived therefrom.  "no nukes" - small cost, enormously large benefit.  "no sunny side eggs" - medium cost, negligible benefit.-----------So a libertarian would stop someone juggling knives on a life raft, but not someone parading nukes around a city?The point is, juggling knives on a life raft is *obviously* a recklessly dangerous thing to do, so, even in a libertarian society, it's unlikely that the boat-owner will specify that this is forbidden.  Therefore, by your argument, anyone may rightfully do so, and no-one may rightfully stop him.Now it's pretty certain that no-one ever actually *would* juggle knives on a life raft, precisely because it *is* obviously stupid.  But there are plenty of other cases where the stupidity, or otherwise, of an action is not obvious, BUT, the owner whose T&C govern the situation will not have considered.  So, in liberty-land, may a person rightfully put a forceful stop to any behaviour, not specifically otherwise prohibited, which they consider to be dangerous to themselves or their property?  Moonshadow, in case you've not read the whole thread, this contradiction in (fb's & b2c's) libertarianism has already been established.  I perceive guns, even if holstered, as a threat, and therefore I can rightfully defend myself from them; but people have the right to carry guns.  Are they incompatible rights or not?I tried asking this question before, except I was asking if it's possible to define "freakishly absurd" or not.-----------b2c, I'm not sure what you're arguing in these more recent posts.  In order to solve a problem, are you suggesting that we should learn more about the problem, debate it and research it, or are you suggesting that... I dunno, are you suggesting... something else?If the state declares it will forcefully oblige people to obey, and does so, there is no contradiction or hypocrisy.  If you declare you will peacefully ask people to voluntarily cooperate with libertarianism, and then forcefully oblige them to do so, there is contradiction and hypocrisy.Do you deny that? It's an arbitrary decision based on my own opinions.  As are ALL other expressions of 'acceptable weapons' in this forum.  The only one that's not arbitrary is the one that follows the law, because everyone knows, or should know, what it is.  Recall - ignorance is not an excuse in the eyes of the law.  The legal definition can be arbitrary too; all that's important is that it is equal for everyone.I presume you're being sarcastic - it's sometimes hard to tell in ASCII.I did have preconceptions about libertarianism, and debated here to see if my preconceptions were correct or not.  I understand what libertarianism attempts and, repeating myself, I would happily try it out in a small united isolated society.I do not have any preconceptions about who would best represent libertarianism but, be very assured, I am of the very firm opinion that FredericBastiat and bitcoin2cash absolutely do NOT best represent it - as they present it, it's inherently contradictory.Having said that, I don't presume to be more intelligent than the great philosophers of modern or historic times.  I invite any other libertarian to resolve the contradictions that have been presented here  BUT, again, I'm bowing out for a while to see how the debate develops from here.  It's becoming very repetitive. Regrettably I'm going to have to bow out of this debate for a while - it's taking up too much of my time.  It's great fun and I'd love to continue, but I'm satisfied that, at least as b2c and Fred present it, libertarianism is fundamentally flawed.  For example, in liberty-land:1. Any person may use mortal violence to defend from any perceived mortal threat, or injurious violence from any perceived injurious threat; and any person may carry mortal weapons at any time.  One person's right gives another the right to kill him.  You might be doing something perfectly legitimate, and yet another can legitimately kill you for doing it.2. You must make irrational economic decisions based on some arbitrary morality which other people may or may not adhere to.3. To enjoy a reasonable level of safety in your own property, your only choice is to pay a security tax to some private police force and hope they keep a watch on fertiliser producers all over the world, making sure they do background checks on all their clients (though they are not obliged to do so), then checking all produce and people travelling near your territory to see if anyone has a bomb.  And if they *do* have a bomb, well, whaddyaknow, they are free to do so, so the security team has to follow them day and night and just wait until they stop merely *holding* the bomb and actually start "threatening" with it - whatever that might mean, bearing in mind that the interval between starting to threaten and actually detonating could be far far far far far less than the reaction time of the security company.4. There is no limit to permissible behaviour - anything arbitrarily dangerous is permitted, as long as there is no intentional menace to others.  Competence, mental stability, physical ability, are of no consequence as long as the buyer can convince the seller that he intends no harm.  You could juggle live grenades in the street as long as the street owner didn't think of prohibiting that and, of course, as long as you don't intend to *deliberately* drop any.  You could randomly shoot your gun while blindfolded in the street with impunity as long as you don't deliberately intend to hit anyone.5. Any justice, any justice at all, will always be bought.  The enforcement of that justice will be bought as well.  The wealthier (=strongest) members of society will have access to more powerful justice.  Poorer members can only hope that the wealthy do not use abuse their greater power to subjugate them.6. There will be no stability to one's life; when the terms&conditions of neighbouring property changes in such a way as to become intolerable to you, you must sell and move elsewhere.7. There is no guaranteed minimum access to healthcare, other than what an individual can fully pay for.  You could join a 'healthcare cooperative' of some kind, and hope that it honours its contract with you.  If not, paid justice will prevail.8. There is no guaranteed level of safety anywhere, other than what the owner of a property is willing to offer.  Even then, there is no way to be certain that he will follow the code.  Even in cases where he proclaims membership of some paid private-standards group, it is not known if he actually follows the stated code or even if he actually is a member of the standards group at all. Well, history has clearly shown that pre-emptive regulation of fertiliser sales saves lives.  Is it not logical that the greatest power in the land would be the most effective at regulating the trade?  And if that force is nation-wide, then the regulation will be nation-wide too.A regulation cannot admit anything other than complete regulation.  Sure - there are more *options* available, e.g. regulation, partial regulation, non-regulation, deregulation, etc.... but if you choose the first option you cannot permit any of the others, while if you choose one of the others, you may or may not permit others.  So I would say, the options are: "regulated" or "less than fully regulated" and nothing else.I read this, and it's almost written in legalese -- there are some sentences I don't understand.  But let's start with this:You didn't define "threatens", "defend", "violence".  Please do so.  Also:What about controvertible diminshments?  (as usual, assume that there is no contract addressing the particular circumstances).So, suppose you get your liberty-land.  Because there is no taxation, there would be no standing army.  Now suppose a foreign power invades, eliminates you and yours, uses the experience to learns and establishes a new colony.  Is that progress? But a gun doesn't put anyone on equal footing with a gang of armed thugs.So, we'll allow automatic pistols.  An automatic pistol might put you on an equal footing with a gang of armed thugs.But not with a gang of automatic-pistol-armed thugs.So we'll allow machine guns.  dot dot dotAs long as the gang can arm itself the same as you, your gun does not put you on an equal footing.If it's just physical strength, a strong person can only threaten one person at a time, and cannot menace a group.  With weapons, any person can menace many people simultaneously.You asked where we should stop.  If I had to draw the line, I would permit only human-powered weapons.  Anyone's ability to menace would be only in a small area around them (as wide as the biggest stick they could carry, for example).  Bows-and-arrows and crossbows would be a grey area - they're not close-combat weapons, but they are still human powered.No.  They wouldn't.  I looked for their comments on this, but it was taking too long.  If you don't believe me, search for it or ask them again. He's not being black-and-white.  That would be "fertiliser for everyone" or "fertiliser for no-one".  Hawker just proposes "fertiliser for whoever legitimately needs it".  That's what you're proposing too, except Hawker likes to stop people *before* they suicide bomb a city, not afterwards. Nobody will stop you setting up a company offering free cable TV, or doing research into x-ray vision for eventual human implants - though I suppose you might have to be sure to offer a quality product.  Tell you what, I don't have a TV, but if you offer free cable to me, I'll definitely 'buy' it.  Good luck.  You have the right to have free cable TV, and everyone else has a greater right not to be obliged to offer you free cable TV.Fortunately, under just about any reasonable legal system I can think of, the right to have people with red hair arbitrarily executed is vastly superseded by redheads' right to life - so there is no problem in a legal system and the law protects redheads.  Likewise Nirvana and people's right to peace and tranquillity.I'll bet if you take the core idea of law it would boil down to pretty much what libertarians would like.  "Do no harm; do not threaten to harm," might be a (simplified) starting point; the rest is just making a clear, unique definition of what constitutes "threat" and "harm" such that members of society can co-exist peacefully.b2c, your own post just here shows that people with differing opinions on what their rights should be, cannot peacefully co-exist.  I realise that you are being facetious, but have you ever heard of Poe's Law?  In short: "Parodies of extremism are indistinguishable from the real thing."  So *whatever* your understanding of "threat" and "harm", there will *always* potentially be someone who's understanding is incompatible with yours.  Any society which has competing or conflicting members, REQUIRES a common definition of "threat" and "harm" if it is to be peaceful.  If all members of a society are cooperating towards a single mutually beneficial end, in some kind of symbiotic web maybe, then law would not be required.  Self-interest would be sufficient to keep things peaceful.How's about this: I previously wrote that libertarianism might be defined as:I'd asked to be corrected it it was wrong but nobody did (I think), so I'll assume it's at least close.Now, please define "violence", "defend", "imminent", "perceived", "threat", "life", "health", "property", "damage", "honour", "contract", "obligations", starting with the ones in boldface.  I mean, you might come from a different country from me, with different linguistic conventions; you might not be a native English speaker and so misunderstand some words; your background might give you different interpretations and so on.  I need them to be defined, so if I decide to move to your liberty-land, I'll know what to do and what not to do, whenever I happen to find myself in circumstances somehow not comprehensively addressed by some prior contract.  Now don't reply "here's what you must do: 'don't threaten anyone' etc", please actually *define* the terminology used; use examples if you think it's necessary. Fred, here are two quotes from you.  Are they compatible?"The end justifies the means" is an ethical choice - see Ethics.  There are several ethical choices available, but they will result in very different and probably incompatible societies.In fact, to reply to your "... majority rules, personal liberty be damned", I do not consider that the law should exist so as to restrict the personal liberties of anyone.  I think the law should exist so as all people can equally enjoy a minimum set of personal liberties.  In other words, the raison d'etre for law is NOT to curtail liberty, but to CREATE it.Regrettably, as I have said several times in this thread, I do think present-day lawmakers abuse their powers.
Thank you for the clear response.  Now (again, assuming we live in liberty-land): We have established that I am at liberty to defend myself from any perceived threat, AND you are at liberty to arm yourself with a (arbitrarily?) powerful weapon.  I perceive some weapons as a threat, whether loaded, pointed, handled or not.  Therefore, my liberty is incompatible with yours.  Therefore, you and I cannot be members of the same society.  In case I'm not explaining myself clearly: if there should happen to be some random conflict between us, violence would almost certainly ensue; and here I presume that the point of having a social ideology is so members of a society can co-exist peacefully.  Likewise any two people who have incompatible definitions of "threat" or "weapon" cannot be members of the same society.  If you disagree, please explain how can we co-exist, GIVEN that we enjoy the rights specified above AND that we are free to perceive things according as we see fit.The "freakishly absurd" question is not rhetorical.  I think nukes in private hands is freakishly absurd and you don't; but you do think raindrop-triggered nukes are.  Hawker, for example, would probably say that allowing sales of semtex or other high explosives to private individuals is freakishly absurd.  How can we decide who to defend ourselves against if we happen to live in the same city?  Or do you seriously believe that the crackpot umbrella-maker should be allowed to carry out his proof-of-faith in his umbrellas in the middle of a crowded city?  I know it's absurd, but before you so dismiss it, bear in mind that people will sometimes take great personal risks in order to further their agenda - look at Lifelock CEO Todd Davis; look at suicide bombers; look at religious extremists; look at political extremists; look at organised criminals; look at anti-abortion extremists; look at homophobia; look at...... need I go on?Edit: fixed links. But in this case it would often not be of choice, but from guys like Fred that want anyone to hold nukes.  But it's extraordinary that you think many people dying, and humanity losing all their knowledge, that somehow people will learn.  How can you learn from someone's mistakes if they're dead?  How can you remember all the things they knew?  Progress is generally defined by your ethical viewpoint - for example you might be utilitarian, in which case you consider it as progress when people become somehow happier overall, or it might be consequentialist, in which case you consider an increasing overall morality as an indicator of progress.  But this, where the path to progress involves many people dying... well, that's a new ethics to me.  Like I say, civilisation sure is taking a beating today.What happened in America circa 1400-1500?  That was when the Americas was 'discovered' by Europe, right?  I don't know of any large group of people choosing paths of action that led to their deaths.  Please elaborate. Yeah.  Something like that.  So is many people dying some kind of progress then? Is that what you call progress? Well, even you agreed that raindrop-triggered nukes are not an appropriate tool for anything, though I could probably imagine a scenario where they might be useful for self defense - but it would admittedly be freakishly absurd.  And hey, if such a nuke could be used offensively, then it could certainly be used defensively.  So, in your libertarian world, would random people be allowed to hold raindrop-triggered nukes for defense purposes in a city where such things are not otherwise prohibited?But you STILL haven't answered the real question clearly.  Here it is *again*.  Do you, or do you not, have the right to enter a negotiating room armed with a gun, where being so armed is not specifically prohibited?  Just to remind you, you've already agreed that I have the right to immediately defend myself, with mortal violence if necessary, from any perceived threat to my life.  Again, assume we live in your liberty-land.More generically, do you think everybody in liberty-land should mutually agree on what is "freakishly absurd"?More philosophically, do you think your ideology should address real-world problems, or just imaginary problems?As for the nanny state, well you know, you make a good point.  Recreational drugs are outlawed in many places even they might only affect the user - I mean drug use with no secondary direct/indirect passive/active effects on others.  But I can see how it is necessary to restrict people from *abusing* drugs - it can often lead to crime and increased healthcare costs.  The problem would be - how can you tell if someone is a drug user, or a drug abuser?  I have no solution better than stringently regulating those drugs which are likely to lead to abuse, addiction and crime etc.  For example, there could be drug-shops which would be the only possible place to buy the drug, every user has a fixed quota and must consume it right then and there.On the other hand, in the EU, I recall there was some legislation that prohibited restaurants from serving eggs sunny-side-up (that means not well cooked for those who might not understand the terminology).  Now, eating eggs sunny-side-up can only increase healthcare costs on account of salmonella (edit: but maybe if you added up the extra cooking time & energy required for all the healthy eggs, maybe the overall cost to society would be higher; who knows.), but I hardly think it could lead to crime.  So I would think that's an unjustified regulation.  Again, these are lines in the sand, but I still think one line is better than a million, or none.I don't mean to post off-topic, but the nanny-state is relevant to the discussion of weapons regulation, personal liberties, property rights and, eventually, intellectual property.Yes, I meant obtuse, though I had to check thesaurus.com just to be sure.  Now please don't say this is an ad hominim attack, fred - I asked if you were being "deliberately obtuse" which says nothing about what I actually think of your level of obtuseness or intelligence.Main Entry:   obtusePart of Speech:   adjectiveDefinition:   slow to understandSynonyms:    dense, dopey, dull*, dumb, imperceptive, insensitive, opaque, slow on uptake, stolid, thick, uncomprehending, unintelligentNotes:   acute  is an angle of less than 90 degrees; obtuse  is one of more than 90 degreesAntonyms:    bright, intelligent, quick, smart Are you seriously suggesting that farmers wil, en masse, voluntarily choose to pay more for an equivalent product simply because their usual producer doesn't make background checks on all clients?  I say choose to pay more, because the producer not paying for security services and background checks, will have lower costs.It's funny, the libertarianism argument states that free market capitalism will save the day and everyone will bask in the glory thereof.  However, here it seems that it would require people to make irrational economic decisions, and be far, far, far more informed about non market-related issues before making their purchases and sales.Someone already did.  See the example of a kid pointing a toy gun at you here. So Rassah's position is at least more coherent.  He justifies MightMakesRight, end of story.  But worse, be considers that some people's lives are less valuable than others because of some generic attribute and NOT specific to any single person.  Civilisation is sure taking a pounding here folks.Tell us, Rassah, if it was a tribe of white people fighting a tribe of black people, what do you think the 'state' should do? I missed the question in here. I do think everyone has an automatic right to self defense, but I do not think that everyone has an automatic right to gun ownership.  Like I said earlier, I'd use a baseball bat.You STILL didn't, and presumably can't, defend your ideology from the accusation of being fundamentally flawed.  Please stop wasting people's time with illogical incoherent political rubbish please; read a few books and fix your ideas. Oh my goodness - are you being deliberately obtuse?  Is it not clear yet that I'm hypothesising a libertarian world?  There is already a solution in the current system.  The law states what is or is not permitted.  This is not stated under libertarianism and, as such, any individual could potentially interpret almost any action as hostile.  You yourself have said that a positive or negative interpretation of hostile intent could depend on whether the supposed assiland is SMILING or not.  Do you not realise how ridiculous that is?Well if that happens, here's what you could try.  Carry your nuke around with you and see if any ghosts object.  It's *really* hard not to ridicule statements like this.  Political philosophy is a *social* issue.  If it's just you, there's no society, no political philosophy, no problem.I agree that, if your actions concern only you and your property, you may do as you please.  But when your actions involve me, directly or indirectly, actively or passively, I declare that you may not do as you please.  And you STILL haven't resolved the problems - they are not 'edge cases' - they are simple situations which probably occur thousands of times a day around the world without resort to violence.   Go on, you asked me who owns the room and I answered.  Are you free to carry a gun in or not?  Answer it, and the other questions, in your next post here, or I declare the discussion over - libertarianism, as proposed by you and b2c, is fundamentally flawed and unworkable in the modern world.EXACTLY. You are negligently endangering them.  Why don't you ask b2c or Fred if they will condemn an unqualified person who carries a nuke around with them.  Or - just read back a few pages.  They have already expressed themselves abundantly clearly.  Now - this litigation - where does it take place?  Which court?  Who enforces the verdict?So... I'd have to move house every time somebody from Texas happens to move in on my street?Who pays for it?  Is it obligatory to participate and to obey the rules of this BBB company?Where does the litigation take place, given that your polluting factory is thousands of miles from your house, from your market, and, most importantly, from the security company defending you?  And now you are suggesting that, under libertarianism, you can expect to be extorted by the mafia at any moment?  That doesn't sound very satisfactory...  And, let's be clear, if the Mafia is more powerful than the security company you already employ, well, you can expect them to come knocking anyway.  Right?In an unregulated world, money=guns.  Damn, even *with* regulation, it's already like that.  b2c and Fred propose libertarianism because they abhor the MightMakesRight status currently enjoyed by governments.  You have just acknowledged that libertarianism=MightMakesWinnerMakesRight.There's also the law and a small matter of being put in prison, though I concede that in the current system wealthy people seem not to end up in prison. ABSOLUTELY!  Where there is a cultural precedent AND everybody has similar ideas of what is and is not acceptable, then libertarianism would be great - like in a small isolated country village perhaps.  But people travelling from far and wide, with different ideas of what is acceptable, would almost certainly feel threatened by normal behaviour for the place, or would make the inhabitants feel threatened by simply doing what they feel is normal.  My questions are: how can we resolve this conflict?  Fred insists he has the right to carry a gun around unless otherwise prohibited.  I insist he does not, and would be willing to engage in mortal violence if necessary to defend myself.  I come from a country where guns are outlawed, but I've been in Texas - all I could do was take a big gulp, keep my head down, and try not to piss anyone off.At your service...Lucky you said "likely", otherwise I would have asked:  Who decrees that you should do so?  Who enforces you to do so if you choose not to?Who 'awards' territories to a private security company?  What if there some people, e.g. nuclear bomb holders, there do not wish to adhere to the contract?Or alternatively the security company could just shut up shop and run with the money.  Unless, of course, everyone in that territory, now dead or dying, happens to have been all along secretly paying another honourable security company to hunt down the first, just in case the first one should run away from its responsibilities.So what if you don't pay for security and to hell with the consequences - not having to pay for security or insurance will also enable you to provide a cheaper product than your competitors.  [sarcasm] Ohhhhhh, of course, people will buy the more expensive product because they'll ALL know that you don't have insurance and they'll really disapprove of that even though your factory is thousands of miles from your market. [/sarcasm]So MightMakesWinnerMakesRight?  I can freely invade and take control of defenceless property and no-one other than the miserable owners will try to stop me? So a mad crackpot umbrella maker *can* bring his raindrop-triggered nuclear device into a crowded city.  In fact, any *arbitrarily* dangerous item can now be freely handled by any *arbitrarily* incompetent person, as long as they do not intend to use it, or to threaten to use it.  Is that so?You didn't answer my hypothesis of a child pointing his toy gun at you.  Would you like to try?  Here's the link.Once again, THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS PERSONAL LIBERTY EXCEPT INSOFAR AS THOSE AROUND YOU PERMIT IT.  You have been proposed simple problems to solve, and you cannot solve them with your idealogy.  Just in case you've fogotten, here they are again:CAN YOU RESOLVE THESE PROBLEMS OR NOT?It's not like we're giving you complicated problems to solve.  If you make any problem complicated enough, then no political philosophy will solve it.  But THESE ARE PROBLEMS THAT CONCERN THE VERY FOUNDATION STONES OF LIBERTARIANISM ITSELF.  To wit: your liberty and my liberty ARE NOT COMPATIBLE, and I'm using the word 'liberty' in your sense of the word; that is, something I define for me, you for you, Hawker for Hawker, and so on.  How can you "build on top" of something that is fundamentally flawed?If you cannot or will not solve those simple problems, then answer this: should your ideology be capable of solving real-world problems that real people face, or is it only for imaginary problems faced by imaginary ideal people in imaginary ideal worlds? All you need then is an acceptable society-wide definition of "desireable" and "undesireable". Fred, b2c and any other libertarian: do you dare to answer these questions?edit:And you have still to answer question 2 in the circumstances where possession of a gun is not addressed in the t&c, if any, of the room where we stand. Not so.  My intent was merely to expose the flaws in your philosophy; I can't speak for Hawker but his posts have been reasonable, coherent and pertinent.  Unfortunately, the only way to expose those flaws was to escalate the discussion to hitherto unknown levels of absurdity (unregulated nuclear weapons, raindrop-triggered nuclear weapons etc).Here is your philosophy in a nutshell if I may permit myself, and, by your own admission, it must be logical and coherent:1. Do no violence except to defend from imminent perceived threats to life, health or property.2. Do not threaten or damage the life, health or property of another.3. Honour all your contractual obligations.Is that more or less correct?  If not, please correct it.Items (1) and (2) are in direct contradiction with one another where two conflicting parties do not identically interpret the words "violence", "defend", "threat", "life", "health", "property", "damage" AND where the parties are not governed by a comprehensive contract covering ALL possible scenarios.So I'm not interested in annoying you - that's not the point of a good debate, in fact it would ruin a good debate.  But your reaction here very clearly *suggests to me* that you are unable to resolve the contradiction.  Therefore: your philosophy is flawed.  Defend it or I will *conclude* that you cannot resolve the contradiction, and I will feel entitled to follow your every pro-libertarian comment on this board with a link to this thread stating that your philosophy is flawed and and you are unable to defend the accusation that your libertarianism is inherently contradictory.I agree with you, it is the nature of people and of the world; but try stretching your credulity to the point where, should my kid get hurt, and the owner doesn't pay, then the contractually specified court would convict the store owner and either the court-specified enforcement agency enforces the contract or, irrespective of the prices he offers, everybody stops shopping there because they don't trust the owner to safely operate a store and/or abide by his contractual obligations.I mean, like that, it could work - I mean IF EVERY SINGLE PERSON THE WHOLE WORLD WIDE suddenly changed their nature and started behaving honestly, it might work.  Except in situations where an honest conflict arises because both parties honestly consider themselves in the right AND no mediator is specified, Fred & b2c have still not proposed an alternative to violence and therefore "MightMakesWinnerMakesRight". Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh, AT LAST, Fred reaches his limit.  But, just for pride, he won't concede the point.You know, you're absolutely right, I am being freakishly absurd.  In *my* opinion, *you* started being freakishly absurd a long long time ago (imagine! any Joe Public being allowed to handle nukes!).  And that's the crux of the problem.  Everybody draws their own absurd line.How's about this:If I am obliged to allow you to bring your normal nuclear weapon into a crowded city, even though I consider it to be extremely risky and hazardous, are you then obliged to allow some crackpot umbrella-maker to bring his raindrop-triggered nuclear weapon into the city, even though *you* consider *that* to be extremely risky and hazardous?If I can't legitimately stop you, then you can't legitimately stop him.  Correct or incorrect?  Actually, let me rephrase that: logically consistent, or logically inconsistent?edit: To put it another way: is "freakishly absurd" just how *you* define it, or should we come up with a common definition that we all can understand and agree with? No.  I'm being serious.  If those conditions should come about, then the table could be constructed.  Personally, I'm quite certain they never will.  Never ever.  Ever.  Period.  .Yes, you're right.  If, as you say, humanity can also learn to store information in subatomic particles, and use those particles and communication and processing units, then the table will be constructed even sooner.  Again, personally, I think it's unlikely to happen before tomorrow morning's coffee, to say the least.What do you think?  Are those conditions likely to come about soon? The owner died with no heirs.  We have both laid claim to the room.  This is the conflict we must resolve.  Alternatively the owner is libertarian and his terms and conditions specify "Section 1: No person entering here may threaten another." and nothing more.I'm blue in the face trying to explain to you that SOMETIMES there would be interactions between people and/or businesses that would not be governed by the clauses of a contract. Fred, you've lost.  You've said you'd prefer a nuclear wasteland to infringing a single person's rights.  You've said people can't act until they establish intent.  You've said it's not possible to establish intent with an unknown assailant.  You've said people can't prohibit dangerous goods even when they know there are such people as would use them violently.  For you, the right to hold any arbitrarily dangerous item supersedes the right to life.Am I entitled to hold a nuclear weapon in a city, that is detonated should a drop of liquid fall anywhere on its surface?  Assume I legitimately acquired all the raw materials to manufacture such a device, and my intent is merely to show how much faith I have in the umbrellas manufactured by my factory.EDIT: AND the city does not prohibit possession of nuclear weapons. So, in the libertarian world you are advocating, the rule is "if someone establishes that another intends to do him harm, he is entitled to immediately defend himself; through violence if necessary".  You then stated that observation is necessary to determine a person's intent, but you admit that this is not always possible, and also that it is subjective.  Let me repeat myself:Let me try to reduce this to the minimum:Do I, or do I not, have the right to immediately defend myself, with mortal violence if necessary, as soon as I perceive a threat to my life?Do you, or do you not, have the right to carry a gun into a room where you and I are discussing the solution to a mutual conflict?edit: the sun example was not necessary.  It was pathetic.  FirstAscent asked you a legitimate question, you replied with an absurdity. Actually, he's more-or-less right; I mean, to within a couple of orders of magnitude: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Observable_universe#Matter_content:10^80 is roughly 2^266.  Just knowing how many atoms there are doesn't tell you much about what those atoms are doing.  Please make sensible arguments.  A complete rainbow table for 50-char passwords is so-so-so-so-so many orders of magnitude beyond what the human race could ever possibly be capable of storing.  Even if there were 100 billion galaxies, each galaxy with 100 billion planets, each planet with 100 billion people, each person with 100 billion computers, each computer with 100 billion hard discs, each disc with 100 billion bytes, you still wouldn't even prick the surface.  AND, can you imagine the headaches your network administrator would have?Actually, wait, maybe if someday instant worm-hole travel & communication to remote regions of the universe becomes possible, AND assuming that the actual universe is 10 billion times larger than the visible universe, AND humanity can convert EVERY SINGLE ATOM of it into a combined processor-storage-networking unit..... yeah, ok, could be done.
Hey, Fred & b2c, I sure hope ye didn't somehow miss my posts 618 and 619 https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=38854.msg538197#msg538197 in this thread.  I'm *really* curious to see how ye reply and I'd hate to think you were just avoiding them.  While you're at it, I'm also curious to see the answer to:Count the percentage of semtex-laden cars that tend to be intended for peaceful purposes, then count the percentage of gasoline-laden tankers that tend to be used as bombs.  b2c, this is pathetic debating on your part too - not so bad as Fred asking us how we know the sun is hot though.If everyone was willing to accept that everytime you get in your car, you have to bring along a chain of drivers licences, one for each road you drive along, and everytime you enter in a shop, you have to read it's full terms and conditions, and so on, then "protecting business" might actually work as a method of avoiding conflict - in other words, there would have to be a contract governing every single interaction between people and businesses, specifying all possible outcomes of that interaction, and all compensations to be paid for each of those outcomes (so you'd have to put a monetary value on the life of your child, should a heavy box fall on him).So, if we're willing to accept such an absurdity, then yes, "business prevails" logically follows as a violence inhibitor.  Read the earlier parts of this thread to see that discussion.However, here we're talking *specifically* about cases where the conflicting interaction in question is not governed by a contract between the conflicting parties.  You seem to be suggesting, in such circumstances, that some collection of entities, be they businesses or maybe wealthy or even poor individuals, should unite and decide on some course of action to be imposed on the conflicting parties.  A popular tribunal, so to speak.  Do I understand correctly?Then why did you ridicule FirstAscent when he asked you how you plan on measuring the intent of a supposed aggressor?So, repeating myself again, what do you propose as a method to avoid violence in those circumstances?  In case it's not clear, I would propose an impartial nation-wide rapid-reaction police force, operating in the framework of an impartial nation-wide legal system, backed by an impartial judiciary, all paid for through impartial nation-wide taxation.Oh, Somalia again... let me book my flights right away... [/sarcasm]  Not to belittle the Somali or anything, I've no doubt in the right circumstances they could at least compete with neighbouring nations, but could you try to at least pick a country that's NOT the world's worst place to be for children http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/sarah-boseley-global-health/2011/sep/06/children-doctors ("World's worst place to be a sick child"), or a country where homosexuality can be punished by death - yaay, go go libertarians http://hdr.undp.org/en/media/HDR_2010_EN_Chapter4_reprint.pdf (page 82).  Really, you're not helping your case by citing Somalia. Is that what you think?  I happen to think otherwise.  If you so much as reach for a gun during a conflict between us, I will interpret that as a direct threat to me, and I will *immediately* try to shoot you first.  I agree with you - my interpretation is not "correct" nor is yours, but look what happens - one or both of us gets shot because we just didn't agree beforehand on what constitutes acceptable behaviour.  And before you go accusing me of being a narrow-minded totalitarian again, watch an old Clint Eastwood western - the crucial moment is *always* when the bad guy goes for his gun, NOT when he points it.Actually, now that I think, where I come from guns are actually outlawed.  Private possession is not permitted, save justifiable licenced rare exceptions.  So, given that social norm, if you so much as enter the room, armed, even if holstered, during a conflict between us, I will interpret that as a direct threat and will *immediately* hit you over the head with my imported baseball bat. We've already established that there is no universal "right", no universal "morality".  The winner *says* what's right, and everyone involved kowtows.  But, just to entertain you, let's say "MightMakesWinner" and we can stop caring about what's 'right' and 'wrong' and about vague shadowy lines-in-the-sand.  Now, let me repeat the question: what alternative do you offer to "MightMakesWinner" in the case where a conflict is heading to violence.And, I hope I don't have to lecture you on the evolution of morality, but, as they say, the winner writes the history books.  Just imagine how evil and 'wrong' Roosevelt & Churchill might have been portrayed... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German_nuclear_energy_projectUse your imagination.  Oh, well, use mine.  It's evening time and there's not enough light for you to see his face.  His body language says he might be high, or just suffering ADHD.  You're on a bicycle.  A group of men of the neighbourhood are standing on the corner, smoking & watching you, while others are walking past shops with boarded-up windows and faded strip-joint advertisements.  A streetlight flickers eerily.  The road you're on clearly says, in it's terms and condition, that firearms are not permitted but the kid isn't actually on the road and... like I say... [voice deepens, eyebrows furrow] you've heard some bad stories.In case you hadn't noticed, you've been trapped you into contradicting yourself even though I specifically drew your attention to your previous relevant statement.  Let me quote you again:That's a pretty clear statement.  No ambiguity.  But now you seem to be stating that there are conditions to your right to defend yourself?  Whether the supposed shooter has the right 'body language' or not, whether he is f%&king SMILING or not, whether YOU'RE IN A CAR OR NOT, whether HIS FRIENDS are with him or not... what's you're statement to the judge (which court was that, again?): "Well, your Honour, you know, his shoulders were hunched and I was on my own, his buddies were beside him, looking at me and, while I'll concede that he was smiling well, you know, it was one of those spooky smiles that just sends shivers down your spine.  Sorry, I goofed."  And you'll stand there, high and mighty, certain in your conviction that there was sufficient threat to warrant your violent reaction while every one of his friends in turn will stand up and say Joe never hurt a fly in his life and he was just playing with his water-pistol.You see?  You think you have the right to defend yourself BUT OTHERS DO NOT CONCEDE YOU THAT RIGHT.  You have no rights other that what your peers collectively permit you.Now, do you want to scale the argument back up to nukes, or shall I?  Ok, it was a rhetorical question, I'll do it.  Here's your statement to the judge (hate to be repetitive, but which court was it?):"Well your Honour, you know, he was standing there, with his hand over the BigRedButton and a bottle of whiskey in his hand when he looked up at me and let me tell you, he wasn't smiling at all.  Sure, I didn't realise the fissile material was in his bunker and he just wanted to test the electronics before launching it into the sun; Yeah, and was cleaning the circuit boards with alcohol and hit a snag just before looking up at me.  But he should have realised that he was behaving as if he were about to detonate it.  Sorry, I goofed."Is this discussion over now? Exactly!  I've been asking for alternatives to MightMakesRight all along.  You are proposing a libertarian world in which we can all behave pretty much as we please (to the extent that we can even carry nuclear weapons with us), and yet you seem unwilling or unable to propose an alternative to MightMakesRight as a method for solving conflict.  I mean, if a conflict descends into violence, then can we agree that the winner is decided by MightMakesRight?  I'll presume so.  So I want to know: what alternatives are there to resolve unforeseen conflict, that we can reliably use to avoid a violent confrontation.  Please specify a couple (you said they were obvious, see quote below) - and please take into account that every person will have a different idea of what constitutes a threat and what constitutes an actual aggression.  So your Non-Aggression rule is not even written in sand, it's written in the sand of a sandstorm.Just for the record, here's the quote I am referring to:Imagine this: you're passing through a strange neighbourhood you've heard bad stories about.  A child/young adult (let's say 15 yrs old for argument's sake) points a realistic toy gun at you.  You have a split-second to react.  What would you do, and I refer specifically to the bold text in the quote above.Come on, Fred, this is pathetic debating on your part.  If you're reduced to this, then I'll not be paying much attention to you anymore.  The question FirstAscent puts to you is pertinent - you propose "intent" as the parameter which defines whether or not an individual should be, umm, 'regulated', and yet you ridicule an attempt to measure that intent. You have to evaluate the risk and the hazard.  If the vials are held by a qualified laboratory with sufficient checks and controls built into its operations, then there is no reason to feel threatened, though even then you might not see people queuing up to buy houses right next door.  If it's held by your neighbour in his back shed you'd probably have to wonder exactly what he wants it for. e.g. http://www.rense.com/general34/realre.htmDidn't know about Gaddafi (sic).  I'd understood it was an internal revolution initially, but helped along in the second half.And gold has been a reasonable estimate of the value of energy. See the third graph at http://www.incrediblecharts.com/economy/gold_oil_ratio.php So give us some examples of alternatives that can consistently prevent violence in the case of gun ownership and perceived threats.  Your analogy with football is incorrect and useless.  There is no inherent conflict if two people support different teams and here we're talking specifically about conflict.  What you're suggesting is like asking which should be your favourite colour - my favourite colour, of course. @FredericBastiat: You have not addressed these above points.  They are succinct and relevant.I define "carrying a nuclear weapon around" as either violence or intention to engage in violence.  You do not.  Which definition should a libertarian society follow?  One of the problems facing governments of today is inconsistencies in the body of law they enact - flaws, or lack of coherency and logic, you might say.  Others call them "loopholes".  Often loopholes are closed with modified legislation if the loophole becomes problematic.  In this thread it has been *amply* demonstrated that the libertarianism you and b2c propose is full of inconsistencies.  Please try to eliminate these inconsistencies by answering, e.g. the questions in my above-linked post, from "Get the idea?" onwards.  How *exactly* am I permitted to behave in the presence of a person who interprets as a threat when I reach for the banana hidden in my pocket?Really bad.It is possible, yes, after suitable, expensive, dangerous reprocessing.  I stand by my statement with an addition: any unregulated person dabbling in nukes either intends to detonate or threaten to detonate it, or presents too great a risk of radiation leak.Exactly!  Any individual's idea of acceptable behaviour is just an opinion.   Now, please provide a better response, or admit that you can offer no alternative to MightMakesRight where any arbitrary conflict is not clearly addressed by some contract between the conflicting parties. In *your* libertarian world, yes.  Possession of a nuclear weapon means you are a maniac.  You might even be qualified, but if anyone other individual can obtain access to it, then you're still a maniac.  In present-day earth, nukes are mostly under the control of qualified people, in installations guarded by qualified people.  I can only hope that they are not maniacs.  The other nukes, if there are any, worry me. You're wrong.  Libertarianism allows me to defend myself from threats, right?  I interpret as a threat anyone carrying nuclear weapons anywhere near enough to affect me.  I am therefore entitled to defend myself.But, hey, look at you.  You want to threaten everyone for hundreds of miles around with nukes irrespective of their wishes, whereas I would only be threatening you.   Which of us is the narrow-minded totalitarian?But this business of nukes is tiresome and ridiculous.  Can we please stop?  For a more realistic example, please answer the questions from my previous post (from "Get the idea?" to the end):In *your* libertarian world, yes, you should fear me, because if you do anything I don't like, anything that I consider an infringement of my rights, then I will seek redress.  In the absence of a contract between us, or a contract not addressing the conflict, yes, I will use all means necessary, including violence, to extract remuneration for losses incurred or, where remuneration is not possible, to inflict equivalent damage.  No contract = no court = no law = MightMakesRight.  I pity you. I had b2c in mind when I wrote about the pollution.  He seems to think it's fine that anyone can do whatever they like on their own property, neighbours be damned.I'm not sure I understand your second quoted point here - are you saying failure to pay tax is a threat, or infringing on my right to healthcare is a threat?  In any case, your ideology here would make life very hard for people with disabilities or illnesses.  I feel it would be a sad day for civilisation, the day we start charging them the full cost of their healthcare.  I expect that a majority couldn't afford it, and would succumb.  [sarcasm] But hey, it would improve efficiency, right? [/sarcasm]But my point is that you're right when you sayNobody is arguing that point here.  We're just arguing what constitutes a "threat".  I gave you some examples of what many people might consider a threat, some of which you agreed with, some of which you didn't.  We're not talking within the confines of libertarianism, we're defining what constitutes "correct" behaviour towards one another.  Such a discussion is not confined to libertarians, though they, certainly, do discuss it.Again, I'm just trying to point out that some people might consider a tax dodger to be a threat to them and their well-being.Oh, we can all do that:Thomas Hobbes, 1588-1679. Are you suggesting that orderliness is an important component of an everyone-makes-their-own-rules libertarian society?If he'd been my neighbour for 20 years, well, I could assume he wouldn't suddenly detonate it.  Nonetheless I would insist that it be destroyed.  It would be worth losing a 20 year friendship if I knew I wouldn't have to live beside a nuke-wielding maniac.  And don't tell me he might not be a maniac.  *Anyone* who holds a nuke is a maniac.I think you don't know so much about the differences between the nuclear material you need for a bomb and that which you need for a power plant.  But technical problems aside, if I found out he was trying to build a nuclear power plant beside my land, you're damn right - I'd drive him away and if he resisted, well, it would be...... MMR again!!!!!!  Ask me why?  Ohhhhh, let me think now, what happened recently with a nuclear power plant....I don't need to establish intent.  Given their inherent danger, there is only one reason to risk holding a nuclear weapon - to detonate it, or at least to threaten to do so.And I wouldn't have to worry either - who'd prosecute me?  Who cares?  I'd have a nuclear weapon  Indeed.edit: fixed quotes. Sorry for the delay getting back.   This is more or less what I mean here.  You generate a transaction on an offline machine, and export it to some transportable encoding.  Why should the transaction be signed?  Because someone could change the destination address perhaps?  Ok you're right, hadn't thought of that.  Signed offline transactions so.Formatting the key, only if you're very paranoid, is necessary in case your offline machine is infected with (clever) malicious software which hides your private keys somewhere on the USB key.  Your method here would fail in that attack scenario.  e.g. Where did you download that ubuntu ditribution from?  Did you check the SHA256SUM and the GPG signatures?  Do you trust Canonical and all its employees?  Has anyone been in the room alone with your offline computer?  Ok, in that case, they've already downloaded the wallet file, but you get the idea.This is why I suggest base58 - the offline computer spits out the transaction on-screen, you write it down pen-on-paper, and then manually type it in elsewhere.Of course, if you're not so paranoid, USB is fine... Nobody is arguing that assumption because it's true today.  It all depends on how you define "threat".  Just to give an example:If you point a gun at me, even from your own property, you are threatening me.If you shout abuse at me, you are threatening me (hate speech, or inciting others to hatred).If your widget factory emits too much sulphur, you are threatening my livestock and my livelihood.If you copy my music, you are threatening my music career.If you fail to pay your tax, you are indirectly infringing on my right to e.g. healthcare, and so threatening my health.etcGet the idea?  Some people will say just owning a gun implies a threat, and so gun-owning is outlawed, or strictly licensed according to justifiable requirements.  Others will say a gun isn't a threat until it's aimed.  Others might even say that the gun was pointed but not loaded and therefore not a threat.  Everyone has their own idea of what's allowed or not, and unless you actually know *everybody* and whether any given behaviour on their part actually constitutes a threat to you, then there's no way at all you could even walk down the street without being nervous.  Damn, in some places you might even be arrested for looking crossways at a person.Now, here's the crunch: you have defined "threat" to be "pointing a gun at someone".  Someone else might define it as "looking crossways at someone".  I, for example, could define it as "honking the horn needlessly".  Whose definition should we all follow?  Bear in mind that all three of these transcend borders between property - you can point a gun, look crossways, and honk a horn, right from one property to another.  How many definitions will you allow before there are too many to remember?But it gets worse.  I don't like people honking the horn needlessly.  But others are ok with it.  Is it ok for me, therefore, to honk the horn needlessly?  Joe doesn't like people looking crossways at him, but can he do it, since others don't mind [i.e. since his action is not interpreted as a threat by anyone, is he permitted to do it]? I think it's not so much that libertarianism is loaded with contradiction, but that *people* have conflicting thoughts over what rights they have themselves and what rights they should extend to others.  It seems that b2c and fred think that it's enough for one person to declare "I have the right to do such-and-such" and as long as it doesn't directly physically cause harm to anyone, then that's ok.But they don't seem to realise that when I demand rights, I am actually demanding them from others.  That is, my "rights" are not decided by me, but are defined by what all the people around me permit me to do.  They don't come from within, but from without.  And, obviously, the rights one person demands of others will often not be what those others will concede to him.  And so, conflict arises.  It can be obvious, like 'who gets to eat the apples from this apple tree', or it can be more subtle, like 'what may I do with this computer'.  It can be balanced, like 'don't walk over my vegetable garden or I'll beat you with this stick', or it could be lopsided in favour of the stronger party like 'don't drive over my vegetable garden with your tank'.It would be fine if everyone in the libertarian community were of a similar mind, such as a small farming community in the middle ages.  But we're not talking about small farming communities here - we're talking about the internet-enabled, jet-setting, maxi-consumer global village, with people from all walks of life, from all creeds, from all political bents, and from all racial denominations; each with their own opinion of what should, and shouldn't be allowed; hell, many probably wouldn't even know how to formulate a consistent morality.  fr & b2c claim to despise MightMakesRight, but that's what libertarianism would all boil down to in the end.Go on... what are these other possibilities?  If all these other possibilities fail to resolve the conflict, is there an alternative to fighting it out, other than the weaker party simply running for their lives and so losing their claim?I tell you, if libertarianism comes to pass, and anyone were to come within 100 miles of me with a nuclear weapon, I would do whatever I could to destroy them.  I would neither offer nor wait to negotiate or debate the finer points of political philosophy.  You're already infringing what I consider to be my rights and are already threatening my life, irrespective of what you consider your rights to be.And as I said in a previous post, it really irritates me when people beep their horn for no good reason.  So, be careful, if you infringe my rights in that way, I'll legitimately go to defend my ears by giving you a sound thump on yours.  If you choose to illegitimately defend yourself, well, WhatWasItThatMakesRight again? I think *you* know better.  We're talking specifically about conflicting claims of ownership or conflicting claimed rights here, and how such conflicts should be resolved.  I claim you may not possess a nuclear weapon in my vicinity, you claim you may.  Neither of us has the "one true concept" and since the debate has not yet produced a concession from either side, we must fight it out.  If that's not MightMakesRight then I haven't understood the meaning of those three words; please enlighten me.As things are I'd allow you to exist but, in a libertarian world, the moment you sought to bring a nuclear weapon within my vicinity, I would seek to destroy you and disarm the weapon (though I'm no expert on that).  (edit: if it's not clear, my justification is that you are curtailing my right to a peaceful and tranquil existence).I'd be nervous if you did it even now, but at least I can somehow rely on the NPT and assume you were an authorised expert.  Having said that, I'd probably high-tail it out of there anyway... just to be on the safe side. So if we take these two together we can see that whoever wins the fight for ownership becomes the new legitimate owner.  MightMakesRight if ever there was such a thing.  Am I interpreting this correctly, or do you two disagree with each other on this point? That's BECAUSE the people handling them are [highly] qualified nuclear engineers and scientists.  It seems you would have them handled by anyone with enough money to buy one, as long as they didn't seem suicidal or crackpot.The non-proliferation treaty helps keep nukes only under the control of organisations which possess the expertise to handle them correctly.  But if all the nuclear engineers suddenly disappeared tomorrow, then I'd expect a few accidental detonations pretty soon, treaty or not. I would say so, yes.  A gun or a knife is cheap and, at least the knife, easily available; AND they have legitimate personal defence uses, apart from being useful for chopping carrots - again, that's just the knife, unless we're talking about bayonets :-)   A nuclear has no legitimate personal defence use.  Anyone that is willing to go to the extraordinary lengths, expense, and personal danger, required to obtain a nuclear weapon, must be assumed to have an agenda specifying it's eventual detonation. It may well come about, but the problem is you advocate a person's liberty above all else - and that's liberty for everyone, including the crackpots.  Your suggestion would probably prevent nukes getting into my hands, and your hands and Hawker's hands - we might go to WalMart, you know, for groceries and a nuke, and they'd say "Oh, Mr. X said I couldn't sell nukes" and we'd go "Aww, shucks, I really just wanted to spend my life's savings so as to send one into the sun, you know, just for kicks" and that'd be the end of that.  (caveat: I still haven't understood who, exactly, would fulfil the role of Mr X).And, you know, in a certain sense, you probably wouldn't even need the regulations for the likes of us.  We'd be self-regulating.  Damn, I sure don't want a nuclear weapon in my back yard, how about you?But the crackpots might be a little more determined.  They might travel far and wide.  Just in the hope of winning out, they might be willing to meet with unsavoury people in unsavoury places - you know, the kind of places where children slave under the watchful eye of an armed guard to mine the right ore.  The regulation exists for the crackpots.Now you might well convince the whole world that libertarianism would be a good thing, and the whole world might well convert.  But just one crackpot, with one nuke, in one city, and the whole world will string you up on its way to the polls to elect a new government, and all your noble ideas will end up as vulture shit.  You might stop some crackpots, or even most, but you'll never stop them all.
Gasp!  Shock!  You're hardly suggesting... m...m...m...MightMakesRight... You're wasting your breath, FirstAscent.  We've already been through this - you'd have to sign a contract with him where you promise not to pollute the lake, and he promises to keep it in good condition.  I never did understand what's to stop the guys upstream pissing in the river though (in *their* property). FredericBastiat did say, at least, that polluting someone else's property is equivalent to trespass though the issue seems far from resolved: What I find funny is exactly what you've written here.  The pro-libertarians here seem displeased that we all have to obey the state - "might makes right" is a terrible principle, they expound.  However, as you say, they'll then argue that you can only own what you can defend.  Hmmm. If the mightier side is the one that says "might makes right", then how can it be otherwise? So wouldn't everybody just be better off going to court C in the first place?  So court C would naturally emerge as a kind of universal dispenser of justice for everybody, automatically chosen by... guess what... society!So when the lynchmob comes for me I'll move on to another place and abuse more people.  'cos the lynchmob can't actually lynch me 'cos you're not allowed to be violent. Right? Excellent point.  Most people are too ignorant and lazy to see and fix the political problems of the day.  How would such 'sheeple' ever survive, let alone thrive, in a libertarian utopia.  And I'm not spouting hyperbole, I actually like the libertarian ideal and think it *would* be a utopia in a small society.  But in the global village you'd never know who to trust, unless there was, e.g., one emergent international standard (perhaps amongst many other competing standards) for food safety & quality, perhaps with different levels (e.g. 1 to 5 stars).  And then, well, only restaurants that adhere to that standard would survive, and we'd be back to one standard for everyone - a standard, oooh, somehow chosen by, what's that word... *society*.  And all the neo-libertarians of the day would then complain and say it's not fair that we must follow that standard.Only problem is, the path to be *that* international standard is open to whoever has the most money & power and is willing to use it, which is unlikely to be the one with the consumer's welfare at heart.  I admit the current system doesn't inspire total confidence, but at least they have to make it look like the consumer's welfare is important. Who chooses which private court?  Presumably there will be many, each catering to different markets for justice, and even some competing in the same market.It might be difficult for any random guy called Bill Gates to pretend to be the Microsoft (TM) guy - a small matter of not having an enormous personal fortune at hand.  But who can stop me opening a restaurant called "Burger King", with the same sign over the door, the same color seats, the same menu, the same everything - except (maybe) the food?  Likewise, the website catering to NineInchNails - who can stop me setting up a website claiming to be the "real" site that sends contributions to the musicians, even with a nice video (suitably 'shopped) from the lead singer?  If you answer to this latter is TOR, cryptography, etc, then you'll be waiting a long time for Joe Public to figure it out.  Bitcoiners are savvy, but it's clear bitcoins ain't never going mainstream for exactly this reason. I said I was done with this thread, but there are so many holes in these pro-libertarian posts that I just can't help myself.  Here are just two such holes:bitcoin2cash, in your libertarian utopia, can you please explain:how exactly will consumers be able to sue any given establishment?exactly why any given restaurant cannot declare itself to be the "real" burger king?EDIT: Please be clear and don't avoid the questions.Man, you just don't see the big FAIL written across this.  What's to prevent other sites saying the same thing? So then... some group of people, somehow sharing ownership of some property, get together and collectively decide the rules that all owners of any part of that property should follow.  What if you don't agree?  Are you somehow restricted from using your property as you wish so?  I'll leave you to complete the thought.Suppose, let's continue with the lake analogy, that you don't dump your toxic chemicals in the lake, because you don't agree with the vote.  You just dump at the edge of your land, close to the edge of the lake.  Rain, of course, washes it into the soil, and it leeches into the lake.  Now what?And what if it's unowned?  You didn't say what happens then.  If property can be unowned, who decides the rules for appropriate behaviour thereon?  Vote again?  By who, the whole world?  What about the drunk driver example, but on an unowned road.You keep just pushing the boat out.  Health issues like this can take *years* to come to light, long after the damage has been done, and long after any hope of recourse has vanished.  Same problem now, I agree, but libertarianism is not an improvement.So, while I walk into town to do my shopping, I'll have to stop every few hundred yards along the road to pay a toll, carefully read the terms & conditions, then enter each shop one after the other, again reading the terms and conditions of each shop.... a never ending stream of terms and conditions...??  Dude, have you *ever* read the ENTIRE terms & conditions of a website you signed up to?  The schools in this libertarian world are gonna be so damn rich, 'cos everyone's gonna have to be a lawyer to wade their way through all the paperwork involved with just doing the damn shopping.  Never mind if you actually wanna *do* something.  Shiiiiit, that's just so far beyond ridiculous that I find it hard to believe you're not just debating for the fun of it.  See FirstAscent's latest posts.Since right now roads are public property, we could assume the businesses are there first, before the road becomes private.You mean like a thousand, or a million RFID chips on your bumper - one for each road-owner.  And now you also have to walk to some road-owner offices, blow into a breathalyser, then walk back home and you can start driving.  And what, are there barriers and breathalysers between each section of road?But all you want is that drivers be punished for their irresponsible behaviour.  Road owners still won't be punished.  Oh sorry, people will prefer to go *the long way* to work every morning because the rules are more strict and people don't die so much.  Yeah, sure, 'cos people have *loads* of time to spare to take the long way when they drive places.  And loads of spare time to read terms and conditions too. [/sarcasm]The people who fish on the sea might care.  And the people who eat the fish from the sea might care (do you eat fish?).  But then, the same goes for anything that is unowned - see above.It's safer because there is one set of rules on road-safety that everyone should follow (though sadly not all do).  In case you hadn't read my post, I didn't say current legislation solves the problem - here's the bit, read it again:"I freely admit that current legislation does not bring people back from the dead, but I can't see how libertarianism will improve road safety, or food safety, nuclear safety, etc."Problem is, you make it sound as if arbitrary sets of rules, different from place-to-place and from day-to-day, will solve the problem.  And in any case, there *is* an established procedure for determining blame, responsibility and even compensation.  It's far from perfect, agreed, but better than having to sign a contract every time you need to take a piss.  Do you know what that procedure is?Oh, man, is this ever going to end?  How about: "I can't find any fish anymore, 'cos the fish are all dead!"  How's that?  Or like, "my fingers are mashed up and I can't draw pictures anymore".  Or, "I can't have kids anymore 'cos the hormones you used caused my testicles to shrink to the size of a speck of dust".  USE YOUR IMAGINATION - try to conceive of a situation where one party feels his rights have been infringed while the other party disagrees, AND where there is no contractual clause covering those precise circumstances.--bitcoin2cash, for a while I thought that libertarianism could somehow be a noble enterprise, with grand possibilities for improving the human condition.  As you paint it, it's a goddamn hell, full of uncertainties where anyone, anywhere, anytime, can just change the rules as they see fit because it's their property.  You (or maybe it was Frederic) wanted to be sure society can't suddenly, arbitrarily, declare blue-eyed people to be slaves.  Well, in your libertarian shit-hole, it seems anyone can do just exactly that, and you'd probably agree to it too, because the 100th time you crossed the town square to get to the supermarket, you decided not the re-read the small print at the end of the terms & conditions.Frederic, you're full of crap too.  "right" and "wrong" are abstract concepts, as are many if not all the other terms you wrote.  Wikipedia says: "Reification (fallacy), fallacy of treating an abstraction as if it were a real thing" (thanks, that's a new word for me).  Might as well ask me to prove 1+1=3.You two are *by far* the worst proponents of libertarianism I've ever come across, either on this forum or elsewhere.  I'm done here. Let's say it's communal property.  In modern parlance, we might say public property.  Suppose in the Great Transition from the current democracy to your libertarianism, the people can't agree as to who should own the lake.  Or suppose you own one little bit of the lake, and the fishermen each own a little piece.  Two possibilities for you to consider.Let's say the seller is not aware of the danger presented by the chemicals I'm using.  But by the time people figure out the damage done (could be years, could be thousands of people affected), the seller has shut up shop, and moved to the next town/city/country.  Of course, the danger is unknown because there's no FDA (or equivalent) to carry out the *extremely expensive* research required, and there's no law saying you can't add arbitrary stuff to the food you sell.Suppose the pedestrians are walking through the town square.  Is that also private property in your world?  Do you have to read the Terms & Conditions of the town square, and sign your acceptance, before entering it?  What if you own a business on the town square, but reject the rules of whoever owns the road?  Do I have to get one drivers licence for when I drive on RoadCompanyA's roads, and another license for RoadCompanyB's roads?  Are there road-police checking if people are drunk-driving and checking people's cars when they drive on these private roads, one set of police for each road-owner?  I just can't see how road safety could possibly be improved in a libertarian world.That's the most absurd proposition I've ever seen from a libertarian.  It had to come to that, but I've never seen the absurdity made so explicit.  Right now, people leak *movies* even when there's no profit to be made.  Imagine the vast vast profits to be made from breaching the contract and handing the data over to a competing company - who could of course, not having signed any contract, reproduce without any repercussions.  Or, the hell with that, find a hit-man who wastes a researcher and steals his notes for you.It would be great if people all over could be trusted to behave responsibly and take responsibility for their 'wrong' actions (caveat: define 'wrong'); but that's a pipe-dream and anyone who thinks otherwise is a fool.  People *are* irresponsible and they *hate* taking responsibility, and the more serious the consequences, the more they shirk responsibility and run from it. Section 4 of your law relates to "UPA", Unprovoked Physical Agressions of "BoCs", Breaches of Contract leading to a loss of rights.  Where is the agression or contract in any of these scenarios?  I presume the rights lost refer to section 2 - right to defend and control one's life and property.So, you're saying, you can't pollute in your part of the lake because that would also pollute my part of the lake, even though there is no agression and no contract between us.  Fair enough.  But I'll be generous - suppose you own *all* the lake, and you even own *all the river* right down to the sea.  But your industry emits really nasty pollution and kills the fish in the sea.  Are you still prohibited from building?  Does someone have to own the sea as well?  And all the ocean?  Do you have to enter into a contract with people on the other side of the ocean in the event your pollution should cause damage there?  Suppose you want to build a nuclear power-plant.  First of all, you'll have to be sure not to impinge on others' property rights by emitting radioactive waste.  But then wait, what if there's a meltdown and you end up accidentally destroying the country for 100 miles around?Section 7.1 says force can be resolved to resolve a rights violation.  I presume here you mean to say that a drunk driver can legitimately be beaten up, or have property confiscated, or maybe assassinated, if he kills someone.  An eye for an eye, eh?  We're really moving civilisation forward here, aren't we?   But suppose he doesn't have property?  Suppose the accident kills him as well?  Suppose I'm a very successful artist and I earn my living through painting things with my fingers; and the accident is slight, no damage apart from breaking all my fingers such that I can no longer work.  Am I entitled to confiscate the drunks arbitrarily valuable property to compensate my loss of earnings?   I freely admit that current legislation does not bring people back from the dead, but I can't see how libertarianism will improve road safety, or food safety, nuclear safety, etc.Lastly, and here's a critical point.What if it's a controvertible diminishment in one's Rights?  Suppose I feel that your action diminshes my rights, and yet you think otherwise?  Either in the absence of a contract, or where the perceived diminishment has not been foreseen by the contract and hence, the appropriate compensation has not been specified.  Resolve this conflict please. Libertarians want to be able to do as they please, as long as they don't engage in 'violence' or 'coercion' against others.  This is certainly very noble and, indeed, a place without any violence or coercion would be very very nice.The problem lies in defining what is violence or coercion.  Here are some simple situations:You might feel you have the right to set up a factory on your lakeside property, and dump chemicals in the lake while fishermen on the lake might feel this constitutes an act of violence against their livelihoods.You might feel you have the right to sell meat from hormone-pumped animals even though those hormones can cause damage to the human biochemistry.  No 'violence' involved, you're not coercing them, though victims might feel they have no option but to seek medical treatment, and would probably be quite angry at you.You might feel you can drink your alchohol and then drive your old broken car at high speed, but pedestrians whose families are maimed or killed will certainly feel aggrieved.And many many more...Even whole countries can have problems:your country might think to take all the water from the river and use it for irrigation, or maybe pollute it with nuclear waste, while downstream countries might not be best pleased about that.So, not only is it difficult to get everyone to agree on what constitutes "violence", "agression" or "coerce" (just like "good" and "bad", there are no absolutes), but there are also clearly non-coercive, non-agressive, non-violent acts which *nonetheless restrict the freedom of others*.  This can be the case *even when contracts are formulated and signed by all parties*: there can be unforeseen consequences which damage one party or another.  In such circumstances, it's enough that each side thinks the other should shoulder the responsibility and BANG! conflict arises from an entirely voluntary, contractual interaction, and the libertarian utopia disintegrates for another two citizens.  Libertarianism does not solve situations where conflict arises though unforeseen consequences of voluntary interactions.  There has been another thread about this: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3772.0;all(look towards the second half of the thread) and here are the replies of those who were defending libertarianism at the time, to a simple problem posed to them:Way to go, libertarianists!  Ignore the problems, and hope that someone else will solve them!  Right now society already has a system for dealing with conflict, unforeseen or not.  I'll be the first to admit it's less than perfect, but the libertarianists wouldn't even suggest an alternative!YES! YES YES YES! YESSSSSSSSS!  There IS a line drawn in the sand.  It's called "The Law".  The line itself is more-or-less arbitrary, but it's the same line for everyone.  The world couldn't suddenly decide to "rob, assault, maim and kill" you, without also allowing *you* to arbitrarily "rob, assault, maim and kill" them at the same time.  Or maybe you mean society could suddenly re-enact laws enslaving (e.g.) black people.  In principle yes, but that would require *everyone* to ignore their conscience, and to ignore 200 years of advance in science, morality and the human condition, and suddenly start thinking again that black people aren't really people after all.  All we can do is hope that doesn't happen.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_they_came%E2%80%A6You misunderstand me - if you want your libertarian utopia, you'll have to start somewhere.  Buy some land so, make a new private road and start making people pay to travel on it.  Buy more land, build a power plant and sell the electricity.  Staying paying for private health care.  Go, do it.  You'll fail.  Not because the idea is fundamentally flawed, but because you need critical mass to make it work.  Only then will we find out if the idea is fundamentally flawed or not.  Libertarianism could well be great, so get started!  I'm definitely curious. Society cannot organise itself, if its members refuse to cooperate with one another. I'm talking about Libyans in Martyr's Square in Tripoli cheering and happy because the rebellion has succeeded.  Should they be bound by the proto-government's consitution & legislation?  Alternatively, do you think every country should individually interview each of its citizens to see which laws they agree to and which they don't?  Then you'd have to draw up a great big table so everybody would know exactly how to behave around everyone else.  But then, you'd have to be careful around me, 'cos I really hate it when people honk the horn for no reason - it damages my eardrums and that's violence against me, so I would consider myself to have the right to confiscate your car and shoot you then.And then, regarding the children not yet born, what - should the country organise a new survey every generation to interview people that weren't around the first time?  Of course, then people born just after the interviews would have to wait their turn, so maybe you should do it every 5 years maybe?  That could take care of people who change their minds too.And then, what about those opposing the popular uprising - should they be cordoned off in some corner of the country set aside just for that purpose?A set of laws is nothing other that the rules by which members of a society, at some point in the past, agreed to be bound.  The set of laws generally follows cultural and historical precedents in order to be as acceptable as possible to as many people as possible and, fortunately, they generally include mechanisms by which laws can be added, changed, and revoked, according as the culture and moral basis of the society evolves.In the case of IP, as someone here (hawker?) said, it's telling that just about every country on the planet has adopted some form of IP rights.  The discussion we're having has moved from a justification of IP and patent law, to question the very validity of law itself.  So it's also telling that just about every country on the planet also has a solid legal system (yeah, I know about Somalia - let's count how many R&D innovations come out of there /before/ some government manages to bootstrap itself and institute a country-wide legal system).No.  That's *exactly* where you're mistaken.  Right and wrong are only what are *perceived* as right and wrong.  Homosexuality is perceived as wrong by many people, not so by others.  Or walking naked in the street.  Who knows, maybe there's something you find offensive which others don't.  E.g. suppose someone spits on the sidewalk in front of you?  Suppose someone takes a shit on the sidewalk in front of you?  Suppose someone skips the queue in front of you?  Suppose someone dumps their trash on your lawn (no violence there)?  What about road safety?  Suppose in your new libertarian paradise there are still cars.  Well, according to your argument, my car is my car, and no-one can impose that my car must be tested and found roadworthy before I can drive it.  Then, by accident, 'cos I haven't checked the brakes in 10 years, I drive over someone's family.  Whoops, sorry libertarians, but it's my car, my petrol, and you can't deny me the right to use them as I please.Maybe in the future, people will think back and say "Ugghh, how disgusting, they used to enslave *animals* to do their work. Boy am I glad we're enlightened now."  It's a reasonable supposition.  Or "Ugghh, they used to eat *meat* *barrrffff*, I'm sure glad that's illegal now, it's so obviously *wrong*."  Right and wrong can only be judged in the cultural and moral context of the *society* in which the action takes place -  there is no absolute morality.  As far as I understand, this is a well established philosophical principle (but don't ask me for a quote, I can't provide.  Maybe some more learned bitcoiner can).If you're American, the social contract was proposed by the "founding fathers" in the 18th century and popularly accepted - back then they didn't have computers and couldn't possibly have conducted the interviews I suggested above.  What they did was probably as reasonable as could be expected.  I don't need to bring you the contract - all you have to do is get a copy of the constitution and all legislation since enacted, and decide if you like it, in the presence of your attorney if you prefer.  If not, then inform the State Department that you no longer consent to be bound by them.  Try it, really, I'd love to know how you get on.Great.  But then, be sure not to use any state-provided water, any state-provided electricity, any state-provided health-care, any state-provided transport infrastructure, or any state-provided anything.  Actually, don't even breathe the air that blows in from off your property, because that air is only breathable thanks to state regulations that prohibit your neighbour from constructiing [horrible polluting] industry right next to residential zones, even though it's his property.  Believe me, I'd be more than happy if you went back to your private property and never came out but... something tells me it wouldn't last long. Frederic, your posts seem, to me, so full of errors, contradictions and oversights that it's hard to know where to begin.Please answer the questions on Libya, it's very relevant to this debate as it provides an ab initio justification for law.  It's quite incredible that you discourse on politics and yet you know nothing of what's happening in Libya and the rest of the middle east.  If the popular uprising there spreads to more of the Arab world, including Saudi Arabia, it could come to be the world's biggest geopolitical event since the '70s oil crisis.  In short, there has been an uprising in Libya, a north African country with a population of a few million; the dictator Gaddafi has been [almost completely] overthrown and now a rebel government has to establish law and order.  Here are the question: Do you think Libyans supporting the rebels are bound by the rebels' new constitution & law?  Should their children & grandchildren also be bound?  Are those who oppose the rebels also bound?  Please answer.Humans do not have different DNA (minor mutations aside).  We all member of a single species and all have the same genetic structure.  We all have the genes for eye colour that, in some people expresses blue, in others brown and in rare cases, green.  Different genes are, as it were, switched "on" or "off" in different people.  If we didn't have the same genetic structure, then an African-Oriental couple couldn't have children, for example.  Don't ask me where were going with slavery, you brought up that subject.  The point I was making is that, once upon a time society thought some races were not "people", and hence could be enslaved like animals.  Fortunately, we know better now, so no, you couldn't justify a law enslaving people.Libertarianism has been around for a while, but in terms of political importance, right now it's just a popular fad among neo-intelligentia feeling empowered by wikipedia and the internet.  If you think that laws shouldn't change with the prevailing winds, then I can't see why you think IP, copyright or patent law should be altered one whit.  They've been around for hundreds of years.You're confusing the common understanding of the word "force" with the scientific one.  The scientific one is a precise mathematical statement relating the conditions of an object to its dynamic evolution - a mass of 1kg subject to a force of 1N will accelerate at 1m/s^2.  Such misunderstandings are common in the public.  e.g. people confuse "weight" with "mass", "accuracy" with "precision" and many more.  If I go to your house with a gun, I can "force" you to give me your money without actually exerting any "force" on you.  Even better, I just need to convince you over the telephone that I am holding your family hostage and I don't even need to be near you.  "Force" without physical "force".  You spout "physics" but I think you are not (yet) a scientist.Absolutely right.  And the laws of almost all countries, originally proposed by, and approved by, the people, have enshrined creative works as valuable, and have likewise enshrined the right of the author to be remunerated.  If you copy a protected work, then you are effectively eroding the rights of the author.Both sides are making assumptions about "what might have been" and such arguments are as verifiable as asking whether human life might have come about if the Electronic Charge (e=1.6x10^-19 C) had been different by just 1%.  All we know is that, under the conditions of IP etc laws, the computer revolution DID come about.  I find it hard to believe that, if it hadn't, there would have been a massive open-source movement such as we have now though, and it seems to me that Frederic is arguing that all R&D should be open-source.  Open-source is constantly seeking to emulate Closed-source, though, maybe now or soon, that trend will reverse itself.  In any case, IP etc law allows for closed-source AND open-source.  According to the principles of Libertarianism, people, and hence institutions, are free to choose whichever they prefer, right?  If open source is "better", then it will suffocate closed source and Frederic will win.  We just have to be patient.You say that software without a computer is of "little utility" to the user.  Does that not also imply "of little value", or can objects of "little utility" be valuable?  Your argument that computer software without a computer is useless, implies that a computer without software is useless.  True, you didn't say it, but you implied it.  My opinion is, they complement each other.  Each brings value to the other in a kind of digital symbiotic embrace.  Except not symbiosis... symdigitosys, maybe or symelectrosys :-)Now we're getting to the nut of the problem.  Ever head of the "social contract"?  Answer the questions on Libya first please, then we'll talk about that. I think you don't understand the cultural context in which slavery existed.  Back then, Africans were ruthlessly imported to the Americas as slaves to the colonists.  Before that, the native Americans were ruthlessly massacred.  The reason isn't purely because the colonists were sadistic murderers - it was partly because *they believed that "negroes" and "redskins" weren't actually people but savages*.  Read Huckleberry Finn if you need convincing.  It wasn't considered murder or enslaving any more than whipping a mule to carry a load, or shooting a gorilla that threatened you, would be today.  The people weren't wrong - the whole damn society was wrong.Of course, we're more refined now, and it's clear that Africans, Caucasians, Hispanics, Orientals, Arabs, are all the same species (Homo Sapiens, right?), so, no, you couldn't bring back slavery.  You'd have to convince the society of which I am a member to do it first, and you'd have to show why the gene for eye colour is enslaveable when it expresses blue eyes, and not when it expresses brown.  Notably, euthanasia *is* legal in some places, and the eugenics of Nazism weren't all that long ago.  Some substances *are* made illegal with the stroke of a pen, but, ideally, such decisions should be based on a rational and public discussion of the merits of such substances.  In other words, *you* shouldn't decide, *your society* should, and it should have expert advice to draw upon.More or less as expected, you didn't answer my questions on Libya.Let me ask you another question then.  Suppose scientists were to discover complete DNA of, and successfully recreate, Neantherdal man.  Or Homo Erectus, or Homo Abilis.  Similar to us, but which different genetic codes, therefore, NOT human.  They'd probably be much stronger and less intelligent than present-day Homo Sapiens.  Would it be acceptable to enslave them?Intellectual Property, in the case of patents, might damage society now because (e.g.) medicine is expensive or unavailable.  But it will certainly have a long-term benefit as that same medicine eventually becomes cheap and widely available.  In the case of copyrighted music or suchlike, the benefit of 100+ year long copyright is a little harder to swallow, unless you think music, as art, is a very important contribution to human happiness.  Software, I think, probably stands somewhere between these two - having a word-processor certainly benefits the company using it but, after some time has passed and the developer has recouped the research investment, it's hard to see how piracy could be harmful (though perhaps I can imagine investors in "softdev.com" not being happy with its soft attitude to piracy, withdrawing their investments, and "softdev.com" ceasing to trade and ceasing to develop wonderful new, presently unknown, software). Beg your pardon, but this is also pretty ridiculous.  I work in the field of complexity and, believe me, there are many many situations where the whole is more than the sum of the parts.  To say that society is just a sum of individuals is like saying a brain is just a sum of neurons, traffic is just a sum of vehicles, a DNA strand in a cell is just a sum of genotypes, an economy is just a sum of 'rational' traders, an ecology just a sum of species and so on.  It ignores the sheer complexity of the interactions between the individual agents in the system.  Interactions which are often very unpredictable and counter-intuitive.Traffic is perhaps the easiest system to give a simple example.  Obviously every driver in isolation will try to go as fast as possible - they will search to minimise their transit time.  This does not translate well to the overall traffic system.  When a person reduces their transit time, it generally increases the transit time for everyone else such that the overall flux is reduced.  Benefit obtained is less than overall cost.Similarly in, let's say, an ecology.  You might think that killing the tigers would help the deer thrive.  But then something else (e.g. leopards, whatever), no longer checked by the tiger, will step into the tigers' shoes and be even more effective at killing deer.  And that's an example with just a couple of degrees of separation: tiger-deer-leopards, and it would be hard enough to predict.  Imagine trying to predict an effect with 5 or 10 degrees of separation.Society is a complete description of it's members.  And the laws it makes are those rules by which the society, at some point, agreed it's members shall be bound.  I remember there was a similar discussion some time ago, and I proposed the question: what if, in Libya, the interim government should propose a new constitution and set of laws, and this was greeted with cheering in the streets and general popular approval all over the country.  Do you then think that the children, and grand children, of those expressing their approval now, should be bound by those laws even after 100 years or more?  (bearing in mind that laws should and can be changed from time to time, in order to reflect changes in culture, technology etc).  Even more importantly, do you think that those who do not approve of some or all of the new government's proposed constitution and legislation, should be bound by it anyway?I didn't get a reply to that at the time... Computer software without a computer is as useless as a computer without computer software.  By this (your) argument, computer software is as important as the computer itself and is therefore just as deserving of remuneration.  It's hard to believe that you have seriously considered the implications of what you're writing and yet fail to see this obvious contradiction. I think both of you have read more philosophy than me, but I think that quantifying how good a law is, is far, far, far from trivial.  It even depends on your philosophical outlook on politics - does politics serve a utilitarian end?  Or another end (can't remember the names of the alternatives).Then, suppose some law introduced will cause, let's say, more people of type X than type Y to suffer (e.g. male/female, tall/short, left-/right-handed, black/white, christian/muslim, whatever, pick your favourite divide).  The valuation will be strongly dependent on the political institutions at the time.  800 years ago a law that persecuted non-Catholics would have been viewed favourably.  200 years ago it was the opposite.  Think blacks just 100 years ago.Then once you've established the "ratings" for different types of people, you have to evaluate the effects the new law will have on each type.  And society is such a complex beast, that I'll bet there's just about *no way* to predict the goodness of a law for all but the most simple of laws (simple, as in, "everybody shall drive on the left").In short, if it's not possible anyway to *objectively* ascertain the goodness of a law, then the second best solution is just what you say - agree to disagree.  And unless there is overwhelming demand (read: revolution) to revoke or institute a new law, then the status quo is probably as close to the best you can be reasonably expected to obtain ("best" as in maximum goodness over the whole population subject to that law). You just shot yourself in the foot.  By your argument, since you can't prove that the abrogation of all IP laws would be helpful, then there are no grounds to propose any such an abrogation.  Comparing IP law to religious dogma seems a bit fallacious to me.  IP law serves a specific purpose and has very evident and measurable effects on what it aims to govern.  Religion does not.Well, isn't that the beauty of libertarianism?  We're all free to pick and choose what we like, aren't we?  With no written common consensus on what is and is not acceptable, karmicads can profess to be both pro-IP and pro-libertarianism - otherwise libertarianism is built on contradictory principles.
Most people would agree with this.  The problem lies in getting everyone to agree with what is "wrong" and what is "right". Karmicads, thank you for a very insightful post on the IP debate.  It's rare to see such a balanced viewpoint; many of the more vociferous people here are often highly polarised in their opinions and it can be difficult to have a rational discussion that doesn't descend into slanging matches.I would contribute a couple of arguments here, not necessarily applicable to IP law, but more generally to the validity of some legal system.  Take the road and cars.  Here the law says "drive on the left", there it says "drive on the right".  Now, it may well be that, given some peculiar asymmetry in human anatomy, or the laws of physics or chemistry, it is somehow 'better' that we should drive on one side and not the other, and all those countries where you drive on the other side have simply 'got it wrong'.  For sure, though, those countries that have it wrong are certainly better off than a country where there is no imposition and anyone can drive on whichever side they please.Similarly, current IP law is almost certainly flawed, but I suspect that if there were no such law, we would never have had the steam engine.  This argument does not fare so well in defence of the current entertainment industry, though Karmicads has made it clear that he would be quite happy to see the greedy middleman eliminated.  However, in the global village, it is easily possible for a creative inventor or artist to be greedy aswell.Here's a hypothetical situation for Karmicads to consider.  Suppose I sweat and labour for a week and manage to write a song that becomes a global craze, but I insist on some small contribution from every person that downloads or otherwise obtains a copy.  After a month I have received enormous wealth from the 'honest' downloaders, and have started a million legal claims of IP theft against the 'dishonest' ones.  Shouldn't there be some point at which this income stops being "earnings" and becomes "greed"?  Isn't there some point at which the inventor or creator has been paid a "fair" amount?You can't really fall back to the argument that the market will decide how much a fair amount is (the "no such thing as inherent value" argument).  If that's the case, then you implicitly justify 'dishonest' downloading of my song - all downloaders, both honest and dishonest, *are* the market.  If they *all* download without rewarding me, then the market values my work at zero.Excellent phrase. So if you don't disappear you have to pay 1,000,000 BTC to.... me   I think satoshi is *all* of these, and kiba, theymos, grondilu, and loads of others.  He's good at having multiple online personalities but he's good at it IRL too.  Ha ha ha, you fools all think there are lots of people working for bitcoin, but really it's only one.  I'm just waiting for that little slip-up, when he signs a post the wrong way, or one persona contradicts its own argument... waiting... and watching... and listening... then I'll do something cunning and sneaky, and profit   But this is not is not an optimal solution.  This guy now has two wallet.dats with more-or-less the same info.  But now if he tries to send those 80BTC again, they won't necessarily come from the same source addresses from the backup wallet.dat (he might have spent other coins in the interim and received change which the client would prefer to spend first).So now he must either completely empty all coins from both wallet.dats or continue using both in parallel, and each client will miss transactions generated by the other, not to mention that the cache of 100 addresses will be different.Or... maybe... does -rescan also capture *outgoing* transactions on the addresses in a wallet?  I seem to remember that it doesn't, but that it would soon. A while ago I had a strange thing happen which might help this situation.  I transferred to another wallet, then shut down the receiving client as soon as it received the transaction.  The transaction was NOT in the blockchain at this point, it had simply been broadcast throughout the network, including to the receiving machine.Now, before restarting the receiving wallet.dat again, I had in the interim updated the blockchain with another wallet.dat.  So I restored the original receiving wallet.dat (with the 0/unconfirmed coins) and started with -rescan.  No luck.  At this point the transaction *was* in the blockchain, the client *was* rescanning, but those coins stubbornly stayed at 0/unconfirmed and I couldn't spend them.I gathered eventually that rescanning doesn't work so well for 0/unconfirmed transactions and the only solution I found was to start a new client and either download the whole blockchain from the start, or use a blockchain that hadn't yet downloaded the block I needed.After all that, though, if your transaction is neither in the blockchain nor the pending transactions, then it would seem the coins were never sent.  Don't know what to do there, sorry! Agreed.  If a nuclear EMP happens your way you're gonna have *plenty* of other things to worry about, like, oooh, WHY IS MY SKIN FALLING OFF??? Energy has absolute value.  With technology, the amount of energy required to do anything decreases - this includes keeping people alive: one person requires *rougly* 5MJ/day (~ 60W) food energy just to survive.  But by making food production more efficient, the energy expenditure can be reduced.  So with a constant energy supply this currency is, in a certain sense, deflating - with a given amount of energy you can do more thanks to technology.BUT, population is growing, and energy-consumption-per-person is growing, so, really, it's inflating - there is less energy available per person, and each person is demanding more energy.  So in this sense, it's inflating, but it's an inflation originating in a supply/demand mismatch.Somebody (maybe famous) once said "energy is the one true currency", maybe you can find out and tell us all who it was.If you look at the price of oil (the world's biggest energy supply, excluding perhaps food supply via photosynthesis) in terms of gold, you'll see that the ratio is reasonably constant, fluctuating between 10 to 30 barrels/oz since the early 1970's.  If only for this reason, gold is a reasonable measure of value.That's my 2 kJ worth, corrisponding to maybe 30sec of survival, less than it took me to write this   Preferably a forum where the devs are listening...That'd be nice. The bitcoin forum used to be a place of lively discussion of political and economic theories and practices.  Now it has descended into a junk name-calling forum full of irrelevant and ridiculous topics, each topic full of irrelevant and ridiculous posts.  Can anyone suggest an alternative bitcoin forum for me to join?  Is there any? I deleted this comment.  It's not relevant. This page contains a serious flaw.  It may well be true that padding increases the strength of your password, but if an attacker cracks one of your passwords, he will know what padding to use for your other passwords. Maybe we should store our wallets on 1440K media, stored inside a faraday cage in the event of an EMP from nuclear war. The idea of base58 is so you can write the transaction down on paper, only for the ultra-paranoid: what if there's a trojan on your USB key?  To keep your offline wallet.dat as safe as can be, there must never be any possibility that information is digitally taken from the offline machine and placed on a networked machine.Obviously, for the super-ultra-paranoid, you'd have to physically destroy the USB key you used to copy over the blockchain.  The regular ultra-paranoid could simply overwrite the USB device file with random data before removing it from the offline machine - see shred(1) or wipe(1).  You could, I suppose, take a sha256sum of the usb key before removing it, or mount it read-only, but that's all just software security.  USB keys do all sorts of funny dynamic block remapping and wear-leveling, and I wouldn't be too surprised if someone somewhere knows how to exploit that.The normally paranoid (i.e. not ultra) amongst us (and who isn't, given the recent thefts), could use binary or json as you suggest, and copy the transaction over USB.This could be used in conjunction with private key dumps (there was a thread about that) in order to keep a backup copy of the (encrypted?) private keys - still in base58 to write it down of course.  The super-ultra-paranoid might have to worry about EM radiation from their monitor leaking crucial information though... seehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Side_channel_attack Was this such an extraordinarily terrible idea that nobody wants to waste their time criticising it, or was it such an extraordinarily excellent idea that nobody wants to waste their time praising it? Good point.  Except, maybe, the trojan/virus/worm/whatever has to hijack the VM controller's memory and instruction stack aswell. So it wouldn't stop a determined attacker, but it might stop more casual opportunists. Inspired by the Isosceles's post linked below, I thought it would make an *excellent* addition to bitcoin - the ability to generate and export a transaction from an offline machine, then import that transaction to a networked machine which would broadcast it.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=15068.msg215743#msg215743So suppose you have your offline savings wallet.dat, and your online one for spending.  By shifting entire .bitcoin directories around on USB keys, and running two instances of bitcoin simultaneously on the offline machine (one with -nolisten, and with different RPC ports,  not for the faint-hearted), the offline wallet could come to know about its balance.But in order to transact it must be connected to the network.  So... how about you could generate a base58 transaction from the offline client, save it on USB (or write it down if you're really paranoid) and import it to the online wallet which would then broadcast. You could use an encrypted file container within your guest VM, which will then be inaccessible as long as the VM is switched off.  Of course, a keylogger will get your password unless your VM can also use a mouse & gui to select a key-file. Nice site. Nice service.You should consider allowing people to conduct transaction with the mixer of only a single size, e.g. 5BTC.  Otherwise an attacker could try some statistical analysis to identify coins in with coins out.  With a single transfer size, there will be no way to associate input size with output size.Next, you really should check out the legalities of this.  If you offered such a service with paper money, your most obvious clients would be organised crime and you'd probably be classified as a money launderer.  I had been thinking of setting up a bitcoin mixer, but got turned off once I thought of this issue. Bitcoin has many appealing features and, if nothing else, as an experiment in economic though it's about as interesting as can be.  It may cause political upheaval and worse (or better?), though I somehow doubt that it will ever substitute fiat currency.But I agree with the OP.  Talk of illegal activity is bad for bitcoin and bad for bitcoin users that want to stay legal.  It'll never appeal to a broad base as long as that stays.  And any political discussion conducted by fanatics on any side is also bad.Here's a compromise: censor any and all posts or threads condoning or promoting illegal activity and put a warning on borderline cases to the effect that the forum is public.  Leave the politics boards in place BUT with a big disclaimer to the effect that the opinions contained therein are, as with all political opinions, personal opinions of individual users, some extreme, some not, and do not necessarily reflect any official opinion of any bitcoin dev, or the general opinion of bitcoin users, or of the general direction of the bitcoin project.  Heck, include a religion sub-forum too, just to make the point that there are other aspects of life where extreme opinions can be found :-)Make forum.bitcoin.org about development and adoption of bitcoin and its economy, but leave space at the bottom for people to chat aswell.Gotta say, the extract from IRC below reflects *very* badly on those involved, I can only hope it doesn't make it's way into mainstream headlines - I can just see it now: "Bitcoin developers and project managers condone illegal activity according to secret IRC log files"  Then the next day, *after* a million sheeple have read the headline, try explaining that refusing to condemn is not quite the same as condoning, and InternetRelayChat ("InternetWhaaatChat?") is not secret at all.Just in case it's not clear, I am not suggesting that anyone involved with bitcoin condones illegal activity. You guys should just have a care as to how you might be perceived.
Of course, if *you* have already bought mining hardware, it would be very convenient for you to dissuade others from mining and keep the difficulty low, so *you* can pay off your hardware.From a network point of view, higher difficulty means the bitcoin network is much more secure and resistant to attack. Please continue... I have to say, and it's a little irrelevant to this thread, but common to many threads, that this argument "If you don't like X, then do it yourself", really irritates me.  It's like as though if there anything I don't like I should get up and do it myself.   As in:"Hey stewardess, the seat in this aeroplane is too skinny for me""Well then, why don't you just run along and build your own aeroplane"It's ridiculous to suggest that everybody has time to do everything themselves.  That's a feature of human society called "specialisation of labour", and it's been with us, ohh, I dunno, ever since we first started to plant crops I suppose.Hazek doesn't like some aspect of MtGox, but that doesn't make him a programmer with sufficient skills to make his own site, nor does it give him enough spare time to do it, even though there is no law or de facto standard that would prevent him.So as a general appeal to all: some people just don't want to do everything, and prefer to rely on others. Now give the government 90% of the hashing power and suddenly you can have all transactions approved only by govt servers, all parties to a transaction being only govt approved bitcoin addresses, and all transactions automatically taxed.  It's more than a government's wet dream, it's the wettest dream Big Brother ever had. Of course, I understand that the use of the word "mine" in reference to bitcoins is just a convenient analogy.  However, the from a financial point of view, there is more similarity.  There is something of value waiting to be discovered.  I discover it and thereby increase my net personal value.More correctly, however, I don't actually give myself the coins.  It is the network that gives me the coins by accepting the block I generate.  Right?  The decision to award 50BTC to me is distributed over the whole network.  There are many next blocks "out there" waiting to be discovered, I find one, lay claim to it and the annexed reward, and the network as a whole approves.Suppose, let me think, that I create music, and sell it.  How is that taxed?  Music is fairly intangible.  Or what if I sell something artistic, like picture - firstly what if it's a real painting on canvas, then what if it's just a digital image stored on computer?  How would that be taxed? In principle I agree with OP, but most likely the fundamental problem is that MtGox has such a huge market share of public exchanges, maybe 90-95% or so.  The dark pools on MtGox can only be damaging as long as MtGox has this large market share.  All holders of bitcoins who do not want to see a repeat of the bust of last weekend, would do well to trade elsewhere.Let me try to explain better: the dark pools on MtGox only offer an advantage to wealthy bitcoiners *AS LONG AS* there is a large list of public asks and bids on MtGox to draw from.1. If you don't like the advantages dark pools offer to large traders, then take your BTCs elsewhere.2. If you want price stability, then don't trade on any exchange that has an excessively large market share. Maybe someone shorted the market?  Maybe even successfully? What if you consider mining bitcoins just like mining gold?  Suppose I find gold on my property and start to mine it, and make a tidy profit.  How is that taxed? What do you mean by "how they've capped gold and silver"? I don't know that that's true.  Look at the government - if bitcoins take off, then the way the government handles its finances will be *very* different.  Me too.  Most people too.  C&TO's too, I presume, if they buy into it.I'm not talking about obtaining a C&TO's wallet.dat so you can trace their activity.  I'm talking about obtaining the wallet.dat, then transferring the funds to your own wallet.dat, leaving the C&TO without any funds to pay their dispersed agents.  I mean, as long as a C&TO has their funds locked away in traditional assets, it's not easy to it all away at once.  But if a significant part of their wealth was in a wallet.dat and they lost that?  Picture, heck I dunno, a TO paying for an illegal arms shipment.  Both the buyer and the seller will appoint some individual to ensure the safe transfer of the BTCs, meaning you might have a wallet.dat worth millions of dollars.  For this reason, I think C&TOs might be reluctant to transfer into bitcoin-land.The best defence would probably be to have all funds split into multiple wallet.dats, with no individual ever obtaining access to them all, but that seems far from perfect. Mtgox trades 30000 bitcoins per day, add in the other exchangers, IRC trades... crap, you'd probably need to dump at least 20000 BTC to make it really noticeable.  Probably more like 50k.  That's half-a-million $ right now.  And even with 50k BTC dumped on the market, it's far from certain that the price would substantially drop - interest in bitcoins is increasing at an extraordinary pace.  Multi-thousand dollars, I reckon, wouldn't get you very far. *this* would be great. This has gone a bit off-topic.  The point was that a bitter insider or a police/law accomplice could, maybe, quite easily bring about the financial ruin of a criminal organisation.I mean, how many of you would trust your best friend with your wallet.dat?  Would you ask him to turn around when you type your passwoord or passphrase?  Is your wallet.dat even encrypted?  I daresay any C&TO that deals in bitcoins will take serious measures to protect their wallet.dat(s), but it would just take one person, one time, to take it all away from them.  Therefore, C&TO's will not deal in bitcoins.  That's the hypothesis.  Is it valid? Pleeeeease... just for the sake of argument?  Just so we all have a common ground from which to build our argument that bitcoin will not be useful to the bad guys? I just started this thread.  I present an argument for why bitcoin might not be so useful for large criminal groups.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=11138.0;topicseen Ahh, didn't realise imgur was registration-less.  Had facebook, despise it, deleted it.  Have google, despise it, didn't delete it.  Here's the graph.http://imgur.com/CG9GG Fine. Can you suggest one that doesn't require me to register? Just for the sake of argument, let's use "The Law" as our yardstick.  The point of this is to counteract arguments that attack the validity of bitcoin in an honest law-abiding world.  Therefore, we must show why any entity that uses bitcoin specifically to circumvent the law, runs a risk not presented by traditional currency or assets.Maybe he wouldn't   but you make a good point.  The informant or insider might still be a valid possibility. I can't make it free.  The minimum cost is 0.02BTC.  If you don't like it, complain to ubitious.  Or better still, complain to the admins of this forum that the upload folder is full, then I'll put the graph right here for you. There have been several articles about bitcoin in mainstream press lately.  I'm too lazy to type them out, but one of the arguments is that bitcoin will probably be used by criminal and terrorist organizations (C&TO).Now, I quite like bitcoin even though I'm a bit nervous about the unbridled capitalism it might usher in, but I'd hope that'd be better than the unbridled, what, fascism? that's taking over the western hemisphere.  So, in short, I'm kind of hoping that bitcoin will succeed and governments will cede some economic power to the public.  That means I hope bitcoin doesn't get branded as money for criminals and terrorists and so become outlawed.  That means we need to find an argument as to why bitcoin won't be useful for such organizations.  Here's a first try.As things stand,  C&TO have to 'clean' their money.  They have to recycle it through... damned if I know, fake shops, stuff like that. Whatever the core of their wealth is, it's something physical or traceable - banknotes, jewellery, electronics, bank accounts, whatever.  Bitcoins are neither physical nor traceable, so... C&TO's wet dream, right...?  Wrong.Anyone wishing to destroy C&TOs need to attack on multiple fronts and destroy or remove the source of wealth.  Right now, with physical & traceable things, that's difficult, and whoever does it becomes a target for retribution.With bitcoin, a geeky teenager in a city on the other side of the world could hack a C&TO's computer and steal their wallet.dat.  Once word gets out that the C&TO can no longer pay it's henchmen, it would silently evaporate.  Alternatively, an informant could steal the wallet.dat, or maybe even an insider who decides to cross his mates.  And no-one would ever know who it was.  The anonymous geeky teenager or whoever does it would have to be careful about spending those bitcoins so as not to expose himself, but that's easily done with a few passes through an anonymizer.Therefore: C&TO's won't be so interested in bitcoins.  You can't protect them easily enough.Thoughts?
Howdy, I downloaded the list of users on the forum today, page-by-page, and sorted according to the join date.  Surprise, surprise, the number of members on the forum is growing exponentially, doubling every 52 days or so, and has been doing so since the start of 2010, with a couple of faster growth periods.  See the attached graph.At that rate the forum will reach a million people in just under a year.  Can SMF handle that load?  Can bitcoin's servers?  We can presume that the number of people running the client is *at least* equal to the number of people on the forum.  Can the BTC P2P protocol handle a million clients?Oh, the "upload folder" is still full.  Can an admin please look into that.  You can find the graph at http://ubitio.us/file/download/391   It just shows an exponential growth in users. It's not a socialist system.  If you think capitalism is honest, then this is honest.Answer this please: the richest person alive has $74 billion to his name ( http://www.walletpop.com/2011/03/09/forbes-the-richest-people-in-the-world-2011/ ).  Are you ok with that?  Not quite 1.8%, probably more like 0.1% if you consider the *global* M3 supply (roughly $60 trillion - see graph http://goldseek.com/news/2009/1-12mh/11.png from http://news.goldseek.com/GoldSeek/1231778551.php), but if he were to liquidate everything into cash, he'd hold about 1.5% of the global M0 supply (roughly $5 trillion, same graph).  Are you still ok with that? What's on your mind? Hmm.  What if your investment in BTC raises the price enough to attract commerce.  Is that not indirectly providing jobs?Your proposal misses a big sore point.  If it passes, then the value of *your* bitcoins will seriously diminish.  The guy who mined already got his profit, so the loser would be *you*, and all the other people who are buying old coins now.  You might not worry so much, but I expect that just about anybody who has invested in bitcoins will not cooperate with your proposal, i.e. everyone on this forum.  Therefore, you'd be much better off taking your proposal elsewhere and begin a whole different project, based on bitcoin, with just the btc convertability you suggest, but appealing to a whole new audience, not to those who have already invested in btc.Another point, what about bitcoin mixers?  If I send 100 bitcoins to a mixer, then eventually I get 100 bitcoins back, but they could be newer, older, or a mix of newer and older coins.  There'd be no way to tell who got what.  The 'penalty' to early adopters would be completely random.In the long run, I'd say you'd be simply better off starting a new block-chain, in which old bitcoinsPlus, in every transaction, are converted to new bitcoinsPlus, in proportion to the difficulty now and the difficulty when generated.  Of course, then there'd be no incentive to mine now, since you get the same reward if you mine tomorrow, or next year, so I'm not entirely certain that it would take off.  Perhaps it would be more popular amongst socialist idealists.As for the crux of the problem, perhaps we can hope that, eventually, older bitcoins will gradually enter the market as the early adopters spend/retire.  Not unlike the gold rush of the 1800s I suppose - fortunes were made there too, and all they mined was a useless soft yellow metal. And even worse, very often the 10% which is supposedly "real assets" can often consist of very shaky assets - the kind of mish-mash securitized sub-prime mortgage bundles that get artificially high ratings and so can count fully to a bank's reserves, when in fact, they were worth ~10¢ on the dollar when the reckoning came. You know, it would probably be far more convenient to work in units of bitcoin-blocks, instead of bitcoin-days.  So if B is the current block number, and the total number of bitcoins is 50B~6 million, then every new block adds another 50B bitcoin-blocks.Then you can trivially see if a block's net effect is to add bitcoin-blocks to the total, or subtract. I agree.  Paypal are all very happy about letting you add money to your account there, but when you try to withdraw it, then they cause problems.  They limited my account and I can't get my funds out for 180 days. Isn't this more or less what the global bitcoin stock exchange does?  glbse.com It's not entirely mistaken.  darre should use a one-way equals sign, or an "implies sign".Higher difficulty =/> higher price   (=/>  is "does not imply")Higher price => higher difficulty   (=>  is "implies")If the price goes up, it becomes more profitable to mine, so more people mine and the difficulty rises.  This does not change bitcoin supply because the (appx. constant) quantity of new bitcoins is much smaller than the quantity traded (new btc=7,200/day, traded at MtGox only > 30,000/day).If the difficulty goes up, mining is less profitable BUT it is still economically rational for a miner who has already bought a rig to continue mining (up to a certain point which depends on each individual's opinion of future BTC value).But if the difficulty spontaneously goes up, implying that more people are mining, there is still no change in supply.  I'm still trying to understand why more people should spontaneously start mining though.  Perhaps, as word spreads, people see what a fantastic idea or investment bitcoins are, and erroneously conclude that mining is uniquely the best strategy.  However, if that's the case, then there should be other newcomers who erroneously conclude that *buying* is uniquely the best strategy, and so the price should *also* rise.Hah, so, maybe as difficulty rises, more newcomers will see the folly of mining and tend to favour buying, so the current exponential rise in difficulty should gradually transfer over to an exponential rise in price. How about we *don't* turn bitcoin into a ponzi scheme.  Pleeeeeeease? Tell me about investors who invest in this social lending pool.  Suppose I deposit BTC100 in your lending pool. Do you then issue me with a credit note (i.e. bitcoin notes, "promises-to-pay") saying I have the right to recover BTC 100 from the pool?  Do you then lend my BTC100 to someone else?  Well, now I have 100 "virtual" bitcoins, and someone else, the borrower, has 100 "real" bitcoins.  That's 200 bitcoins.  Where before there were only 100.If you want this to work, without your investors being really pissed off, then their deposits can be recovered only on condition the loans get repaid.  That way there's never extra bitcoins "created".  Good luck finding investors under those conditions. The difficulty has been increasing more-or-less exponentially since the first increase 30/Dec/09, see http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=43.0http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=1918 In this thread I calculated the expected number of blocks you can ever generate, assuming an exponentially increasing difficulty.  I've refined the calculation a bit - the original didn't take into account the fact that the time between difficulty increases was not 14 days, but shorter, depending on how fast the 2016 blocks between increases are generated.I won't go into the details, but the equations are:E = Ch/((a-1)D)P0 = exp(-E)h0.5 = -(a-1)D ln(0.5)/CWhere:C = 0.0002818  is a constanth is your hashes-per-sec:  1Ghps = 1x109a is the difficulty increase factor, i.e. if difficulty goes from 20 to 30, then a=1.5D is the current difficultyP0 is the probability that you will never (never ever ever) generate another block. See note 4 for the meaning of "never".h0.5 is the hashes-per-sec that you would need to have a 50/50 probability of generating just one block.E is the total number of blocks you can expect to ever generate, ever.  See noe 4 for the meaning of "ever".Current values are:D = 244139a = 1.3435 (see note 1)Therefore, with 1Ghps:E = 3.36 blocksP0 = 0.0347h0.5 = 206 MhpsSo, if you do buy the rig, you have a 3.5% chance of never ever generating another block.  You can expect to create 3.36 blocks = 168 BTC = $1092 at current exchange rates.  To have a 50/50 chance of creating a block, you'd need to have 206Mhps (this has nothing to do with you and your rig, it just gives an idea of what the entry-level Mhps is - a top CPU now would generate at most, I expect, 10-12 Mhps).On the other hand, if you buy $700 of bitcoins now, then you'll have 100 bitcoins right now.  That's about 2/3 of what you can expect to get spending on a rig and generating.  All depends on whether you think the price is gonna go up or down.  Good luck.Notes:1. Difficulty is assumed to rise exponentially forever.  This is incorrect, but it's holding up much better than I would have expected - see attached graph.  The inset to the graph shows the difficulty increase factor.  If we average this value over all blocks since the first actual increase in difficulty, we obtain the value a=1.34352. Eventually the reward for a block will halve, then halve again and so on.  You can expect 3.36 blocks, but if they happen to be generated after the reward halves, then you'll get less than 168BTC.3. If you mine solo, then you won't get 3.36 blocks, it'll obviously be either 2,3,4,5 or whatever.  If you mine in a pool, then you can expect a reward equivalent to 3.36 blocks, less the pool's fee.4. You will receive these bitcoins slowly.  When I say "all you'll ever expect to generate", I really mean "ever" - from now until the sun goes nova and swallows the earth. However, I expect that the exponential increase will stop before then, for one reason or another. Likewise "never".5. You'll have to add in electricity costs.6. These values for E, P0, h0.5, assume you start mining *now*, if it takes you a month to get started, then adjust for the difficulty at the moment you start.If this post saves you money: 15BHRM52yuzjNyvkrdu8dcWFnfpK6eWsXmI tried to upload a graph, but a message says the upload folder is full, please contact an admin.  Any admins listening?  In the meantime, I've put it on ubitious: http://ubitio.us/file/download/328   I can't help that you have to pay for the file (BTC 0.02), but as soon as I can, I'll attach it here.EDIT: the graph is simple really, it's just a graph of difficulty Vs time, with an exponential fit, and also another curve showing the difficulty increase factor.  All info for it was taken from blockexplorer.com. Wise man once say - man who thinks everything ok, doesn't understand anything. While personally I think that the buyer should pay the fees, your policy here disagrees with paypal's policy - according to paypal, the *seller* pays fees.  It complicated, but in a paypal-to-paypal trasnfer, the seller pays the fees.  If you pay with credit card on paypal, then the buyer pays.So, just make sure someone doesn't receive less than the agreed bitcoins then initiate a chargeback on paypal.  I'll bet paypal would side with the seller.Thanks for the SEPA transfer option!  For other reasons, paypal went sour on me, and I now have to wait 180 days to extract my funds :-( Once upon a time there was also rubberhose and phonebookfs.  They were well designed for plausible deniability.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deniable_encryption#Software  Sadly never reached release state and long since discontinued. I must be missing something here - shouldn't you sign something with the *private* key?  The public key is, after all, public, and anyone can obtain a copy and sign anything.The verification then uses the public key to verify that the content was signed with that appropriate private key.As for the known-hash-reveal-private-key attack, couldn't the signing procedure just add a random salt to the plaintext prior to hashing?  And the time & date maybe?Hey, this is interesting, we could also have a contracts or messaging blockchain.  Just treat the contract or message like a bitcoin transaction (i.e. Alice encrypts the message with Bob's public key, and signs with her private key) and now we have an indelible record of which private key said encrypted-what.  You could also make indelible public statements by not encrypting to anyone.  This is not bad - this is how the first bitland-newspaper should work, like when you go to the library to look at microfiche from 100 years ago.  Or maybe we should call it the newsbits, since there are only bits involved not paper. I think I've never understood this fractional reserve banking 'cos I've seen obviously informed people make statements like this.  My understanding is that our current banking system is about 5% reserve - a bank can load out $100*0.95=$95 of every $100 it receives.  When the $95 is redeposited, then another $95*0.95=$90.25 can be loaned, then $90.25*0.95=$85.73 and so on.  Creating vast amounts of "non-existent" credit based money, from a minimal initial investment.What noagendamarket is describing here, that is, a bank that loans the coins it has on deposit (I implicitly understood "can loan *all* the coins it has on deposit"), is NOT a 100% reserve bank, it is a 0% reserve bank - it is *way* worse than a 5% fractional reserve because an initial $100 deposit can turn into an infinite amount of credit.An actual fully reserved bank, i.e. a 100% reserve bank, could not make any loans at all.  That's the only way to ensure that all deposits are backed 100% by reserves.Shoot me down. I would just add to encrypt it with a good but easily memorized passphrase, print out the ascii text and store it on your bookshelf.  Take a photo of those pages, and upload to your flickr account. etc.  I would recommend against storing a valuable unencrypted wallet.dat anywhere. How about:1 = bit0.01 = 10^-2 = nit10^-4 = mit10^-6 = dit10^-8 = pitor substitute for your favorite 1st letters.Actually, maybe nit and mit might sound too similar, e.g. over the phone, "WHAT, you're selling your car for 99 nits? That's a hundred times more than I expected,... ahh, mits, mits, now I understand. Haha, I thought you said nits, haha."A car for 99 mits... hmm, that'd be about $200,000 per bit, depending on your definition of car.  Guess it'll take a while to get that high, though if it went up a factor of 10 every month, like last month, then we've only to wait until 2012 at the latest. Now, I just had another thought that maybe deserves its own post.Why not create code that allows bitcoin to create a new address (not from the pool), then send some specified number of coins to that address, then dump the private key to screen, and then delete all trace of that private key from the computer - no saving it to disk at any time, not even permitting the OS to swap it out to disk.Users would then have to take adequate steps to ensure they doesn't lose that key.Obviously, there would have to be flashing black and yellow warning screens, telling the user that if they don't securely save the key that's now on screen, they'll lose their coins.Thoughts?
This is great work.Now I have a better idea on how to do wallet backup.1. Set up a directory on a usb key (256MB should be enough), and start bitcoin pointing to that directory, with no keypool.  2. Generate as many addresses as you need with that client - e.g. suppose you have 100BTC and you want to store 5BTC in each address, then you'll need 20 addresses.3. Now, with your main bitcoin client, send these 1BTC to each of those 20 addresses.4. Watch the bitcoins roll into your usb-based client.5a. Now dump all the private keys with these new functions,5b. encrypt them with good software and a good passphrase5c. (optionally append each of them to 1kb of random data, to get extra entropy)5d. store the sha256 hash of the unencrypted and encrypted data5e. Now save the encrypted data, and the two has functions.5f. Make lots of copies, print them out & photograph them, upload the photos to flickr... whatever.  uuencode it and store the text on your bookshelf if you like.  Store the digital copies on your desktop, laptop, usbkeys, cellphone, dropbox, freenet, everywhere.6. Now the important bit: you MUST erase all data on the usb key.7. Better still, destroy the usb key 'cos good usb keys will do block remapping, so even if you wipe the key with random data, reformat and so on, you'll never be quite sure that some clever hacker can't extract one or more of your keys.Result:Now, anytime you need 5btc, you just need to recover one of those encrypted private keys, whether it's in an image, or if you have to type out a few pages of uuencoded data.  Then decrypt, check the hash, take the last 51 characters, and import the key into your day-to-day client.Of course, this is all a bit excessive for just 100BTC, but who knows, given recent trends in USD/BTC, we may well soon reach the stage that even 100BTC need to be securely protected. I know this topic has already come up.  I have an old transaction (I'm selling BTCs) but the buyer is not sending me money.  In the meantime, the market price has gone up about 30%.  I don't know if the buyer is deliberately using my offer as a hedge, or is absent-minded, but I'd like to cancel the transaction.  How can I do that?Chhers. I just offered 22BTC which got matched in three lots 10+10+2.  Is it possible to cancel the 2btc trade?  Also, I'd like to still specify minimum lot sizes as bitdragon suggests.  If I offer 100btc, then I'm taking account for the fees in my price.  But the fees will be twice as much if this is matched in 10 lots of 10btc.  OR - "deposit mode" :-)  Great site, keep up the good work. Unless there was some security built into the paper system, I would never accept it, *except* if I was accepting it from the (trusted) issuer.  Even if my most excellent trusted friend tried to give me one, I wouldn't accept it because, even though he's acting in good faith, the note might have already been cashed in (or copied, whatever) by some nasty previous holder.  Also, I wouldn't accept a token that couldn't be automatically redeemed - otherwise the other party to my transaction could give me the token, I'd check the (visible) address to see that it was still valuable, but then the other party could redeem it, from a copy, after 10 minutes.  I'd want to secure the funds in my own wallet immediately - for me, that's what the transaction is: putting funds into my wallet.The token must be visibly destroyed for redemption.  But you can always check that the coins haven't been spent by checking the visible address against the blockchain.  So any attacker only has time to cheat you from the moment you accept the token to the time you try to redeem it.  This time should be made as short as possible, therefore, automatically redeemable tokens, NOT requiring you to return them to the issuer. Which ones?  Can you supply a not-too-technical reference? I somehow don't expect that a bitcoin-backed paper currency (even if 100% backed) will ever succeed.However, I'll give it a go.  Let's start with one-time paper currency.  i.e. it is issued by some "bank" and, at it's first use, the paper is destroyed and the value it represents is received by the seller of goods.First, we'll need some widespread smart-phone software which can recognise those two-dimensional barcodes (what are they called - QR codes, right?).  Next we'll need some double-layered paper, with the top layer being transparent.  Now, you send some bitcoins to a bitcoin address.  The private key, as a QR code, is printed on the lower layer of paper.  The address, also a QR code  (but a special one), is printed on the upper layer, directly on top of the lower QR code, but here's the cute bit: you're actually seeing a mix of both QR codes together.  So what you need, is that both QR codes, seen together, represent the public bitcoin address, but you can't tell which part of the pattern belongs to the which QR code.  You scan this with your smartphone, your smartphone checks out the bitcoin block explorer and verifies the value at that address.  You accept the paper as payment, tear off the top layer, scan in the private key and immediately transfer the bitcoins to your address.Of course, as long as people are willing to trust that the issuing bank has either deleted all the private keys in these paper notes, or will not sneakily transfer the bitcoins out, then there's no actual need to tear off the top layer, and so, the note can be re-used.Any good? Wait a second, you say "...I pay the fee...", then "...the recipient [pays the fees]...".  My understanding is, if the buyer pays the fees, the he must pay extra in order to cover the fees, so that the seller's account is credited with the full contracted sale amount without any further deduction.  If the seller pays the fees, then the buyer pays only the total contracted sale amount, and fees are deducted from that so the seller gets less.I have accounts in different banks in different countries. In one, euro-zone payments are completely free.  In the other, any payment pays 0.50 fee.  So if I am buying something with the second account, for example, it would not be fair for me to charge this fee to a seller, as it is *my* bank that charges the fee.  On the other hand, suppose my bank charged 0.50 for every *incoming* payment.  It wouldn't be fair for me to charge that to the buyer either, would it?  So I guess the problem is really with paypal, who don't clearly specify if they charge a fee on the buyer or the seller.[15 minutes pass, while I do some investigating]  Ahhh, scratch that. Now all my confusion is cleared up.  Paypal *does* specify who is charged the fee.  It is the seller:This was the American site, in Europe it's 3.5% plus 0.35.But, someone who pays with a credit or debit card, but through paypal to a paypal account, can choose who should pay the fee.  So I guess my first sale was with this method, while the other was a direct paypal payments.  Also, paypal-to-paypal payments to friends or family seem to be completely free.  And there is also a charge for converting currencies.So, I guess the seller (receiver of money) should pay the fee.  I stand corrected.  I will account for this in my future ask offers.Eh?  You mean my bank is charging me fees on my euro-zone payments illegally?  Bloody 'ell.  Ah, wait tho', not so.  [More investigation] They just can't make SEPA tranfers more expensive than domestic transfers. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_Euro_Payments_Area#Misconceptions Well, it's a trade, so both parties are simultaneously sellers and buyers.  But, to clarify, let's call the seller of bitcoins the "seller", and the seller of fiat currency the "buyer".  Suppose the two parties live far away and the fees are significant.1. Seller offers bitcoins; buyer agrees to transact.2. Buyer offers fiat; seller agrees to transact.In either case, the person offering the transaction will be unpleasantly surprised by the fees, and it seems unfair for him to pay.  The second party agreed to the transaction, and should know that fees would be high.However, suppose: - Seller offers bitcoins at 0.8 - buyer offers fiat at 0.8 without knowing of the seller's offer. - bitmarket.eu matches the two offersNow who pays the fees? Is it just me, or do the country flags in the list of ask offers not work correctly?  When I hover the mouse over a flag in the bid offers, a little tooltip tells me which country it is.  In the ask offers, the tooltip comes up, but it's tiny and contains no text. Hi.  So I just completed my first two trades on bitmarket.  Nice site, thanks.  I sold 5 and 10 bitcoins.  The first buyer paid the paypal fee as "a gesture of goodwill".  So to reciprocate, I refunded him half the fee converted to bitcoins at the traded price.  The second buyer charged the fee to me.So now, for the future, what shall I do?  Shall I factor in paypal's (or the bank's) fee in my price?  Seems a bit silly.  Normally, whenever you buy something through bank transfer, or paypal, the seller should receive the price specified in the contract.  i.e. business standard is, buyer pays fees.  Perhaps bitmarket.eu's website should clearly indicate that this should be the default behaviour, unless the two parties agree otherwise.Are there any other exchanges which have dealt with this?  Most of them, I expect, allow you to credit your account on the exchange with currency aswell as BTC, so the trade is all internal to the exchange, and I think bitmarket's intention is to do that too.  But in the meantime, it would be good to clear up the ambiguity. Nuclear cannot substitute fossil fuels, because fossil fuels are easily transported, hence we use them to transport stuff.  Until someone developes a battery with the same energy density, ease of recharge, and low cost of a conventional fuel tank, no other energy source will substitute for oil, upon which all developed nations are critically dependent.At about 2:25, the guy in the video seems to negate peak U.S. domestic oil production. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:US_Oil_Production_and_Imports_1920_to_2005.png and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peak_oil:Also, as the price rises, yeah, hard-to-get oil becomes profitable.  But poor people will find it hard to deal with that - remember the riots in half the world in 2008 when food prices rose?  [Many causes, including high oil price]  I think many people don't realize that the green revolution was only possible thanks to fertilizers produced with fossil fuels, without which half the world's population is at risk: (from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fertilizer )At some point, oil production *will* decline, the question is whether a viable alternative is developed and implemented long enough before that to mitigate the problems peak oil and unbounded price rises will cause.  The current political climate doesn't inspire me.The problem is that right now, 2011, NOTHING will substitute oil, not even all the alternatives put together.  So first some new technology needs to be invented.  Then it needs to be mass produced and distributed BEFORE the last easily obtainable fossil energy starts to be spent on wars defending the last easily obtainable fossil energy.Yeah, we had power before coal, alright, slavery. Wasn't that fun for all involved. [/sarcasm] Have you guys read the Hirsch report?  Read it first, before drawing conclusions.  In short:1. there is no presently available technology which can substitute fossil fuels.2. fossil fuels are essential to our society and way of life.3. cheap energy (ie. fossil fuels) and a stable society will be required to develop new energy technologies.4. any new technology will require roughly 20 years to develop and implement on a wide enough scale to substitute fossil fuels (estimate).5. there are, at the outside, 20 years (estimate) of easily recoverable fossil fuels left, after which there will be no more cheap energy and development of these substitutes will be impossible.So, unless we start to develop NOW, society will crumble before we get there.   There are some developments in progress, but I keep hearing about how the oil companies are buying up any patents relating to alternative energies, eg. electric cars, high energy density batteries, etc. And government does not have a serious strategy to combat the problem.If the Hirsch report is too long for you, read the abstract of this document:http://www.peakoilassociates.com/PeakOilAnalysisOctober6-2007.pdf I read once, or saw in a documentary (sorry, can't remember where), that there is presently about 60 years of nuclear fuel left in the world - for currently existing conventional nuclear power stations.  If all electricity generation were to be done by nuclear, then all that fuel would last only 3 years.So going nuclear, with a startup time of at least 20 years, is not really an option.  Some newer technologies might come online though, e.g. fuel reprocessing etc. Here's an interesting case (bad translation though).  In the town of Aquila in Italy, hit by a large earthquake in 2009, there are builders who have been contracted to reconstruct some apartment blocks, but they are not following regulations.  So, theymos, what massive loss of money were you talking about?  Which reputation will the builders lose?  Their actions suggest they are not at all worried about another earthquake destroying the buildings.  And if they won't follow government regulations, why the hell would they ever follow private regulations or the terms of a private contract?http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=it&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.abruzzoitalia.it%2FNotizie%2FL-Aquila%2FTerremoto-denunce-su-ristrutturazione-case.htmlDon't get me wrong, I think libertarianism would be a wonderful utopia, but I think it would only ever work in very small communities where everybody *personally* knows everybody else.  A town of a few thousand people would probably already be too big. I'm going to read these links you sent, 'cos I really can't understand how you can have rules if there's no ruler to enforce them, *also* when it's a poly-centric system and adherence to any set of rules is voluntary.  Thanks.The middle class only evolved very recently, but, really, they're just in a cage with glass walls, right?  The vast majority of people have lived in a cage for the vast majority of history.  There's no clear reason to me why that's gonna change any time soon, bitcoin & anarcho-capitalism or not.  The way humans are constructed, there will be, by default, few wealthy & powerful people, and many poor people.  If the system is good, it will allow opportunities for poor people to display their skill, and become wealthy.  But *not everyone can be wealthy*.  That's the Great American Dream, and it's a pile of horse-manure.This is absurd.  Everyone gets to choose which set of rules to obey?  So if I decide not to be bound by any of them, then I can do whatever I like, right?  And, what, can you change your mind when it's convenient for you?  "Oh, you know what, today I'm not obeying those laws."  And then, in order to transact with anyone, do you have to know which set of rules they adhere to?  How many sets of rules will there be?  You cite "international law" like as though international law is simple? It's a mess even when countries *want* to cooperate.  The lawyers would have a field day. I don't know how likely this would be to happen.  If you read the anti-libertarian faq (see other thread), the author there makes an excellent point that while governments have set food safety and quality standards, restaurants do not have to obey them, and almost no restaurant has voluntarily adhered to any such a standard.Besides, if it was a free market, you'd have multiple guilds cropping up, and what then?  Is the average John Doe supposed to understand the technical differences between them?  Maybe, after some long period of bad buildings, and lots of dead people, one guild would emerge successful.But really, I doubt any construction firm would voluntarily adhere to a standard that reduced its competitiveness in the market.It's a prisoner's dilemma.  If all construction firms adhere, then there is an advantage (short-term profit) to every firm to defect and build bad buildings.  And also, what's to stop any building firm from displaying the logo of a guild, without adhering to the standard?But if there are no regulations, who's to say you can't commit fraud?  You move in, make your short-term profit, pull out ignoring all the damage you caused.  Start up again with a new brand, repeat. https://i.imgur.com/eGSKJ.jpgHere's the discussion on reddit, titled "The headline you won't be reading...": http://www.reddit.com/r/reddit.com/comments/g1ueo/the_headline_you_wont_be_reading/ In principle, you are correct.  But this is only when there is genuine competition in the marketplace.  The current political situation tends to favour monopolies (through processes like lobbying, distortion of justice, abuses of power and so on), and free-market capitalists say that, unless (I suppose) everybody likes what the monopoly is doing, monopolies will not be sustainable in a free market.  I have my doubts. No.  But it would be nice.  And it might win you converts.  But if you can't improve on the current situation, then you must admit failure in that area.  Also, I think alot of people would disagree that unplanned pregnancy is a little problem.  As a matter of fact, I'd bet that the majority of unplanned pregnancies present a big problem to the mother.Well, look back a bit and you'll see that grondilu's language clearly forbids me from offering solutions.  But you want to change the status quo, so the onus is on you to explain why.  Right now we have laws that forcibly oblige people to be responsible for their actions, and despite that, many people behave irresponsibly.  Why would they suddenly become models of responsibility if the law is eliminated?  Do you seriously think that all (say) young men, on the day law is banished forever, would suddenly start manning-up and taking responsibility for their unplanned children?  It's my turn to laugh now.And, really, this discussion is not just about unplanned pregnancy.  It's not just about "little problems".  It's about what libertarians/anarchists/whoever will do when there is a conflict arising from unintended and unforeseen consequences of a voluntary contract.  Right now we have a justice system which allocates responsibility according to certain (very very complicated) rules.  Apart from simplifying the rules, how can the elimination of law (or the introduction of poly-centric law, whatever that is) improve the situation?  That's what I'd like to see you answer.[maybe we should start a  new thread - this is gone way beyond the distribution of wealth.  Can an admin please see if it would be appropriate to start a "politics" section in the forum?] That's an interesting statement.  Let me repeat, in answer to you, that I am not proposing any solutions.  Unplanned pregnancy can be a serious problem for people, and I am posing the problem, not suggesting any solution.  I'm still waiting for the libertarians and anarchists of this forum to explain how they would improve on the current situation.But you say the law will be poly-centric?  Firstly, my (perhaps incorrect) understanding of anarchism is that you're wrong - there is *no law*, no law at all.  For corporations, there are no regulations.  Any person or corporation can do as it pleases.  Street justice, private policing and the free market will see that any abusers are punished.  A fine utopia I agree, but, I think, not functional in the long-term.  But what I think is not relevant here.I assume then that this "poly-centric" concept of law pertains to a libertarian society.  Can you explain what a poly-centric law is please? I know what poly-centrism is, but I can't understand what a poly-centric legal structure might be like.
Unintended pregnancies can have serious sociological effects (though I admit some are probably more to do with a misguided society).  But if you doubt that, then I hope you'll at least agree that they can cause real problems for the new parents.This question is for grondilu as much as for da2ce7:  Like I said in my last post, I don't propose a solution to this problem.  What solution do *you* propose?  Would you have everyone sign a contract before hopping into bed, with clauses specifying the responsibilities of each party should a pregnancy occur?  How about STDs?  Another clause for them?  What if you're drunk when you sign - are you still responsible?  What if the guy can't get it up (failure to fulfill the terms of the contract)?  da2ce7 - you're absolutely right, life *is* full of uncertainties, and no contract can foresee them all.  Therefore, unpleasant circumstances and conflict can always arise, even though all actions were voluntary and non-violent, and *there will always be conflicts that cannot be solved by enforcing the terms of the contract*.And if there's a conflict over who should do that - who should "deal with it", then what?  Do you run to your private police and force someone to do something they didn't specifically, contractually and voluntarily agree to?But there *is* an issue, even if the sex was voluntary.  Who pays for the child?  Who pays for the mother's welfare while she can't work?  These things *cannot* be ignored.  And talking about adoption might work for some, and not for others - be assured that women develop a very strong emotional attachment even to an unborn baby, so giving a baby up for adoption might cause *other* problems for the mother (health, depression etc).  But even adoption doesn't solve the mother's problems during and after the pregnancy (e.g. hospital bills, post-natal depression, other stuff...). Every nation that needs oil (i.e. all nations) have to compete for USD in order to buy oil.  This makes dollars very valuable.  If oil wasn't purchasable only in USD, USD would be in much less demand, its value would plummet and cheap (e.g.) Chinese goods would no longer stock the shelves of walmart.  Given that much of US domestic industry has been outsourced abroad and would take years to get back up to speed, there would be a shortage of just about everything in the US (and, by extension, Europe, UK, etc).  The market would be awash with dollars, usable only in the US, and the market for them would be much smaller (more money chasing less products), so the US would likely enter a period of hyperinflation like none ever before.Yeah.  I'm sure you're right, but it's nagging at me just the same. Read the thread grondilu, and try to maintain your usual politeness please.  I was posing a problem, not a solution.  da2ce7 stated that all interactions were either voluntary or violent.  I gave an example in which this is not the case - raising the child was neither voluntary nor violent.  Neither of them wanted the child, nobody forces them to have it.  And da2ce7 agrees, in fact, that life is not all black & white. You know, I've thought of that too.  But then, western media are hardly unbiased and I wonder if Saddam had ever said such a thing, would it ever have reached front page of the WSJ?  I think not.  It would've been buried and confined to extremist newsletters & websites and laughed at by the mainstream media.Is there anyone here from Iraq?  Was this theory (admittedly a conspiracy theory) ever noted in Iraqi newspapers?  [See http://www.ratical.org/ratville/CAH/RRiraqWar.html for what I believe to be the original document outlining the theory]. Even still I disagree.  Suppose there is some advantage to using MtGox.  Anyone who exercises their right to avoid it will lose and is therefore forced to use it to remain competitive even though they might not agree with MtGox's policies (e.g. the dark pools).  Let me give you another example.  I don't like cellular phones for several reasons, and yet it's essential for my work.  Nobody has violently forced me to have one, yet I must have one.  Society itself is coercing me to have a cell phone.  But no individual is responsible, it's just an outcome of the system in which we all operate.To satisfy BitterTea's curiosity, my example was this.  Boy meets girl, girl gets pregnant.  Neither wanted a child, nobody violently forced them to have a child, yet they will have a child (let's say neither boy nor girl will consider abortion, for whatever reasons).  There's a simple (if unwritten) contract: "let's have sex".  But it has unintended consequences, not foreseen in the contract, and that's all you need to make the wonderful utopia of anarchism & free-market crumble, one conflict at a time. Yes really.  I just thought of one.  I didn't write it down yet - I'm sure I'm allowed to have thoughts without writing them down ;-)   I'm waiting to see if da2ce7 will agree to temper his (what I consider to be) extreme view of human nature before writing it.  How about you?  The example I thought of is actually quite a frequent occurrence.But really, it's quite easy.  All you need is some scenario which involves unforeseeable or unintended consequences and, hey presto! you can have your very own non-voluntary, non-violent and unpleasant interaction.I will.  I'm waiting for a response from da2ce7.  But let me ask you, do you think all human interactions can be put into one and only one of two possible classes: voluntary or violent?  Are there no others? I agree.  That some people view the world in such stark terms shows a strong lack of wisdom and experience.The world is not so black and white.  I have already thought of a scenario involving a non-voluntary but non-violent interaction, I'm certain the forum could think of more.  If I tell you, da2ce7, will you soften your attitude?  I respectfully suggest that your kind of thinking does nothing other than polarise people, causing them to harden their views both for and against you.  Whatever it is you want, you'll never find a solution that way. Homosexuality could confer a direct evolutionary advantage.  Let me think.  Imagine that there is a gene which predisposes its carriers to homosexuality.  The only way such a gene might survive is if it also disposes its carriers to care for the children of their siblings.  For example, someone already pointed out above that younger brothers tend more to homosexuality than older brothers.  Well, would it not make sense, then, that the younger brothers, not having children of their own, would tend to care for the children of their older brother?  So the children would have a higher survival rate and the gene could easily survive.Even easier - imagine if having blue eyes meant you were more likely to be homosexual.  The advantage of blue eyes could outweigh the disadvantage of homosexuality, and so the gene would survive.Gene survival is a funny thing.  Your genes don't care if *you* survive, or if *you* have children.  They only care that *they* propagate.  If your death is the best way to obtain that, then that gene will predispose you to dying in those circumstances where the gene's effects are expressed.  And I'm using the word "care" in the same sense as Dawkins does - I'm ascribing a sense of desire to a bunch of molecules (i.e. a "gene") that cannot desire anything.  And, since homosexuality still exists *despite* strong cultural bias against it, my guess is it does somehow confer an advantage to the genes concerned.  Not to the individuals that carry it, but to the genes.After that, every society and every individual will decide for itself whether it finds homosexuality abhorrent or not.  Once upon a time, people were burned at the stake for having red hair.  Oops.Guys, this discussion has very definitely bifurcated.  From tax, we're now talking about tax, homosexuality, and safety & security.  It's like those conversations which take on a life of their own - starting from the concert you went to yesterday, you end up talking about pineapples.  Fascinating! Unfortunately, I agree that modern universities are little more than graduate factories - I wrote about it earlier (see this quote below).  But there are still some quality universities with quality courses out there, perhaps that's what you mean by some formal qualifications also giving you a decent education.Interesting, and not so surprising - top university performers are often the type that do great in examinations but not so good in the real world.  But I'd really prefer to read the articles to judge properly and I simply don't have time to do that.  Lots of people make big mistakes with statistics, even statisticians, and I always take a large grain of salt with any headline that says "Objects of type A are x% more likely than those of type B to exhibit property C" or similar.I heard (by word-of-mouth only) that in ancient Rome, private fire brigades existed.  Whenever there was a fire they would rush there as quick as possible and negotiate a price on the spot before trying to extinguish the fire.  "Fine big house sir...".   I agree with littleshop, private police forces are just bad news waiting to happen - think about it, in order to minimize costs, they'd employ the roughest toughest street brawlers with as little sense of morality as possible - punch up first, ask questions later would be the order of the day.  And it wouldn't be long before the strongest private police force turned into a private army, and then into a dictator's army.  The libertarians need a system of conflict resolution, but it'd be a cold day in hell before a libertarian imposes regulations on the maximum size of any single corporate entity.  "If they're that big, it means they're doing a good job, right?" You have got to be kidding me.  These people became popular because they were exceptions to the "rule" - and that's why they're rich and popular.   Man, you wouldn't even have your computer if it wasn't for the countless scientists, engineers, technicians and so on, that worked to create computers, networks, LCD monitors, electronic circuits, microchips, transistors, resistors...  Go back as far as you like, right back to ancient Greece and its academies.  Steam trains, radio waves, periodic table, electro-magnetism, microwaves, space travel, GPS, tooth fillings, eye glasses, medicine, pharmacology, need I go on?  Bill Gates was obviously a smart and talented fellow who had the right idea at the right time and the ability to carry it through.  But I'd bet my right eye that he'd be neither rich nor well-known now if he hadn't had a world full of graduate computer scientists to do most of the work for him.  I'm not saying that uneducated people can't have great ideas, on the contrary often you need an "outsider" to bring about a change in paradigm, but don't be so foolish or arrogant as to ignore all the developments in all areas of science and humanities brought about by normal people with normal degrees and ph.ds.And, you know what, knowledge is *not* for everyone.  Some people aren't interested, and someone will always have to clean the streets and the toilets.  It's a waste of time everybody studying microbiology (or whatever) - you'll just end up with microbiologist janitors on a janitor's wage - it's a waste of time and effort.  Those who are educated more (and certifiably so) get paid more, so in order to get additional certified education, you need to pay.  That's how it's always been, that's how it should be, and that's how it'll always be.  Any society needs a wide range of skills at all levels.  I *do* have a degree, but before you call me elitist I want you to tell me who *you* would make sweep the streets and why that doesn't make *you* elitist.That said, I wouldn't withhold education just because someone couldn't afford it.  But they'd have to demonstrate some reason why they deserve the scholarship 'cos no society can afford to waste time and resources giving a higher education to just anyone who asks for it, particularly if they can't effectively use it.  And make no mistake, with bitcoins, you'll still have to pay for your education.  Even worse, I'd have a strong feeling that any free-market school or university will use as much currently freely-available material as possible, but make it's students pay dearly.  Maximize profit, minimize investment.  Right guys? Interesting graph, but not completely clear.  Is this a plot of the total reward, or the total reward *per time spent mining in the pool*?  'cos if you can increase your reward by 3.5% and decrease the time spent mining by 5% (or whatever), then that might be a significant reward.  You could spend that free time mining elsewhere. Do you live a miserable life of semi-poverty?  Perhaps you live in eastern Europe where things are not so cosy? Dude, something tells me you don't live in europe - you are deluded: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Satisfaction_with_Life_Index  The U.S. is doing quite well too, but I think you might want to moderate your statement about "miserable lives of semi poverty".But if skilled labour is in shortage with respect to unskilled labour, then any reasonable market will pay a higher price for it.  Although, lately, I understand there are plenty of PhDs working the till in McDonalds all over the U.S. - can anyone confirm that?  So even though a sweatshop worker works hard, he's competing with many many others for the same job, unlike the air conditioned guy.  And, sorry, I would hate a CEO's job, even if it paid me twice what I'm currently earning (and I ain't earning much by my country's standard).  Just the idea of having to wear a suit & tie everyday... [shudder].Tell you what, though, you're right about greed.  I read an article a short while ago about greed & capitalism being bedfellows.  I wasn't sure if the argument has since been refuted, but I understand that, irrespective of that, people are happy when their wealth and income are comparable to the national average.  Therefore... large wealth or income inequalities cause social unrest and greed, because everyone wants to be as rich as the rich ones they know ("keeping up with the joneses"), but not everyone can.  Any comments, libertarians?Something tells me you don't have a piece of paper from a university.  While I agree that many universites are a sham, and many decent universities have courses that are a sham, I think there are still plenty of decent, real, qualifications to be obtained.  I suspect that the problem lies in the fact that many universites' funding are tied to the number of students, so therefore universities have turned into graduate factories with little care for how those graduates fare in the real world (e.g. PhDs working McD).  E.g. degree in "web design"  By the time you graduate, the web will have completely changed and all you learned will be useless - if you do decide to go to university, make sure your degree teaches you critical thinking, problem solving, how to be adaptable, and how to learn (i.e. instead of just making you learn stuff, you need to learn *how to learn*, so when you finish univ. you can continue learning).Lastly, check out mit opencourseware, or do a search for free university courses on google.  They're wonderful and I've used them.  Universities aren't hoarding knowledge so much anymore.  They'll give you all the knowledge you want for free, but they'll still make you pay for that little piece of paper.EDIT, for Kiba :-)TL;DR (whatever that means):1. Europe ain't that bad.2. Skill shortage commands higher price.3. Greed is nasty.  Is it inherent to capitalism, or just a result of severe social inequality?4. I agree, many universities and university degrees are useless, but there are some good ones still.  Look for these qualities (see above).5. Check out free online university courses, they're great. I think the acid test of whether dark pools give an unfair advantage to big traders or not, would be to create a "open" dark pool with no minimum trade requirements.  If the big traders start to trade there, then there's no advantage.  If they stick to the "closed" dark pools, then there is.I find it hard to understand how any rational person can disagree with imanikin - big traders will always seek maximum advantage.  If they end up trading in a dark pool, then there'll be a reason.  But, let me ask imanikin a question: suppose there was some advantage for small traders in using a dark pool with *maximum* trade limitations i.e. no big trades allowed.  Would you happily see big traders cut out?It's really an age-old dilemma.  bitcoin is supposed to level the playing field, but it *will* sustain the status quo in that there will still be a separation between rich and poor.  In fact, it may well augment that separation insofar as taxes, supposedly impossible with bitcoin, are one way to transfer wealth from rich to poor.Some people will think that's a good thing, some people will think it's bad. I'm surprised you haven't been shot down by the free-marketers & anarchists already.... haven't you realized yet?  The bit-future is devoid of any government!!!  (that's me being sarcastic, I sympathize with the free-market/libertarian guys but suspect that, like communism, it'd be great in theory and terrible in practice.)Tell me, why did you say taxes-by-donation would be scary?  Do you think nobody would donate and so society would crumble?  Or do you mean it would be scary because the govt could trace bitcoins?  A bitcoin mixer would be enough to fool that (see other discussions). I think you've forgotten what this thread was discussing, I'll try to summarize but if I get it wrong, please correct me (and I'll edit this post for serious errors):[forum] Inflation is a nasty evil tax perpetrated by nasty evil governments.[me] You may well be right, but inflation allows you to plan your economy better and possibly helps you avoid extremely destructive system-wide deflationary spirals, AS LONG as you can avoid hyperinflation [which seems to be the other side of deflation - someone else posted this link: http://www.humanaction.co.za/2010/09/hyper-inflation-and-deflation-are-two-sides-of-the-same-coin/ ].[forum] Deflation isn't that bad, just 'cos prices go down doesn't mean people won't buy stuff.[me] Actually, I think it does, check out the Great Depression.[forum] Pah, check out tech goods: constant price deflation, people still buy.[me] (today) Ok, let's check out tech goods so: slashdot sez people are reducing their tech spending.But, you know, you're almost right anyway.  Inflation causes money to decrease in value, this will cause people to spend.  As far as I understand it, that's exactly the idea.  Check out the Wörgl experiment http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_currency#Historical_local_currencies - there was a local currency which, by design, decreased in value at a constant rate.  The experiment was very successful but, as you can imagine, it encroached on the central bank's turf and the central bank wasn't best pleased about that.Next questions: if tech company revenues significantly fall, what are they going to do?  Will they increase R&D spending, or decrease it?  If they decrease it, what will happen to tech prices - will they increase, remain constant, or continue decreasing (assume zero monetary inflation). Well, whaddya know.  I know it's not clear proof of my point, but it sure as hell puts in question the forum's majority opinion (i.e. that people will always buy tech products despite strong price deflation).http://news.slashdot.org/story/11/02/26/2332243/Consumers-Buy-Less-Tech-Stuff-Keep-It-Longer Well, I've finally got around to reading the anti-libertarian FAQ of the title of this thread - so you don't have to go to that first page, here's the link again: http://www.raikoth.net/libertarian.htmlIt's a good read, but in particular, there's one (for me) outstanding point (section 2.14.1):What he's saying is this: libertarians claim that a docile population will lead to ever bigger and more dictatorial governments, but if people are really that docile, then they'd never be able to participate in a libertarian society.  Comments? Why just Bruce Schneier?  Couldn't you offer a bounty to whoever can get a review of bitcoin published in a respectable cryptography journal?  Of course, you'd have to put the bounty in a trustworthy escrow, 'cos otherwise the reviewer might bias his or her conclusions. This is actually a very interesting discussion which will soon move from digital content to actual physical objects.  Heard of "reprap" or "fab@home"?  They are 3D printers which, eventually, should be able to quickly print out simple plastic, metallic and even electric/electronic goods (ok, electronics further in the future).  So suppose a simple small plastic piece in your car breaks, it's patented and is manufactured by only one company, so it costs $100.  You, instead, download the "pirated" design from the web and print it out at home, saving $99.  The revolution that started with audio cassette tapes and cheap photocopiers is about to go to 3D objects.  Exciting times ahead!
I'm not informed about this discussion of NZ, but if it ain't because people need cheap houses and builders were happy to fill the gap without a thought for the future, then I'll eat a bitcoin. I agree with all you say here, but you're misunderstanding my point.  I'm not specifically trying to show cause and effect, but merely indicate that there exist cases of deregulation which have proved disadvantageous to the consumer.  Right now we have a status quo of Big Interfering Regulating Government, and most people are sufficiently content with that that they won't go out and demonstrate on the streets demanding change.  If you want to change the status quo, the onus is on *you* to convince people that deregulation is the right way to go and to get them out on the streets demonstrating.I'm keeping an open mind, but I've yet to be convinced.  I wrote what I see as the real problem (Big Corporation) in my last post and I find it interesting that you merely criticize my general points without answering my specific question about free-market policies. Regardless of whether it's economically sound or not, ignoring the plight of millions of people makes for real bad sociology.  Not everyone is an expert economist or financial advisor - some people have to be street sweepers and some people have to be teachers.  The point remains that deregulation of Enron led to a serious abuse of trust on an enormous scale.  In a wider sense, economies exist in order to improve the human condition so deregulation here was pure Economics Fail.  Or maybe you think economies exist only to make capitalists wealthier?Do anarchists/libertarians like Big Corporations?  That's mostly what I have problems with.  For me, you could get rid of lots of regulations, but there are two I'd introduce: any single company may not possess more than 5% market share and company directors and shareholders may not hold public office.  If there were no Big Corporations, political lobbying would be vastly reduced.  And I'd bet that without lobbying, the government would be a very different kettle of fish.  You guys complain about how regulation stifles free market competition.  Well now, apart from politicians-in-the-bag, who profits most from regulation? You say this as though company failure fixes all the problems.  The failure of Enron caused enormous problems for millions of people and those problems haven't gone away.  Do a google search for "enron pensions" just to get a taster.  You could, however, argue that Enron became as big as it was, and therefore in a position to affect millions of people, by virtue of previous government regulation.  There's nothing in a free market politics, though, that prohibits companies becoming just as big. Are you speaking of the time of great composers like Mozart and Beethoven?  The were patronized by wealthy families, royalty, or churches, each of which was wealthy because... can you guess?  It wasn't from free market competition, I can tell you that.  And if you're talking about more modern times, well there wasn't the problem of mass copying.  Pre-vinyl the skill was in the performance as much as the composing, and you couldn't record it.  For vinyl, mass unauthorised copying wasn't possible without big expensive machinery.  Cassette copying was much simpler but caused a notable downgrade in quality.  The "problem" of unauthorised copying of music is *exclusively* a problem of the digital age.This is not a good thing, though.  In fact, bottled water is probably one of the biggest debacles in the history of marketing.  I remember I saw a great youtube presentation about where the bottled water market came from, and how it came to be as it is.  Look for "say no to bottled water" "stop bottled water" and so on.You know, there's a thing about this libertarianism.  Here you say "look at bottled water", but bottled water is a sham.  Someone else said "look at the internet in somalia, it's great now" but if you want people to look at Somalia and think how great libertarianism is, well, think again.  If only half of what wikipedia says is true, things in Somalia seem to be terrible. So it may well be better now than under government, but if you're already living in the gutter it's not so hard to pull yourself up now, is it?This is perfectly logical.  A creates, sells under restrictive contract to B, who breaks contract and sells to C.  A has no recourse against C.  Agreed.  I'd just be dubious that A will sell his creativity given the lack of recourse against unauthorised copying.  Except at a very high price.  B, of course, will be reluctant to pay a high price in something that they will, certainly, eventually have very little control over.  It's just my opinion, you may well disagree.  Only an experiment will tell - and I mean a 100 year long experiment in libertarian/anarchist economics. This seems more reasonable.  But...1. Film studios might never release their products for DVD after the theatre period - what's in it for them?2. I once saw a film that was pirated by using a hand-held in the cinema.  I didn't realise until someone in front of the camera got up and (presumably) went to the toilet.3. Musicians would have a hard time making money - after their first concert all the music would be copied and distributed.  Lower quality yeah, but we're not all audiophiles.4. How about authors and journalists?5. Computer games writers?So the only way, then, to protect IP rights, even if only for a short time, is to introduce severe penalties for whoever leaks the content, so much so, that everyone who signs the contract fears for themselves.  Woe betide whoever misplaces their legitimate copy, or is robbed of it, and finds themselves in hospital the next day with two broken legs.  Don't get me wrong, I think the IP system in force now is ridiculous and way oversize.  Personally I'd love to return to a system of traveling musicians and bards, playing to small groups in return for dinner and a bed.  But I realise that that'd be difficult now, and most of humanity almost certainly disagrees with me.Nobody will buy it if they cannot be assured that its output can be protected.Nobody has answered these two questions regarding the social contract, see page 3 of this thread.  If I'm just an ignorant fool who should read the answer to the first question elsewhere because it's already been answered a thousand times, please point me to the right place.  But how about the second re. Egypt? Agreed, but you didn't sign any contract with the musician in this case.  Suppose I permit you to enter my property and listen to my music only if you agree to certain terms and conditions.  Then what? I did some calculations a while ago (see http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1918 ) and, using updated values, I would estimate that the expected number of blocks you can generate (ever) with one of these machines, given current bitcoin network growth, is about 11 (=550 BTC).  So it should more-or-less pay for itself, and if bitcoins continue to appreciate against the dollar, then it will more than pay for itself (NOT counting electricity costs).  Hah, I was expecting the opposite conclusion.  I should buy one of these.Expected number of blocks: E=Ch/(a-1)/DC=constant=14*86400*H_m/H_MH_m = hash at min difficulty = 0x00000000FFFF00000....H_M=max hash value=0xFFFFF....h=hashes-per-secD=current difficultya=difficulty growth = 1.153 (approximate, at time of writing)EDIT: this is interesting, if these miners will pay for themselves, why doesn't atlas just keep them all for himself and use them to mine?  Ok, the answer is obvious, bitcoins don't buy bread yet (though someone did buy pizza). I can see an inconsistency.  I argue that creative brains are *way* more scarse than whatever real property you're talking about - particularly ink & paper, electronics etc.  I mean, what's to stop me making a contract "I'll tell you about the products of my creativity, but you must use them only in these ways", and then enforcing that agreement through whatever means at my disposal.  Thence, Intellectual Property. Good point, maybe I am. Kiba, I'm inclined to agree with Gene here - until this you seemed reasonably coherent and sensible, if a bit extreme.  But this rebel talk of removing democratic options makes you look like a bit of an irrational fool.  Are you being flippant perhaps?  Libertarians are all about protecting individuals and their choices and yet here you would impose *your* values on everyone else.I don't understand this. Can you explain a bit more please? I think this is being too simplistic.  Look at, say, a pride of lions.  As free as can be, roaming the plains, knowing no laws, knowing no government.  However when there's a successful hunt, and everyone wants to chow down, well there's a conflict and (I guess) the prime male gets first choice.In our society there are conflicts too, because what I want (and should be free to do) is mutually esclusive with what you want (and should be free to do).  There are limited resources and we are competing for them.Therefore, No.  There will always be some circumstances in which your right to conduct only voluntary and consensual relationships should not be respected by all.  In a pride of lions, the top male decides.  In our society, at present, there are laws which decide, but in a stateless society... damned if I know who decides.  I have a big problem with libertarianism and conflict resolution.  Help me to understand guys. Well, even libertarians think that property rights should be enforced in an anarchist/lassaiz-faire economy.  Patents are nothing other than intellectual property, but I don't know if the libertarian argument defends that too.  So maybe they could argue that patents are OK, but that there shouldn't be a monopoly on patent enforcement...I note that patents exist to protect the research investment of the developer and allow them to recoup their investment through exclusivity for a while.  Of course, it's being abused now, but what do the libertairians amongst us say about intellectual property?My understanding of the "social contract" question is that, e.g. in the US, the founding fathers formulated the constitution, with popular consent.  Those who consented implicitly raised their children to consent, and so on until today.  Like lots of laws, the constitution is being abused now to enable government to pass absurd laws to which the founders and their popular following would never have consented.  So maybe ye should genuinely try to get a revolution going, unseat government, and with popular consent, formulate a new constitution/social contract which includes the missing bit from this one - that is, articles which limit government's power over periods of hundreds of years and through unforeseeable technological and sociological changes.Let me ask a question, suppose the people of Egypt manage to get their choice of president (and not Suileman who seems to be as unliked as Mubarak).  Now suppose this guy, Mr. X, let's call him, frames a new constitution, and creates a new country Egypt_V2.0, with freedom for all, and there is rejoicing and joy in the streets.  Even though the only guy to sign the new constitution is Mr X himself, would anyone here doubt that all Egyptians agree to be bound by that constitution, even though they didn't sign it?The only hole in the argument is parents deciding for their children.  But that can hardly be otherwise, can it?f. Correct.  Politicians often have "advisors". Unfortunately, the lobbyists are far more powerful.  Actually they're probably lobbying the damn advisors too.  Often, the advisors themselves come from a corporate or political background, and not a scientific one.  What, like otherwise I'll discover the "dark secret" of anarchists that causes the whole house of cards to tumble down :-)  The private police doesn't solve the problem I earlier mentioned about conflicting private police forces.Like I say, I'd have way more questions to ask, and challenges to yer messages here, and I'm really enjoying the discussion.  Thanks to all of you.  But I'm burning up way to much time on it.  I gotta stop.  Mostly, I gotta read up on the mises institute, and I ain't got time for that either.In conclusion, my opinion is:1. monetary deflation would be very nasty.2. anarchism would be sweet, but possibly not practicable.3. I genuinely find it baffling that some of you think a free market can solve long-term problems better than (independent) scientists who have studied the problem deeply.  Particularly when the problems associated with a free-market solution are far away (e.g. my Greenland Glacier Ice product, precious metals in Congo, etc).4. Also that a free market will respect everyone's rights is bizarre.  A free market responds to the demands of large (i.e. profitable) groups.  Minorities will always find themselves subjugated.That's it folks.  I bow out.  The last word is all yours.  Cheers. Are you suggesting that there should be some kind of "governing authority" where disputes can be resolved...? It's not an issue of freedom of speech.  It's about people who understand an issue being the decision makers, or at least having some significant influence on the decision makers.As for the free market, what would you buy: cheap wood from company A, or expensive wood from company B which calculated future environmental-repair costs into its price?  Personally, if I could be sure that B would do that, then I would buy theirs.  But I wouldn't trust them as far as I could throw their tree trunks.  I can just imagine the board meeting - "Dear shareholders, we have $1B in the bank, but we don't want to give it to you 'cos we'll need it to help out those poor farmers in 20 years time."  "Dear CEO, we want to buy those cool new holographic phones. The door is over there, GTFO."Free market has shown that it is perfectly capable of squashing chickens into such a small cage that they can't even turn around.  Free market has shown that it is perfectly capable of pumping livestock full of drugs and hormones to make the meat absorb more water, and so sell for more money (sold by weight); so much so that the hormones in the human food supply are causing male fertility leves to drop.  Can the forum come up with more examples of the free market's failings?  Just in case, I'd like to repeat that I don't have any great faith in government either.  I'm just skeptical that the free market would be this wonderful utopia that many people here here seem to think. Eh???  Can you think of anyone better qualified to make a scientific statement about the loss of biodiversity in the amazon that the *scientists* who have *actually studied it*  Or do you think we should just take, what, like a /vote/???  Bear in mind how susceptible public opinion is to what some barbie in the latest hollywood action-crap says.If you really believe what you're saying, then economists have no right to speak publicly about economics, and you can shove your von mises institute where the sun don't shine.  Right?  (or if you're of the other camp, then substitute for some other appropriate institute).Some people are more educated about some topics, and, yes, that gives them the right to speak publicly, and it /should/ oblige other people to consider their opinion.I noted the problem with finding unbiased scientists.  Is that what's bugging you?  That's not just government - it's big Pharma, big GMO, big Oil, big Internet, big IntellectualProperty, big Whatever, and all the lobbying that goes on behind closed doors (need I make it clear, by private corporations).  You can't have unbiased scientists without unbiased funding.  Corporations will never provide unbiased funding. We've gone *way* off topic here, so if we want to continue on this subject (anarcho-capitalism et al V govt), let's start a new thread.  I'd have more to say, but this post is huge already, and I've gotta go.Arrrghhhhhhh WHAT question??  Stop telling me I'm not answering questions that you haven't asked.Read the title of this thread.Take a look at wikipedia's page on the amazon rainforest - it's about half of the world's total rainforest.  Do you truly think that's unimportant?  I'm shocked at such ignorance of science just for political ideals.  I don't know whether the destruction of the amazon would have a big effect on the world's environment, please don't be so arrogant as to say that you *do*.anarchy & lawlessness: you should correct wikipedia's page if you think anarchy is not lawless. My understanding is that anarchy is nothing other than voluntary cooperation between individuals.  By definition, an anarchic society has no regulations.  Even the etymology of the word itself suggests an absence of hierarchy and authority.  This leaves the society vulnerable to whosoever would abuse that situation.  Are you so naive as to assume that nobody would seek to do such abuse?There's a clear question.  Absolutely nothing. [sarcasm]Apart from moving in the army[/sarcasm].  If everybody wanted to jump off a cliff, there's little anyone could do stop them either, right?[quote from=caveden]I bet all these things can be done much more cheaply than the cost of not using such precious resource as all that land.[/quote]ok. And I'll bet we could cover greenland with some mirrors (to better reflect sunlight), start melting all the ice, bottle it, and sell it as pristine million-year old, glacial water.  Damn, you could even sell it still frozen, or even cheaper, you could melt it and then re-freeze it - imagine: "pure glacier, the way nature intended".  Given how stupid most people are, can you doubt there would be a market for it?  And why stop with Greenland?  Now don't tell me that people wouldn't pay, they already pay up to ten thousand times the price for bottled than tap water.  And please don't embarrass yourself by suggesting that the market would punish the corporation that decided to abuse Greenland's ice sheet.  Nobody would stop them 'cos Greenland is far away from everyone except about 50000 greenlanders.  People wouldn't care about Greenland, just as you don't care that the tantalum in your mobile phone comes from environmentally destructive mines in Congo controlled by armed thugs engaging in a conflict counting millions dead.  And, you know what, maybe nothing would happen.  Maybe sea-levels wouldn't rise. But if they did, you can be damn sure the profits made would be in CEO and shareholders pockets, and nobody would cough up the money required to protect endangered coastlines.  Oh wait, what am I thinking, if the only point in preserving endangered coastlines is to preserve them, well we can just forget about it.  (That bit was pure sarcasm too, folks.  I hope you got it this time.)I stand corrected, but that doesn't invalidate my point.  The amazon is important, even if only because we don't yet know how important it is.And why do you think private corporations will respect private property rights?  In a corporate world, people are rewarded with money and power. That means the people who come to power are the ones that like to have money - greedy self-obsessed people (not much different from politicians of today).  Even hugolp agrees that politicians and corporate leaders are often one and the same.  Your politicians will just become your corporate leaders, and tell me this: why should they suddenly become "nice" in an anarchist society?  I'm not saying the present political leadership is any good, or that the regulations they impose are just and correct.  I just don't think corporate anarchy will do better.I understand the Austrian theory of debt spending causing boom-n-bust business cycles.  I just don't think it's that simple.  The latest crisis, for example, is far more complex - not least because of the rising price of energy immediately prior to the crisis.  This limited growth for reasons *external* to the economy, which is something economic theories don't consider (as far as I can tell).  Furthermore, my understanding is that the Austrian boom-bust cycle is caused by a debt-inflated economy, thanks to fractional reserve banking, controlled (in the US) by the Federal Reserve.  Guess what?  A corporation specifically designed to safeguard the interests of privately owned member banks, largely independent of the government.  http://www.federalreserve.gov/generalinfo/faq/faqfrs.htm#5Who gets to decide what's useful?  Just their economic function?  If you start disrupting an ecology, there is no way to tell the end result.  It's a perfect complex system, with long range correlations between species and power-law extinction events.  What if those stupid pink frogs seem useless but then, after they're all dead, it turns out they were an essential dietary part of that lovely useful crocodile's prey?  Same comment for invention of new species.  GM food companies are playing a game that could have dire consequences - and nobody really knows how it could play out.  People talk alot, but nobody really knows.Preserve it for it's potential economic utility, if nothing else.  Nobody knows what the future cost of destroying the amazon rainforest would be.[quote from=grondilu]In any way, what we should do about tropical forests, is not for a bunch of ecolocrats to decide.[/quote][my ignorance, what's an ecolocrat? do you mean "econocrat"? if so:]  Agreed. I would have the decisions made by scientists, sociologists and philosophers - unfortunately in a pure corporate world scientists and sociologists without some funding bias would be hard to come by.@ptd: you don't care because you have plenty of disposable income.  In a monetary deflation scenario, lots of people don't, and that chokes production. Please differentiate between NECESSITIES and LUXURIES.  I never said people don't buy stuff when prices go down, I said people don't buy UNNECCESSARY stuff during periods of MONETARY DEFLATION - and everyone has a different idea of what's "necessary" (I might not have been clear about the "monetary deflation" bit in my first posts, confusing it with price deflation).  If my phone breaks, then I'll buy a new one regardless of whether prices are going up or down, because I NEED one.  But if there is monetary deflation, then I definitely won't buy that new computer game, because I DON'T NEED it.  What about you?  If your money is deflating, would you concentrate your purchases more on necessities, or would you splash out on a new pair of $250 shoes (for you, or your GF) just because they're nice, or would you wait until next month when you can buy the same shoes AND a burger&fries for $250?  What if you lost your job at the same time?  What then?  Now think about people who are investing $millions.  Even low deflation could mean they can afford to buy a new luxury car for their children if they just wait one month before investing.We did?  Good, I'm glad too.I'm sure you realised I was being sarcastic when I wrote about invading Brazil??? I didn't know some of those things you wrote, but they wouldn't be so surprising.  I'll bet the amazon was never destroyed for many years because the population density (of humans) was simply too low.  A few hundred tribes living in and around it would never do more damage than regrowth - you'd need big, terrible, fast machines to do significant damage, and that didn't come about until, how long ago, maybe 40 or 60 years ago? (see youtube)More than private enterprise cares for me, I think (see below).  I'm a big skeptic of modern government though - I have the feeling that once upon a time, politicians were driven by ideals, not greed and personal gain.  I'll tell you what, if I could only live 1000 years to collect, I'd bet that having no govt would eventually reduce mankind to Hobbes' "solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short" life.  And by "govt" I mean any persistent authority, even e.g. tribal chiefs.  My opinion, therefore, is that it's more important to have some set of laws by which all people can expect some guaranteed living standard, than that the set of laws be "the right ones", whatever that might be.  It's like driving, yeah?  Who knows, maybe driving on the left /is/ better than driving on the right, but it's much more important that everybody agrees which side to drive on, than that their choice be the "correct" one.govt spending: what you say is right.  In short, those that perform services do not increase overall wealth.  Only the production of goods can do that.  And most of govt's work is services.  However, services do help money to circulate, allowing more people to demand produced goods.  I feel like we're almost coming to an agreement here too...This, for me, is the biggest drawback to pure capitalism.  It's shortsighted.  Destroying the amazon rainforest would bring great benefits to human society for a while.  Then, after many years, it would be clear that the amazon had a crucial role to play in keeping the atmosphere oxygenated (the lungs of the planet, anyone?), keeping floods under control, maintaining biodiversity, heck, I don't know what else.  Now I may well be wrong, and an oxygen-depleted atmosphere might well improve humanity's state somehow.  It just seems a bit risky to me, that's all. I'm using m0mchil's python miner, and everytime it submits a getwork request, it stops hashing, opens the connection, gets the work, and then starts again.  This causes me to lose much more that 2.5% of my hashing power, more like 15% or so (note, that's hashing power, not hashes).  Like I say, if I were worried I'd modify the miner, but between now and when the sun goes out, I can only expect another 70 or 80 bitcoins with my meager 20Mhps if the bitcoin network keeps growing as it is for a while longer.  So it'll do as it is.  Thanks for the reply.
Can you explain more?  I realise that an attack is very unlikely, but I'm curious.  Do you keep a record of which work has been assigned to which worker?  Everything else is the same - the data, the target etc.  Only the work (nonce? is that what it's called?) changes, so it would be enough for an evil tor exit node to connect to the pool with it's own worker credentials and submit my successful nonce.Unfortunately, there is a firewall here, so I have to use tor to connect, unless you can open a port<1024 and forward to 8332 on your machine.  So far latencies don't seem to be causing any problem.  I reduced the ask rate to every 10sec, so it pauses less often.  I'd experiment to find the best values, but I only ever expect to earn about 80BTC through generation, so I'm not very motivated. How about we call them "millibits", "microbits" etc.  Or, if you imagine how "BTC" might be pronounced, we could call them millibitch etc.  So if you buy a car, it'll cost you 100 bitches :-) Sorry, I must have missed exactly the questions.  I thought I was answering, but maybe I didn't fully understand.  Could you repeat the specific questions I didn't answer please?I disagree.  When my phone breaks I will get a new one, but not before then (I have a crappy phone, I hate it, but refuse to buy another because this one still works).  A phone and computer, for me, are necessities, like bread and water (not *exactly* like them, just similar).  If I didn't have them, I'd lose my job.  People will *always* buy bread (assuming they can) irrespective of the price, just like me and my phone.  However, I will not buy any unnecessary phone or bread.  In an economy undergoing monetary deflation, people will minimize unnecessary purchases.  Price deflation (e.g. tech products) due to reduced production costs does not have this effect.There are levels of collectivism, I'm referring to a community of nations.  The world, at present, is respecting Brazil's right to do what it wants with its own land.  Is that a good thing?  Do you think that the Forces-Of-The-West should invade Brazil in order to install a better western style democracy with greater respect for individual rights?  And, how can you be so sure that individual farmers, in the Amazon basin, wouldn't do even worse?  Lovely fertile land, all you need is to chop down some irritating trees first.  I'm not being sarcastic - I'm really asking how you can be so sure.  It's not clear to me.Part of govt. spending comes from tax, the rest from debt .  Right?  And if you watch money-as-debt, then I guess debt spending /is/ a bit like magic, yeah?  Money-from-nothing?  Like I said, I'm trying to discuss the present situation in which there is a Big Govt, NOT whether there should be a Big Govt or not.  If Big Govt significantly reduced spending now, there would be an economic disaster even ignoring all the extra unemployed.  There will probably be an economic disaster anyway, and the longer it's put off, the worse it will be.  But, right now, politicians don't want any economic disasters so they keep spending up.  The best path might be to slowly change from Big Govt to Small Govt (slowly, like over 20 years), and then private spending could make up, perhaps more efficiently, the loss of all that govt spending.  Personally I'd be worried about corporate irresponsibility in an unregulated world, but that's just me.@kiba: self-employed people that can reduce their own price are a minority. And I'm guessing even you won't reduce your prices below how much it costs you to produce.  If it gets that bad you'll stop producing, and the economy will shrink just that little bit more. firewall :-( Hi, I'm connecting to the pool through Tor.  What's to stop a tor exit node sniffing my data, and claiming my shares for itself?  Can the bitcoin getwork() interface be encrypted?  Just to let you know, it hasn't happened yet I think.  I did lose one share yesterday, but it might be network latency. Imagine a modern anonymous digital substitute for cash.  Imagine BitCoin. I think wikileaks has clearly shown us that governments have no problems with taking secret and indirect action when it suits them.  I suppose my question is, *if* MiB should attack bitcoin as I described, *would* it give them unprecedented power over the economy?  What defences against this attack exist, short of *everybody* in the BTC network buying a quad 5970 setup (or whatever gives most !/$ at that time).  Would that even be enough against MiB dedicated special-purpose custom-built superhashers?  There's an idea, how cheap would it be to build dedicated purpose hardware just for hashing.  GPU's are great, but they're not specifically designed to perform integer hash ops.  Surely we could do better?  Anyone?resistance is futile :-) I know the attacker with >50% power.  But I'm talking about an attack that does not destroy confidence in bitcoin, just surreptitiously gaining power until it's too late to stop without everyone involved abandoning all their bitcoins and the bitcoin economy while STILL maintaining the BTC economy, just with MiB imposed taxes.  Of course, if there is a multitude of parallel cryptographic currencies, then no problem.  But if bitcoin is the only one...  Tell me, what defense could the BTC community take against someone with >50% of the power, how would you regain control?  IP blacklists hardcoded in the client?  "Legitimate user" signing keys? There was one other attack against bitcoin, I've tried to write about it already, and somebody else explained the problem much better.  But I can't remember where, I've looked and I can't find the forum post.Is essence it is this (MiB=Men-in-Black):1. MiB surreptitiously and slowly buy up lots of GPU's (reasonably cheaply - the entire BTC mining community is equivalent to about 200Ghps, one 5870 ~ 0.5Ghps, => only 400 5870s required, cost ~ $200k).2. everybody rejoices - the BTC network is getting stronger!3. MiB approach and exceed 50% of entire BTC net. 4. When MiB have, say, 80% of mining, they start to reject blocks generated by anyone else.  First slowly, but increasing.5. Eventually, most, or all, blocks generated only by MiB.6. Community realises what's happened!  Panic!  Releases new client to blacklist MiB's cluster.7. MiB have already thought of this and have their cluster instantly distributed to new IP addresses, apparently from many different countries etc, behind Tor if you like.8. MiB use other methods to eliminate anyone else with any significant mining power.Result:1. MiB now verify *all* transactions.  MiB introduce a fee (=tax) on all transactions.  MiB introduce some bureaucracy which must be followed before obtaining a BTC address, certainly requiring some form of ID.2. MiB now know exactly how much you earn, and when, and who you got it from.3. BTC's originating from a transaction pre-MiB are rejected until transferred to a new MiB-approved address in the presence of an MiB official.4. In short, BTC gives *unprecedented* economic power to MiB, exactly the opposite of what it sought to achieve.Sorry if this attack has already been discounted, I'm an irregular visitor to the forum, and I can't find the previous threads discussing it.  Please link there if you can. This is great!  For about the first time, I find myself agreeing with the forum. I can't figure out if it's because the forum convinced me, or I convinced the forum.  I think, mostly, I just learned the correct terminology for what I was thinking.  Thanks to all!More goods are chaising the same money, hence the same amount of money buys more goods, therefore one unit of money becomes more valuable, hence we have deflation.[/quote]So, let's imagine a deflationary scenario sets in, causing (my hypothesis) people to reduce spending.  The lack of spending causes companies to lay off employees to reduce costs.  This further reduces the spending *BUT* increases the value of the remaining currency because you now have less currency chasing an equal amount of goods.  HOWEVER, what if companies ALSO decrease production to save costs?  Well, now you have a deflating currency chasing less goods - which wins?  Will the price of goods go up or down?  Depends, I guess on whether the economy shrinks faster than the money supply, or vice-versa.  So, therefore, this forum's assumption (see earlier) that hoarders cause others' currency to become more valuable, is not necessarily a valid assumption.  Then is just depends on whether the reduced-spending -> cost-cutting-and-reduced-production -> reduced-spending spiral becomes epidemic or not.  The monetary powers have to walk a tightrope between deflation and inflation, trying to match the money supply to economic growth or decline.That's what the study of complexity is all about.You did - it's the difference btw monetary and price deflation.  I didn't realise there existed the term "price deflation".  That's what I was trying to express by "reduced value" - the reduction in price due to "progress", even though monetary inflation is zero (i.e. the "value" of money is appx. constant).You didn't, my mistake.  Your example of the guy building his house explains it, but only for work-in-progress.  All the roads, hospitals, bridges etc, already built and completed, will not be destroyed (except after N years of degradation).No, but since debt-$ are equivalent to savings-$, then you can use debt to /stimulate/ increased production. i.e. you can buy stuff with debt just as easily as with savings.  And they don't have to have been previously produced.  They just need to be produced in the near future.   Have you seen "money as debt" (see other thread)?  It's a great video explaining (amongst other things) how the colonial powers needed debt to fuel their continued expansion.But this just begs the question.  What if two protection services have a dispute?  Is there a voluntarily provided protection-services-dispute centre?  And if two of /those/ disagree?  Etc.  Eventually, you need a Supreme Court whose decision is final and binding.  But for that to be final and binding, you need a "special" police force that can legitimately enforce the supreme court's rulings.  Hey, I don't want to get into a discussion of libertarianism, these are old debates that have never been adequately resolved (at least, not for me).  And, I'm also playing devil's advocate.  While a Non-State would be great, I just have a feeling that it would never work.  It would either dissolve from within, or be taken over by a foreign power. Dude, you just became my hero! Ok, sorry, you're right.  I had made the assumption of a constant economy, neither growing nor shrinking. What vladimir says indicates that either he or I have a gross misunderstanding of deflation.  Gold does NOT deflate OR inflate, and by design, bitcoins can't either.  There is a fixed quantity of gold in the world, inflation and deflation are caused by changes in quantities of money. Ok, let me qualify that, they're caused by changes in /availability/ of money.  So, yeah, if everyone suddenly started trading in gold, it would become much more available, and the price of bread, measured in gold, would decrease.  But there's no long-term change.  Damn, I remember I saw a graph of the price of oil in terms of gold, from the 1900's to today.  It went up & down like a yo-yo, but the long-term trend was flat.  That's also what I meant by "the only real currency is energy". http://www.incrediblecharts.com/economy/gold_oil_ratio.php  (that's the best I could find now - 1973 to today).Right now, dollars (and ) are inflating, and everybody should be spending, but they're not.  I don't understand why.  I can only assume it's because the money supply is shrinking, even though there have been huge injections of liquidity.  Some have said that we're in a "liquidity trap" right now http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Liquidity_trap .  "Liquidity traps typically occur when expectations of adverse events (e.g., deflation, insufficient aggregate demand, or civil or international war) make persons with liquid assets unwilling to invest."  If this leads to widespread unemployment as it seems to be doing, then deflation will eventually set in.  The only way out of deflation is to inject more liquidity, and the result of that would eventually be hyperinflation.  Isn't this one of the main bones of contention between modern schools of economic thought?  What are they called, Austrian Vs neo-Keynesian?  Can anyone clarify please?  (e.g. http://www.humanaction.co.za/2010/09/hyper-inflation-and-deflation-are-two-sides-of-the-same-coin/ )@grondilu: Paper money is not yet worthless.  You can buy stuff to eat with it.accounting tool: yes, money is just that.  But when an economy fails, it takes time to generate a new currency, and to get the new currency into circulation.  The transition is tough, because it takes time for people to understand the value of the new currency, and they will be reluctant to buy or sell at any price.@hugolp: cellphone and computer are necessities for my job. I could not compete in the economy without them.re. brazil: I mean, Brazil benefits by chopping down the Amazon.  Brazil (one member) benefits, world (society) suffers.  In the long run, I daresay Brazil will suffer too.govt. spending: it helps the economy because all those civil servants buy stuff with their salaries - bread, mobile phones, everything. Giving jobs to loads of other people, who spend in turn etc etc.  Right now it would be a disaster for the govt to significantly cut spending.  It would be like putting a choke on the economy.  Now, that's a discussion of the status quo.  I'm not intending a discussion on whether Big Govt versus Small Govt, just how things are now.@caveden: bread: ask a hungry man if bread has inherent value. Then ask him if a half-a-kilo steak has a relatively greater inherent value.  Maybe you could think of inherent value, as the amount of time a person is willing to work in order to obtain that object.  Tell you what though, forget about "inherent value".  Your statement "Your bread just got "less valuable"" seems to me to indicate we're saying the same thing with different terminology.  "less valuable" is fine by me.  Now, is price reduction by deflation equivalent to price reduction due to a lesser value?  I'm sure you think not.savings: the credit-fueled boom of the past 40 or more years has done some wonders for western society (and now eastern too). But I agree with you, the politicians are selling us the present at the expense of the future, though I don't understand why all the capital created should now be destroyed as you suggest.  Be sure your kids know how to train an ox to till a field :-)  But, in any case, fractional reserve banking FRB allows investment *without* savings.  Or, more precisely, it allows $10 investments for every $1 saved (or whatever the fraction in FRB is) (ok, it's not quite like that, but there are already threads about FRB).despots: agreed. Politicians don't take a long term view anymore, if they ever did.property rights: property rights will never stop people abusing the rules at the expense of others, *except* in small communities.  And rights are worthless unless there is a police force to enforce them, and libertarians don't like things like police forces.#bittertea: that's a good post by your friend, it say things much better than I could, and goes back to a post I wrote a long while ago: in the long term, you can't have inflation without interest and vice-versa.  Since bitcoins can't inflate, then the bitcoin economy can't support, in the long term, anyone who charges interest for a loan. (see "pros and cons of anonymous digital cash" http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=67.0;all).keep it up folks! Sorrry for the long reply folks.Touché!  Like I said though, I'd weigh things up - how bad is the deflation, how necessary is the object.  I hate mobile phones (didn't get one until 2002), but they have become, there you go, a necessity of modern western life.  I guess I'm just not a good consumer - I don't have a tv, I prefer small cars, I eat at home, I sew my clothes up instead of buying new, and I only buy a new mobile phone when the old one dies... etc.  But here's what I think would happen in a deflationary scenario - there's less money so many people can afford only necessities, those that can afford luxuries see their money appreciating and hoard.  Nobody buys new mobile phones, so the mobile phone manufacturers stop investing in R&D.  Existing mobile phones, therefore, don't get any easier to manufacture (though their monetary price might still decrease due to deflation), AND your lovely holographic phone won't ever get invented. (But I really need to read up at mises.org). All the phone employees are laid off and then have no money, so even though prices are decreasing they can't buy necessities, let alone luxuries.  That's fine is when only a few hoard, and most people still have jobs.  But when this cascades throughout all sectors of the economy, it's a disaster.  Correct me if I'm wrong, but wasn't that the Great Depression?  Plenty of money there, but it wasn't circulating and there weren't any jobs.I'm saving them.  When I need to, or want something enough, then I will spend them.  Do you ever save?  The modern economy is based on debt not credit, and the libertarians of this very forum deplore that fact.I'd say best care for the garden.  Do I understand you'd say the opposite?  All you need are a few snails, or mold, or greenfly, or whatever, undetected in one corner and in the space of a season, they'll destroy all your plants.  Instead of plants and a garden, I'd ask the same question about the economy and the environment.  What d'ya think?@ribuck: The masses confuse deflation with reductions in cost.  Deflation is when your money buys more because the money has become more valuable, NOT because you buying things that have a fundamentally lower value.  Let's try to use the correct terminology instead of making the same mistake as Joe Public.  (p.s. cheaper holidays, I gather, are largely due to government subsidies for the airlines - can anyone verify?).  Imagine if someone discovered a process of making bread from thin air.  Bread becomes virtually free.  Is that deflation?  Assuredly not.@hugolp:traffic: if everyone drove more reasonably, there would be less traffic jams and, on average, all trips would be quicker. However, such a situation is open to abuse by people who drive agressively who can, at everyone else's expense, shorten their own trip. Individual benefit, system wide harm.environment: clear example: farmers in Bangladesh can choose to remove trees and increase their crop.  This reduces soil quality and increases the probability of flood for everyone.  Or Brazil chops trees for its own benefit, amazon dies, world suffers.queues: you can join the end of the queue, or skip to the front. The confusion at the front causes, on average, longer delays for everyone, except you.taxes: you can pay taxes with money you don't "need" - no loss to you, benefit to society (let's ignore govt corruption and inefficiencies).Government spending might end the recession, but at the moment the spending is not finding it's way into the economy.  It's staying in the banks' and their bankers' coffers.  But you're right, the govt spending distorts the market.Central banks printing more money when people hoard is risky.  If the bank prints too much, inflation occurs, all those hoarders stop hoarding, and suddenly the market is awash with liquidity and you've the opposite problem.Oh crap, there are loads more replies (I started this yesterday).@grondilu:brave new world: just as a mobile phone is a modern necessity, in that book, many other luxuries had become (let's say frivolous) necessities, and the point of existence was simply to spend. there were no police, because they weren't necessary - social engineering had obtained the desired result.cooperation: depends on how big you make the state - a village chief, a town council, city state, nation state, international union, intergalactic federation...My point is that people suffer *exactly* because some seek personal gain at the expense of others, like the twat who uses the turn-right lane to turn left, and so causes a delay for everyone who wanted to turn left.  We all do that in one way or another, and we all suffer because of all the others that do it.  We're all selfish, 'cos that's how we're 'programmed'.  Really, check out the prisoner's dilemma - when there are only two they can easily cooperate, but when there are 7 billion, cooperation becomes extraordinarily unlikely.  If I hoard (under deflation), then people who *need* money to buy bread will suffer - the fact that the price is decreasing means nothing because they have no money.  I gain, they lose.cut off arm: some people have done this and more. They're called martyrs.  I'm not a martyr.  Look at the riots in Egypt and Tunisia - people confronting police and suffering brutality, because they want a better society for everyone.police: me too (being ironic).@caveden:savings/investment: debt can create investment. no savings necessary. But you're right, investments through savings would be much better; of course it involves risk for the investor, and this has been centralised in the present system of fractional reserve banking.inherent value: someone said "energy is the only real currency". You could use that as an estimate of intrinsic value, and then modify it according to individuals' requirements and expectations.  I'll bet if you look at the energy required to produce a 80386 in 1990 and a CoreII x4 today, the coreII requires MUCH less energy per FLOPS/MIPS.  That's technological progress in a nutshell - doing the same or better with less energy.  But maybe you're right too - even energy is too abstract an estimate, so let's talk of *relative* inherent value - bread made with flour and water becomes inherently less valuable after the discovery of air-made bread.price decreases: see ptd's post.economy an entity: I didn't explain myself properly.  I mean that some members can profit at the expense of others in such a way that *the average* is a loss, i.e. the "economy" suffers.  But there is nothing can can produce an *average loss* and yet be good for the economy, or vice-versa.electronics: are certainly NOT superfluous. How could any business or individual survive in the modern economy without electronics?  Unless you're willing to abandon all and live as a peasant scratching a living from the earth without even so much as a clock on the wall.folks, I have to stop now, this post is *way* too big. You have all raised good points.  But the fact is, if there were deflation, I would *NOT* buy a new cellular phone, I would *NOT* buy anything I considered unnecessary (taking into account how high the deflation actually is).  As a matter of fact, I'm doing exactly that with the bitcoins I have - they're still going up, and I'm keeping them until I need them.  I wouldn't invest unless I was guaranteed a return greater than the appreciation of my currency (measured in purchasing power).There are many examples of where something that harms an individual can be good for society in general.  e.g. traffic, environment, queues, paying taxes, damn I've a mind-blank and can't think of others.  But the Prisoner's Dilemma is a great place to start studying these phenomena.  (this goes way back to a long debate about morality, see "should you kill the fat man" on philosophyexperiments.com; let's not get so deep here.).The economy may be a statistic, but it's important.  Do you deny when the economy suffers (i.e. recession, depression) that people suffer more?  Or that people are better off when the economy improves?  It is a statistic - a very important one, something like the average of people's earnings or wealth.#grondilu: someone who hoards is restricting others' ability to make their necessary purchases, *especially* if there's no new money coming into the market.  Your suggestion about the police is curious - how long before that actually happens do you suppose?  Ever read "Brave New World" by Aldous Huxley?  As for us not being cows and sheep... are you sure?  Cows behave uniquely for their own benefit, not the herd's; exactly unlike that feature of human society that you would remove. So maybe we're not cows, but you would make us so.  And freedom - "freedom's just another word for nothin' left to lose" (Kris Kristofferson) - you want to have all your wealth, and keep your freedom.  But we can't all have both.@caveden: how can savings feed investment?  You need fractional reserve banking for that - otherwise the bank has to keep all your savings in its coffers, and can't give it out as investments.  I'll try to check out mises.org when I have time.  But saying hi-tech prices are deflationary is, I think, wrong.  Their prices decrease, not because of deflation, but because the *inherent value* of the object decreases.  If you compare dollars to bread (or whatever basket you choose), you can calculate inflation or deflation.  Compare hi-tech prices to bread, though, and you get an estimate of value, and I'll bet that the price of mobile phones in loaves of bread (i.e. their value) has been coming down too - and I'm sure you wouldn't say the bread is inflating there.  With deflation, if people like me don't buy phones, then the lack of income will cause R&D to falter, and the hi-tech stuff won't get cheaper quite so much.#ribuck: the economy *is* an entity of its own.  That's the central message of the science of complexity - the whole is more than the sum of the parts.  Look at an ant colony for example.  Look at your own brain, or your DNA.  The economy does *not* follow the same rules as its members and, therefore, something good for its members is not necessarily good for itself, and vice-versa.Thanks for the discussion folks. Just a humorous (but correct) page to answer the question "why gold?".  Well, because it's the only thing that could act as a form of money.http://www.npr.org/blogs/money/2010/11/18/131430755/a-chemist-explains-why-gold-beat-out-lithium-osmium-einsteinium?ft=1&f=93559255 You know, I mostly agree - inflation is a hidden tax.  Only it's worse, it's like a cumulative tax.  If you earn 100k and pay income tax of 40%, then you get 60k in your pocket.  But with inflation, that 60k is taxed again, and then next year, again, and then again and again and it never stops until a year's work is worth the price of a loaf of bread.But, just in the spirit of discussion, I'd like to say something.  In order to have a functioning economy, people must spend their hard-earned money (and by "money", I mean anything that is generally accepted as payment for goods or services).  However, in deflationary or zero-inflation situations, there is no incentive to spend extra money.  I, for example, hate to have money in the bank or even in my pocket, now, because real inflation is huge (what, it must be at least 5 or 6% - not official inflation figures, but real inflation).So, this incentive to spend (related to "the velocity of money" or how many times a single note is spent in the year) is high right now on account of inflation, even though there is a huge lack of liquidity.  If people had money now, inflation would cause them to spend and the economy might just recover.  It's just that there's no money in the general economy - all the bailouts etc went either into bankers' bonuses, or to shore up bank reserves in the wake of the real estate crash.Now, what about bitcoin?  If all goes according to plan, there'll never be any long-term inflation.  Therefore we can assume that people will only spend what they consider necessary, and save the remainder for a rainy day.  The velocity of money will be much lower, and the relatively fewer bitcoins that do circulate will have to represent much more wealth than otherwise.So maybe inflation isn't *all* bad, as long as it's kept to some reasonable value - the ECB's target, I think, is to keep it below 2%.Comments? Ah, how does one easily go about connecting to that?  If you'll accept it here, I bid 205. Umm, what risk?  No bank, in principle, will give a loan without full collateral.  Admittedly, things went haywire with the credit and housing crises, but even then, the banks didn't bear the losses.On average, yes.  I'm assuming by "real" you mean "correct". Please correct me.  I'm not an economist, but the first line of wikipedia's page on capitalism is: "Capitalism is an economic system in which the means of production are privately owned and operated for a private profit."  The keyword being "private profit", not "social profit" or "health profit" or "environmental profit".  Just private profit.Please correct me - because he clearly says that in a FRB system, a bank that issues too much credit (creates too much money) would find it's notes devalued.  However, the current system means that I can take a loan from BigBankA, and deposit it in BigBankB, at a 1:1 ratio, dollar for dollar.  There is no devaluation of BigBankA's dollars even if BigBankA is an irresponsible or reckless lender.  The dollar as a whole *does* devalue a little bit if BigBankA is reckless, but that's *all* dollars, not just those issued by BigBankA.If you're tired of repeatedly explaining yourself, then by all means link to some (not overly complex, please) websites or pages where my erroneous understanding can be rectified.  Otherwise leave me to wallow in my blissful ignorance!
