You cannot live in the wilderness, it is against the law. Now you are getting the idea.  This is what happens when you give power to gov't.  Any power.  As soon as the gov't has power, groups will form to convince government to use that power to enhance their group.From the nail salon or hair dresser to the construction trades to the doctors and lawyers, they all have their regulations and requirements to limit and discourage competition.  And all done in the name of public safety, courtesy of the government paid for by that same public.If it were really a matter of public safety the issue could be solved by information instead of force - the "authorized" business could display their gov't license, gov't could confirm that any business is or is not authorized.  But information instead of force means anyone would be free to start a business and anyone would be free to choose to use an unauthorized business at their own risk.Competing groups could form and then provide those same services of authorization (accreditation and validation).  If the competing group(s) proved more trustworthy than the government accreditation then gradually the gov't business would drop off because nobody would care to obtain the gov't certification.But no, instead the group with guns gets more and more powerful and claims the right to choose what business people can start by setting arbitrary restrictions and waving their guns if you forge your own path. I think you had better find a different metric.Post count just means someone has a lot to say and a lot of time to say it.  I'm sure you've met that type in person... He just left out the Saxon's (germans) taking over Denmark in the 1400's (the nobles chose a saxon king to avoid war) and he also left out the wars with sweden, norway (oops, not denmark) and germany since then.And the 1848 revolution was threatening to get bloody but the king decided to fold and appease the angry landlords. The lousy scumbag thief!  What right does he have to keep his income so low that he pays no income tax?  He should be forced to work at a productive job! What gives him the right to be a parasite on society and work those low-paying jobs that should be reserved for children? Tell you what.Abolish all taxes beyond the local (city or county) level.Expel or assimilate non-local service providers providing service in the local area.Institute "pay cost" for use on all services provided by non-local entities.Then we can talk about greed.Until then, the greedy who want me to pay for their services can take a flying leap. You might want to look again at when the king's power was first limited by whom and for whom.  It was not for the rights of the citizens but the wealthy landowners who were able to pose a threat to the king.Camel's nose and all that, time passes, and look what happened in the hundreds of years since...  Gov't discovered it could bamboozle the common people into thinking gov't was good, and gov't was caring, and gov't could provide a nice teat to suck on yet still stomp on the people whenever it was needed, just so long as it smiled while so doing.Nothing that wasn't predicted hundreds of years ago, of course.  But people that don't know history are doomed to repeat it. It is not stealing to prevent a thief from taking your property.It is not stealing to recover your property from a thief.My relationship or arrangement with gov't is not a contract I agreed to.  The laws of the government do not allow enforcing a contract if I was not presented all the terms prior to agreement and also prohibit changing the terms after I agree.  The fact that the government does not have to follow contract law shows our arrangement with government is not a contract.  Further, the remedy for breach of contract does not include either party taking out with other party with military action.  Yet that is the government's remedy against the people.  Of course, the people are not allowed to have equivalent capability of arms, nor are they allowed to exercise even the limited capability of arms they are allowed.  This imbalance of power and exercise of force shows that the arrangement with gov't is so far from contract it is not even a binding agreement.  In any other setting the law would define this arrangement as extortion.  But when the thugs write the law, they define it differently.  But what is a name?Of course the same logic holds impeccably for that which is sweet only in name but deed is not.  Extortion by any other name... At least I understand it.Check out the origination of the Danish monarchy and how long those Germans had absolute power.  You really think everybody wanted that?  Then look at how many constitutions the Kingdom of Denmark has had.  4?  5?  Maybe the 1953 one will stick around for a bit because it requires at least 40% of voters to approve changes.  Of course, all gov't has to do is make more promises or declare a state of emergency and the constitution will be changed or discarded as desired.  Sure, there would be controversy (just like joining the EU).  But that can be quelled if it becomes too strident.  basically I agree with what you wrote except for that line.Efficiency has nothing to do with founding gov'ts.  Gov'ts are the least efficient allocators of resources known to man.Many/most gov'ts were founded by gangs of thieves who conquered and subjected others in order to exploit them.  Some/few were founded by people to protect the people from gov'ts of the first order, but none remain of that persuasion to my knowledge.  Some have tried to dress themselves as if the people/society were a priority, but the laws, constitutions, and actions when observed in action do not support that stance. Then you are a fool with gullible written in bold on your forehead.Government has as its highest priority the survival of government. If helping society will help government, then gov't will help society to help itself.  But each and every time those goals conflict, government has always and will always sacrifice society for the continuance and growth of government.Look at any government emergency plans for themself vs for their populace.  Look at any war between two nations. Civil rights are the rights to which born equal applies. That was and is the only context. No, they are not.They are funded by taking money from society by force if necessary.  Gov't claims the exclusive right of the exercise of force against members of society. Not cap gains tax, regular income tax.In the U.S. Joe has to consider all incidental gains on currency exchange over $200 to be regular income which is taxed at far higher rate than capital gains.  There is only a short paragraph devoted to this topic.Only trading forex gains and losses are subject to cap gains rates and then only if you opt for that treatment in advance of your trade.  But taking that option may also cost you...  There is a whole section devoted to this topic. If you want to steal from me, have the guts to do it yourself instead of hiding behind skirts of government.Redistribution of wealth is 100% the province of despots.  Only the idiotic would think that a gov't capable of redistributing wealth will continue to do so in their favor. That is a gross distortion.Born equal has nothing to do with family, gender, health, wealth or anything other than civil rights.  In other words, there is no nobility or other political privilege or punishment by right of birth.If anything, being born poor is now currently breaking the "born equal" promise because the state provides more for those at the expense of those whose families pay their own way. Does that mean they are just about to build monuments to bitcoin?    What difference does that make? Interesting.Most areas have a few stations that you can pay for the attendant to pump your gas.  I usually avoid those lanes or pushing the attendant button.In fact, when I used to commute thru the Willamette valley I had a membership to an unmanned station just so I could pump my own.    I've never banged the pump handle into my vehicle nor broken the filler door by bumping into it...I found that for as much as the folks around and just north of Corvallis like to tell other people what to do and how to live, they sure don't like it when somebody tells them.  Maybe they are the ones getting into bitcoin.
It is a floating relationship.In other words, the relationship between bitcoin and USD is not fixed, it changes or floats at the whim of those who wish to exchange between the two.This is the same relationship status as between the USD and most currencies in the world (e.g. the yen, pound, euro, franc, AUD, CAD, ...). Actual shipping was less than the amount billed at the time the order was placed. Bitcoin is not pegged to USD.  "pegged to" means the relationship is fixed or at least fixed within some range.Bitcoin is not backed by MtGox.  "backed by" means there is a guarantee or promise that bitcoin will meet the expectations spelled out in the guarantee/promise or you get compensated.  "backed by" is even stronger than "pegged to."E.g. when the dollar was backed by gold, you could exchange your dollars for gold at a fixed price previously established.  The dollar was pegged to gold, or gold was pegged to the dollar and the dollar was backed by gold.Currently the Chinese yuan is pegged to the U.S. dollar as are several other currencies.  The swiss franc is pegged to the Euro for the past few weeks/months.  However those are not "backed by" their peg. Actually you can.You just need to be hosting with a provider that can scale virtual instances like it was 2013 and not 1996.But then again, that's only for the grownups. In what world is a contract enforced against a non-participant?Show me an actual case where a contract (NOT some other actionable matter) was enforced against a someone who was not a party to the contract either as a direct signatory or an agent or participant in a direct signatory.In your contrived Jeff example, most of the time Jeff is not part of the contract violation lawsuit.  However, as you describe it, Jeff was inducing people to violate the law, which is itself illegal and could be sued on that basis.  Not for violating the contract, because Jeff didn't if he wasn't a party to it!  This is a similar principle to that which finds a pimp, or a 'Fagin' ala Oliver Twist, is violating the law even if not a party to the actual criminal act. Oh please.The "property right" is what is enforced, not the transfer of the right.The contract or agreement effects the transfer and has no bearing on third parties.The property right being transferred is an entirely separate matter for enforcement. Evidently you have a misunderstanding of what are rights vs. civil liberties.Rights were identified by humans, not created.The discussion and concept of rights are co-opted by those seeking unjust power and authority, and the terminology twisted and confused as a means for obtaining that power.  If people cannot identity what are rights, and what are confusingly called civil rights instead of civil liberties, the people will be mentally and eventually physically subject to those who can obtain power thru that confusion."[All men] are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable Rights..."  works just as well if you believe in a supreme intelligent creator or whether you believe in evolution thru random chance and survival of the fittest."That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed."And FYI, "secure" is not "create" or "grant" or "obtain".  "Secure" in that context means to protect from violation that which one already has.  And "just powers" come only from "the consent of the governed."And in conclusion..."That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government...  But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government." Agreements are created (made).You cannot create rights. The only reason you approach the problem that way is because you are conditioned to think that you own ideas.  In the real world you never own ideas, because often many people have the same idea, and once an idea is exposed then everybody has the same idea.Thus the problem does not exist today or in fictional hard-core L. world.  Or in other words, very little incentive.  The only being, "it is clear that society as a whole will be far better off if more chefs could utilize my techniques."  First off, why should society believe you?  It's called hubris, and many people have it.  It isn't a problem for society, as long as those people have no power...  So why should society give them power?Your problem is that you really do have good ideas that will help society.  And the question is, what do you do to get your ideas out where everybody can have those same ideas?Instead of spending 500 freaking hours (12.5 weeks at 40hrs per) to write a cookbook...  Get free kitchen help with interns who want to learn from you.  See the world (travel) and teach in exchange for room and board.  Start a school for people to pay and come learn from you.  Publish a recipe or two every now and then (like in a newspaper column or even just on your establishment's door "this is what I cooked yesterday.").Or if you really don't care about society, just keep on moping about how if only the world were fair you could control how people use their ideas.OK, transition to less hardcore happens here...If society says ideas could be owned, would you charge a royalty for each time someone follows a recipe in your book?  Would you sue for damages if they followed it wrong or made some changes to it?  I hope the answer to both is, "of course not, that would be silly."The ideas in the cookbook can never be owned, but the book itself -- layout, text, pictures, etc. can be owned similar to the compilation copyright today.  If someone were to republish a book identical or with the exact same set or even substantially the same set of recipes as yours, it would be a violation.But if someone took just your venison recipes and other venison recipes from many other places and put them into a new "How to Cook Venison" book, such that yours make up no more than a fraction of the whole and only a fraction of yours were used, no violation.  (As they didn't just lift your pages intact!)This is how cookbooks are treated, generally, today.  And even when not food, say, programming algorithms instead, it is how recipe books are treated.  And then you have some crass lawyers who come in after the fact and patent or otherwise claim ownership over said algorithms, and cause no end of grief for some deep pockets who happened to use them.  Even if neither the lawyers nor the deep pockets ever saw the book, or the patent, or anything else.(BTW, I "invented" the bubble-sort as a kid in the late 1970's.  I had no idea that it had been invented long before or that it was called a bubble-sort or that it was a poor algorithm or anything like that.  It was just an obvious way to sort my list.  Similar "inventions" (also known as "ideas") happen every day, and when you are in the middle of it, it is obvious that the concept of IP ownership as practiced today is fundamentally flawed.) Wallets get lost.  Accidents happen.  Supply is decreased.  Maybe it will be less of a problem in the future.  Maybe. What a load...The problem you speak of with gold mining is a "tragedy of the commons."  The land affected was public so anyone could do anything they wanted to or with it.  Regulations are then necessary to control public land to preserve its value for the public.bitcoin mining is entirely private property.  Leave it alone. Are you certain about that?XAU, XAG, XPT, and XPD -- gold, silver, platinum and palladium.  The only commodities with official currency designations.  And gold and silver are almost always available wherever you get forex quotes (XAU/USD, XAG/USG).Tony Fell, Chairman Capital Markets, Royal Bank of Canada said in Feb 2007, "At Royal Bank of Canada, we trade gold bullion off our foreign exchange desks rather than our commodity desks, because that's what it is -- a global currency, the only one that is freely tradable and unencumbered by vast quantities of sovereign debt and prior obligations." Tax evasion is not money laundering and money laundering is not tax evasion.  Doing one does not imply the other as they are completely orthogonal concepts.  The only thing they have in common is that both are illegal and both involve money. The plaintiffs can't just "band together to form a class action."  A class action suit must be certified by the court after the petition by lawyers to consolidate a lot of plaintiffs.  The defendant(s) are also going to have a say in the matter, and various requirements have to be met before the case(s) will be certified as a class action.But in any case, including a class action, if it involved bitcoin it would be handled just like any (claimed) fraudulent transaction which may or may not involve or be denominated naturally in U.S. dollars.  For example, a contractor may work on a home in exchange for a car.  If the title is never turned over or is found to be fraudulent then the contractor can sue for redress.  Or if the contractor did work in exchange for a stamp collection which turned out to be counterfeit then the contractor can sue for redress.  Or if the contractor did work in exchange for gold which was never paid then the contractor can sue for redress.  Or if the contractor did work in exchange for bitcoin which was never paid then the contractor can sue for redress.  Contract (written or not) law and fraud related to it is pretty well established.  Bitcoin makes no difference. In what way is that a risk?Is your perception of the risk related to how many bits of precision the time is "given up" ?  For example, any computer synced with a network time server should be accurate to the second.  What about if the time stamp is only given up to the minute?  Or 5 minutes?It sounds like you believe there is some uniquely identifiable data contained in the time.  If so, then less precision (seconds or minutes instead of nanoseconds) removes that risk.In addition, since nobody else on the network knows how long it takes you to "give up your computer clock's time" then they have no way to correlate the value they receive to the value in your computer clock with any degree of precision.And finally, your computer clock's time is not treated as privileged data by anything else.  Why should bitcoin treat it specially? It was proposed that the program set the clock, and several of us said, "no, don't do that."Another proposal, which Cdecker was confirming, was for the program to use the "network time" when the local computer time was broken.  This would be an enhancement to the 3.10 behavior of not working. Why a server when so many are already out there?I'd agree that we don't want bitcoin client bloat, and definitely NO WAY the bitcoin client should be setting the system time.But maybe it is worth it in the error case for the bitcoin client to put a message in the log and attempt to use a network time instead of system time.As for the servers out there, the bitcoin client already has http, right?  Well, most http servers now provide the date in their headers.  For example, in python:Code:import os, re, urllibinfo = urllib.urlopen('http://www.yahoo.com/').info()regx = r'Date:\s+[A-Z][a-z]{2}, (\d{1,2}) ([A-Z][a-z]{2}) (\d{1,4}) (\d\d:\d\d:\d\d)'d, M, Y, T = re.search(regx,str(info)).groups()m = 1+"JanFebMarAprMayJunJulAugSepOctNovDec".index(M)/3print '%04d.%02d.%02d-%s' % (int(Y), m, int(d), T)(that output format happens to work with "date -us" if you did want to set some system time)of course it would be better to check a couple of sites rather than relying on just yahoo to keep their http server time set properly.   That is probably more true than you expected.Newton's theory is not rejected.  Newtonian physics explains perfectly well what can be observed above an atomic scale, such as things we interact with every day as well as planetary orbits.Einstein added another level of depth or precision to physics, taking us down to atomic units and predicted what was not possible to observe with the human eye.  It did not invalidate Newton.And while gold back money may have been rejected, it was rejected by those who wanted to exploit the monetary system for their own gain.  Gold backed money prevented that exploitation.Isn't that what you are trying to accomplish? You cannot just arbitrarily change the meaning of words and expect to have rational discourse. A ponzi scheme takes from the most recent joiners to give to the previous joiners.I don't see that in any of these discussions.
