Check one two ...Is this thing on?I think this might my first, second or third post and I know all about starting new threads but just in case somebody is bored and wants to answer a question ....Why did my Bitcoin-Qt v0.8.0-beta stop connecting through SOCKS 5 proxy last month? It always worked that way before while running the Tor browser concurrently. Then suddenly nothing. It ran un-Torrified just fine but I really like running it over Tor.Did it have something to do with the bifurcation problem that requires switch over to v0.8.1-beta? Anyway, I installed the new client and am starting a brand new wallet which is now catching up on approximately 1100 days of transactions (I think). I'm starting a new wallet because the old one was empty, was not secured through Tor, and was perhaps the cause of my being able to connect to the Bitcoin network through Tor.Also, Is Comcast possibly throttling Bitcoin traffic because it looks like Bittorrent?I know how to use the search function so don't yell at me about that. Just answer if you're bored or otherwise inclined to help out a newb. Very sensible rules. I think this is post number one for me. Can anyone recommend the best website for bitcoin valuation charts (in USD)? I'm just buying them for online purchases. Does it make sense to try to buy at low points as their value fluctuates?Or as a consumer (not investor) should I just buy and spend them as needed? The restrictions make sense to me. Since yours is the first reply I've received, do you have any recommendations for predicting bitcoin fluctuations?I'm not an investor (at least not yet), I just want to buy coins at low points in their valuation (USD) for online purchases. I bought my first bitcoins around Oct/Nov 2011 for $2.3 USD. I'm ready to buy some now but they were around $6 USD on Friday and they're around $6.8 USD now.I know nothing about finance or currency trading but have heard good things about campbx.com. Should I consider buying on the margin? I'm not even sure what this is but I've heard it's what the smart traders do when the desired commodity is rising in value.Any book recommendation for those interested in currency trading that includes bitcoins? Just tried to make my first post about my five successful bitcoin transactions over the last three months. I was disappointed that I couldn't add to the discussion.But the newbie restrictions make sense so here is post #1.
