+1 Atlas - bought book from me for bitcoins - good customer Yes, although I think this would require a mechanism outside of the current capabilities of the system.  Alice's client with the "resend with new fee" feature could attach a unique identifier to each transaction she makes to Bob.  If Alice needs to resend a transaction with a higher fee, she could create a new transaction (with the same amounts, from the same address, to Bob, but with a higher fee) using the unique identifier in the transaction that she is trying to resend.  Other clients would acknowledge the first transaction appearing in a block with this unique identifier, and then disregard any future incoming transactions with the same unique identifier. Consider a scenario where I Alice sends 10 BTC to Bob, but includes a fee so low that no client will accept her transaction.  Although with the official client there may be a limit to how long the transaction lasts in the system, it is possible that a modified client (ie a miner) is holding the transaction for processing.  Alice's money is now in limbo - it is possible that at some point in the future some client could allow it into a block.  If Alice sends 10 BTC more to Bob before this occurs, she could find herself out 10 BTC when the original transaction finally goes through.Suppose that future bitcoin clients allow for resubmission of the same transaction, but with a different fee.  In the above scenario, Alice, upon realizing that Bob didn't receive her 10 BTC, could resubmit with a higher fee, comfortable with the knowledge that first time her transaction appears in a block (with either the low fee, or the high fee) that any subsequent transactions will be ignored.Is there value in this?  Is this technically feasible? Suppose the number of transactions in the network is great enough that most clients are no longer accepting transactions without fees attached to them.  What happens when a client sends out a transaction with too low of a fee to be processed?  Can the client resubmit the transaction with a higher fee, knowing that other clients will recognize that it is a resubmission and won't mark it as a double spend? As part of a venture into sales via Bitcoin, I am selling a limited number of books at the exchange rate of 1 BTC = .80 USD, with a single order at most 50 BTC + shipping.If you would like to purchase a book, PM me.  Here are the following conditions:1.  I am selling new books that are available from Amazon.com.2.  Books must qualify for Amazon Prime shipping.3.  You will receive the book as a gift, so if you wish to return the book, it is possible, but will be in accordance with Amazon gift policies.4.  I am only shipping to the continental 48 in the USA.5.  Shipping is 5 BTC.6.  Books should arrive within 4 business days of confirmation of receipt of bitcoins.7.  To calculate the price of your book in bitcoins, multiply the Amazon price in USD * 1.25 to get the price in BTC.  For instance, if the book is $37.00, your cost will be 51.25 BTC (46.25 BTC book cost + 5 BTC for shipping)8.  Even books that qualify for Amazon Prime may not qualify for sales from me - if this is the case I will let you know.9.  Shipping cost is per order.  If you order 5 books for a total book price of 50 BTC, the total order price for all 5 books is 55 BTC. The most recent build from 1/29/2011 gives me 0 khash/s on both the cpu and cuda miners with options that were successful for the last build.  Any ideas?
