Another great transaction with Bitcoin Exchange. Fast and easy. +1 for BitcoinExchange, both times I have done business with them it has been fast and easy. I've been experimenting with super-efficient rigs, here's currently where it stands.Current: 500MH/s@89W drawRunning Debian, System is totally headless. Using VNC and SSH to do any system adjustments. Hey all, trying to get this to build, I think I have all the dependencies right, and when I try to run autogen.sh, I get this:Code:configure.ac: installing `./install-sh'configure.ac: installing `./missing'Makefile.am: installing `./INSTALL'Makefile.am: installing `./depcomp'configure.ac:33: error: possibly undefined macro: AC_MSG_ERROR      If this token and others are legitimate, please use m4_pattern_allow.      See the Autoconf documentation.I'm getting more errors further along, but I'm taking it one error at a time since one of these might clear it up. Anyone have any ideas? Just did a cashout through Bitcoin Exchange, quick and easy, will definitely be using again! I'm interestedWindows 7 Ultimate 64NVidia GTX295 All game currencies have a precedent of being traded, the trick is not getting banned for it. Trying to run Bitcoind on a commandline only Ubuntu system, getting "version `GLIBCXX_3.4.11' not found (required by ./bitcoind)", ideas? I just noticed it's 8 on every machine except the one I'm forwarding on, so I guess that's working.All are at 67302 at this instant. I just checked help->about, it says I'm running 0.3.0 beta. Hey all,I've got the bitcoins client running on 4 machines, generating between 900 and 1700 Khashes/sec. I've been running them for 3 days now 24 hours a day, including one machine running it on a quad core 3.0GhZ system on 3 cores (constant 75% total utilization) (and bringing more systems online to generate) with no luck. Now I am having some port forwarding issues (I've forwarded it on the modem, the router, and through the firewall and canyouseeme says it's still not open), but all 4 machines are running 15 connections. Am I doing something wrong? That's going to be an interesting issue, considering I'm NOT a bot or a Chinese child  Going to be hard to compete but I'll figure something out. Well one response is one more than I was expecting!  I'll see what I can work out Vs. how much RPGMoney I have available. Would anyone be interested in purchasing online game currencies (WoW gold, EQ1 Plat, EQ2 Plat, Eve ISK, YPP PoE, etc.) for bitcoins? If so I can start working out (rough) exchange rates (If anyone knows a good place to FIND a community agreed upon exchange rate that would be even better.)
