The issue with banks only seems to relate to directly setting up a bitcoin business. Using bitpay or another payment preprocessor to accept payments in bitcoin should not present a problem, especially for an established business. The argument of VAT does not apply to accepting bitcoin as payment only trying to sell bitcoin itself, and besides I've not been able to find anywhere that directly states bitcoins or "digital currency" or "crypto currency" should be treated as a single purpose voucher on HMRC's site to justify that anyway. The FOI refusals may simply be because they are been slow and don't actually have anything officially down on paper to release yet.It's a well written article and I don't doubt that many of those problems exist, but there is a bit difference between operating a business and accepting bitcoins as payment and operating a business to deal in bitcoins.  We should be looking to measure its worth in trade value in the future, not against another currency. I'd be more interested to know how much in bitcoins people think we will be paying for a loaf of bread, wedge of cheese or pint of milk in the future. It would be useful, at least for the foreseeable future, to include a fiat amount akin to bitcoin wallet on android. I can enter the amount I want to spend in either and it fills out the approx. amount in the other field. If someone is buying a bar of soap and fills in 0.5btc and see's the gbp amount of £281 they are going to think twice before hitting send. Thank you very much Craynon, no fuss transaction and polite and friendly service.  Using Chrome / Windows 8 printing on a HP CLJ, the zoom and shift didn't seem to do anything at all, but the extra bleed on the back was adequate to make it a reasonable fit, here is the bleed after been cut with the details from the calibration page behind, maybe it just needs extending on that leading edge at the right of the picture Its redirecting to a dodgy holding page and the registration information was just updated today. I would say either the domain was sold or hijacked double lines? Perhaps with the vertical line at an angle instead? nope, hes the Technology Director at SystemInPlace http://www.linkedin.com/in/nenolod Appears to be a hosting company http://www.linkedin.com/companies/system-in-place.I would guess that if he doesn't manage to break the market, he will find something useful to do with it that will benefit him and probably bitcoin as a whole (though maybe not all individual users of bitcoin). The biggest problem I foresee with a mobile client having thought about it, is that you could loose a certain amount of anonymity. If the carrier knows your location and can recognise or at least guess at certain traffic been bitcoin, then when you start the app to make a transaction to another mobile user in the same location it may be possible to tie the two together. The same even goes for using a mobile website. I think ideally you need something like Tor running on the device to avoid the such a problem, and it needs to be running all the time really or your internet activity when you fire it up for a transaction will be a dead giveaway.Of course this is only a significant problem when bitcoin gains enough of a foothold to cause governments to take notice, and hopefully by that time it will already be to late   It hit reddit a couple of days ago too: http://www.reddit.com/domain/bitcoin.org/  This was my first though too, it would be nice if someone was able to do this for the android as well, especially when it should be very easy for the QR integration with the zxing library.I dislike the idea of using a third party site myself, at least at the moment. I would much rather carry around a wallet on my mobile device.A mobile client would really be a great bump to bitcoin overall, been able to go to large group events (LUG event, Con's etc) where there may be opportunity to make real world transactions in front of people who might otherwise be unaware of bitcoin, especially if they could download a app there and then and get involved.
