Azzlack, I come to check where is ico funds? https://blockchain.info/address/1EaiypcwceQp2MDgrkS2ZFhvU8xWvUN5MsIt is 0 now. I followed change address to https://blockchain.info/address/18atQXP48fWXoU4aVnrDASs8tswR3JLy7fSo only 25 left? Where is rest?I thought you said you will account for all spending? Wow I use to follow VIDZ so I checked this out but looks like a scam? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1818583.0  What is ipfs and why is it better? Finally was able to get back in today. Im a vidz holder again!   I think I've been playing this game all wrong. Whoever bought my coins and keeps putting up buy orders. Fuck you!!I was supposed to buy back cheaper and your not letting me! What the #$@& I think it's possible we'll see this go up to 100 in its last few hours. Would love to see this project turn into the success I know it can be! Futures is also a good method of investing. I'd argue it's almost safer and more interesting then alts too. Alts can take a dump like crazy when btc is rallying. Wouldn't this be a good thing since as people shift away from fiat to BTC it's going to be increasing buy support and driving up demand just like what happened in India? A claim without evidence. Looks like someone is doing the reverse of due diligence, bravo thank you for your wonderful insight  With eBoost being a scam and it being easy to determine this by examining its founders what does it say about Bittrex who eagerly hosted their ICO for them? I assume you said Japan from your own experiences of what you've seen based on your username? I'm fairly certain Japan can't be above China. Forgive my ignorance but can you explain more on how determining if Bitcoin is actually on an address or not add the complexity of the problem? To my understanding you would need an indexed database addressed synced with the blockchain or to use a 3rd party service api which I assume is much slower then having your own indexed db. Isn't it funny how Clinton supporters made Trump out to be bad guy saying if you question election results you are spitting on America, etc. etc. when Trump say he will not accept results if he didn't win? Now Clinton didn't win and they are all doing exactly that! The hypocrisy is so funny but Clinton is so wishy washy I'd expect her supporters to be as well! It's unfortunate to see a project like this go that's been around for so long, does this spell trouble for the Bitcoin gambling industry and it's over saturation? I have a lot of reading and catch up to do but so far this looks like a promising project. I hope it hits it's goal. Good luck devs. The whole ZCash launch and price manipulation from the start was sketchy, centralization means market manipulation which means bowing down to your whale market overlords Doge was successful because it was an early one and it road the meme train which is now a popular internet trend, don't get your hopes up... Cool thread. Maybe it will even help me on my trades. You cool dude. You cold as ice. It could be much much more before the end.  Waiting to hear more.
Thanks. Im checking into it now. Of course people in the US can invest. All they need is a vpn and the btc.  Do any websites currently pay people for uploading torrents or will Purevidz be the first. What wallet can I look at to see the 2800 btc and where they originated from? Watching. You need to be careful about being too attached to the first solution presented. To use a math analogy, it runs the risk of finding a local maximum - deviating from the solution presented a slight ways is of course bad, but if you went further, you might find something better.I'll probably make a new thread with my proposal and see if there is interest.  Right, but there are other ways to guarantee distributed integrity of currency generation. The current process is intensely wasteful.I wasn't referring to satoshi's specifc method in that sentence, I was referring to the concept of securely verifying a transaction. Claiming I know nothing about "how mathematics and security works", calling me "Holier-than-thou", making insinuations about my purpose here, and telling me to go away in the same sentence speaks volumes on its own. I am here because I agree with the basic premise - a distributed solution to our flawed financial system - but disagree with its structural foundation - using computing power as the baseline.I am not interested in dueling character assassination attempts. Huh, I guess I am wrong:http://www.ustreas.gov/education/faq/currency/legal-tender.shtmlWonder where I got that from. Correct. Transferring a number securely and announcing a new number to take its place requires rather little in the way of computational resources.Also correct. It means it takes rather little effort for a group of people to topple the system right now, or worse, when there is very little value to be gained by just running block generation - since it won't be producing coins, only collecting on relatively rare transactions.It seems to be a scheme for coordinating a large number of in between transactions? At least it intends to handle real value, though. It would require their cooperation.Every time a block is generated, everyone who lost tosses all of their work, correct?The overall security of a single transaction does not and should not require the dedicated resources of a single computer. It is intensely wasteful.The decision to make this game about who has the most processing power is plenty arbitrary. I read it, it looks like it would require far too much cooperation from financial institutions.It does give me an idea for a way for people to trade security for privacy in a transaction, however. It also includes things like people who pick up things off your store shelves and go to you at the cash register for payment. It's important to remember that it really does mean all debts. -186 seconds to find block 69275heh. I'm having a hard time figuring out a way to do them all. Privacy, security (including the reliability of the overall structure), and simplicity seem to operate on the typical triangle graph - you can maximize two of them at the cost of the third. You can have pseudonymity, though, in place of pure privacy. No, it's a giant Rube Goldberg device with that as its superficial aim, wasting an enormous amount of computing power in order to do so. You are literally burning coal, discarding most of the waste, and stamping the remainder with a seal of authenticity to use as a vehicle of trade. Even worse, you have no idea how much you will burn - but you know how much waste you will be using.There is also the war of computing resources aspect - right now anyone with more than ~1mhash/second of computing power can co-opt the system. When I - relatively poor - am doing 5khash/second, that does not instill in me a great deal of confidence. Once all of the bitcoins are used up, the only reason to compute blocks any longer will be to grab transaction fees. This also runs the risk of destabilizing the overall systemThere is no incentive whatsoever to trade, outside of novelty. It is only worth as much as you believe in it. If you believe, as I do, that it is a naturally deflationary currency, then your only incentive to spend it will be to cash out before it peaks and collapses.The ten minute resolution time on these things seems quite arbitrary. Why should it take any longer than a minute, at most?To me and I suspect others, bitcoin is nothing more than an interesting proof of concept. Followers of the Austrian school of economics will probably eat it up, making it worthwhile to at least toss a toe into the ring. Software, mostly. If you gave out too many you would risk hash collisions, however. Which is basically why I was thinking of creating a competitor that gave out its currency based on maintaining accurate accounting for transactions. The value is then derived from the integrity of the transaction itself. hrm. I'm using Squeeze for all of my generation, it seems. You can try upgrading to the testing version of that package. Comparing -per capita- GDP growth to world gold production is so blatantly fallacious as to hardly merit a response.There are a few possibilities.One is assigning value directly to the computational verification of the trade's integrity, and using that. I have a conceptual model for this, if a few people can be interested.Another is allowing people and/or sites to create their own currencies... this is inherently messy, as it creates a lot of trust problems that currency is supposed to resolve. Honestly it would be better to try a different model entirely. For one, there is a lot of criticism about bitcoin's overall structure - even ignoring the hard deflationary nature of them. You need the libglib2.0-0 package. You don't need the dev. Well, they never seized the domain, oddly, just the servers. At least, in IPBFree's case, if the domain was seized it wasn't by an American interest.
