I want the FDA to enforce complete and truthful labeling for homeopathic remedies and other products intended for human consumption. If I point out instances of effective FDA regulation, you say that private entities could do the job. If I point out areas that the FDA doesn't effectively regulate, where private entities aren't doing the job either, you use those failings to argue that the FDA can't be trusted and ignore the absence of competing private agencies that you earlier claimed would materialize if government didn't regulate. I guess that less regulation is always the answer, no matter what the question at hand or the evidence. I did some more research trying to figure out why homeopathic product manufacturers haven't been pummeled by private action in the courts. I found a high profile action from 2003, where the defendants successfully argued that only the FDA, not the courts, can regulate homeopathic products. Since the FDA enforces no standards for efficacy on homeopathic products, vendors have free reign for fraud. Additionally, the defendants successfully recovered lawsuit costs from the suit initiators under anti-SLAPP law, arguing that their baseless medical claims were protected commercial speech. In the absence of government regulation, medical fraud is easy and profitable while fighting fraud is difficult and unprofitable. You can find hundreds of web pages by quacks and their supporters cheering this ruling: "our products still don't need any evidence for their claims, hooray for freedom!" You've missed a large excluded middle between "nobody cares" and "private action would have already solved the problem if the problem were real." I see libertarianism as laudable insofar as it promotes a greater spectrum of possibilities for most people -- enhanced freedom of personal choice, maximized to the extent that it doesn't excessively intrude on others' freedom. I don't see it as laudable if it's just an exercise in getting rid of shepherds so that clever wolves can exploit unwary sheep without interference. If people buy products that they otherwise wouldn't due to misleading or incomplete information, that doesn't promote a utility-maximizing market or personal freedom any more than waiting until people are drunk to ask them to sign contracts. Yes, there is fraud taking place. Products with at least some substance to them, like amino acids, herbal extracts, and tailored bacterial cultures, are being sold with wide variations in composition yet the same labeling. Pure quack products (like homeopathic flu remedies) are making zany medical claims for products that would never make it through the clinical trials required of mainstream drugs. It's not just affecting a few people; each year millions of Americans buy overpriced sugar pills in a futile attempt to treat viral infections. I won't speculate on the reasons that the companies aren't sued into oblivion or driven out of the market by private product evaluation agencies, other than to say it reminds me of the old joke about economists:An economist and his friend are walking down the street when the friend sees a ten dollar bill on the sidewalk.“Look,” he says, “it’s a ten dollar bill”.“Nonsense,” says the economist. “If that was a ten dollar bill, someone would have picked it up by now.”To be clear: I think that companies should be allowed to sell vitamins, herbal extracts, and all the other stuff you find at the health food store. I even think that homeopathic junk should be legal, so long as full disclosure is in place. If the product isn't consistent in composition, that information should be disclosed on the label in statistical terms. The FDA should ensure that the products' labels contain the whole truth and nothing but the truth. If companies are going to pimp their homeopathic junk with a study or two about beneficial effects, they should also be required to mention, with equal prominence, the far more numerous studies that fail to show any benefit of homeopathy over placebo. For that matter, I'd like to see the FDA crack down on nonsense claims for (e.g.) shampoos that "nourish hair cells" -- your hair is made of dead cells, and nothing can nourish dead cells! I don't want to outlaw products. Philosophically I think that people should be allowed to make informed choices for themselves, even harmful ones, and pragmatically prohibition often creates more problems than it solves. I only want to see them compelled to engage in full disclosure of any relevant facts. I want to ensure that buyers and users have no excuse for being uninformed, rather than giving the sellers free reign and placing the burden on end users to hire private analytical chemists, biologists, doctors, and statisticians. I actually half-agree with the implications of your post. I think that in the modern age the FDA's most important role is not punishing fraud and dangerous practices (the fines they issue, when they issue them, are usually trivial compared to the company's profits) but in revealing such practices so that they can be confronted with civil suits, bad publicity, and marketplace shunning. The information is disseminated rapidly and widely through private channels, and people pay attention to it, after the initial disclosure. I don't think that this information would be efficiently disclosed in the absence of government action, though.For a modern example look at the nutritional supplements market, where the FDA has very limited regulatory authority. Independent academic testing has revealed wide quality variance between brands and even different batches of the same brand's product in the case of (e.g.) probiotic supplements. Nutritional supplements are also often promoted with scientifically dubious claims of pharmaceutical-like action that would not pass muster if they were regulated as pharmaceuticals. Private for-profit agencies are not providing the transparency and verification that the government has eschewed in this largely unregulated area. Quackery also doesn't seem to be effectively punished by marketplace discrimination. I am all for consenting and informed adults taking any sort of risk they like, but I won't defend the right of sellers to peddle nonsense and the right of buyers to be fooled by it. We already have more than enough data about what happens in the absence of the FDA and its non-American equivalents. It's abundantly clear from pre-20th century history. The absence of government standards and inspection for food and beverages didn't give rise to competing private agencies safeguarding public health but with lower costs and more vigilance. It made fraud so easy and pervasive that some commodities were adulterated more often than not. Even when they weren't committing outright fraud, the absence of regulation made it regular practice for manufacturers to use compounds of arsenic, lead, and mercury as food colorants and additives. It wasn't that nobody knew eating lead was bad for you, or that nobody knew many commercial beverages and foods were tainted. The oldest reference to such problems I can quickly find on Google Books is from 1758, in Elements of the theory and practice of chymistry by Pierre Joseph Macquer and Andrew Reid:In an environment with much less government control, the poor customer got the most poisonous wine. The poor customer also had the least leverage to demand pure food and drink, to contract private analytical services if he suspected the quality of a product, or to get restitution if a product was indeed unsafe.This and other dangerous and/or fraudulent practices were not greatly curbed in Britain and the US until another ~150 years passed, when governments established and enforced standards for food and beverage purity, safety, and labeling. Environmental factors do give rise to mental defects. It's not just lead poisoning, though that is one of the most obvious. It's also malnutrition, fetal drug/alcohol exposure, even chronic harassment or witnessing violence. You were the first one to bring up influence in the OP, when you said "what anyone else does has absolutely nothing to do with your behavior." This can be taken two ways: as an empirical statement about reality or as a normative statement of your moral attitudes. On the first count it is false. On the second count, just like any normative statement it cannot be proven or falsified, but I disagree vigorously. Many crimes and disasters have multiple causes. We localize responsibility on one or a handful of people for criminal justice purposes because it's impractical to do otherwise, but that isn't the end of the story.I think that you're trying too hard to atomize responsibility. There can be more than one party responsible for a problem. If an arsonist sets fire to a night club whose fire doors were chained shut to discourage cover charge avoidance, there are several parties responsible for the ensuing deaths. Ordered by (my opinion) level of culpability: the arsonist, the club operator who disabled safety features, the local enforcement agency who failed to catch the safety violation, and the cheapskate patrons who used working fire doors to dodge payment.If we wish to minimize bad behavior rather than simply condemn it after the fact, it takes collective action: agencies to fund epidemiological research and uncover significant but non-obvious links between environmental factors and health/behavior. An EPA and FDA to ensure that people aren't unwillingly breathing, eating, and drinking chronic poisons. Social services to ensure that children are being fed and not abused. If you think that equivalent services have been and will be provided in the absence of government action, I will happily discuss examples. There is no more evidence for an independent "free will" above and beyond your flesh and blood nervous system than there is for the existence of fairies and unicorns. This does not mean that I think the concept of choice is irrelevant; even obviously deterministic systems like digital computers can be usefully described as making choices. So likewise can less-obviously-deterministic (though still made of and ruled by physical substance) human beings be said to choose. However, like any other organism, humans can be altered by forces not under their control.One of the most obvious examples is the relationship between lead exposure and mental alteration. Exposure even to low lead levels in children correlates highly with reductions in IQ, short term memory, fine motor skills, and appropriate social interaction. It correlates with increased aggression and risk-taking. Children who are persistently exposed to lead are less able to do well in school, less able to compete in the job market once they grow up, and more likely to engage in crime and violence if they can't make it in normal society. Does this mean that we give a pass to carjackers if we find high lead levels in their bodies? No, but it does mean that trying to solve problems that need collective action by telling others "take personal responsibility" is an abdication of responsibility and a refusal to engage with reality.Children aren't responsible for their own lead exposure. Even their parents generally aren't responsible. If you grow up in a middle class family America right now, you typically won't be exposed to much lead, due to no special action of your own or of your parents. If you grow up in low income family in America, you're more likely to be in old housing stock where exposure from lead paint dusts and chips is much more common, and to be located near an industrial facility like a smelter or battery recycling plant that emits airborne lead. If you were born in a Ghanaian or Chinese village where some residents make a living burning electronic trash to extract the metals, expect severe lead exposure along with mercury, cadmium, and a heady brew of carcinogenic combustion byproducts.You don't even need exotic geography to be poisoned: just revisit the 19th century in the US or Great Britain. According to 1855 hearings before Parliament, adulteration of food, beverages, and medicines was endemic in Victorian Britain. For example, more than 85% of cayenne pepper examined on the market was diluted with various poisonous materials. The poisonous pigment red lead oxide was present in more than 45% of cayenne pepper, and in 30% of curry powders! Snuff was adulterated with lead oxide and lead chromate (two toxic metals for the price of one). Candy regularly contained arsenic, lead, and mercury compounds (and this was not even fraud -- there were no meddlesome laws against putting these colorful poisons in candy despite their known effects). In 1880 the Illinois Department of Agriculture published about similar problems on the other side of the Atlantic: poisonous compounds of lead, chromium, mercury, and arsenic in jellies, coffee, spices, lard, sausage, wine, cider, and tea. Turpentine in gin and sulfuric acid in beer. This in addition to dozens of less-dangerous corner cutting schemes such as dilution of butter with lard and coffee with burnt peas. This is like a Catholic offering to debate the nature of the Holy Trinity while saying that the question of evidence for God's existence is "far beyond the scope of this discussion." Your faulty conclusions follow logically from your flawed premises. Well played, Thomas Aquinas. I was responsible enough to be born in a stable middle-class American family that prepared me to be prosperous as an adult. People who chose to be born to abusive/crazy/stupid/addicted parents or in the Gaza Strip need to take responsibility for their terrible planning. They're probably the same simpletons who confuse threats of starvation or eviction with real coercion such as income taxes. I think that Mexico could be embargoed/blockaded quite effectively and cheaply if it were a few oil platforms in the middle of international waters instead of a large nation sharing thousands of miles of border with the US. I am assuming that Seatopia is going to offer legalized/deregulated services not found elsewhere, since A) they have little else in terms of comparative advantage for the domestic economy and B) if other nations offered what Seatopia does, people would just go there instead of to a platform in the middle of international waters. If Seatopia dares to live the libertarian dream -- no legal restrictions on weapons, drugs, gambling, prostitution, or private banking, and zero tax rates for everybody -- that's plenty of incentive for the IRS, DEA, and DHS (and most other nations' tax systems, drug enforcement, and counter-terrorism agencies) to shut down Seatopia. Suppose for a moment that you have a "starter" seastead, Seatopia, of several platforms and 2000 people that is independent from any existing government. How is Seatopia going to remain independent? You're not included in any existing intergovernmental agreements, treaties, or trade organizations. That means that any nation that doesn't like your experiment can impose punitive restrictions on trade with Seatopia at trivial cost to its domestic economy but very significant costs to Seatopia.The Seasteading Institute offers this naïve explanation as to why it won't happen:By the same logic, the United States does not and can not impose punitive restrictions on trade with Cuba or Iran. Theory says it doesn't happen because it would be economically undesirable. The theory needs some work. From the interview in Details:Only $1.25 million? It buys a few years of studies and modeling at best. Might as well believe that he's going to build a libertarian space elevator out of Legos. WTF? Afghanistan isn't a supplier of legal poppy products for pharmaceuticals. The legal suppliers are India, Turkey, Spain, Australia, and France. The big pharmaceutical companies rely on patent protection to make money on medications. Once patent protection expires and generics enter the market, profit margins collapse and they have to find new drugs to patent. None of the natural or semi-synthetic  medicinal chemicals derived from poppies are under patent or were under patent when the Taliban consolidated control of Afghanistan. You may have to take legal tender, but you can link the amount of tender to the exchange rate with gold. A gold clause still lets you do that and it's been perfectly legal to enforce since 1977. See 216 Jamica Ave. LLC v. S&R Playhouse Realty Co.. Gresham's Law makes sense but it also contradicts the idea that the market will always choose gold. You just named some important reasons that market participants will continue to contract in fixed quantities of fiat currencies instead of gold-linked quantities, such as convenience and retaining market share, even though it is legal to specify payments in terms of gold.If market participants prefer gold, it's even more puzzling that gold doesn't dominate savings. Right now Apple is sitting on more than $75 billion in cash. Microsoft has more than $50 billion and Google more than $35 billion. They don't appear to be in a hurry to spend it. There are many large companies with multiple billions in cash on hand. Why not convert it to gold if gold is stable and fiat currencies are unpredictable? They don't need to worry about any market share loss or customer inconvenience from what they do with their savings. I'm a scientist, or at least I was until I discovered that employment writing software offers steadier and better pay. I was first interested in Bitcoin as a field experiment in economics. Later I realized that with wide enough adoption it could be a truly disruptive technology, due to its international reach and lack of central control. The deflationary nature of Bitcoin has never been especially important or interesting to me, but it seems to have attracted people who make wild, unsubstantiated claims about deflation, the nature of money, precious metals, and related topics. My bullshit detector goes off when someone makes a claim contrary to empirical evidence, without empirical evidence, or of such a nature that it cannot be tested. Examples of popular bullshit in this vein include "vaccines cause autism," "a truly free market will care for the destitute better than government," and "God created the universe 6000 years ago but doctored the evidence to make it look older."In the United States it has been legal since 1977 to write contracts specifying payment in gold and it has been legal to acquire and keep any quantity of gold in any form since 1974. These changes reversed the 1934 Roosevelt order that outlawed private gold hoarding and gold clauses in contracts. Yet gold is still only storing a small fraction of US savings and enters into only a tiny fraction of contracts involving payment. If the market always "decides" gold is great, why don't cell phone contracts, insurance policies, mortgages, employment agreements, car leases, etc. specify payment in gold? It's legal right now and has been for 30+ years.I'm not interested in promoting mercury or selenium as the basis for currencies, only poking holes in the stories told about gold and silver. I do it in the same spirit as Richard Feynman: "The first principle [of science] is that you must not fool yourself -- and you are the easiest person to fool." If I'm fooling myself I hope that gold/silver promoters will rise to the challenge and provide empirical evidence for the great stability of their metals. If I'm seeing clearly and others are being fooled, I hope that I can convince others to at least approach economics and economic theories with the same scientific, empirical mindset that we'd apply to chemistry or physics. The Whiskey and Gunpowder post you used to start this thread says Largely forgotten the silver version of the currency is keeping its value relative to things you buy. A gallon of gas is still less than $0.20. Twenty REAL cents. Not the forgeries that pass for money in the minds of the unwary. If you think that’s something, realize that a gallon of gas is just five or six cents in terms of the old dollar bills that were also gold certificates. (One pre-1934 dollar was good for 1/20 ounce of gold, or about 80 of today’s dollars.) That’s an even more impressive holding of value than the silver coins. That's a claim that is subject to empirical scrutiny. It is not a distortion to cross-correlate exchange rates of different commodities, precious metals, and currencies. It's a test of the hypothesis that silver and gold have characteristically high exchange rate stabilities that justify their use for savings and for backing currencies used in day to day transactions. If you have a better test, please explain it and your reasoning.Coins could be and were debased, forged, and clipped. If the trader actually measured coin mass and density to check its composition and value, there is no reason he could not do the same with mercury. In any case, I have the (perhaps mistaken) impression that enthusiasm for a return to gold or silver standards does not literally imply that every transaction would involve the trading of metals in person. It simply means that the issuing agency of a currency would maintain a fixed metal:currency unit exchange rate, and would trade its currency (paper, coins, electronic records...) for the metal on demand. There's no reason that we would have to give up electronic bank transfers or lightweight paper bills for everyday use as long as users always have the option to exchange for metals.By that same reasoning, it is strange that enthusiasm for silver does not extend to other materials whose availability is limited by geological facts. Why no bismuth, indium, or mercury standard cheerleaders? Silver is more abundant and currently mined at a higher rate than any of those elements. Geologically speaking none of them is any more likely to go inflationary than silver. I think there is a substantial amount of magical thinking that leads people to specifically value gold or silver, and advance justifications for those metals as currency standards after they've already made up their minds. If they were starting from their claimed justifications, and simply looking for durable, rare substances whose production is limited and cannot be rapidly increased, then I'd expect as many cries for the Selenium Standard as the Silver Standard. I agree that Kurzweil has major blind spots that contain quite a few problems for his vision of the Singularity. But in the areas where he's personally worked he has been astoundingly productive. When I say the Singularity might be near if only there were more people like Kurzweil, I meant if there were a million more people with his tremendous creativity and productivity working in different areas, not if we had a million people who'd all worked in optical character recognition and electronic music. Ironically, I'm basically saying "the precondition for an intelligence explosion is an intelligence explosion." Phrased this way, you can also see that the road to techno-utopia is mundane and counterintuitive: global access to basic health and high quality education, so that potential world-changing geniuses can grow up and reach their potential no matter where they're born or how much money their parents had. How many potential Indian geniuses have been wasted because they were born to poor rural parents and died young or spent their lives on simple survival instead of research and invention? I think you're asking the right questions. Gold and the dollar need to be compared to at least one additional commodity to triangulate stability, but ideally you should compare multiple commodities with substantial historical data. Similar to your suggestion, I might include cement, steel, copper, wool, maize, sulfuric acid, sodium hydroxide, and coal. This includes construction materials, industrial metals, plant and animal farm products, commodity chemicals, and energy. Everything in the collection has been produced and traded on a large scale for at least 100 years.Once you have the basket of items to compare, you can see how different prices correlate over time. If gold is more stable than the dollar then you should see a stronger positive price correlation coefficient, with lower standard deviation, between gold and the members of the basket of commodities than between the dollar and the basket members. That is, if 1 gram of gold buys 150 kilograms of steel today, and 1 dollar buys 2 kilograms of steel today, the gold to steel ratio should deviate less over time (past and future) than the dollar to steel ratio, and the changes should be positively correlated: steel moves up when gold moves up, steel goes down when gold goes down, and by similar amounts. You can even perform the correlation exercise with pairs of mundane commodities: maybe it turns out that sulfuric acid tracks other commodity prices more closely than dollars or gold, and cautious savers should actually clamor for an acid-backed store of value.Even without running the exercise over a full century of data -- which I don't have to hand, alas, else I would have -- I don't think gold is going to perform too spectacularly. The tremendous gold price volatility around 1980 was not, so far as I know, reflected nearly to the same degree in mundane commodities like coal and wool. It may well be that gold holds its value better over long periods if you smooth the time series, but people can't (directly) trade in smoothed time series: someone who decided to convert all their saved dollars (or steel, coal, wool...) to gold in July 1980 would have taken a heavy loss only a year later and would have needed to wait 10+ years to recover anything like their previous holdings, converting back from gold to useful commodities. The same specious arguments (scarcity, durability) sometimes advanced now to justify an irreversible value increase for gold were being touted just a few years ago about real estate. Value is always relative.Let's get back to silver dimes and silver as a value store for a moment. Mercury is rarer in the Earth's crust than silver, it's been known since antiquity, it's shiny and dense, it can be neither created nor destroyed, and supplies and production rate from mining are limited. It even has more desirable properties for commerce: since it's a liquid at room temperature, it can be subdivided for any transaction as needed, down to the limits of the traders' scales. So why do the traditional coinage metals have their privileged position, if (as sometimes claimed) precious metals are "natural" monetary standards rather than reflections of human psychology and historical inertia? Despite all these wonderful attributes of mercury which should make it equally or more precious than silver, it currently trades at less than 5% of silver's price, and no nation has ever backed its paper notes with mercury. Kurzweil is an interesting guy. If you can find his earliest book, The Age of Intelligent Machines, you can see a lot of things that he predicted correctly when they looked like Star Trek fantasy to most people. You can also see the first of his repeated predictive mistakes there (in that book, like other writings since, he incorrectly predicted that voice recognition was just a few years away from dominating computer user interfaces). Most of the Singularity ideas Kurzweil popularized were first discussed on the Extropians mailing list starting in 1991. And -- interesting Bitcoin connection -- the early Extropians were also connected to the Cypherpunks movement, which started discussing secure digital communications, decentralized payments and contracts, and the other electronic building blocks of radical libertarian utopia, nearly 20 years ago. Vernor Vinge, who invented the Singularity concept, also practically invented the Cypherpunk vision in his 1981 story True Names.I think Kurzweil is wrong about the evolution of coming technologies, particularly about how fast they're going to evolve. I think that most of his predicted technologies could some day come to pass, but I very much doubt that they're all going to arrive in the next 50 years like he does. In a way I almost feel sorry for him, because I think many of his predictions could come true on the given time scales if everyone were as bright and educated as he is. He is an exceptional person who has made the unexceptional mistake of assuming that other people are basically like him.The fastest way to gage Kurzweil's predictive ability is to look at his predictions from The Age of Spiritual Machines. He made a lot of predictions about future decades, and we are now living in the earliest of those predicted eras. My evaluation is that he was right about some things, wrong about more things, and you can see a pattern to his mistakes. He ignores social, political, and even scientific factors that could derail his predictions, like wars, fashions, legal liability, investor expectations, the complexity of neurobiology, and so on. Even though he is wrong in the particulars I think it's good to have at least one prominent figure who is really excited about the future and believes in the power of technology to improve everything, lest we all get sucked into a gloomy vision of the future where the only excitement comes from calamities.
You are right, "back yard" is a bit hyperbolic way to describe it. I think you can successfully use lower-grade raw materials but I honestly don't know on how small a scale you can operate a polysilicon plant, aluminum refinery, or other important and energy-intensive processes before the efficiency falls off catastrophically. If it turns out that (say) you can't practically scale a silicon plant down below 100 kilograms per day, it's not a back yard operation. As mentioned above, the pirate-robot-factory systems might have to initially operate in countries with different national interests than the USA and its ilk if they are too large to be easily hidden, but the deflationary pressure will spread them and their products over time.I have read Manna and the dystopian and utopian parts of it alike seem unrealistic to me because they require remarkable behaviors among millions of people. Apparently the middle class of the USA couldn't get their act together to vote for "lunatic fringe" (i.e. not corporate-owned) legislators to change the rigged game they were losing, even after they'd been forced into public housing. But a billion people agreed to make the Australia Project IPO by far the most successful of all time, even before it offered anything but an idea.As for the popularity of taking what we want from the robot-owning overclass, even most of the libertarians here seem to think that intellectual property is nonsense. If an IP owner tries to send the police or his own private army after people "pirating" physical goods and/or the equipment used to manufacture them, I think any violence meted out by the "pirates" can be considered self-defense. Of course there is a different sort of dystopian scenario lurking here: if arbitrary manufacturing capabilities are widely dispersed and easy to duplicate, weapons become as easy to copy as any other product of comparable complexity. I could see protracted and tremendous violence if a lot of people with grievances (legitimate or otherwise) can get their hands on armed drones, missiles, mustard gas, etc. I would identify 3 broad areas that necessarily contribute to the cost of producing material goods. They are the costs of raw materials, energy, and labor. Supposing that robots can perform all labor necessary to produce anything that is manufactured today -- a big supposition, to be sure -- then we are left with costs of energy and raw materials.Energy is effectively free because if robots can build anything for free, they can build solar panels, batteries, nuclear reactors, and other energy generation and storage devices too. The rate at which energy can be produced is still limited by thermodynamic considerations or (more pressingly) the available planetary surface area per person, but the cost of manufacturing and operating energy systems is zero.Finally, what of raw materials? Today it is important to work concentrated ores to extract mineral products because energy, machinery, and labor have substantial costs. If those costs are near-zero than the initial concentration and distribution of mineral resources is much less important. Better to extract aluminum from backyard rocks using your free energy and unpaid robot-labor than to pay a bauxite mine owner for access to his more concentrated mineral resources.With free energy and robot labor, the only mineral resources that aren't accessible from common rocks are those that are both rare on Earth and strongly concentrated by geochemical processes. This includes, in my opinion, tellurium, indium, bismuth, tungsten, silver, gold, and the platinum group metals. These metals are technologically useful but can be substituted in almost all applications at some modest cost to performance. It does not include relatively common and widely dispersed elements like gallium and the rare earth elements that nonetheless command a high price at present and thereby seem scarce. Neodymium itself, for example, is about 3 times as abundant as lead in the Earth's crust.By way of example, look at this analysis from the USGS of basalt located near Portland, Oregon. There are over 480 trillion tons of similar basalt in the Columbia Plateau spread over thousands of square kilometers of the northwestern United States. One ton of this type of rock, literally more common than dirt, contains about $70 worth of minerals at current market prices (mostly from the vanadium, molybdenum, cobalt, and rare earth elements). The reason it's not exploited at present is that it costs more than $70 in machinery, labor, and energy to separate the desirable elements from bulk rock. But if the labor is as free as self-duplicating robots and the energy is as free as sunshine, these "rare and valuable" elements actually prove common and nearly as good as free.This finally takes me back to my original statement: if you have robots that do nearly everything, including building copies of themselves, the price of most material goods collapses because they can be reproduced at nearly zero marginal cost, like MP3s. If the self-reproducing robotic systems have a small footprint it's conceivable that everyone could have one in their back yard. If they have a large footprint, they'll need a friendly nation to operate in, one that would benefit more from the abundant free energy and goods from "pirated" robotic systems than from adhering to international treaties about trade and intellectual property. Fortunately, there is no shortage of nations in the latter category, and their goods will cross borders regardless of law, just like Americans can get cheap (if not completely free) high-quality DVD bootlegs from Chinese suppliers. Either by vote or by violence, the robotic abundance will eventually spread worldwide, because there is no continent where intellectual property owners and the rich outnumber hourly workers and the poor. If robots are really used everywhere, then 90% unemployment isn't deprivation -- it's liberation.If robots build everything, including themselves, and the only things still requiring human labor are things like art, science, and designing the next generation of robots, then that's the world set free from want. It's almost like having a replicator from Star Trek without the technobabble physics. If robots can do it all, every machine can ultimately be made starting with rocks, air, sea water, and sunlight. Things not directly manufactured (like food, natural fibers, and timber) can at least be tended and harvested by robots in place of farmers, ranchers, and fishers.Machines are more thermodynamically efficient and less expensive than human labor and human muscles when it comes to performing simple mechanical work. If you need to pump 1000 cubic meters of water up from a mine, it's cheaper to get the energy from coal, uranium, diesel, or even photovoltaic panels for an electric pump than it is to feed a human enough rice to survive while pumping 1000 cubic meters manually. If human brains and hands find their replacements too, there's no reason to hope that displaced workers can find free market employment at a wage sufficient to prevent starvation. If a robot costs 40 cents per widget produced in electricity and replacement parts, and a human costs 60 cents per widget just to feed, then unless the robot capital costs are prohibitively high a rational employer will not choose humans over machines.It's the phase between now and "machines make everything" that is worrying, because there may be a time when lots of jobs are eliminated but the machines still don't provide all necessities. So, for example, you might have the case of a construction worker who can't get work because construction is dominated by machines and he doesn't have the education for robot technician, but health care and agriculture haven't been fully automated so he still needs an income to get the insulin injections and food he needs to live. If the transition is slow enough many people will suffer pain but the system may survive intact over a long, slow deflationary era. If there are intermediate periods of (e.g.) prolonged 40% unemployment, expect sharp political discontinuities and shocks.There's also a chance that the transition to a robotic economy is more or less orderly, but the outsize wealth accumulated in the mean time is used to further buttress the transition-period winners against the losers. Picture longer patent terms, broader copyright laws, and whole law enforcement divisions set up just to chase "intellectual property" violations. The only good news about that scenario is that it has historically proven futile. If everyone can copy a car for negligible marginal cost rather like they do with MP3s now, the auto industry will be facing a decline worse than the music publishers did over the past decade, no matter how many laws they buy. And if they try to enforce their ill-gotten laws with violence, the same robots that copy cars can copy weapons too. What are you talking about? Who is the "they" that will kick you off Internet2? Have you even joined Internet2 in the first place? Internet2 is a specialized research network. Most people are never going to publish or read content over Internet2 in the first place.Edit: I see this idea is popular among the Alex Jones lunatic crowd. Your other posts make a lot more sense in light of it. This requires the explicit cooperation and opt-in of web site operators, since they control the DNS entries. Web site operators can tell if Google is doing anything other than technical optimization, just by comparing the version served from Google and the original. If Google starts altering or filtering visible content the operators can just switch the DNS entries back. In the spirit of the original list:Lyndon LaRoucheTime travelUnicorn disclosureMore seriously:Aquifer depletion and water shortagesIncreasing oil pricesDecreasing renewable energy pricesAutomated warfareClimate changeAdditive manufacturingThe end of Moore's Law and failure-to-materialize of the Technological Singularity*Global convergence of material standards of livingFar more speculative, but not impossible and certainly disruptive if they come to pass:Molecular manufacturing as in Drexler's Engines of CreationIncreasing the overall human life span or just finding a way to keep people healthy and productive up until deathNuclear war, even a "little" one like between Pakistan and India*This is more of a refutation of another popular megatrend idea than a trend in itself The story I saw was that Aaron Swartz had to keep returning to the MIT campus to swap out external hard drives. I don't think it fit on a single hard drive. Based on my past use of JSTOR, I would say those millions of articles would take up a few terabytes of space at least. Maybe could be cut down to under a terabyte if you re-encoded them with JBIG2 compression and packed them inside a high-compression rar or 7z file, but it would still probably be one of the largest torrents ever if the whole collection was released in one torrent. I think you can read any of them without reading the others, though they share some characters and an overarching story. The fourth will make more sense in light of the others. The Stone Canal and The Cassini Division are the best if you like dramatic hard SF, The Star Fraction and The Sky Road are probably still interesting if you are more interested in the political/social ideas. I think everyone having nukes is more like all my neighbors having truck bombs parked in their driveways. Even if they're just for deterrence against other people who might use truck bombs, I'm screwed if one of them goes off for any reason. Guns don't really compare.The series of novels I talked about is the Fall Revolution series. I think the story of nuclear deterrence for sale is in the first book, The Star Fraction, and again in the last, The Sky Road. The first two books tell a certain future history and the next two books tell what happened after, with very different outcomes, based on the people who run the nuclear deterrence program making different choices at a crucial point in history. The third book is the most exciting, about a future where a hard technological singularity took off and humans left behind in the solar system almost went extinct. The fourth, the alternative scenario, is almost boring, about a "soft" technological singularity (and the history that led up to it) that left Earth like a libertarian paradise, with only voluntary cooperatives and long lives of abundance for almost everyone. It's true, civilization could be smashed even now by foolish use of nukes. It almost happened before in 1983 and in 1962. More groups with nukes means more opportunities for disaster, though since the Cold War no nation has stockpiled ridiculous thousands of weapons.Please cite a credible source for your idea that "anyone who wants a nuke bad enough" can get a former-Soviet warhead. Your gut feeling isn't very convincing.Sort-of-on-topic for the thread: Ken MacLeod wrote a series of SF novels in the 1990s about about competing anarcho-capitalist and anarcho-socialist human factions colonizing space after many nation-states collapsed. One of the story strands was about an ex-Soviet republic that retained its nuclear arsenal and sold outsourced nuclear deterrence on the open market to groups who wanted to live under a nuclear umbrella without building their own weapons. OK, no sarcasm in paradise either. In a stateless world you can eventually expect every armed group bigger than the local militia to have nuclear weapons. There will be peace or there will be spasms of mutual extermination, not a lot in between. And the relative size of the armies and their budgets doesn't matter. Russia, France, the UK: any one of them could utterly ruin the United States and be destroyed in turn by the counterstrike. It doesn't matter who has more soldiers, smarter tacticians, or greater wealth. Tiny Israel can produce enough nukes to cripple giant China.If Sam Colt made all men equal, nuclear weapons make all armed forces equal. This is why nuclear weapons are attractive to states like North Korea. This tiny dysfunctional country can't hope to produce an industrial base capable of matching its enemies in conventional warfare. But for less than the cost of a pair of F-22s, nuclear capability can give NK a "get out of invasion and occupation free" card. This is why the states with nuclear weapons enter open warfare only against states without them.In this sense nuclear weapons discourage warfare generally and their spread is actually a good thing. The problem is the possibility of accidental or irrational use of nuclear weapons, which could quickly kill more people than all wars of the 20th century combined. In my estimation the probability of unplanned disaster rises sharply if there are 1000 different groups with nukes. South Africa covertly spent less than $10 million per year for about 15 years to develop a nuclear arsenal, and succeeded. All this wargaming talk of guns and men is nonsense. Even a "little" army can have nuclear weapons for the price of a handful of new aircraft. And once all the armies have nuclear weapons, the first to strike can destroy any of the others, though they will probably be destroyed in kind.We probably shouldn't worry about this, though, because after the state is abolished human prejudice and folly will be too. People will only go to war for sound and sober reasons that appeal to homo economicus, the same way they would plan investments for a pension fund. Therefore it is safe to say that a thousand private armies can have a hundred warheads each and we can still sleep sound at night, because only a fool would start a nuclear war and this stateless new paradise will have a big "no fools allowed" sign hanging over the gates. Coin received yesterday. No problems. Life has no meaning but what we make.I have thought long and hard about suicide several times in my life. The worst despair was in my early 20s, and for no apparent exogenous reason. My life was fine according to normal indicators. The cloud over me didn't lift until I had intensively researched suicide methods and come up with a method that appeared reasonably painless, accessible, and foolproof (hydrogen sulfide inhalation). Knowing that I could quit life whenever I wanted to, it became unimportant to quit just then. The sodium sulfide and citric acid are still waiting in the closet in case I change my mind.I've never discussed my suicidal thoughts with a professional or anyone who knows me face to face. I'm not crying for help. I'm preparing an exit strategy. Hopefully life retains enough meaning to hold me here, but if not I know how to leave. I have placed an order. I'll post here again when it's received. Bitcoin can retain value without exchanges only if it's bootstrapped to the point where you can easily buy a lot of mundane goods and services with it, like you can with ordinary cash. Exchanges are a necessary part of that bootstrapping process. In order for Bitcoin to take off as a medium of exchange it needs to be socially accepted as well possessing theoretically attractive properties like durability and scarcity. Precious metals have certain theoretically attractive economic qualities, but try finding a business near you that will sell common things like gasoline, diapers, or hair cuts in exchange for grams of bullion instead of cash, check, or credit card. Bitcoins don't even have the survivalist justification that they'll retain value in a post-apocalyptic society. They need to be useful as a medium of exchange, and that means getting acceptance from a lot of people. Exchanges bridge the transition: a businessman doesn't have to hope that everyone else simultaneously adopts Bitcoins, because he can accept BTC and get USD or EUR to deal with employees and suppliers until there's a large enough network effect that BTC is commonly accepted. You may be right that this is a common view among libertarians. In my view the state has more commonly hobbled unions, for example via the Taft-Hartley act and right to work laws I already mentioned. Or, going back further in history, mobilizing police and military against striking miners and workers. Today in many less developed nations unions face similar state repression via laws and police, part of the reason that overseas manufacturing is so inexpensive.I think that fair is fair: nothing is off-limits during negotiation except violence. Unions can try their utmost to take employers for everything via contracts, and employers can do the same to unions. The employer's opening bid may be "you get $1 per piece produced, and have to buy your clothes at the company store." The union's counter may be "we get $30 per hour, retirement at 50, and lifetime pensions amounting to 70% of average monthly wages at retirement." Both sides can make ridiculous demands, but will eventually converge (if not rapidly and neatly) onto mutually satisfactory terms. But no cheating! No sending the Pinkertons out to rough up the strikers or strikers out to rough up the scabs. The state doesn't get to interfere either on behalf of either party, or on behalf of interested third parties like stock holders or bank lenders. I don't see a thread about this here already.Historically, unions were how workers got a better deal from capital owners without resorting to the state. Workers got the 40 hour week, overtime, minimum wages, benefits, etc. before they were codified in law simply by banding together to negotiate contracts with employers. Union power in the USA grew tremendously in the 20th century, until the state limited workers' right to contract via the Taft-Hartley act and subsequent "right to work" laws.The historical gains of capital over labor are probably "sticky" in at this point, but at least as a matter of principle do the libertarians here support repealing Taft-Hartley and other laws that limit the right of unions to negotiate contracts with employers? Large companies get improved negotiating leverage from scale, so why shouldn't workers band together for similar benefits of scale? No matter how large the company, a well-organized strike action can force its hand, so that workers can always ensure that they get a satisfactory share of the company's good fortune, without violence and without any laws specifically regulating work. And again, though it may be imperfect, the continued need of the workers for employment also ensures that they will not require ruinous terms from their employer*. In my opinion this is one of the clearest examples where libertarian principles of state non-interference in contracts favor "the little guy" over someone who's already a business owner or property holder. In a libertarian state, unions should be one of the ways that wealth is peacefully prevented from metastasizing into oligarchy.*Unless they aspire to drive him into bankruptcy, buy the idled capital with their own savings, and resume operating it for their own profit. And this too is an entirely satisfactory turn of events in a libertarian state. I heard about Bitcoin last summer, thought it looked interesting, and mined some coins. As the proof-of-work difficulty increased and people started applying fancier hardware I couldn't economically mine anymore, so I went into hibernation. The recent Silk Road hype brought bitcoin back to my attention. I am personally hoping for a hundred Silk Roads to bloom, not necessarily drug focused but just supplying things off the books. I have a bunch of fireworks and related supplies I'd love to offer, for example, if I wasn't afraid that I'd be facing a federal agent or a lawsuit the instant one of my customers does something careless with his purchase. But if there's a properly veiled way to do business I'm responsible for just one thing: maintaining my reputation as a businessman who supplies what I offer. Yeah, I've run a forum for several years myself, and I know how annoying it is dealing with a flood of idiots or spambots registering. But I've always been a fan of using time registered, coupled with a little posting to prove you're not a bot, instead of post counts. People who post inane stuff 100 times are worth far less than people who make a few decent posts. Giving out favors for high post counts just encourages white noise posting.
