Thanks for the toy story movies whoever uploaded. Takes me back to some younger days. Still plenty of time to accumulate under thousands of satoshi. I laugh at the early ico flippers selling on 10-15% when they could hold for 1 week extra and already be 300% over that with mega room to improve in the not so distant future. Geeeez Vidz be moving during the night! Hold your vidz guys this is just the start, wonder how the 80sat sellers feel?Probably how the 150 sat seller will feel.  No rules just make sure you are secure enough while you give anyone a loan, either by taking his collateral or at least he risks his reputation which is worth more than what he might scam.  Lol this is seriously funny  and wonder how awkward the situation would be in case the interviewer ask her to do an act ( on skype of course ) where she has to walk and do something. Depends on person to person or say actor to actor because anyone who would do his role with full dedication would surely be affected. 'Just PureVidz and chill'I like it.. I don't like the fact that they have been online but have not updated the site and listed VIdz.Makes John very very angry, they won't like John when he is angry   You're right, wheres the hookers and blow at? Max knows  You will never defeat the trolls they'll just go into hiding but they will be back. Plus this will be short lived. Seems the project needs more fools. Don't worry I'm a fool and sold on your thread. Have my BTC! There was a 5000sat buy   If there was good volume that would have made some rich ass investors. Time will tell if you're right and it will go to 1000's of satoshi. The current price seems very nice. Just to inform everyone, guys I just read their rules and the 120% bonus is actually credited by them manually and requires roll over too. So please make sure you read their terms and then only claim those giveaways .. though nice ones. You can try cloudbet though they have withdrawal problems as you can see that from their thread, people complaining all the time but at the end they pay so all is well that ends well. Another bad thing about them is they offer horrible odds on tennis when in-play. Quitting gambling is easy, lock the sites with a password and ask any family member of yours to put the password. Because when you can't access the sites how can you gamble there @OP if you are actually serious please contact me and we will use a escrow and build a nice one, I know back end and front end both so no worries also I can help you with traffic too  I just see its still unconfirmed, I have pushed for you here : https://blockchain.info/pushtxHope it helps, though I am fairly new.  Guys I just noticed that he is active but not replying here so please probably PM him as he said. But make sure you use a escrow because he is too new and even can scam for a satoshi, though I don't really mean to say he is a scammer. Is there any giveaways for new players ? I am thinking of joining this site but I am wondering whats the difference between me gambling on primedice or gambling on your site ? no bonus means same thing, no ?Also I am a designer and can I make some nice banners for you  ? Paypal is not a scam but its actually too much tied with rules and regulations and some horrible terms and conditions and that is what makes PayPal look like a scam, but in reality its not.
Yes its right but someone told me that some chineese people bought around 5000 bitcoins and they are trying their best to hike the price but anyways maybe its just a hype. No mate its just the nature that the base price of bitcoins keep getting set at higher and higher values, earlier it was 600$ and now its 900$ or maybe better we say 850$ and in coming years it might be 1200$ Its the best to learn ourself by doing some trades and giving loss and even sometimes our stupid decisions can give profits I am a fine trader and I learned all myself and what I got from others was just advice that too biased. Can I get my coupon also or are there some investment needed before I can get a coupon ? Please tell me because free 5 USD seems like a bit strange at least to me but then so many pages and your trust is not yet red so maybe its real  I would first of all try to avoid my death or whatever and if cannot be delayed I would better spend all my time in asking apologies from the ones whom I have hurt anytime in my life  Why have so many of you got a sore but for Yobit?It has always been good to me and never a single problem with deposits or withdrawals. if we read his post then yes it looks like we can have our coins within 24hours so not long now.. we just gotta hold on. Im going to go have some lunch and come back to hopefully find my coins ready to release. Should be tied to the truck and abused for many many days. Something so evil as these people need pain for pain, eye for an eye. You kill people and die, you have your own family be killed or anyone you care about. Doubt anything will work though so  So much back and forth you guys should get a room. Byte balls has failure written all over it. I will sell at 10x and maybe some before.Atleast the dev fund is public so we can all keep an eye on it. Can anyone create an alarm in the horrible case any of the coins move? I always expect money from gambling and I a quite surprised why you gamble when you dont expect money or income from it. Anyways maybe just fun but still I think gambling is much better than trading because trading you can invest in a good coin and the dev might turn scam at least in gambling you know you lost cause of bad luck. There is no age to start trading and no minimum amount but I would suggest anyone to start trading with 0.5 bitcoins at least so you don't panic easily and can easily overcome initial loss given. Yes and even we can buy large chunks of bitcoins from exchanges like btc-e where we deposit some money using perfectmoney which can be loaded from bank I guess and then just buying the desired bitcoins. Usually I have work all the day and hence I bet at night time because then I am free and I am tired also, so pretty awesome that time and I usually gamble at primedice with new accounts .. lol I feel like having more luck then  I seriously wonder if there are actually such people who believe in these scams. I never even open the links posted by them because who knows in what way the scam can come to us. I think he has in bitcoins itself those 150$ worth bitcoins. Yes faucet is useless as he said and though holding and selling is awesome but they cannot give any quick profits, needs patience and a lot of time. Yes though crypto currencies have made transactions effortlessly simple and easy still because of the fact that in each and every country there is a government and hence we cannot stop using fiat just yet.I wonder how awesome it would be if all transactions are digitally made. You and me both. 50 if it doesn't hamper the development which it won't because that is the target  Nearly half way there now by the looks of it.Sounds like bad internet to me, I have about 10 tabs and watching hangover which started instantly and is very high quality. PM the dev with more info as i'm just an investor. Somebody who needs money. There is no support for this coin, if I wanted out I'd have to crash the price to a few satoshi. Hire two devs for 3 weeks are you for real?FFS hire some talent already will ya!
