@Nefario:Getting the balance is still broken. If you stop your guiminer via remote desktop, it'll stop seeing opencl. Cannot restart mining because of that...100% CPU is really annoying. Just added second card - now I have that... Tried using SDK 2.1 - hash rate was total shit and it was still using 100% CPU  Voting seems to be currently broken with both web and black market clients. Wow, > 25 grand in this address... Intense Not a trader. I mine and wait for the initial speculative turmoil to be over and prices to stabilize, then use it to trade goods and services with. The transaction is signed by his private key. Point them to the blockexplorer with your receiving address and the communication with seller, giving him that exact address.Way easier than tracing cash or credit card transactions  So, you willingly made your bid at a higher price. Not sure that you're entitled to blame anyone but yourself for this... Well, you do put the desired purchase price when you run the transaction... If you put 1BTC there instead of .75BTC - who is there to blame? Was wondering about those recently. Ever since CUDA and Stream started doing what PhysX does i have one of those cards that's not even used...If it can get me some megahashes - that'd be pretty awesome... I get almost 80MH/s on a cheap 48xx ATI card... So, yeah, that's pretty slow... Way fast for CPU, but slow in general. Huh? Are you and Tawsix the same person? OH MY GOD, I DID A `cat /dev/urandom` AND THERE WAS CHILD PORN THERE (somewhere, anyway). COMPUTERS ARE DOOMED!!! Yeah, add "till shit gets done" option  Ramen, brother. Network Hashrate in Teraflops - 28824 The point about it being a scam for the early adopters to profit at the expense of later adopters is like saying that IPO is a scam, because people who bought shares at the time of the IPO are profiteering of those who bought their shares later in the game.Early adopters take most risk and therefore reap most benefits. 14.3 trillion dollars...Pretty intense. People say that if the government can't get more money US is heading toward some harsh times...Thoughts? Unlike QR codes for instance, NFC requires way more hardware on both ends. So adoption rate is probably going to be pretty slow. If US decides to outlaw bitcoin - let them. They are willingly preventing themselves from using a best monetary instrument out there, and once the rest of the world will make bitcoin stronger - they'll have to be buying bitcoins the on black market at outrageous prices  Talk about shooting oneself in the proverbial foot.
Some people are just too afraid of freedom and change. Simple answer would be to build it yourself if you want to.But then you're still not guaranteed that the compiler you use is not generating something not in original code for you.It's a pretty old issue, actually.You can take it even further, say, if you bootstrap your own compiler and compile the source yourself, how can you be absolutely certain that there are no programmatic trapdoors left in your CPU microcode? Well, the asking price is set low, because not all shares from the IPO were sold. If this was a saturated market you could easily spend more that you thought just due to own negligence. Which is acceptable for me, because "buyer beware" and quoting Dogbert - "Idiots should not have money" Yay, I'm first to follow  Pretty sure he could borrow from bitcoinjs.org, they are well on their way... Client definitely needs REPL, to avoid typing in the key each friggin' time.I'm trying to implement one in node.js, however node crypto itself has to be patched to support that... try daemon=true Ouch, someone just spent 300BTC instead of 15BTC if I'm reading this correctly... AlexZ. Спасибо, сделайте списком, а то ОП не разберётся что к чему. SgtSpike: LOL'd RussianВключить проброс портов с использованием UPnP.Не зашифровывать личные ключи в кошельке.Автоматически шифровать старые, не зашифрованные ключи.Введите пароль чтобы зашифровать/расшифровать все адреса, созданные после.\nЕсли вы не хотите шифровать новые личные ключи - запустите приложение с ключём -nocrypt.\nВНИМАНИЕ: Если вы потеряете этот пароль, никто, включая разработчиков Bitcoin не сможет получить доступ к вашим биткойнам.ПарольОшибка: Пожалуйста предоставьте пароль зашифровки/расшифровки кошелька.Пожалуйста предоставьте текущий пароль расшифровки кошелька.Процесс расшифровки кошелька завершился неудачей.Введённый пароль расшифровки неправилен.Вы запустили приложение с ключом -nocrypt, но кошелёк содержит зашифрованные ключи. Приложение будет завершено.Хотите зашифровать оставшиеся не зашифрованными ключи в вашем кошельке? (Рекомендуется).\nВнимание: Старые версии клиентского приложения не смогут получить доступ к кошельку.Создаю новые ключи, это займёт какое-то время...Введите текущий пароль от кошелька. Obligatory Portland reference : http://www.questionablecontent.net/view.php?comic=1919 There used to be a blockchain torrent lying around. Maybe it's time to make a new one. Freenode For a true get it should contain a transaction for 0.123456 BTC  No wonder US is in such financial shithole if all their economics majors are like this  Yup. That is essentially my original post + NFC I'll try to play around on the weekend to get some simple site going, that is able to keep a wallet and keep PGP keys for signing. Maybe based on bitcoinjs stuff.About QR codes - it's not that bad. You scan one image with your phone, it'll automatically launch a needed app, based on MIME or something. You press 1 button. Another code appears on your screen. Merchant scans it and sees the money arriving. Pretty simple. Btw, instead of exporting your library path, it's probably better to add the config file for those paths to /etc/ld.so.conf.d, then they are applied globally to all accounts. Emm, how about GPG? What's wrong with that system? Hmm, it'll be very hard for them to introduce similar level of protective technologies as in modern banknotes. Printing money (in a sense of making the bills) is hard. All those security measures are quite costly. And duplicating a piece of paper is quite easy. Also, it looks like the process of spending those bills is quite involved. You can't get exact change in bitbills and you still need a computer to transfer money. So they are kinda redundant.Basically strong cryptography and smart devices beat paper  IMHO.
discussion cont'd here : http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7872.0bitcoin debit card in physical form might not be best idea. Or that  Even better  But I guess in the case of 3rd party, parts of the risk can be handled by said party.The whole point of posting ideas here, that there'd be a devil's advocate, such as yourself. After having a discussion about bitcoin PoS and debit card here (http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7539.0), the conclusion was that the smart card route it's probably not the best idea. Payment with smart device (smartphone, pda) is preferable and less hassle for everyone. There was a mention of sites like mybitcoin to arbitrate payments. Having one site means centralization, which is kinda against bitcoin philosophy. So here's a list of ideas in that regard.There should be a public RFC spec for the online wallet siteAnyone should be able to deploy such site online, in case that person has reservations about other such sites out there, aka open source reference designThere should be a common API for sending transactions to such site, authorizing the site to perform a money transferThe way I see it is something like this (from Point of Sale perspective):SetupYou'd find a site that agrees to keep a certain bitcoin balance on your behalf. You supply the site with your GPG public key. You have the private key on your mobile device.SaleWhen merchant presents you with the total for your transaction and receiving address in some machine readable form, like a QR code or Aztec code, your device would scan it, display the total on your screen and present you with a prompt to agree with the transaction. Once you do that, it would prepare a data packet to the aforementioned spec, authorizing the site to transfer amount X into the address Y. (Ref: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5171.0). The packet will include the API endpoint for the wallet site of your choice. It will then encrypt and sign it with your private key and generate another machine readable data packet for the merchant to scan. Once he scans it, the packet would be submitted to the site, and upon successful decryption the funds could be transferred to the merchant's account. And the sale would be concluded.Best part about it - they don't even need the hardware terminal for processing. A simple app would do, all it needs is a total and an address.And your mobile device does not need internet access for this to work. Which can make it rather simple. Even a palm pilot would be able to do that Thoughts? Good point, casascius. Looks like the implementation of this particular scheme is way to expensive and hard to integrate. If the window for potential doublespend is indeed short, at shouldn't be a problem for 99% of all use cases.A few things were voiced in this topic, one of them is the use of sites like mybitcoin to arbitrate payments. That kinda makes it centralized, and the whole point of bitcoin is to avoid centralization.I have a few ideas on the subject, which I'll voice in another topic. The problem with using bitcoin in PoS scenarios is the necessity to wait for confirmations. And smart cards are infinitely more tamper proof compared to cell phone apps. One reads about many hardware platforms (like high-end phones, or game consoles) being hacked and made run custom software. In the case of SIM cards, for instance, you might hear a story, that involved SIM cloning, and it was only possible with very low-grade cryptography used, which allowed to be broken after 65536 brute force attempts.And if you can easily clone things, that means that the merchant will have to wait for confirmations, in order to avoid double-spent coins. It will render the PoS unusable in most cases. Well, it's still possible to browse. Plus there's wiki, weusecoins, and other great resources, amirite?  Again, skimming credit cards works, because they only contain reference to the account number or whatever. And therefore can be duplicated. With single wallet copy in secure area on the card skimming becomes useless. They might skim your pin with a camera, but without that same card it's useless. At least my proposal for bitcoin debit card tries to make it so... There's "Report to moderator" button. However the registration is probably not as bot-proof. Maybe people who want to use the site have to send BTC 0.01 to the forum, and then once registration is complete - they'd get it back Then we know that person's interest in bitcoin is genuine  Update from the guy who works with SIMs. He talked to his sales rep, and rep said that with such small order volume a 64K JavaCard would probably go for $0.55-0.60. That is in Singapore. More volume obviously means cheaper cards. Спокойствие, только спокойствие Покупайте поп-корн и наслаждайтесь шоу. Looks that is a compiled module. Did you follow the instructions from github page? Also, do you have 'build-essential' metapackage installed? (I assume you're on ubuntu).If you install bitcoin-p2p via npm it should do build for you. If you did `git clone` then there was that extra step, that probably bootstraps the native module. Install npmjs, all the modules are installed with this tool. Gift cards are different from debit card. Gift card contains a reference to the money stored at the particular store/chain. Sorta like store credit. You can make arrangements with the merchant to simply buy gift cards with bitcoin, no need to keep the wallet on those cards.And if you do simply keep the wallet there - it's insecure, because the merchant can keep both pin and wallet and use them later.My idea is that the encryption routine is performed by the card, so when the card is gone - there's nothing the merchant can do to access your wallet. Looks like those terminals go for about $300-$500 on ebay... Pretty pricy.Do you have one to play around with in spare time? Just to run some crypto code to see how fast it is?Do they have a dedicated crypto chip by chance to speed things up? Well, that's a start  Sprinkle it with some cryptography and we're almost there...Excellent. Also, would they have enough resources to support both debit/credit/bitcoin in same software?Although that probably would not be possible due to the fact that companies who lend those terminals to people would object. Because the transaction fees are their bread and butter...Okay, so we have our PoS developer. Now we need a smart card developer  Cool. I think I'd establish a wiki page for this project first, put all details there so that people can contribute.I don't really have any specific questions about the PoS part right now. Unless maybe this: is it possible to make them work with any arbitrary smart card? Is it just a matter of the software running on it? I would imagine so...If that's the case - will they be fast enough to perform block scanning and signature validation and stuff? Not to mention that they'd basically be running a version of bitcoin software, and that means validating the block chain and all the other stuff that it does... That would be another avenue of research.The price I had was approximate, but other types of cards, like visa or mc are of no use to us, because we have to implement bitcoin specific algorithms. In order to have a bitcoin cards - the development is a necessity. However, I'm pretty sure there are enough geeks that do it for fun anyway, just a matter of finding some It is possible to obtain development kits from major smart card manufacturers, they are around $300 per kit. So if we find someone willing - a bounty could be established.Also, more cards are ordered - lower the per-card price is. Considering it's quite a massive up-front investment, something like a http://www.KickStarter.com project can be established, where many people can participate and pay a small amount to get a card or multiple cards they could distribute locally. Yes. That is one of the reasons I'm posting this.If we could research the possibility of a) Low cost smart card manufacture process and b) cheap pos hardware, that would make it super easy to approach merchants and say, hey, hate those Visa and Interac (canadian debit system) fees you have to pay for each transaction - here's BitCoin terminal.Actually, a lot of smaller establishments remain cash only, simply because merchant transaction fees are so damn high. So that would be an easy sell, i think.<pipedream>Then they'd get their suppliers to switch to bitcoin, and so on, and so forth </pipedream> Well, currently more research is needed. Because, from what I've read, custom ECDSA implementation for JavaCard is really slow, so, either the card must support it natively, or a C implementation is required.http://amadousarr.free.fr/crypto/ECDSAJAVACARD.pdf Yes, but if you'd read my original post in whole, you might notice the section when I mull on the idea of reciprocal authorization between the card and POS terminal, which would allow for advanced options for payment. If you have a "hacked" POS, it wouldn't authenticate and prevent you from signing transactions in bulk. Or just making you wait for confirmation.If Plato works out something with his global WoT, if might be integrated into this system as well... So that various trust levels would require various amount of required confirmations.
Actually, getting GPG on windows is not that bad, albeit being bit roundabout. Just install Mozilla Thunderbird and the install Enigmail plugin for it. How can you sign a lot of transactions without having the private key? My idea in this thread: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7539.0 Well, that's the thing - the smart card can generate the keypair. You are not able to get it, ever. You can still use it, if you know the pin code. But you cannot clone the wallet onto another card or on a computer. Therefore possibility of double spending is severely restricted using this method. Well, for smartphone clients it would be a printed receipt with a payee address. Or a QR code, or something.I guess that type of POS is beyond this particular topic. I want to focus on the smart card implementation... Guess I should've put my topic in this subforum, instead of "Dev".Anyway http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=7539.0Moderators should probably move it over oficially.Please reply in original thread. Which specific points are you disagreeing about? Hello all,I've been having these ideas lately, about how to implement a bitcoin PoS with a physical card, akin to a Debit Card. I'm pretty sure my ideas are correct, but I'd like to validate a few assumptions first.After reading some on SIM cards and smart cards in general, I've established following:There is protected storage (r/w) on the smart card, and the only way to access it is by using the API provided by the software loaded on the card. (Unless you have a scanning tunneling microscope).Software that runs on the card can be either in C or JavaC is cheaper hardware-wise, but very inflexible. Any changes required at later stages mean huge costsJava is cheaper to develop, as it has an integrated development environment and lots of classes (including cryptoapi), but the cards themselves are more expensiveYou can write a program for the smartcard, that executes on the smart card, and is able to do various actions like:Authorizing access to the private keys with a PINValidating a digital signatureSigning a block of dataInitializing a blank card with a bunch of keypairsWith this is mind, it's not possible to put the block chain on the card, or do any extensive validation, due to processing power constraints.So the job of doing that should be performed by a terminal. Modern terminals are essentially computers, connected to the network, either via modem, broadband, or GPRS connection. So they are able to keep the block chain fresh.The issue is this - due to a limited space on the card, I'm not sure if it's possible to keep the entire wallet on the card. So there needs to be some sort of algorithm to quickly scan the block chain to establish the balance available for the keys that are stored on the card.I've talked to a guy, who's job is writing software for SIM cards, the ones in everyone's cell phones. He said, that a 1Mb JavaCard would cost about $1, if the order is for 50000 cards at once. So it's not too bad.Next step would be to research how modern POS terminals operate, and whether it's possible to add support for bitcoin processing on them, or maybe even develop something from scratch.Other thingsTechnically the card can be limited to one keypair, but that would greatly reduce anonymity. I guess there's a possibility of having various classes of bitcoin cards with different amount of keypairs available for usage.The keypair(s) could be programmed into the card at the time of manufacturing. Problem is that then the keys are available to 3rd party. But then it would be possible to create pre-paid bitcoin cards.Alternatively, the keypairs could be created by the card itself, at the POS, when money is added.Also, POS terminal can print out a bitcoin address on the receipt, so you can add more money to the card with regular bitcoin software.It's also possible to have the card validate the POS, to ensure compliance. If the POS is validated (by crypto-key verification) of course, then (probably) additional safeguards can be implemented, like accepting transactions with no confirmations, but somehow temporarily preventing the card from double-spending, etc. Or give option at payment like "pay with no validations, but the card is locked for next 10 minutes" or "pay regularly, but goods are released upon validation"IssuesThis is not a bank account access card. It would be an actual wallet card, so if it's lost - the money is gone forever. If it's stolen - the PIN code should prevent access to private keys. It would be possible to create 2 level PIN protection, similar to PIN and PUK in cell phones.It's also possible to create a "doomsday pin" that wipes the card clean, in case you're under duress, or something out of a spy novel What do you guys think? Sorry to piss on your parade, but /via Wikipedia If there is a demand for bitcoins, the market can adjust by lowering prices, thus making bitcoin's purchasing capacity higher. Which, pretty much, achieves the same effect. (IANAE). The only way to fully "ban" a peer-to-peer network is to prevent communication between all of it's nodes.One of the design goals of the Internet was resilience to such measures. Being able to continue to work as a whole, even if some parts are destroyed or somehow disrupted.tl;dr - No. As Russian designed Artemy Lebedev said: "Ideas have negative price". In a sense that you need some serious investment before your idea gets off the ground and actually starts making you any money...http://translate.google.com/translate?js=n&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&layout=2&eotf=1&sl=auto&tl=en&u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.artlebedev.ru%2Fkovodstvo%2Fsections%2F161%2F Google translate... I'd play some Bad Company 2. But we gotta do it on a dedicated server, which can only be purchased. You can't host games with just a copy of the game itself. Donated  Looks way cool and slick too. All the instructions seem to be here: http://www.bluishcoder.co.nz/bitcoin-pool/ Kybertek - Толстый тролль такой толстый... +1 to Trac. It's easier to use compared to Bugzilla, and VCS integration is better... Ethnically - from Belarus.Actually - Canada... My fellow bitcoiners, watch this amazing talk http://www.ted.com/talks/laurie_santos.html about how even monkeys are prone to the same irrational decision making when it comes to money...  Hey, I had a Tripod and Geocities pages Ahh... memories  However with proper plugins for major blogging platforms this spec can be a viable tool.Kinda more work for the spec author though.
That's exactly what I meant. Mainly due to a post on a Russian IT-community site, http://habrahabr.ru. True dat! Топик от хабраюзеров всея биткойна... Пора уже перекличку делать.Looks like it's time for a roll-call I wonder if that's due to bigger swarm, or heavier iron, or both...? Why do you do this:Code:"pairs": [     { "pair": ?This is not XML, no need to wrap it in yet another layer... "It\'s better in the pond"?It's also better to escape characters properly... I have a munin code for bitcoin, but it's pretty shitty, and I don't have enough time to improve it further.It makes a lot of assumptions right now, and plotting is bit off too.Code:#!/bin/bashcase $1 in        config)                cat <<'EOM'graph_title Bitcoin Daemongraph_vlabel Block Countgraph_args --base 1000 -l 68000#graph_order balance blockcount difficulty#balance.label balanceblockcount.label blockcount#blockcount.min 50000#difficulty.label difficultyEOM        exit 0;;esac#echo "balance.value" `bitcoind getbalance`echo "blockcount.value" `bitcoind getblockcount`#echo "difficulty.value" `bitcoind getdifficulty` Requires IPv6. We're not quite there yet... You drag in jQuery and also pollute the JS global object?Sorry to say, but that is pretty weak...Not to mention that it will not work when JS is disabled.Gotta tighten up that code man. Got yours  Sent it back... Currently the software is not asking any questions before performing any sort of transaction.So it's really easy for people to send all the BTC's to some random bitcoin address in a few seconds the owner steps away from the computer without locking it.I know that it is more of an issue of local security and trust, rather then a software problem. However for majority of non-technical, non security-savvy people some safe-guard should be in place.Maybe even combined with wallet encryption.What does everyone think about it? %SYSTEMDRIVE%/Users/%USERNAME%/AppData/Roaming/Bitcoin ? I'm a big fan of Harry Potter myself  Dr. Seuss is pretty much unknown where I come from  Just read the chapter list for both and you'll have a pretty good understanding... Don't have to lash out with "Dr. Seuss" and what not. Both book titles are fairly self-explanatory.Ok. Both books are preaching the Austrian school's ideas, so they should be a right fit for this community."Defending the Undefendable" covers various social aspects and practices of our lives, which are under heavy ostracism by the society (off the cover : The Pimp, Prostitute, Scab, Slumlord, Libeler, Moneylender, and Other Scapegoats in the Gogue's Gallery of American Society). Part V covers financial personages, such as The (Nongovernment) Counterfeiter, The Miser, The Inheritor, The Moneylender, The Noncontributor to Charity, and shows how those are not bad guys, but it fact are required for a normal economy; also covering a good deal about the economy in general."Economics in one lesson" is a very old treatise on economics, circa 1946, which is still surprisingly valid in describing current state of economical affairs. I strongly suggest everyone to read entire Part V of Walter Block's "Defending the Undefendable" (http://www.indytruth.org/library/books/block-defending/defending.pdf). The rest is also good, but beyond this particular discussion. Other book I could recommend would be "Economics in one lesson" by Hazlitt (http://www.hacer.org/pdf/Hazlitt00.pdf). Should bitcoind be more of a system-wide daemon? With PAM authentication and support for all system users, not just the one running it?Like scanning /home/*/.bitcoin folders for a wallet file and provide access by both username and system password... A browser extension (greasemonkey maybe) would be cool, to show a bitcoin icon (similar to https lock) to show that a site participates in bitcoin economy.Also, perhaps more attention should be focused on supporting microformats, so the bitcoin economy is not only site-specific, but even item-specific on a page. (by microformats i mean information embedded in html markup, rather than external json files. More info @ http://microformats.org/) I've sent the info to the operator, but might as well post it here.Blackjack has a lot of bugs. If you split and get two aces afterwards - it will show NaN (and will not remove chips off the table for the next round). Happened to me twice. bitcoin.exceede.comAnd if someone can share an init.d script (Ubuntu) it can be more permanent, in case of reboots.
