Well, it's like with every investment - use your brain and do some research on the project you want to invest in. Better take half an hour and DYOR than blow your money to some scam ICO. Could be dropping more, to be honest, bottom not reached yet. But I'm sure it will recover eventually. No problems here, have my wallet open for the last 3 months - all in sync. Here is my peer list:        "addr" : "13.81.244.88:33220",        "addr" : "108.61.151.131:33220",        "addr" : "5.9.13.72:33220",        "addr" : "[2001:0:9d38:90d7:206c:19eb:adb5:60fc]:9910",        "addr" : "13.93.11.192:33220",        "addr" : "13.80.9.196:33220",        "addr" : "[2001:0:4137:9e76:1422:a8b:2286:36a6]:33220",        "addr" : "52.174.147.46:33220",        "addr" : "104.197.134.84:60026",        "addr" : "[2001:0:9d38:90d7:82f:1334:f2a0:56b4]:9910",        "addr" : "36.55.238.185:33220",        "addr" : "52.232.37.139:33220", I can confirm it, the minting of POStokens still works. I always check the gas price on ethgasstation.info and set the gas limit to 250000 before I mint the tokens, so far no problems. Still, a good investment in my opinion and the Oyster tokens are still cheap. Also, I am holding still my complete bounty payout. If you have for example a 4 terabyte HDD, you can use 3 TB for mining and 1 TB for storing data. But 4 gigabyte isn't enough for mining imo. Is this UnxCoin already listed on a crypto exchange? How much is the premine? Where is the roadmap for the coin? 49 satoshis are not a bad price for a young airdrop coin. Was the second airdrop the last airdrop? Any plans for listing VERE on more exchanges? Any plans available to get Intense coin to another exchange? I am not the biggest fan of stocks exchange. Same question here, why you chose to use a blocksize of one megabyte? And why the X13 Algorithm? Seems like a fork from another altcoin. Besides the normal correction of Litecoin, it is still a good investment in my opinion. And the transaction fees are way cheaper than bitcoin for example. Congratulations for getting listed on cryptopia. It will be surely raising awareness for COLX and the price will keep rising. It is ridiculous that a cryptocurrency exchange wants to operate for a month in "limited mode".My initial tough seems to be true, I guess only 2 people operate this "exchange". The price swings back and forth the last days, I wonder when and where it will be stabilized. Still a good investment. Yeah, congratulations to DeepOnion for this major milestone. I hold some onions myself, I'm curious which milestone will be taken next. The COLX price increase is incredible! Also, the market cap of 1300 BTC is impressive.Is there any news when cryptopia will list COLX? So that means you need no masternode collateral like any other masternode coin? Basically, anyone can start dozens/hundreds of MNs? Congratulations on the Kucoin exchange listing!I believe the Kucoin listing is a win-win situation for both sides. Does this coin not have any blockexplorer yet?You could also put the links to the Windows, Linux etc. wallets to the announcement post. "The claim is to provide a cryptocurrency capable of sustaining the total global load of non-cash transactions"Wow, this is a great announcement.I think the implementation of PoC2, later PoC3, Dymaxion, and all the proposals and CIPs will push Burst to one of the top crypto ranks."The Burst Dymaxion is not only the most significant update tothe Burst cryptocurrency, it is the biggest technological updateany cryptocurrency has ever received."Fully agree on that!
What do you exactly mean by "its over"? The blockchain is working and healthy and you can trade this coin on coinsmarkets. Just making a new announcement thread isn't a solution. You should really try to fix the wallet sync issues. Well because Poloniex is Poloniex, they had already communication issues at the time when Bitcoin Cash forked if they support the fork or not. The best and safest place for your COLX coins is always the COLX wallet. So I suggest, download and sync the COLX wallet and move your coins to your wallet. Ethereum is in my opinion still a solid project which is steadily maintained and supported by its team. So yes, I still support ETH. Fully agree, always make your own researches, know and understand what features provide a crypto project and what market position it has.  As of now, the SHARE team revealed no information about the SHARE platform nor the coin/token itself. So we have to wait until they create a whitepaper or give more detailed info about the SHARE project. Haha, "we are working on it." Made my day.A scammy bitcoin fork, of course, needs months over months of detailed preparation.Nobody needs this useless bitcoin clone. No wallet, no block explorer, no roadmap, a broken website on a free hoster.Not really much information here. Just the same copy and paste clones over and over again. Interesting partnerships so far, did you also contact bittrex, poloniex and coinbase/gdax? And when is the wallet for this fork available? I guess you need a good English translator. And you posted in the wrong forum; this is the token child board.And why is no block explorer available? They answered it a page before:"We will be forking on January 22nd, 2018 at 11:59 PM GMT, or at block 505083, whichever comes first." Interesting concept.But when I try to login to your website assetfun.net I get an init error and Application initialization issues. Alright, thank you for your explanation. The process is now a bit clearer to me.On which block will your coin fork? And how can we claim the forked coins? You're totally right, zero progress on GitHub, only three pages on their website, no real product, no updates on the dev progress.Could either be whales pumping or themselves pumping. DASH price is skyrocketing, good job guys! I guess times of an affordable masternode are over now.Just holding some DASH pieces. Bitcoin interest - interesting, haha.So this works like proof of stake? Or is this interest generation model a different mechanism?Maybe you could draw an explanation picture or something like that. Good luck with reviving this coin. To be honest, 0.12 btc listing fee for an unknown and small exchange with 700k volume is way too much.You could try to list your coin on coinsmarkets imo. This is great to hear; I cannot wait to test some of the upcoming features like the cryptoscanner and backtesting. What are you talking about? What features are promised? Are you just here to spread useless FUD?It seems that you don't know what a roadmap is.
It is a good decision to swap CRAVE to a newer codebase in my opinion.I guess you clone PIVX to use it for the new codebase, do you also plan to implement the seesaw mechanism? Alright, thanks for the information! So let's wait for the announcement from the NXT team tomorrow. Interesting, so besides the fact that you have 400 million coins premine you also need donations for exchange listing?Which purpose has the premine then? Does anyone know on which exact NXT block the snapshot will occur? I just know that the snapshot occurs on 28th December. From the announcement post:Anonymity:Coin Mixing to further hide your transactions on the blockchain.Reduce the chance of de-anonymizing a single transaction by 99%If you need any help join the SEND discord channel, very active and helpful community: https://discordapp.com/invite/xJthHER Congratulation to the stash team for the successful ICO. Do you plan to reopen your telegram channel?Received my stash bounty reward. When I click the thumbs up button, it doesn't do anything. I will wait a bit and try to vote with a different browser. Of course, you got no return because it is a simple calculator. You have to mint your POStoken, tutorial how to mint is here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2110712.msg21934703#msg21934703 That is good news, I tried COSS a few month ago, but the UI experience was horrible. Hope the new user interface will to better. Do we have any chance to get SkeletonRevive listed on CoinMarketCap.com? I'd love to see SKELR there and of course also on Blockfolio. The famous last words. So this Bitpaycoin is basically dead? Is there any exchange available to trade Bitpaycoin? The PoC Consortium are doing great work. I really like the new blockexplorer and the new wallet.The BURST price seems to stabilize a bit now. That is excellent news for litecoin. It will for sure raise the awareness of the cryptocurrencies in general and litecoin in specific. As a Proof-of-Stake coin fan, I thinking about buying some Monkey Project coins. I really like the high ROI% I like the idea of the universal node reward and the stack minting, but how do you validate the banknotes for the StackMint process? The PoC Consortium are doing great work. I really like the new blockexplorer and the new wallet.The BURST price seems to stabilize a bit now. Here is the other announcement thread about Super Bitcoin:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2546577.0Alright, thanks for the information about the fork date. It is good to see that the problem with the high transaction fees is going to be solved - according to ethgasstation.info a 5-minute transaction costs about five gwei. There is already an announcement thread for Super Bitcoin - why do we need now another one? And the fork happened already? This is a promising project. When will be your whitepaper available? And who stands behind this project? I couldn't find any team member/advisor page on your website.
If you have to send money to someone, it is not an airdrop; it's a "sell drop" of course.An airdrop is a free giveaway of coins or tokens. The high price of Bitcoin is the effect of its high demand. Some people are waiting for the next hundred bitcoin forks, some waiting for the bitcoin futures and so on. These events are driving the price up. Too risky to hop in now, in my opinion. Litecoin was growing too fast, now FOMO kicks in. Just wait a few days and buy in the dips. Yobit is the worst exchange, non-existent support and most of the wallets are in "Wallet Status: Maintenance" forever. Better stay away from this exchange. At the moment the suggested gwei price for a ~ 5-minute transaction on the Ethereum network is eight gwei. It seems that the price is stabilizing again. Any news when Yobit will list SkeletonRevive?And could you add the links to coinsmarkets.com and the telegram channel to the announcement post? I really don't know if this crypto cat breeding game is a good or bad thing.It is like a stress test for the Ethereum blockchain and the network transactions, so maybe it will be a good thing at the end, because of new features and improvements are added to ETH. I also believe that Ripple was overrated. According to coinmarketcap Ripple is now on 5th place, based on Market Cap. I'm sure the price will continue to fall. I believe that Bitcoin can reach $100k, but not in the timeframe of one year. A value of $50000 is what I think is doable. Exciting Bitcoin fork project, but why you chose the ASIC friendly SHA256 algorithm over a GPU or a CPU mining algorithm?And why did you implement a two-week difficulty adjustment? Well good question, the latest wallet release is from November 10, 2015, according to GitHub. Not much happened here. I am also very interested to see your working product. There were similar projects before like TimeTeller said, but they all weren't successful. It seems that some people are panic selling now; I'll wait a bit and buy in the dip. Interesting. So your exchange is already in development and will be open for public on January 1, 2018? It is impressive how DeepOnion gains more and more value. With a strong and active community, everything is possible. If you have to send any amount of ether to someone to get some tokens, it is called an ICO; this is not an airdrop. I think about to buy another bag of IOTAs; the IOTA price could make it over 10$ easily.The question is: will the price keep rising? Why did you lose money? Patience is critical, SEND is only about a day on cryptopia.Just hold your coins and keep it staking. Dev applied already for CoinMarketCap listing, depends now on them. Could take some days. Are you a member of the development team? Why do you use your affiliate link in the announcement post?
This is a really good score for the Algory Project! I can't wait to use the cryptocurrency backtester. You need 6250 SEND coins for one master node. If you need help or instructions how to set up a SocialSend master node, you can visit the SEND discord channel. The refund process through the smart contract went without issues; I got my payment back immediately. Just send a private message to the dev SkeletonRevive; then you'll get the address where you should send your coins. Well, it is all based on trust. If bitcoin is losing trust because for example a significant flaw was exposed, bitcoin cash or another altcoin could take the leadership. You should check your certificate chain on your website; I'm getting a certificate error when I open your site. According to the dev knowCrypto in the discord channel, he had already applied today. But SocialSend is already on Blockfolio. This topic could be seen as spam IMO. At least your announcement post is slightly funny. ETH Gas price is now at $0.1-0.2 per transaction so that minting will be a lot more expensive. So this rise of the Gas price is mainly because of this crypto cat breeding game? Unbelievable. I wanted to resync the blockchain because it stuck, but now it held also on block 1088 with the "invalid block" error. You already created an announcement post for this token, why another one? This token doesn't impress me at all. So i'll get a forum if i hold a share? Hahha, the narrator/translator voice on your website is so annoying, it will you push in the investors in no time!Why should someone buy your amigothing? A swap to POSToken 2.0? ok, well, i will join the telegram chat to get informations on this topic.Also waiting for more news on the token creation service topic. So your project is basically the same as BOINC, folding@home, gridcoin and curecoin?What are the benefits of joining this project and not BOINC, for example? "Ethershares is a PoW Smart contract on Ethereum." Never heard of a Proof-of-Work smart contract."remaining 2,000,000 for forum development  and developers."What forum? Do you develop a new forum for this token? Because this old thread is only controlled by the former member andrew, while the new one is in control of the STeX team. Masternode collateral is 6250 SEND (former 25000 PIEX), because of the 4 : 1 swap.To get the latest announcements and news about Social Send, join their discord channel: https://discord.gg/xJthHERThe admins/dev, mods and the community itself are very helpful. I also saw this behaviour on a lot of new coins. Just a few blocks old, some nicehash dudes with some rented gigahashes ruined the coins, because the blockchain of these coins were stuck for days.
Alright, i saw this botbingo scamfest on another fake/scam ICO - now i know i need to be cautious. So this is like pokemon go for the cryptocurrency world i suppose? are these point of interests all around the world? Kinda unique project, a decentralized platform for the freelancing market. I'll read the whitepaper to get more information about this project. I really like Blockchain Analyzer function from the algory project - could be a good warning signal if there is a high movement of coins/tokens to exchanges. Come on, stop this! Another lending coin ICO with the same "roadmap" as all the other clones, plus 70% of the coins holding the dev?ok, i admit this made me laugh a bit "02/30/2018: Target price USD 20" The best thing about your website is your "about us" section - its empty!Seriously what's in "development"? Its a plain simple ERC20 token! Who is the team behind this project? Could not find a team website. And no roadmap/whitepaper available? "With a SimcoePay you get an online IBAN multicurrency account"Looks like a interesting project. Do you partnering up with SimcoePay or is this your developed product? Maybe the dev want to keep out the spammers, double posters, etc. - so it is a good idea the raise the member level. Great to see that deeponion still gaining more and more attention. I'm not in the airdrop, but holding some bought onions. What are you talking about?? This is a copypasta "cryptocoincreator.com" coin. Everyone can create his/her coin over this website.This coin is worthless. Today i already saw three fake lending projects popping out, already flooded with tons of newbie shill posts. It just become worse. I really don't know why the world needs another crypto lending ICO. There are soooo many already out or only weeks away from finishing their ICO. Of course it is totally understandable, i mean who does not love to put money in a black box...A team page of the core members only creates unnecessary trust. Tiered masternode got my interest, but your announcement post has zero informations in it. Please polish up your ann post. From the STeX telegram group (https://t.me/stex_official/5163): Breaking news!After detailed consultations and discussions with our partners and getting the community's feedback we decided to barely cancel the auction system as it is too complicated and not easy to understand by many of the participants and can produce unwanted results and negative feedback.Therefore, we extend the duration of the ICO stage 1 till the December 10th or until further notice.If soft cap of 5,000,000 STE will be reached, ICO stage 1 may be closed without notice.As we are still in the negotiations with the ICO platforms, the amount of 20,000,000 STE remains reserved and we expect it to be distributed starting from December 15.The remaining part of the STE tokens has to be distributed at the last stage of the ICO right after the platform release in 2018. #rank-up     Your nick: Full Member #Joined      Post amount: 121     Campaign:  A Thats a fantastic project, i like the possibilites as a token holder to be able to determine the direction of the exchange. it seems that the dev messed this up. But no worries, he's creating new useless tokens for sure, stayed tuned! lol
Million of newbie accounts spamming useless posts in this thread - and all because of the "airdrop" Why are your team pictures all blurred? Are you trying to hide something? Are these stock photos? If you're like me and don't like to use google authenticator, simply because there are better OTP apps out there, you can try the open source OTP App FreeOTP. Such a big scam website, scamed PIEX team 16 million coins.Stay away from this exchange.You can read the whole story in the PIEX discord channel #pie-to-piex-swap:  https://discord.gg/ctG9WpX Some bitcointalk members providing a transaction accelerator service for free/low fees, look in the services child board: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=52.40 Airdrop ended before the btt announcement was created? Interesting. I can recommend perfect privacy, they're fast, reliable and anonymous. Man i wish i could travel to the Maldive Islands, but its so expensive to travel there. Its interesting to see that as soon as bounty or airdrop is on the ANN thread title, people simply don't care if the ICO is scam or not. http://vkontakte.info/id203304Just write airdrop in the title and people don't care if its scam or not.Thats brilliant!  Say hi to Joe DelMonte, twin of Derek Nessi:https://www.linkedin.com/in/joe-delmonte-804b074/ Nice, the marketcap page is looking good. Website? Roadmap? Whitepaper? More info needed. Glad i did'nt join this selldrop. Joined the campaign. Any spreadsheet available to check if i applied correctly? Promising project, could you provide more technical details of it? Three sentences are enough for a announcement post on bitcointalk. I guess ICO ends now in 2 hours. Well done. When will people learn that a airdrop and a bounty campaign are completely different things. Who is "we"? Who is on your team? It was only a matter of time for them to close nova, since their login and their ongoing eth issues.
Why another thread for the same token distribution?? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2316083.0;topicseen Any roadmap for this token available? interesting project, the airdrop link is still hidden man, i really almost laughed a bit. fake airdrop = selldrop token no. 9000 Maybe its the whole point of this token, to create confusion so that potential entrust coin investors are buying this useless token instead. thought the same, especially #7 could be a unique selling point for JRupee.Z I see, POS tokens are on the run now. Will watch this thread later Looks quite interesting, how to join the airdrop? Your website is down... Can you please provide more information about your project? Ok, this makes sense. But if you want that people trust your project, you have a lot of work to do. No whitepaper, no detailed explanation about the business strategy/plan, funding, no roadmap, no details about core members (or member??)All i can see is a default website template, build with "website builder" on a free hoster with a free domain, not even a own domain name. So this coin is dead? No news, nothing.Maybe dev is to busy creating new coins... Now in know why there is such a high demand for this token:So, finally what is the project about ? Why is Bitcoin Red special ? Why is it not a basic eXXX coin ? Here is why :Red is the color of passion and anger  More information needed. How much team members, details of the core members, linkedin profiles etc. website? roadmap? whitepaper? More information needed. Any plans for more exchanges? stocks.exchange looks not very trustful to me. I answered this already. Just got the airdrop, thanks. Any news on exchanges? It just started 2 hours ago, so thats normal.
Just bought a stake of ATXT tokens, good luck for the project. "To prevent spam please send at least 0.002 ETH to our wallet to receive the token. ETH Address"To prevent spam please stop making useless fake airdrop threads. Subscribed the thread for updates, hopefully this will be a real airdrop. Now its working. The join ICO button redirects to alttradex.com. Will the website automatically be aware that my rank raised to member rank? I've changed my signature to the member sig as well, but the airdrop website still have the jr. member rank. yes, kucoin provide currently 50% revenue daily, the upcoming alttradex 60% quarterly i think, and also stex on the monthly basis according the stex whitepaper 100% excluding expenses. Well competition is strong, with the current competitor kucoin and the upcoming competitors alttradex and stex.Coss have to work hard if they want to withstand the competiton already the 20th worthless token today...And its not a airdrop if you have to send ether first. When will be the roadmap and the whitepaper available? good to know, thanks for the info! Beside the other features like the smart-contracts ethereum is also a perfect transfercoin.Just look at the transaction fee from ethereum compared to bitcoin!I can currently send ether for $0.006 transaction fee under 1 minute.Because of that im a huge eth fan! How large is the devteam? How much experience do you have in creating and extending masternode coins? Github sources? Windows wallet? Are you planning a headless mode, so someone than run their delegates/validators on a normal vps? Promising project, any bounty campaign for social media etc. active or planned? Is any roadmap for this coin available? What's your relation with this company? https://www.immorate.ch/crew.html# These shitty scamcoins are popping out like crazy here, just ridiculous. You're right, he wants 0.003 eth for his "airdrop", lol.What next? just 2 eth, then you're in my special airdrop  
All posts are counted after every friday 09:30 UTCNext round ends on27 Oct. 2017 UTC 09:30 Well i guess i've wait until its reopened again. Thats the question, does it now run or is it still bugged? My masternode got no rewards when i've tested it. Well whats the point of doing this? This only damages the reputation of this "token" "The 3rd round airdrop will also last for 2 weeks, start on October 16th, 2017 at 15:00 UTC and last until October 29th, 2017 at 15:00 UTC."The token will be distributed after the airdrop round. Damn, missed the airdrop, is a 2nd round coming? I just joined the postoken airdrop by creating a account on postoken.org and joining the signature campaign. thanks for the airdrop Just bought some PIEX, social sending feature is really cool! Thank you for the ref link , i got 25 % discount and ordered 3 cards eur, usd and gbp  I agree , ETC will be @100$ soon , its a decentralized version of ETH , once ETH goes POS , many miners will switch to ETC = difficulty will increase , and price will follow , stay tuned = ETC is the best opportunity to grow your capital if you are daytrading = invest nowif you plan for long term investment =invest now lol  Trading at multiple exchanges is called arbitrage , in theory = its wonderfull (buy at cheap price = transfer , sell at high price = rince and repeat lol) , in real = You will lose your money in commissions , price will move while you try to send your btc (confirmations ...etc) , not worth it Of course nothing is 100% anon unless you are a ghost or using fake identity lolFor the email adress , you can use any anonmail +vpn , to receive the card to your real adress = use a mailforwarder , is it anon enough for you ? lolIf you are using cryptocard for your personal and daily use = i don't recommend using fake id = because once you need higher limits = more than 2,000 $ = you need to send your id scan .I'm using cryptopay card since 2 years now = no problem , quick and efficient service 24h/7I can confirm they offer 25% discount if you use any cryptopay ref link Да, мне использование IRC тоже не совсем нравится. Вариант со списком хостов Bitcoin уже использует, в случае, если способ с IRC не работает. Но как вариант -- вполне возможен захват IRC-сервера противниками BitCoin (государствами либо просто хакерами) и наполнение его неверными хостами. Так что действительно, было бы неплохо использовать подобную eMule или торрентовскому DHT систему (ЕМНИП).Насчёт клиентов -- это да, нужны альтернативные клиенты.Насчёт автора -- пока что исходники открыты, и им можно доверять. Сомневающиеся могут взять и использовать специальный софт для сравнения исходников разных версий, чтобы узнать, что нового Сатоши вписал в код. Опять же -- возможны альтернативные клиенты, просто пока что bitcoin -- молодая система, и пока что её основным клиентом все довольны. Только как бы не оказалось, что вместе с десятком альтернативных клиентов был бы десяток дыр Протекция? Было бы неплохо, но пока что с внедрением внешних данных в биткойны, говорят, есть проблемы. Зато если я использую, скажем, библиотеку для, скажем, PHP, тот же самый запрос оказывается таблицей, которую удобно парсить  . Looks like there are some paid 'deluxe' versions he's selling. I'm still surprised no one from the country with 9th biggest population and THE largest territory in the world has posted anything here (and they even have their own board on this forum).  There is an "English" link in the top left corner  Проблема в том, что Bitcoin является анонимной системой, значит удобной для отмывания денег, значит подозрительной для государства. Плюс, WebMoney не очень сильно любит создание обменников. Нужно написать такое определение Bitcoin, чтобы юридически он не был валютой. Тогда можно будет спокойно обменивать BC с WM. You can just make a "balance" for each user. If a user puts something to the address, his balance increases; if he/she wishes to take BTCs from the balance, it decreases; and bets will be paid with that balance.
You know, any transactions made without confirmations are unreliable (cause if no-one verified them, the sender may be douple-spending). And without Internet access, we cannot send confirmations. Поскольку платежи в биткойн анонимные, то чтобы определить, от кого идут деньги, нужно создавать для каждого юзера, от которого пойдут деньги, отдельный адрес. После этого вы передаёте адрес юзеру, он шлёт деньги, вы видите, на какой адрес они пришли. Так как вы создали этот адрес специально для платежей этого юзера и другим юзерам его не давали, то послать деньги на него мог только ЭТОТ юзер. Or you can create an address for each receiver and keep track of which address you receive money from. For example, I have 3 users which I receive money from: A,B and C. I create an address for each one of them, and if I get bitcoins to A's address, I suppose A sent them; if to B's address, then it should be B sending money; if to C's address, it is C sending bitcoins to me. You can push the [-] button in the "Non-English" category so it will be hidden. Адреса bitcoin, на которые могут идти деньги. На один "кошелёк" их может быть несколько. Их можно использовать, чтобы, скажем, различать платежи от разных пользователей. I am pretty sure the most of bitcoiners have interest in BC as well as other open-source decentralized projects, the most popular of them being Jabber. Basically, it is an IM service (like ICQ, AIM, MSN), that... is distributed (so you can set up your own server). It is quite popular: many people have Jabber accounts even if they don't know about it (GMail/GTalk users, LiveJournal users, Facebook users (IIRC, since I never had a FB account) QIP Infium users...). It also has transport services, that you can register your other service accounts on and talk with those services' users within your Jabber client... There are easy-to-install mods that add Jabber to the IM list for SMF forums, so this shouldn't be too hard. There is bitcoind, the headless client, which can be used as a server. Or you mean "make something like 'if bitcoind crashes, restart it automatically?'"? Ubuntu 10.04, 64 bit, 0.3.8 -- не повторяется. Hmm.. Here are some "beta" versions of Russian translations for the site itself. (They are complete, but not perfect) Yeah... In earlier days, you could easily set an 8-letter Upper-Lower-Digit password and be sure no one will be interested in cracking it (which he will do for 30 days minimum). Now, we have Playstation 3's and cloud services, and cracking that MD5 is a matter of minutes or hours. Now i'll have to change every my password to something stronger.BTW, SMF FTW, cause it uses SHA-256 instead of MD5. Well, If you can compile bitcoin and create a source DEB, you can set up a PPA. Well, yeah. Even at the usual difficulty level generating coins is NOT so profitable, and at the harder one, it is just pure waste of real money. I wonder how much he spends for using these 1000 cores... Because the price of bitcoins you get is NOT much larger than price you have to pay to generate them. The problem with slow confirmations is because of a little amount of nodes. When Bitcoin will become somewhat popular, then you could get the confirmations much quicker (especially the ones in the limit of an ISP/city/region[or state]/country) It's not ten minutes, it is 2016 blocks.And with your variant: imagine: by some sheer luck, some machine generated a block with a VERY VERY low hash. Then if other machines pick this low hash as a target, most of the blocks that would suit the target otherwise will be dropped. And only after the 2016 block cycle ends, an easier target will be set.Target is not the thing that only decreases, it may increase (for example, if some nodes leave the network or stop generating, the "still generating" nodes should get a better chance to keep emission at the required level) Well, the only possible way now is to send all your money from your other accounts to the primary one and never use those after   It is a nice idea, but it's made in an old version of Flash*, and they don't behave well with new versions of Flash** on Linux.*Compiled with an old version of Flash MX**Used on a new version of Flash PlayerP.S. For a poker game, you can try and modify PokerTH (change the master server, change the rules of netplay so you start not with amount determined by game creator, but the amount on your casino's deposit  or something like that) Yep, they should be the other way around, so on Windows, the OK button is the first one, and on GNOME (and Mac OS too!) the OK button is at the lower right side of the window. Well, if the "coin" is encrypted with the public key of the recipient, and the recipient decrypts it using his private key, why shouldn't comments (and sender's name) be encrypted with the same key too? Well, not everyone has a "white" (direct) IPv6 address, but aiming a little bit to the future would be a nice idea.
