I saw this linked elsewhere and it's a good watch about the S-Curve for technology adoption: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qHUPPYzzZrIThe network affect should encourage adoption similar to Google, Facebook and Twitter, so the case for an S-Curve has legs, IMO.Assuming we will have S-Curve adoption, I wonder when it will arrive? Are we already at the start of it? The next few years could see value appreciate in a near vertical fashion, before tapering off again. We can see declining volume on MtGox over the last 4 days, with the pattern following an ascending triangle (up towards 125). I would say that is more bullish than bearish, tbh.http://stockcharts.com/school/doku.php?id=chart_school:chart_analysis:chart_patterns:ascending_triangle_cThat said, it has been a steep climb, especially on Bitstamp and maybe we are in for a breather. I'd like to make a trade or two over the next few days, but holding still seems to be the most obvious plan for me atm. As I only have play money, this isn't of concern to me!  Not necessarily - They may just be buying BTC and transferring them to their personal wallets, before the price gets even higher. Sometimes that makes trading on Stamp easier!  I find that it mostly carves its own patterns these days though, apart from these big moves.IMO, you don't end up with prices 20% higher than elsewhere unless something is very wrong. Whether it is panic at not knowing what is going on or whether some big players do know what is going on, who can say? I trade regularly on Stamp, without any major issues. TBH, it tends to be a bit less erratic, IMO.I take your point though that traders are looking at relative prices, rather than absolute prices. I'd still be a bit concerned about Gox's future, considering the way the market is pricing the risk already. I suspect people are more concerned about getting their money out at all, than just waiting a month. Why else would you pay a 20% premium?If you were buying coins now, you wouldn't be wiring funds to Gox and paying a 20% premium. The only people who would pay that are those who (unfortunately) have fiat funds there waiting already. A 20%+ risk premium over the other main USD exchanges would certainly point in that direction. Look at the books elsewhere and the picture is completely different.Bitstamp is pretty even, with the asks having the edge... at $10/btc cheaper.MtGox has issues and people want to get their fiat out of there. Whether they just buy and hold BTC or sell them elsewhere (such as Bitstamp) is debatable, but there is an unusually large demand for coins, well above the rate offered elsewhere.In short, I'd be careful what you read into MtGox's price/order book. There is more than a whiff of panic there, IMO. It looks like Bitstamp is struggling to stay over $100, with the 3rd attempt within 24 hours barely touching it (so far).Incidentally, this looks a bit like a 24h triple top and a 1m triple top combining. Are we going to see a fall to 90-95 or will $100 be fully breached regardless?EDIT: I notice there is about 5k BTC asks sitting between $100 and $101 too on Bitstamp. Over $15 between MtGox and Bitstamp...Does someone know something we don't about MtGox?Bitstamp is looking a bit triple-toppy still, but Gox has got a bit carried away with itself. Triple top forming since the first started at the end of July? Third peak on falling volume. Thoughts? Over $13 between MtGox and Bitstamp!   Not only has the gap between MtGox and Bitstamp increased to about $10 again, but the order book is starting to look like a mirror image.MtGox:Bitstamp:It appears that Bitstamp is far more bearish than MtGox. This is surely a reflection on people trying to buy BTC to get out of MtGox?I suspect Bitstamp is leading the market now too, which makes me wonder whether the 95 support level is about to give way. Sure, the volume was a bit dodgy (especially on Bitstamp), but I thought it was worth a punt. The head and the right shoulder panned out as expected, but there wasn't the full reversal back to the neck line. It was still worth trading (for me anyway).EDIT: Although we are heading towards the neckline now on Bitstamp... the pattern is rough though, granted. Ha! It was only small, I assure you!  Correct. Even a perfectly formed H+S pattern may not complete, but statistically, it usually does.I played the head and the right shoulder and made a small profit, but the dip after the right shoulder didn't materialise. Sure, it was only supposed to be indicative.The volume has fallen at each buying period. The below shows it more clearly:Anyway, it will be interesting to see how it pans out. That's what I'm seeing anyway. Head and shoulders completing for the day? Both volume and price points to it pretty clearly on MtGox.The volume is still high on Bitstamp, mind. The pattern is there though.Could we see a blow off back down to about 101 MtGox/93 Bitstamp?
So, is this a proper breakout over 100 or just another temporary blip before the next plunge?If 100 doesn't hold, it will be interesting to see if we fall back to above or below 90 (EDIT: changed from Bitstamp value!). If it does hold, it could mean we are entering a bull market.I'm standing by my bet of us still being in a bear market for a few more months yet, but I'm finding it hard to predict where it is going to go currently. Perhaps that is because we are getting close to the bottom (or have passed it!  )?EDIT: BTW, take a look at the chart from mid-June. 100 was a support for two rallies which failed to breach 115. 115 was the support level for much of May. Statism frequently ends up using arbitrary threats. There is little in the way of principles guiding such laws - it's just 'might is right', with some lobbying thrown in. Has anyone noticed how little volatility there is at Bitstamp compared to MtGox at the moment?Bitstamp:MtGox:P.S. It looks like BitStamp just took a mini nose dive... I don't think any short/medium term bears would argue with that bullish position in the long term. The question is whether this bubble with fully correct before increased adoption begins to push up the price again. Well, there was a lot of stupid money exiting those same positions that the smart money was buying into - we always have sellers to match the buyers after all.The question is though - what has changed since January? Granted, exposure has certainly increased - does that mean BTC is worth 6 times more, 7 months later? I think you need to zoom out a bit further...  Good post, but I would add that it isn't just the current chart which is bearish; there is a common theme to all bubbles.Bubbles are essentially malinvestment, fuelled by irrational hype/panic, which pushes the price way beyond where the fundamentals would otherwise leave it. Whether it is tulips, shares, houses or Bitcoins, it doesn't really make much difference. Those who are bearish in the short/medium term are likely scholars of the many previous bubbles which are littered throughout history.Ofc, the trick is knowing where the price forms a floor. How much more is Bitcoin worth now than January, when the bubble started forming? Considering it was about $15, is it worth twice that now? 3 times that much? More? How much has changed since January to justify this?If the answer is 'not a lot', then don't be surprised to see the price continue to tumble. Personally, I think Bitcoin has gathered more momentum and it has survived another dangerous bubble. I'm unconvinced that it is worth more than 6 times what it was just 8 months ago though - maybe 2-4 as a gut feeling, though. I doubt they would hit the block chain. While you are trading at an exchange, you're just playing with numbers in the exchange's database. It's only when fiat/BTC are withdrawn that any action occurs.That said, I'm sure you will get some people who withdraw all of their trading BTC each night for safe keeping. Eh? You don't need institutional violence in order to have a financial system. Why would you think otherwise? Why would rejecting institutionalised violence cause the extinction of the human race? Are peaceful people incapable of functioning without being threatened from day to day? One reason you need fiat is to pay off the thugs state. If you don't, they start to threaten people with guns and cages.While ever there is taxation requested in state fiat, there can be no free market for currency.However, that doesn't mean that Bitcoin can't thrive. It just means there are reasons why people need state fiat. We have history as our guide. While it doesn't repeat perfectly, there are often similarities.This is why observing charts is useful. We know with a reasonable probability that certain formations will lead to certain results.Will you get it right every time? Of course not. To ignore patterns and probabilities and to claim that it is pure guess work is not a valid assertion though. That would be compatible with a long period of consolidation, typical with a post bubble correction scenario. If it is true, it will give bears a long time to pick their moment to buy.In fact, until this blow off phase occurs, I suspect there will still be further for the price to fall. Doesn't everyone want to maximise their wealth?If you can buy at $50, rather than $100, you are going to have double the wealth/Bitcoins, no matter what the price ends up being.That doesn't mean everyone has to buy/sell. You should do what feels best for you. It looks like we have a short term triple top forming. This is particularly clear on Bitstamp.I suspect we will see another big drop (testing the last low) in price later today. Ok, you're predicting $80 then?Anyone else? So gentlemen, what will be the lowest point in this cycle? 55? 50? Lower? Will we touch the 40s?I'm going to wait and see, but I suspect we will hit lower lows (65 @ bitstamp) than during the last cycle. I wouldn't mistake long term bullishness for short term cycles.Almost everyone here is bullish long term or we wouldn't be here at all. The question is, what is happening over the next days/weeks/months, IMO. What is the target buy price then, gentlemen?I'm thinking high 50s at the highest, but suspect at least low 50s will be challenged within the next few weeks. I rarely bother considering actual events while trading. Sure, they can be trigger events, but cyclic movement seems to count for more in the short/medium term.
*cough*  +1The writing has been on the wall for a long time. While there is always a chance of a breakout, markets tend to be cyclical. Whatever the 'trigger' is to turn the market isn't really important, tbh. How else would there be a sell? http://www.bitcoincharts.com/markets/mtgoxUSD.htmlLooking at a 60 day chart (in reference to previous charts), it looks very much like we've just passed the peak of this cycle. I suspect momentum will gather for downward price pressure from here. You said that before the last dump too!  After seeing how the day has developed, I've sold out again (for about the same price as I bought in!).It still doesn't look like $100 is going to be breached and sustained (or $95 on Bitstamp). The short term chart does look like there may be a break out. There is a rising triangle, which is pretty bullish.I'm still not convinced that the breakout will last, but I've bought a chunk of BTC again and may sell into the breakout, should it occur.[It is also painful not holding much BTC. Holding so much fiat feels... dirty!] I picked up a few on Saturday for similar 'insurance' reasons, but I sold them off today at a small profit.I still have a handful of BTC remaining, but I felt the need to make a choice and stick with it.Even though I'm very bullish long term, I just don't think we will stay over $100 for any length of time until long after 2013. Alternatively, you can't see the wood for the trees. I think you need to zoom out a bit! All I see is a 2nd failed attempt to climb over $100 within the last week. That's an interesting chart. $100 is definitely a key battle ground and it has psychological meaning.The last bear run broke $100 after the first two tests (May and June) held. Previous support levels often become new levels of resistance.Compound with the highs getting gradually lower (about 155, 135, 115), with this final high barely breaking $100 and it paints an interesting picture.Unless something big happens in the coming week to vault us cleanly over $100, I suspect breaching $100 again for any extended period will be unlikely for quite some time. Snap! I bought at 65 and sold at 75. I should have held on! I think you just have to be prepared for nothing to be foolproof. As long as you win most of the time, you're still better off trading than doing nothing (IMO)! It can't keep rising at this rate. I'm sure we will see a retrace of the recent upward move. Sub 80 within 24 hours? I should have sold later!   It looks to me like the day traders are moving the price about in the short term, but the swing traders are sitting on the side lines waiting for a stronger signal.We have the price bobbing about within a short range, complete with some big 'show' orders, but nothing has really moved much for 48 hours or so.What will the stronger signal be? Well, I'm standing by my previous position still - sold at 75 (Bitstamp) and plan to buy back in the 60s (say, 66). I still can't see the enthusiasm for a strong upward move at this time, although some bigger movements will come sooner or later. Yup, that illustrates it pretty well I think! "Boobs and Fat Hanging Arm Pattern" - LOL! A quick update.I sold at just under 75 on Bitstamp yesterday, as there seems to be little in the way of upward momentum. There now seems to be a vague triple bottom and/or downward triangle forming around 70. I suspect selling pressure will break through this and we will push back down towards 65 and possibly lower.I think I will sit on my hands and buy when it feels right, rather than putting an order at this time. There doesn't seem to be much support above 60 on the books and I'm unsure whether 65 would survive another sell off. I think the answer is, it usually bobs about three times and then sinks. If people are expecting the price to only fall to $30, we are only about double that now.How bad would you feel if you had bought at $4 instead of $2 at the end of the last crash? Sure, you would have double the money at $2, but you could have bought in at a lot worse time than $4.Just saying...
I bought back in at 65 (Bitstamp). 63-64 has been tested 3 times and has held. My guess is that the price will rally for a while now. Walls demolished!   1000 BTC wall at $71 on Bitstamp seems to have been gobbled up... or at least shuffled/spread a bit! [On Bitstamp]An update on my position. I should have bought in the high 80s as was my original plan, but held out hoping to regain the loss, which was foolish! We hit about 89 and then plunged into the 70s, so it would have been a good strategy. I made a loss there - that's twice I should have stuck to my original plan over the last couple of weeks! Still, you have to cut losses and move on to the next trade!I recently bought in at 78, being unconvinced by the rally. A head and shoulders then appeared to be form and has now largely completed with a fall back to low 70s. As I think we're still in a downward trend, I suspect 70 won't hold and I pulled by 71 buy position (half my trading fund).I'm now sitting on the side and waiting to see how things pan out over the next few days. I'm still tempted to try a trade at 71, as there seems to be substantial support. However, I doubt there would be much of a bounce and as the head and shoulders pattern has just completed and I suspect enthusiasm for another rally may be low. Well, I was about right for this phase. Unfortunately, I wimped out at 98 just before the drop, as an insurance against it going up! I should have stuck!Still, I made a good BTC profit regardless and bought the other half at 91. I'm hoping to sell on a bounce up to the high 80s, then buy back at the low 80s. I'm hoping to gain a few more BTC in the process and claw back some USD losses.EDIT: P.S. Unfortunately, I was away during the weekend and couldn't trade it out. Ofc, the last few weekends it was dead... when I was free to trade!  Are we at 180 yet?  While there is volatility, there is money to be made!  Yes, approx. 91 and 81 are my immediate goals. I suspect there will be bounces to profit off these resistance points. I would expect to buy in again lower should the price permit. http://www.bitcoincharts.com/markets/bitstampUSD.htmlLook at that same chart, zoomed out.To get as many bids as asks at 108, you have go right down to 80!  Ranging from 90-100 looks easily possible. Less than 90 doesn't look off the table either.I currently have speculative orders in at 91 and 81, while I monitor the action from a distance. Well, that worked out well!  It all panned out as expected, with both my 101 and 91 buys coming in last night. The latter was a pleasant surprise.After looking at the state of the Bitstamp order book, I just sold all for 102, taking a decent profit.I'm not certain where my next buy in point will be, but I'm thinking somewhere between 85 and 95. I have some thinking to do first though. I only went half in and kept an order in at 85 as insurance. It was tricky to know which way it was going to go before the 18th (IMO), so I played it a bit safe!  +1[On Bitstamp prices...]It's looking like a triple top - three failed attempts to get over the 108 bar, with retraces back to 102 each time. I doubt we will see a forth.However... the last retrace only touched 102, with a sharp bounce back. This starts looking a bit like a rising triangle, which is bullish. From this perspective, getting over 108 is a smaller leap.There is a good deal of resistance over 108 though, which would need a lot of buying power to punch through. Therefore, I'm about 85% bearish for the trend for the next few days. I have orders in around 101 and 91 to catch the retrace back to the 18th or profit from another 10% fall beyond this.P.S. I bought at 99 and sold at 107 since the 18th. I missed the first spike (sell price too high - by 0.5 BTC annoyingly!) and then just missed last night's dip (buy was at 101, and only 102 was reached). You can't win them all though!  I've been meaning to read this thread all week and I finally got time over the last couple of days. I have to say, I'm very impressed!I know the original post was about BitMessage integration with Open-Transactions, but this is the first time I have read about either technologies. I've read/heard a lot about Ripple (in original and new form), but OT had some how slipped past me so far.OT has clearly been well thought out. Having read all the posts and found fellowtraveler's comments very helpful, I am now rather excited about this.The concept of detaching issuers and users from OT servers is brilliant. Having OT servers just acting as blind processing nodes is a great idea and I didn't even realise it was possible!Detaching issuers from OT servers strips the former of their power to abuse their position. IOUs cannot match this ability.Detaching users from OT servers strips the latter operators of their power to abuse their position. IOUs cannot match this ability.I like the way no new currency internal OT currency is needed either, with Bitcoins providing a useful store of value at the core. This seems to be building on top of what already works well.It will be interesting to see how readily people will leave Bitcoins or colored coins within the OT system. I can certainly see people trusting OT far more than current exchanges. Considering how users and issuers are also detached from OT, this would further encourage trust. Of course there will be insurance, should there be a demand for it. TBH, I'm not sure why anyone would argue otherwise.Bitcoin isn't anything special in terms of something to insure. The same rules apply as for any other asset.Ofc, the insurer would need to assess how securely the Bitcoins are stored* before being able to calculate a premium. That's nothing new either though.[* EDIT: To add, you can insure gold coins in a safe, for example. Sure, you could 'steal' them yourself, but that is factored in by the insurer.] I noticed the other week that a 1000 BTC wall had appeared on Bitstamp. I had only seen these on MtGox until then.It seems that some of the bigger traders have decided to give Bitstamp a go instead of MtGox.The more substantial exchanges, the better! The establishment are always seeking to alienate and turn others against free thinkers. I suspect the hippy/peace movement in the 60s was much the same.I was actually speaking to my father about the 60s the other month. He said that the Internet, Bitcoin etc reminded him of some of the things many in the 60s were seeking to achieve. Ofc, they goals weren't reached in some ways, but in many others culture was changed permanently.I think I there may have been a good part in 'The Century of Self' documentaries about this. I can't remember though and it's a 4 hour series so I can't scan through. Here is the link for those interested though: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s7EwXmxpExwThis time, we have the Internet. This has lead to wide spread, unregulated communications. It has lead to pressure on censorship, intellectual property and now the monetary system. It's a system which allows strong protest movements, which are very hard for monolithic states to control. Perhaps this time, the freedom craved by some in the 60s will have a better chance of materialising - it's certainly much harder to discredit such positions now. 34 - Not that old, granted. It feels old enough though!  If you think that using threats/violence to take stuff is 'civilized society', then I would suggest you take some time out to reconsider that position.Additionally, society doesn't come from the barrel of a gun. Society is what forms voluntarily, in the absence of coercion. Statism is anti-society, not anarchism.To suggest that people would do as they please (no laws, no police etc) is to misunderstand humanity too. These mechanisms/organisations evolved due to people wanting them. People policed their own streets, based on their own basic laws (no theft, murder, rape etc). That the state co-opted these movements doesn't mean that there wasn't a desire, nor a solution, to solve these problems without the state.If humanity is to move forward, it needs to embrace voluntary association. Using threats to treat people like slaves, thus disregarding the ownership of themselves and their property, is not civilized. It's an anachronism from a bygone age that we're still having to put up with.  As more people consider the state as 'them' rather than 'us', the less they will support its actions.Over the last few years I have observed the sentiment shifting. Whether it is because of the global depression, the monetary system, the overreach of successive governments, I don't know. The why doesn't really matter though; it's the conclusion of such sentiment.When the state becomes the opposition of the people, it cannot last in its existing form. I'm not saying we are close to that point yet, but we're closer than we have been in my lifetime. Great news though! I'm looking forward to seeing more terminals in shops that accept Bitcoins directly, but this is a good way to get the ball rolling!
Solution: Get an Android phone and embrace a more open platform!  The system and economics that the are defending has failed. The evidence for their flawed textbook economics is right in front of us. We have a financial system swamped with debt, riddled with moral hazard and violence used everywhere to force feed people stuff that they don't want.If anything is needed - really wanted and needed - then it can be provided through voluntary association. That is, negotiation without threats if the other person doesn't agree.If taxes can't be raised, then those who seek to take stuff from others, will have to request stuff from others. If the statist business model of steal/spend cannot function, then it will cease to be. Humans will still exist with or without them and I suspect society - genuine, freely associating, society - will flourish. I've been looking at the market wondering what is going on too. The price seems to be cheating gravity at the moment. There seems to be a complete lack of support and then a monster order comes in on MtGox to keep the price up, just as the market is about to turn too.I've been wrong many times, mind!  Their interpretation of democracy is the majority ordering a minority about. It's nothing to do with the freedom of choice. Lots of 'we' used incorrectly there, along with conflating society with the state.Society can never be imposed by force; that is an oxymoron. Society is what is formed by individuals forming relationships with one another.These people are complete dinosaurs. Time is moving on without them. I don't want to force my idea on anyone - I want to be inert in regards to you and your situation. Please just do me the dignity of granting me the same. We aren't talking about mass murderers here, Mr Strawman... we're talking about someone not going out of their way to help another. You want to lock people up, just for inaction (ie. the default state of an individual).How about the suffering of injured/dead fire fighters and their families? How about the loss of time that they could have been spending with them, instead of doing unpaid labour? When there is no choice to decline the services of the state, it is theft. If every bit of work you do - which you need to do to survive - results in stuff being taken from you, it is slavery. Sugar coat it all you like, but this is the reality of the situation.The whole point of insurance and/or subscription models is that you pay a small fee in the expectation that you are unlikely to need their services. Not subscribing and then expecting to just pay your subs on the day is laughable - you will be given the choice of the market rate for fire fighters at short notice or accepting the alternatives.Regarding their time - it wasn't spent already. They didn't have to risk their lives putting out a fire - they could just sit in their truck. Can you define 'good things' objectively? Will everyone share the same opinion? If this was the case, you wouldn't need taxation at all - people would be willing to make the sacrifices without force.As soon as you use force, to implement some subjective 'good', you are on a slippery slope to tyranny. You want to lock people in cages for being 'an ass'?There are some real shits on this planet, many of whom I would like nothing to do with. This doesn't mean I get to lock them in cages, just because I don't like them. You ignore the loss incurred by the fire fighters. Their time, risk and labour is not free and they could have been doing something else.Perhaps the home owner could have agreed to give a portion of the house as payment to the fire fighters? Then there would still be a house and the fire fighters would have been compensated for their labour. A free market trade, a negotiation, a voluntary act.What we are discussing is paying $75 per year for fire protection, which those who lost their home refused to do. Therefore, the fire fighters have not been paid in this case.The alternative of the fire fighters being paid via taxation is just treating everyone else as slaves; forcing people to labour, in order to extract wealth from them, is slavery. Someone may have a valid reason for not paying a tax, but that doesn't stop the state throwing them in jail.If someone can't figure out how to pay £75 a year for insurance, they have bigger problems... such as buying food. Let's stop with this silly excuse.Taxation is not an efficient way to pay for monopolistic services. There is no competition for said departments, which gives little pressure for them to improve their service.Even if they were more efficient, it doesn't justify using force to make everyone pay for them, whether they use/want them or not. If the person had paid for people to put the fire out, the house wouldn't have been lost. The cost of the loss falls on the home owner too, who now no longer has a home, because they didn't pay a small fee.You can't just demand people to do stuff for you - that's slavery. How about the loss of time to the fire fighters? How about their loss of life if they are killed while fighting the fire? 1. If they had paid their $75, they wouldn't have lost their house. If they needed advice, they should have requested it - even the state could help them to pay their voluntary $75, rather than just demanding it.2. Stealing stuff may be easier for the thief, but it removes the choice of the victim. It may be more efficient for me to come and take your car, rather than earning  + buying one from a dealer too. I assume you are against such actions?BTW, there are many inefficient state departments which would never survive in a voluntary model. I don't know where you get the idea from that the state is efficient, tbh.  Inefficient? Paying $75 a year in subs is hardly complicated.The car on my drive is paid for too, but that doesn't mean get to threaten me if I don't chauffeur you around in it.  The firemen didn't destroy anything - the fire did. The firemen didn't start the fire either.The firemen are not slaves of foolish home owners. If home owners want them to labour on their behalf, using their equipment, then they should pay the firemen to do it.Moreover, they should take steps to avoid their house burning down. Fire alarms, sprinkler systems, fire buckets/blankets, not smoking in doors etc - all would reduce their premium. Not asking for people to pay for insurance creates a free rider problem - why should they invest in ways to prevent fires, when they can just call someone to put it out for 'free'?Requesting insurance and/or subscriptions to service providers is hardly disorganised. It is voluntary and allows people to pay for what they need. What sort of mortgage company would secure a loan against a house with no fire insurance? It is the asset they seek to reclaim if you default - they want it kept in good condition.Even if a mortgage company was flexible, the mortgage rate would increase to cover their risk.If they were mortgage free and didn't pay, well, that's pretty dumb isn't it? If someone ends ends up losing their house due to such stupidity, they only have themselves to blame.Really, this sort of stuff isn't complicated. Two points:1) Roads could be based on subscription models, where every subscriber has a share (and say) in the organisation. You could have annual auctions, where the costs are split over the subscriber base, for example. Getting from where we are now, the state could gift the roads to such cooperative style organisations to begin with. Later on, people may decide to only support roads which adopt this sort of model (and boycott others etc).2) Monopolising a location is arguably an act of aggression. There is no evidence that you can 'own' a location, as you can't create that spot in time and space - you can only occupy it. If you refuse to share the location, then you are monopolising it. Therefore, you can argue that people can demand damages, if someone is seeking rent (from a location monopoly) including road owners. That isn't to say they don't own the asphalt, lights etc, but that doesn't imply ownership of a location.Now, 1 is pretty straightforward - it is essentially pushing power down down/out from the centre. It also means that costs are localised to those who need to use those roads, based on their requirements.2 is a more nuanced argument, but in a voluntarist society, courts will constantly be trying to define where the non-aggression principle is being ignored. I suspect monopolisation of locations would become an important issue and community land licenses may become popular (I wrote about this here, if you're interested: http://www.housepricecrash.co.uk/forum/index.php?showtopic=185849&st=0).You have to view voluntarism for its core - the rejection of using aggression to gain advantage. How things are arranged after force is removed is a matter of negotiation. While you (or I) can ponder endlessly about how things could work, it doesn't change the principle behind the philosophy and better ways will probably thought of by others anyway. Going cold turkey would not be good. People need to educate themselves, to understand the nature of the state and their relationship with it.Too many think of the state as 'us' and suggest that 'we' need to do X, Y and Z. This isn't true. The state isn't society - it is the antithesis of society. Those who believe in a strong society, see that the state is not needed at all.BTW, 'what about the roads?!' is a bit of an in joke in voluntarist/anarchist circles!  There are many ways to solve the problem, as with everything.Perhaps you could replace state tax disks (UK) with a private subscription model. Said subscription could give access to a region free of charge, with other areas requiring one off fees.For local estates, perhaps a cooperative would be a good model, with people buying in to a portion of the road when they buy their house. This would be pretty similar to maintenance fees in apartment blocks, for example.Still, the roads question has had entire books written about it, so don't take my suggestions as the only ones - people are ingenious and they find solutions to problems all of the time. I don't worry about that at all, tbh. Interesting to hear about some big investors piling in. It sounds like people are starting to take Bitcoin a lot more seriously!
Ha! Nicely done, sir!   Just allow subscription to state services to be voluntary. The rest will sort itself out as/when people are ready.You don't need to list endless "what about the X, what about the Y" etc. Solutions will be found to such problems. You just need to ask yourself whether it is acceptable to use force to make people do stuff or not.It's interesting that these debates are becoming more frequent. A few years ago, voluntarists/anarchists were very few in numbers. Now they are all over the place. That's what I call progress. You don't have to be alone without a state. If you want strength in numbers, then freely associate with many others. Voting is just mob rule. It's a majority imposing their will on a minority. As I heard elsewhere, it is the original 51% attack! Anything desirable can be achieved through voluntary association. If people want it, they will pursue it.If it helps, think of the state as a big cooperative, with a non-voluntary subscription model. Just change the latter to voluntary and let people figure things out for themselves (over time). My father has used them in the past for GBP/Euro transfers and rates them. I've signed up and will see how it goes.I've used localbitcoins a few times too and that has always worked well. The prices tended to be higher and slower to move (down) than the exchanges though. Saying that, the prices are pretty close to MtGox atm. OTC? Cash, I assume? Now TransferWise have had the rug pulled from under them: Their bank has told them to stop transferring money to Bitcoin exchanges.http://transferwise.com/blog/2013-04/notice-to-bitcoin-users-april-2013The UK banking system is a joke. They don't like the competition, for sure. Having an open credit clearing system, rather than one run by governments, is both a useful and an interesting concept.An ideal monetary system should facilitate both credit clearing and settlement. The former is what gives a currency 'elasticity', while the latter allows people to choose their exposure to it.If one party wants to exchange goods with another for IOUs, then great. Trust is extremely liquid and allows easy trade. If both parties would rather not rely on trust, then they can both exchange goods instead. Where is the problem?I'm not sure why there is so much hostility here, tbh. Ripple and Bitcoin are two separate things. You don't have to abandon one, in order to find the other useful. There is no land value tax in the UK.Besides, why would a land lord charge less than he otherwise could? I'll answer that for you - he won't. Therefore, tenants are already paying the maximum they can afford. That's why land value taxation hits the landlord instead.Land rent is just privately collected tax. It's exploiting a coercive monopoly on a location. Yes, agreed.However, this would likely hit rent seekers the hardest. As rent seekers exploit violent monopolies in order to extract wealth from others, it would likely be a better situation than we have now.In the UK for example, less than 1% own much of the land and charge rent upon it. As said people influence the state heavily (House of Lords etc) governments won't tax them until they absolutely have to.That's not to say that you need a state in order to identify and respond to coercive monopolies (the state is one too, after all). It's just that they are more likely to tackle them when they have no alternative.Ofc, at the other end of the spectrum, there is nothing stopping the state offering voluntary subscription services. They could then compete with any other service providers and if they do the best job, then good for them.Ultimately, states will go after anything which can't be easily hidden or moved. However, expect their actions to come under close scrutiny when they can't print money and fund folly with other taxes. It's difficult to bury things in the figures when there are only a few sources of income. rDjwdkNow8ZBeoQ9gm7MJHHGkixQ84cvX9 That's not true. If it were, no one would hold inflationary cash, as they would be spending it today, rather than lose value tomorrow. It would also mean that no one would buy any computers.Just as contracts can account for inflation, they can also account for deflation. The only real difference is psychological - more stuff has to be better than less stuff, right?There is nothing to stop people taking out inflation rate trackers, which can go negative. That is, the repayments get reduced during a deflation. The real value remains positive regardless. Yes, understood. However, this is just asserting that if the hash rate falls, the difficulty will adjust. The problem isn't the difficult level, but the falling hash rate (reducing the barrier against a network attack).Sure, I'm fine with this too. I asserted that 'if the transaction rate becomes stable', then so will the competition for block space. In turn, this implies a stable hash rate (fluctuations considered, ofc).I asserted that 'mining ceases to be profitable' as a boundary condition. I'm not convinced that miners drive the price of Bitcoin; It's the people who value Bitcoin that dictate the price. If it becomes too expensive to mine at the market rate, mining will not be done. Therefore, I'm not convinced that miners will necessarily step up to increase the hash rate.To conclude, I am still unconvinced that this thread is moot. The hash rate needs to increase proportionately to Moore's Law and I'm not certain this will happen automatically (without some relatively minor alternations).I'm happy to be proved wrong though, if you think I'm still missing something. Assuming that:- Transaction rate becomes stable.- Mining ceases to be profitable.Why would there be increasing competition for block space (in turn, an increasing hash rate)?Logically, the hash rate only needs to be sufficiently high to process all of the transactions requested. If hardware to provide said hash rate continues to fall, at some point the cost of hardware to do this will fall to a price where it is economical to attack the network.Apologies if I am misunderstanding something technical which is critical to this debate. I don't think that is the problem (although I haven't read that thread yet - will do later).The problem isn't that there would ever be insufficient block space; the problem is that providing sufficient block space may become too easy. That is, the hashing power needed to confirm the transactions may get so cheap that it would be economical to attempt to take over the network.If a single, cheap, machine had enough hashing power to process all the transactions in the world, then the fees would be tiny. Equally, anyone with a couple of servers could take over the network. Ofc, this is an extreme example, but I think it is what the OP is concerned about. I would assert that it is a valid concern too, but one that can be rectified. Do you mean a floor on the price? If not, I'm not sure what you mean.If you have a minimum fee as a percentage, then there should be no hard floor on the price. I've read the initial assertion and it seems that the primary problem is of Moore's Law resulting in hashing power getting cheaper, which could threaten a static/shrinking Bitcoin network.Surely this has a simple solution - agree a minimum fee* (a percentage, perhaps - TBC) and apply it to the software. This doesn't need to be decided now, as it would only become useful when the total hashing power starts to flat line. Adding a minimum fee wouldn't fork the block chain either.Why a minimum fee? It would mean that as hardware halved in price, the amount of hashing power could be doubled to soak up the return on the minimum fee. Therefore, hashing power would scale up, at a similar rate to the drop in hardware costs.Additionally, the fact that you can't charge a fee over 100% is irrelevant. You don't need an ever increasing hash rate [EDIT: relative to Moore's Law], you just need a total hash rate which is large enough to make network attacks uneconomical (which means tracking Moore's Law - see above).EDIT: * To add, the reason why a minimum fee would be preferable to a market solution is due to the 'tragedy of the commons'. If same miners start dropping their rates to catch more transactions, then it will price out those with high rates. Setting same sort of minimum fee, for the good of the network, would seem appropriate to combat this. There may be alternatives to this though. Surely, a client on a machine without a dedicated IP address could do the actual transacting?From the client, you could then poll the server to see what transactions have been requested, before completing the process. The hot wallet would then be completely detached from the server and could either be supervised (manual confirmation) or unsupervised ('hot').Ofc, it wouldn't stop someone hacking the process to create spurious transaction requests, but a secure protocol would make that very difficult. However, it would prevent attacks which focus on the stealing of wallets on the server and so forth. Those who don't want wallets, apps and so forth can just use bitcoin debit cards and such.It's as complicated or as simple as people want to make it. Never underestimate the power of the exponential! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F-QA2rkpBSYWith 20% growth per month, the price doubles in less than 4 months. If the price continues to grow at the current rate*, $100 Bitcoins will arrive in about a year.* Over the last 8 months, the price has more than doubled twice.
I saw this video and thought of this thread - enjoy! http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r9XLBvTJQPM&feature=g-u-u To add, this is one of the reasons why the use of Bitcoins is so interesting to observe. When people start to understand what Bitcoins are and can do, it begs these sorts of questions. The thing is, it wouldn't really be a virtual 'country' (read: state) at all. It would just be a voluntary organisation, from which you are subscribed to, in order to access the services they offer.What is more interesting, is the question it begs - what is a state, if not an organisation which provides services, which you can't un-subscribe to?Additionally, it begs the question of why you need a perimeter to defend at all; when members of different organisations are distributed randomly amongst one another, all anyone really needs to defend, is their property (including your body). The very definition of the 'police' or the 'army' are arbitrary - you just need personal security services.IMO, the reason it is difficult to define what you are suggesting, is because what we have now (states/countries) is a rather strange and artificial concept to begin with. We are all just individuals, trying to safely navigate through our lives. Aren't you essentially advocating cooperatives? Specifically, organisations where everyone owns a share and votes on the direction of the organisation as a whole?While you may want to create some fancy software system to manage such a thing, it is by no means needed. There are many examples of successful cooperatives, who operate in similar ways, with voluntary membership.IMO, there are times when cooperatives are good and useful and times when they are not ideal. The best way to find out when each should be used, is to let individuals choose via the market place. There are many ways to form groups in society and if they are voluntary, then that's fine.Maybe cooperatives/mutuals (where members are owners and can vote etc) are better for some things (health, roads, schools perhaps), while directed organisation are better for others. It isn't really important which are used, but rather that they are voluntary.I've got a book waiting to be read by Elinor Ostrom. She won a Nobel price for her work about the tragedy of the commons and how it can (and is in many cases) be solved without central governance: http://www.yesmagazine.org/new-economy/the-victory-of-the-commonsYou don't have to go far back in history to reach a time when many commons had to be shared and the state had little involvement in the process. It is only in the modern era that communications have lead to top down organisation even being remotely feasible - the option simply wasn't there for millennia and people found systems to deal with commons just fine. Thanks for being the sane voice on this thread.'The state' is just an organisation like any other, except that it gets to use violence with impunity. It's strange that people seem unable to see this and want to treat it like some sort of special flower - an organisation which is somehow unlike any other and should therefore get to coerce people as it sees fit.All people need to accept, is that they own themselves and the results of their actions (both good and bad). Everything else from theft, through fraud to murder, all fan out from these basic assertions.It doesn't matter how a 'special' organisation is run, whether it is via software or humans, allowing it to steal and murder with impunity, will lead to tyranny. No organisation or individual should be able to coerce with impunity, no matter how special some think they are - including the organisation called 'the state'. Indeed it is - I'm glad to be of service!  I found this article and thought it was very good. Naturally, it talks about Bitcoin and the end of state currencies.http://papermoneycollapse.com/2012/06/the-death-of-banks-and-the-future-of-money/ +1Great thread + software!I would like to know if you could pass a signed transaction onto another party (say, from the payer to the payee) too. This would be very useful for areas with limited data connectivity, as it would only require the receiver to 'upload' the transaction.You could also have situations where both parties had no Internet access and such transactions could be treated like cheques, which could be cashed when the payee is next online. It's good to see new companies using Bitcoin, but I can't help but think this idea is a bit daft.Rather than burning through energy and CPU/GPU cycles to earn a few quid, would it not just be better to ask for Bitcoin micro payments each month?EDIT: To add, gamers are likely to have non-optimised rigs, compared with the next generation mining kit too, making it pretty wasteful. It is still good to see companies embracing Bitcoins though. Ah, thanks - that explains it!I suppose this would be a good excuse to install Cyanogenmod or upgrade to a Galaxy Nexus! Will 2.2 ever be supported or is it not capable enough? I'd like to try it on my HTC Desire, but I get an error on start up:'Sorry!The application Blockchain (process piuk.blockchain) has stopped unexpectedly. Please try again'Any ideas? Thanks Stephen - that was a brilliantly detailed reply.I read all of the threads and I'm even more convinced that Bitcoin is going to succeed than I was before. It feels like the holes and being plugged and the Bitcoin ecosystem is maturing nicely and at a good speed. It's all rather impressive! I was pondering how transactions could be made in areas where mobile data connectivity is poor. Specifically, how shops could allow payments in such situations.As a shop can quite easily get a land line based broadband connection, they should be able to interact with the bitcoin network. However, the shopper may not have Internet access for various reasons (and may not want to set up wifi/bluetooth etc). That got me wondering whether there was a way to perform a transaction with only the receiver being online.If this has already been done or discussed, apologies for bringing it up again. I tried searching the forum and google, but couldn't find what I was looking for.My idea was using temporary deterministic wallets for such transactions. You could create a number of wallets with a fixed denomination of bitcoins in them. You could then show the PR code to the cashier and they could scan the code to re-create the deterministic wallet. The cashier's till software could then transfer the money out to another account, to ensure that the shopper couldn't attempt to double spend.If change was needed, the shop could still send money to the shoppers receiving PR code, even if the shopper couldn't confirm them. They could give you a receipt and the transaction details in case there was a problem. If the money failed to reach the account, the block chain could be examined with the details in the receipt. Obviously, the shop isn't going to want to get a bad reputation for not giving change.Is the above possible and would it be easy to implement? Also, are there other alternatives which can be completed in similar circumstances?  In terms of coin value: A growing Bitcoin economy (number of user making transactions), with no monetary inflation == A static Bitcoin economy (number of user making transactions), with monetary deflation.Minting is a great way of distributing the coins as the user base grows, but it could be done less arbitrarily. I don't mind the lottery system, but the number of coins in a mined block or the difficulty could be more flexible to demand.Anyway, I don't want to debate this at length on this thread, as it will take it OT (and we have several threads about this already!); I just wanted to point out my agreement with the OP about this. Why not switch off minting altogether then, with that logic? http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=546.0 The big problem for me is that the minting rate doesn't adjust with the size of the Bitcoin economy (ie. the swarm size). I have a feeling that if this isn't changed, the project may run out of steam.While it may annoy old users a bit that they can't create as many coins, new users are waiting weeks to mint any coins. It is unlikely that Bitcoins will become established if new users aren't given a decent shot at their own minting (especially when the user base should be growing rapidly). Users who discovered Bitcoins early will still have amassed more coins than new entrants, even without the difficulty changing.The software is very impressive, but the minting rules really need to be looked at again. Self minting is such a good idea for distributing new coins, but IMO it needs some basic economic theory applying to it, rather than a relatively arbitrary setting. Nothing, but it may not be the most effective money then, but instead an asset (in the shape of a virtual commodity).Bitcoin has a brilliant solution to this - distributed minting - but I do think it could be tweaked to better suit the growing Bitcoin economy. It just seems a bit arbitrary (but a reasonable guess) at the moment.If you consider that the Bitcoin economy may never truly stop growing (if the acceptance keeps growing, along with the global population ultimately), I'm not sure why it needs a terminal size. IMO, it would be great if the quantity flexed with the user base.It starts with the printing of a load of money, but that's not the trigger. They could print only 20% more cash and still end up with repudiation - who wants a guaranteed 20% loss of wealth? It's the loss of confidence in the currencies ability to remain a stable money which causes the cascading failure. That's a great read - thanks!
Good summary. It's why an ideal currency is one which suffers from neither inflation or deflation.Modern governments seem to want us all running around trying to avoid inflationary losses though. No wonder we often feel like we're on a treadmill.BTW, I think the OT fails to recognise that the size of the Bitcoin economy will grow many fold in the future. I am concerned that this will cause monetary deflation, when judged per capita. If you don't believe me, consider how hyperinflation works:1. Too much currency is printed.2. Some people grow suspicious and decide not to hold the currency, but use something else more stable instead.3. The same amount of currency is then spread between a dwindling number of people.4. As there is more currency per head, this will result in further monetary inflation to those using the currency.5. If there are still people holding the currency, go back to 2, with more people growing suspicious. Else currency has collapsed and is now worthless.The number of people using the currency is just as key as the quantity of currency. It's not just the total amount of currency that is the issue, but also the user base (the size of the economy using the currency), which panic can swiftly erode. This is why hyperinflation can happen so suddenly and quickly.Hyperinflation is triggered by a loss in confidence in a currency: fewer people using it, which then compounds the problem. The total amount printed may cause high inflation, but it goes hyper when people abandon the currency (so the economy using the currency shrinks).With this in mind, consider the reverse: a growing number of people using a currency, without any additional currency being created; it logically amounts to monetary deflation, per capita. With a denationalised currency, with an economy varying in size (likely growing), this should be considered at length... I'm afraid I do worry.EDIT: P.S. It's interesting to consider why we are here. I assume some are losing confidence in their national currencies and are looking for something better. With gold/silver at high prices and tech like the Bitcoins appearing, are the fiat life boats already being filled? At the risk of going OT (should probably have its own thread, if it warrants consideration), natural wastage (lost coins) will place the currency in a natural state of mild deflation, if everything else is equal (ie. the size of the Bitcoin economy - the number of Bitcoin users - remained the same etc). You could destroy money through part of the transaction fee being paid into the void (ie. a portion of the fee is just destroyed, rather than being given to the processing node).Whether these techniques would be agile enough, I don't know. In a predominantly credit based economy, interest rates are more important in the short term. The Bitcoin economy would likely be quite different though. Of course there is nothing to stop a currency being backed by commodities, and it may be more stable too. I'm just throwing some ideas out there about a commodity basket really.If it's worth debating, we can create a thread on it. That all sounds great! I could be a guinea pig, but I'm yet to receive/generate any coins (not for want of trying), so I'm probably not much use to you.Re bump, that's good to hear you have an ear to gnaw over integration. My reason for liking bump for payments, is because it enables simple face to face transactions. Being able to pay one another, even strangers (if they are Bitcoin, bump users) easily is a big step forward. Take the concept further and you could imagine bumping Bitcoins at shop tills. Then you start to wonder why you need credit cards, PDQ machines, business accounts and all the other expenses which go with them.If you have a chance, could you ask your neighbour if bump could scale up to supermarkets, with lots of tills close to one another, with many transactions occurring at the same time. Would someone trying to 'wiggle' their phone near you at the till cause problems for attempted theft (if they called themselves 'Tesco Till' or some such!)? All just ponderings for a future a fair bit away...  IMO, the value could be attributed to the way the Bitcoins are both created and distributed - it is completely decentralised and anonymous. People value fairness and their anonymity, so it should hold that Bitcoins gain value from this.That said, it is reason to doubt adoption. Time will tell. It's the monetary deflation I am concerned about here, not fluctuations (or deflation) in price indexes.One way to demonstrate this is using the Quantity Theory Of Money. It has it's limitations, but over the long run, it has been proved correct time and time again. Specifically, T in the below:M VT = P T http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantity_theory_of_money"T is an index of the real value of aggregate transactions." - If the number of Bitcoin user base (essentially, the size of the Bitcoin economy) grows, this value will increase. If everything else remains the same, it means that P ("the price level.") will likely decrease. Considering that the Bitcoin user base could expand massively, this is a concern.While there aren't many articles on this, likely because there hasn't been a situation where it occurs, I found this: http://www.economics.utoronto.ca/munro5/QUANTHR2.htm (although it is using a modified formula):* Where credit is part of M in this case, I presume, so it will grow with demand. Bolding is mine.As large population fluctuations, under the remit of a single, national currency are relatively rare. Famine gives us some examples, but there are arguments for prices increasing due to a decimated work force. IMO, it's probably a combination of both, but the amount of money per capita must be a consideration. As the volume of transactions in the Bitcoin economy may grow rapidly (due to the growing user base), we will have an even more extreme case on our hands.If all prices are decreasing, just because money is becoming scarce, this isn't good deflation. This isn't because of technological advances, efficiencies and such, it is just because there is less money per capita over time.EDIT: P.S. No worries with the arguing - as long as it remains cool and calm, it will help us arrive at the right answer, hopefully! [One last thing: tracking a basket of commodities need not mean backing - the supply of money could just be adjusted to attempt to maintain the overall price level. While this is focusing on price inflation/deflation, it would attempt to keep the overall price level stable - to keep the currency as neutral as possible. Ultimately, it may be a better way of trying to do the same thing as above, albeit more complex. Tracking CPI/RPI is something different, as items in these indexes are changed (manipulated?) frequently.The problem with tracking the prices of anything as that it is susceptible to changes in liquidity preferences (ie. propensity to hoard). Maybe a well 'managed' currency, in a world of competing denationalised currencies, would do well as the best (most stable) money. In our Bitcoin economy we probably should only concern ourselves with the broad strokes (ie. Quantity of Money, per capita), but future competition may go further (and attempt to create something more stable).] Good to hear work is being done for Android - I love my HTC Desire!BTW, have either of you guys considered integrating with Bump? It would be very cool to bump Bitcoins to other phones near by!   The main problem with the Euro is central planning - how can you centrally plan for many different needs simultaneously? I'd argue it is impossible and you will end up with winners and losers.This leads to another problem with fractional reserve banking. Trying to centrally plan, while there is a wibbly, wobbly layer of state backed (by deposit guarantee) credit in between makes the task all the harder. Again, I would say this is impossible to do effectively.Out of control government borrowing doesn't help either, but is encouraged by the above. It then puts the central planners in a tough dilemma - save the foolish and punish the prudent or risk currency instability and break up.Remove the need for central planning and need for safe storage by banks and you resolve the main problems*. This is one reason why I love the mechanism of Bitcoins - there is no central planning or clearing and they can be stored safely on your PC (or phone, or in the cloud, with extra layers of encryption etc). This stops government meddling (ie. central planning) and keeps your money out of banks unless you are willing to risk it for profit/interest.* Governments should also borrow less, but that is a case for the individual sovereigns too. Having denationalised money would present interesting dynamics here. I'm not going to get chance to reply properly until this evening, but just want to say a few quick things.I'm very much pro-currency competition - I'm a huge fan of Hayek's Denationalisation of Money. If Bitcoins stay as they are, I fear they will lose out to other currencies, which will do a better job as 'money'. If you read the aforementioned, you will see that Hayek thinks that the best monies may track a basket of goods - to keep the price roughly constant. That could best target of all, but without formulating a way to measure and maintain this, keeping a rough handle on supply vs demand for a currency is the next ideal. In short, I'm all for competition, but avoiding obvious limitations would help prevent a new currency quickly becoming obsolete... if we want to see Bitcoins thrive, rather than one of its successors, then we would be wise to consider this.As I've said before, there is nothing wrong with Bitcoins becoming a digital commodity, but I don't believe this will be the best, most stable money. There is much scope for competition to prove this too. I think we all agree that we want stable money though, right?P.S. I am a software engineer, with a passion for economics. If I had more free time, I would consider developing some friendly competition. I have few too many plates spinning as it is though! Bitcoiner, I'll post up a reply tomorrow (it's late here), but I've covered some of the points in the other thread. To summarise in one sentence, fluctuations will always happen in a free market, but restricting supply when demand is growing will not help matters.As I said before, if you want Bitcoins to behave like digital commodities, that's fine. It may not make it the most stable currency though, which is surely what most people want from their ideal money.[A bit of a tangent - BTW, this is also why a basket of commodities is often said to be better than a single commodity, as backing for money - they all fluctuate, but the hope is, overall they will be relatively stable, with some increasing in supply as demand dictates (like grain, drinking water etc). I have sympathy for that argument too, for similar reasons to the above.] It's a simple question - do you think the value of the gold coins increase, decrease or stay the same? Once you give the forum an answer, then we can take the next step together.How about if another 9 people joined the 11th man on the island, each without any gold. There are now 20 people, each in competition for 10 gold coins, which only the original 10 owned. What has happened to the value of the coins? There are two options and a bunch of shades of grey in between:1. Demand for the gold coins doubles, meaning that the owners can exchange their coins for twice as much labour/stuff.or2. The new 10 guys will use something else instead of gold, such as silver, seashells or whatever.In scenario 1, you have made the original 10 people very wealthy, simply because they were on the island first. In scenario 2, gold has been displaced as the only currency, with an alternative being used by the new islanders.You may say 'and? what's your point?' The point is that you either end up with the early adopters gaining disproportionately, just for being in the right place at the right time. Alternatively, you end up with numerous currencies, which have to be exchanged to do business - it also becomes more confusing for the layman, to have lots of different monies, with different (and likely fluctuating) exchange rates.Would it not simply be better to design a currency which ebbs and flows with the user base? This negates the need (although doesn't rule out) for lots of competing currencies. It also means that new comers to the island can at least mine their own (gold in this example) coins, to give them a more even starting point.I don't know how many more ways I can explain the same thing, so I hope this outlines the options and outlines my point.I'd like a system where I have to deal with as few currencies as possible. I'd like to be able to see the price of something this year and know it will be roughly (external factors, like oil/energy, famine excluded) the same price in several years from now. This would help me plan and prepare for the future. It also helps businesses do the same.What will happen if things aren't done this way? You may end up with a bubble (ponzi style) or you may just end up with many currencies. Neither is ideal, for the reasons I outline above.How do I plan on implementing this? Coin minting rates could adjust to the number of active nodes in the swarm - the bigger the swarm, the more coins could be minted. There may be more nuanced ways of doing this, but I'm most concerned with the theory; getting the theory wrong may doom the technology needlessly (it's great tech, IMO). If everyone agrees on a theory, then more thought can be pushed into the implementation of it.How do you decide how much every new user should get? If each node can mint new coins at the same rate as the founder users, then the number of coins should grow as the user base does. Early adopters would still have an advantage, as they will have had more time to accumulate coins, but it gives new entrants a better chance - it has more balance. It is very much like how the current Bitcoin base is growing, but with a more dynamic approach and with no hard limit.I'll repeat this question, as it's important: do you think Bitcoins would become popular if the supply was already fixed and no more minting could occur? I will assume you will say no (please let us know), but this will contradict your position - if you are going to fix the supply, it will have a similar (although less extreme) effect whether you do it now or in the future.The point is, we all want monetary stability. By not increasing the supply with the user base, this will not be achieved though - that's my whole point. If 10 people on an island have a gold coin each and only use these to trade with, what happens when an 11th person arrives on the island? Will the value of the gold coins increase, decrease or stay the same?Consider the same example where they don't have to trade in gold. Would the 11th person try to use an alternative money?You either take the approach that you're going to have competing, fixed quantity monies, or you try to let a single currency flex with the user base. Sure, you can have competing currencies (indeed, should). However, if you can use a money which can be flexible to the user base, it makes life easier. I'd suggest reading Hayek's Denationalisation of Money.I've read plenty of Austrian theory, thanks, and agree with much of it. Most of the ideas are better than what we have to put up with now, but we have a chance to make a better system than using simple commodity money.Additionally, we are starting from a point of obscurity - hardly anyone has heard of or use Bitcoins. Do you think Bitcoins would become popular if the supply was already fixed and no more minting could occur? If you limit supply prematurely in 10 years, it would have just as terminal an affect as if you did it now. It will be a great experiment, for sure. I agree that Bitcoin will have its footnote in history too, but I think the devs hope it will turn out as more than that. I could well imagine that the Bitcoin approach would be the hare, while the alternative expansionary (with user base) money would be the tortoise. We know who won in that race.I assume you agree that the value of Bitcoins will increase, while there is limited supply and growing demand? Follow that rational through and see where it takes your path of thought. The point is to retain the same value. With a limited supply, but growing demand, each coin is going to be worth more. Companies, and individuals, want to know that 1 Bitcoin will be worth roughly* the same now as in many years to come. This makes business and personal planning easier.If the global population was steady and everybody used Bitcoins, having a steady supply makes sense. This isn't where we are though - we have a growing Bitcoin user base, which needs more Bitcoins to match this.* Don't mistake this to be some CPI, price index type tracking (like central banks have attempted over the last decades) - this is just about total coin and user quantities. The reason price index tracking is flawed, is that it is trying to measure the near impossible, because peoples' propensity to spend or save changes all the time. However, it is simple to consider why price stability is important (future planning) and it also follows that more Bitcoin users fighting for a constant Bitcoin supply is going to affect the price (think supply/demand).In keeping 1 Bitcoin worth roughly the same 1, 5 or 10 years later, to help future planning (and therefore, business/savings/security etc) as mentioned above. If you have a growing Bitcoin user base, but a fixed Bitcoin supply, 1 Bitcoin will be worth more YoY. The holder of the Bitcoin would be made more wealthy from doing nothing. This isn't a great basis for a vibrant economy.The real kicker? The only way demand will grow in the above scenario, will be if the newcomer thinks that there will be someone coming in after him (or they have just assumed 'prices only go up', perhaps because 'there are only so many bitcoins out there'). Classic pyramid/bubble stuff.B = BitcoinsU = Bitcoin usersInflation = B/UIn other words, the number of bitcoins should be proportionate to the number of bitcoin users. It's why I suggested there may be an argument. I'm fairly certain that the number of Bitcoin users would be the better metric. However, the swarm would surely know how many transactions were taking place, should this be a useful metric.[/quote]Just think it through. I'm sure there are papers on this, but it's just a logical chain of thought - new users competing for existing coins will create additional demand, per coin. Either new users simply won't bother to use Bitcoins or they'll buy in, hoping the price will continue to rise... until one day it doesn't and the value crashes.If you want Bitcoins to be the best money, then the supply needs to flex with the user base (demand). If you just want them to become a digital commodity, then expect there to be swings in demand and value, which would make it less preferable as money. I just read this thread - quite a long one there.I agree with Suggester. I also believe that a competitor to Bitcoin which works in a way he/she describes will be the better currency in the long run. While I agree that competition will run its course and this will become obvious, it would be a shame for Bitcoin - it does so much right and in a clever way, that it would be a shame to see it lose out in the longer run; the team deserve much credit, IMO.One of his first posts made the point worth repeating: keeping the system as it is, is like a ponzi scheme. As we all know, these have a habit of not lasting the test of time. You get more wealthy for doing nothing, just for being one of the first users of Bitcoin. The more people join, the less they gain from this, until there are few new entrants. It's like a pyramid scheme in that sense - you're being rewarded for doing nothing.Sure, the currency can be easily divided. Sure, people can use alternatives (Hayek, Denationalisation of Money - good read), but I don't think that helps the Bitcoin to become the best money and will prompt its replacement.BTW, as the Bitcoin supply will grow for decades according to the current plan, this isn't at odds with my POV. I just don't think that it should stop growing if the user base is still growing; that would be counter productive. I also thing the rate of this growth could be optimised better, rather than being arbitrary.EDIT: P.S. It's nothing to do with keeping a price index like CPI steady (like the central banks try to do). That's something quite different and I would agree that it's flawed and probably an impossible task too (as most Austrians would agree). The point is, the bitcoin user base isn't fixed - the number of coins need to grow with the user base. If it doesn't then you are increasing the value of the coins already held by existing users. Therefore, the more popular bitcoins become, the more valuable each coin will get. There could be a good argument for increasing the rate, along with the number of participants, forever.If every generating node maintains the same constant rate of minting per CPU cycle (ie. more powerful CPU => more minting), then the coin base will grow along with the node base - which is the user base, which gives us a handle on coin demand. This has been touched on a few times on this forum, but I sense resistance to this.The reason for doing the above, is not to create an inflationary environment, but to keep the number of coins relative to the user base. Failing to do this, will put deflationary pressure on the currency; remember, increasing the demand (number of Bitcoin users) for the currency, is the same as decreasing the quantity (of coins in a fixed Bitcoin user base). If you want to retain a steady, neutral, value of Bitcoins, then this needs to be considered.Therefore a constant rate relative to the user base would be ideal. The faster the rate of adoption, the more coins should be created.   The reverse could be handled by natural wastage (lost coins), although this could be 'sticky' in the extremes (although destroying a proportion of the transaction fee would speed this up).I'm sure an algorithm could be formulated to achieve the above, with the constant rate not being so high as to be inflationary - the target would be to keep the number of coins proportionate to the user base, thus creating 0% inflation*.* I know this seems counter intuitive, but in a currency with a non-fixed (hopefully growing) user base, it becomes very important. [NOTE: There may be an argument for the minting rate to track 'GDP' or some such - perhaps based on the number and value of transactions taking place? If people are economically active enough to have their node minting coins, maybe the user base may be sufficient/better in creating stability. This is probably another debate in itself, but the above point needs to be agreed on first.] Hi Scepticus - I'm sure the forum will value your input on this stuff!After a bout of agreement with you yesterday over on HPC, I find myself agreeing with you hear again; Bitcoins value comes in the way it is distributed, rather than the magic numbers themselves. I suppose the distinction may be lost on many, but it is one of the reasons why I'm hopeful it will find some success.I do think that the quantity of coins should grow with the level of participation. I read on these forums that the limit isn't expected to be hit for decades, but the coins should become gradually more scarce in the run up to this point.I think this process of coin quantity growth should probably have more time spent on it. At this point, the value of the currency is probably judged more by external factors (whether people believe in it, decide to use it etc), but if it does become popular, this will need looking at. While the number of participants are growing, the number of coins should grow with it - easily done by allowing continued, distributed, coin minting. The reverse is more tricky, although natural wastage (lost wallets/coins) would see the Bitcoin supply decreasing naturally. Other alternatives would be syphoning off a small proportion of the transaction fee and destroying it.I could see there is a moral conflict presenting itself over 'destroyed' coins, but IMO, the currency would serve as money better if it could give and take a bit over time. haha! Indeed - well put!  Haven't there been articles on slashdot, ronpaul.com and other places? I've found quite a few links on Googling.
