There is a lot of institutions that are against Libra and I don't think that Libra will become successful since a lot of media and government are against to Libra. The latest news is Paypal is backing out from supporting Libra by not attending their assembly meeting and that is an unhealthy sign for Libra since Paypal is one of the biggest financial service in the world. In my honest opinion, Libra's situation will get worse and I think it is not worth it to invest in Libra like having a node of it. The different between staking and mining is pretty simple and it is the cost. The cost of mining is a lot because you need to buy a lot of expensive equipment and you also need to maintain and pay for more expensive electricity bill every month and after those expenses that is only the time you will get your net profit while staking is just simply buying a cryptocurrency that is POS and then keeping it on the wallet that support its staking and that is how you are going to get reward or profit. In my opinion, staking is more practical because it will cost you less compare to mining and staking is not hard to maintain because you just need to make sure that your wallet is up to date to make sure that you will not miss any rewards. I don't know what is your problem with sold account but base from the rules of our forum, account sales are 'allowed'. So what is the big deal if the original owner of this account is from the US and now it is passed to another owner? As long as there is a clean transaction, no scam, then there is no way for you to just put a red tag in an account just because it is 'sold or transferred to another owner.' Get over yourself.Link of rules: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=703657.820#post_rules It will lead to a chaotic country if the government will support bitcoin instead of the fiat currency because bitcoin doesn't have a fixed value and it might cause chaos because people will be complaining about the value of their bitcoin and also about to their expenses because they might spend a hundred dollar now and tomorrow it might cost them two hundred dollar worth of bitcoin. I agree that is a good strategy in investing your money. Doing some research first is a good start because you will have an overview of the market and you will see the possible altcoin investment that you can try and you should also look at the chart and do some basic technical analysis to make sure that you will be buying at the support and not on near resistance's price. When others are selling during the bearish market, you should do the opposite of it. You should keep on buying coins that you know that is good for long term holding. Bearish market is the best time to buy coins that has a high profit margin. There is a saying that says that the crisis comes with opportunities and we can apply that in trading/investing. It is a great idea to invest money in bitcoin this year of 2019. The price of bitcoin is moving up and i hope that this will continue. I already get myself in bitcoin a few weeks ago, i bought half of bitcoin and i am targeting to get more bitcoin before the month of may ends. Investing is all about patience and perseverance to hit a certain target. Bitcoin is volatile and i don't think that there is a chance for bitcoin to stabilize any country's economy level because there is no chance for bitcoin to help the economy of a country because its price itself is not stable. Bitcoin can just help the country to have an option for investment but in the sense of stabilizing their economy level then there is no chance for that. Most of the altcoins are just trash. These developers keep on creating altcoins and advertising it like it does make sense for the people to buy but in the reality it is just a useless coin for the people to buy and once they get enough money from selling these altcoins, they will just leave it and add it to the collection of trash altcoins. Regulation can be beneficial to bitcoin because it will help bitcoin to get more people into its cryptocurrency space because people will trust bitcoin more because they know that it is regulated and they will no longer believe to the people who are keep on saying that bitcoin is a scam and it is not a good investment. I see KYC as a good way to avoid abuse or cheating. KYC are good for bounty hunters because they know that there is a fairness in the bounty campaign such as signature campaign, social media campaign and so on because it is like having more chance of getting a higher reward because there is no way that a person can cheat in KYC since they need to submit some documents. We all have different perspective about the future of bitcoin and for the possible price movement. There is no right or wrong for the insights for bitcoin since they are just all predictions. I suggest for you to seek knowledge for yourself so you will have nothing to worry about because you will know how to analyze bitcoin and predict that will be enough for yourself to believed at. I don't think if this is going to be counted as a fun stuff or thing to do with bitcoin but it is fun for me to use bitcoin for trading. A lot of people are just investing and holding bitcoin but for me, i want a more challenging stuff which is trading and because the market is open 24/7 then there is no problem for me to trade whenever i want. I enjoy doing this and at the same time, i make money. It is a good way for exposure, i guess. Offering payment method for bitcoin is one of the way to spread awareness that beside the fiat currency, we have other option like bitcoin where people could use to pay things and also as an investment that can give them a lot of earnings that is higher than the usual investment vehicle. If you know what you are getting into, you will have a successful investment. Understanding the investment first before putting any money is a must for good investors because knowledge is the key for a successful investor and that is why a lot of investor are not stopping from learning, they keep on studying possible theories that they can use or utilize for their own strategy. You are right, we hope that this will happen not only to whole asia continent but also for the whole world because having these kind of features for using bitcoin is an awesome thing to have. Just imagine having this for the whole world then that would be awesome because the whole world can start being cashless because of this features. I don't think that the anonymity of bitcoin is involved here. Maybe the suspect was close to his place or one of his friends that he knew that this guy is making a lot of money and because of the jealousy for the money, he tortured this bitcoin trader for hoping that he will get his money and all of his bitcoin because we all know that 1 bitcoin is worth a lot of money. They are against the cryptocurrency because they know that the people are now losing interest in banks because they are not satisfy anymore to the interest and also to the offers of the banks while the cryptocurrencies are offering a higher interest for their money in terms of profit making by just investing in a decentralized cryptocurrency like bitcoin. 2019 will definitely takes us to the divine! 2019 is showing a good movement for the price of bitcoin after the correction of the market back in 2018. I am now averaging my investment by investing regularly in the market and hoping nothing but the best for the market to succeed and breaks the $10,000 mark and soar high again. Here in my country, we really need cash for everyday use but even though there are merchants that are accepting cashless payments, it is still not enough for us to go cashless because the majority of the stores are still preferring cash instead of cashless payment but i think in the future, with the influence of bitcoin and other cashless payment options, it will make us cashless.
As the price of bitcoin is slowly climbing up, it is a good sign that we should invest in the cryptocurrencies not only in bitcoin. Investing right now is such a great opportunity for us to maximize the potential profit since it is giving a good sign of being bullish. I hope that the market will continue this kind of slow growth so it will have a strong foundation. Indeed, we should not sell our coins during the correction phase because it is not a good idea and it will just lead to a loss for us investors and instead of thinking about selling our coins, we should just think about buying in order to save money and also to not miss the opportunity of the cheap sales in the market. Bitcoin is important for the entrepreneurs because they could use it as another type of payment and it is also served them as an investment where they can put some of their profits in bitcoin as both savings and investment and it can help them to stay afloat in terms of making money because it is a passive source of income. 2018 was not a bad year for bitcoin because it is a good opportunity for all of the people because they can buy bitcoin at a pretty low price compare than before. Bitcoin is always giving opportunities for both sellers and buyers and it also useful for troubled economy countries because it can easily beat inflation. The things that make an investor a good one is the patience and also the knowledge about investing because if they are patient enough to wait for their investment to grow then they are a good one and if they have enough knowledge to maximize their resources for investing then they will have a great journey ahead. There is a possibility for bitcoin to be worthless IF people will start selling all of their bitcoin and never buying them back. That is the only way for bitcoin to be worthless but with the things that are happening to bitcoin right now, it is a dumb idea for people to just sell their bitcoin, so i think if the good things will keep on coming in the future then there is no chance for bitcoin to be worthless. They definitely do. They know all of the opportunities both offline and online. So it is expected for them to be secretly investing in bitcoin and holding them for long term because they know the profit margin from investing in bitcoin is high. They just keep it secretly because they don't want to let the people know that they are supporting bitcoin. Emotion is such a destroyer for every trader and we must control them in order to become great in trading but it is not only limited to that, we can also apply being emotionless in investing because you can clearly decide and think about things if you are going to limit your emotion and set it aside. Awesome features right there in the Philippines. Bitcoin is such a versatile currency and it just proves that it is almost the same like the fiat currency because we can use it to pay things just like our paper money but the only thing that set the difference for bitcoin to the paper money is the decentralization and also the opportunity behind it. Day trading is such a good source of income in the world of cryptocurrency because if you are very knowledgeable in day trading then you can make a fortune by just trading cryptocurrency non-stop. Yes, non-stop because they are open 24/7 even in holidays they are always open and that makes them special compare to the other type of market. I don't think if this is a suggestion but for me, it is more of an advice. You should wait for the price of bitcoin to lower and touch the support based on the chart. If you are going to do that, then you will have a higher chance to make a profit from buying bitcoin at support because if that support is strong, the price will go up. That could be one of the main reason why the bitcoin trader gets tortured, money is the root of all evil and that is why we should avoid spitting some of our personal information like our income to our friends or even family members because jealousy can hit them and it might turn into some evil thing that will cost you life. Some of the people are abusing the decentralization that the other cryptocurrency are offering but for the majority of the user of crypto, I can say that we are not abusing the decentralization, we are really grateful of the decentralization because it helped us in a lot of ways and i hope that crypto will be consistent in improving and giving us a lot of advantages. That is what usually happen after the adjustment, the market will have a little bit of drawback but after a while, it will smoothly go up again. Adjustments that will be done by the miners, investors and even regular users will be worth it for long term purposes because based on the history of bitcoin, even bad things happen, it will still go up in the long run that will give a lot of profits to the patient users. Banks are still unbeatable this day by bitcoin because banks are stable and they have a lot of good offer for the potential consumers that might trick them into using the bank instead of the other option like bitcoin. Banks are offering insurance and also almost assured investments for their customers while bitcoin is still volatile and a lot of people are giving negative thoughts toward bitcoin that result into discouragement for the other investors. Update: 110 pcs available! Philippines Virtual Credit| Visa And Amex|Original Philippines Virtual Credit| Not a stolen| 6$ Each VCC Working Sites All sites are working like netflix, spotify, Paypal, Target, aliexpress, amazon prime, amazon etcNot Working site in my VCC: Azure, Digital Ocean, Google Cloud, Oracle, Adwords, Uber, VultrBulk Discounts Available10-20 5$ Each VCCWarranty: Replace if VCC not work in the site                   (This has Never Happened before btw)Telegram: Jim58711 Skype: Live: nokimaster1 WeChat: jim58711 Whatsapp: +639162536160 I am selling phone verification for 0.30$, Payment method Paypal, Btc, eth) pm me, telegram jim58711, skype live: nokimaster1  yes working in windows azure, paypal google, cloud all sites aside of adwords  Hello everyone, I am creating amazon account has a prime member. I have many vcc cards(amex and visa) 6$ each, How much is amazon account?Answer 8$Why 8$? Answer: Because it will be more time, more effort to do so.Why 6$ price of vcc?Answer: Because have 2$ inside the cardWhere can i use it? Answer: All sites can u use this(not working as of now is (adwords,oracle,)Is this reloadable? Answer:YesWho can reload this and how much the limit of reload?Answer:  I can only reload this card, Any amount will do.What is your payment method?Answer  BTC and eth, If you earn my trust you can pay via paypal.Why i cannot accept paypal?Answer:  Because people refunding the moneyWhat sites can i use your vcc?Answer, Paypal Verification, Amazon USL/UK, Target, best buy, Digital Ocean, Netflix, Spotify, Betting sites, Dating sites! All sites are working and kicking, A side of adwords we are working now in adwords to  work!For more info pm me in telegram: jim58711 skype: live:nokimaster1
Selling New amazon account(have a prime member) refund its okay! No banned, diffrent IP. I will give replacement!Pm me telegram, jim58711 skype live:nokimaster1 Pm me in telegram jim58711Skype live: nokimaster1 Bitcointalk Name BabylonRank Hero MemberStake NameWear signature & avatar YesCan't wear animated avatar anymore. *Internet problem Hello pm me in telegram jim58711Or in skype  Jim58711 BTC TALK:live:nokimaster1Vcc Philippines I dont know bro, i have a promo code 1$ the verificatuon code  100% good for paypal Quality text/sms/message code and Virtual Credit Card recently created have 2$ In the credit card, 5$ Each. affordable, for further and faster transaction leave a message orMessage me in telegram: jim58711 Contact me in telegram jim58711 5$ Each sir My Username is jim58711 Hello i have many phone numbers,  i will offer my services. I will create you any app or any service.Pm me for info.  telegram jim58711 Selling Phone Verification 2$ EachPm me  in telegram jim58711 You can use this vcc for paypal verifying. SELLING VCC VISA AND VCC AMEX HAVE 2$ IN CARDPM ME IN TELEGRAM : jim58711 Yes it is stressful I am also planning to quit in trading,I think this stress is too much for me I would enjoy my time and lay low in trading. We don't have a crystal ball to know which would go up,But if you want you could also want to invest in ETH it is the most talk crypto right now . They fear it and they couldn't earn from it,They couldn't control it that is why they hate it unlike banks crypto is decentralized so they couldn't take over it they couldn't put tax on it. We couldn't say that 99% of it is failed or scam ,Maybe most of them are scam but we couldn't say that most of them have failed maybe most of them got delayed because of the market crash they are a bit short of funds.But as long as the dev,team and community is alive and active we couldn't say that the project is dead or it is already considered as a failed project. We don't have a clue on what would happen in the future,Most of us are expecting a bull run this December but that doesn't mean that there would be one,We all thought that this year we would see a continues growth for crypto.
We are the reason why the market has been dropping,We are the one's who is responsible for the price we are the one who is putting the demand in the market. We don't know if this is true if we are really going to see new pumps,But I think it would really be hard since the market has been crashing down even if people starts to buy back the price could pump but there would be other people who would sell their crypto once the price pumps up. All of them are important if they want a successful project.Without a great or active Developer the project would be dead,Without a great or active team the project wouldn't be known or spread out,Without the community the project couldn't continue because of the lack of funds. Most of the bounties this year isn't profitable or isn't paying much,Most of them are scam or if they aren't scam most of them are dump right now.So bounties isn't good this year. Dash going strong I hope that more and more crypto would get accepted by other company.Crypto is being accepted little by little I hope that it would continue and in the future everything could be paid with crypto. I don't think that 2018 is the year for crypto currencies,We have been experiencing price drop since day one . Sure is,looks like the HYIP doesn't get any attention nowadays so they decided to go into ICO,More and more new coins are being created and ICO is just a way to scam investors. I hope that it wouldn't really go down that far ,The end of this year is near I hope that we could see a bull run before it ends ,I hope that this would be our holiday gift as crypto holders. Wait till it have a value   most of the token nowadays doesn't have a value,Most of bounty hunters are dumping away their token once they already have value . Let's just hope that there would really be a bull run this December,We have been bleeding since 2018 start the market also starts to drop down,How long are we going to experience this drop? The best time is when it is dropping so it is a good time to invest now,But people are afraid to take the risk and they would be mad if the price went up and they didn't grab some while it was still low. Seem's to be true most of them doesn't really have a value,Most of them doesn't really have a back up project or an active or real life project. Same here most of my investment are also down to half,There is nothing I could do right now I don't want to sell it because I would lose a lot from my investment,Let's just hope that the bull run this December is true,That is our only hope . For me they could also go without bounty but they would have to pay for every website to post their advertisement,They are only playing safe by doing bounty because in advertisement through website they have to pay before the website post their ads and they have to pay it with fiat but with bounty hunters they would pay after the ICO and be paid with their token. Holder lose only if they have a weak hands and invested in a shitcoin,Holders should know what they are aiming for holders are for a long term investment they would only lose if they would sell it now . I agree some bounties doesn't tell their participants that they are recquired to submit their personal information,It is really hard to do a KYC because the main thing about Bitcoin is anonymity and I think it contradicts it.And of course we don't really know what would they do with our info they could sell it out ,Just imagine a scam campaign that recquired a KYC that means they would only sell the personal information plus the total investment it would be a huge amount of money. I don't think that Bitcoin would be that low again ,And what's next Bitcoin would be back to $100 again,Weak hands would surely be shaken but that doesn't mean that we would be back to that low price again specially now that we have so many investors and some of them are considered as whales I don't think that they would let it happen. How do you promote Bitcoin or crypto currencies?Do you even promote it ?I am promoting it to my friends back when I was just new in crypto ,But most of them doesn't care about it back then. Myetherwallet ,it is the wallet that I have been using since I started earning erc20 tokens,I also recommend hard ware wallets like trezor or ledger it is much more safer for me hard ware wallets are the safest wallet. The last hope for this year to let us recover some money that we lost during the dump,This is our last chance to gain back what we lost and hope that we could get more to have some profit from our investments.
For me I would choose real estate over Bitcoin to be honest that is the reason why I am saving my crypto,But I guess we do have our own opinion some of us want's to trade their real estate for Bitcoin to earn more,While some choose to buy real estate to secure some property from our hard earned money. It is true when it comes to crypto you should only trust yourself,And when choosing a bounty ICO trust rating isn't always right or accurate.Sometimes even if an ICO score high in a trust rating sites they could turn to be a scam or they could also fail. Yes you are right the team should really fear us,We are the reason why they become successful we are the reason why they attracted so many investors without us they would be paying some website just to post their advertisement .So they should really treat us right and pay us what they promised. Tell that to the early investor's who manage to hold it for a long time,Bitcoin isn't a magic box that could make you an instant millionaire ,For me it is for a long term investment if you couldn't handle it then quit nobody is forcing you to join and invest. Game over? When it was starting the price was only less than $1 .And now that the price is high and droping low you would think that it is the end of Bitcoin?The price already rise up from below $1 what more now that the price already reach $20,000 and we have more supporter's and investors. Well this is a really great news hope there would be others who would accept it in the future,Hope that we could use crypto in every transaction that we would make in the future . I don't really take other's opinion when it comes to my investment,It is my money so I should be the one to take care of it ,Besides if I am going to loss some money because of it is it on me it is my own decision.I wouldn't blame it on others . Let's just wait and see if we are going to witness another bull run this December,I know that all of us are waiting for it we are all waiting for the price increase,Let's just hope that this one would be the start of a great bull run and it would make the price of Bitcoin hit's another ATH. Because most of them just want to get the money of the investor's,There are so many scam project because there are also many lazy investor's who aren't reviewing or doig some background check at the team and the project. Then it would be like Fiat every country have it's own currency,I think it wouldn't really help the market it would just add some coin in the market we don't really know if it would be a big help for the crypto market. Well crypto ia already viral the problem is most of the publicity of crypto is negative,Crypto currency is viral and it already have so many investors ,I also think that a huge number of investor isn't a good thing for it because most of the new investor's have a weak hands. It is really hard to know who owns it for real I mean who is the person behind the wallet's that have a great amount of Bitcoin,We could see some wallet which have a huge amount of Bitcoin but we couldn't really know who own's the wallet .Satoshi Nakamoto is one of them but surely we don't have enough proof who is Satoshi Nakamoto in real life . I also think that after a huge crash there would be a bounce back since investor's are going to buy it,They would take the chance to take some alt-coin or ETH at a low price and because of it the demand would increase and so does the price,I just hope that sooner or later we would see the start of the bounce. I don't know there are lot's of ICO that is turning into scam or dying when it hits the market,For me it is not really worth it right now a huge percent of ICO are scam or would end up as a fail project since it couldn't hit their soft cap.The thing is most of the successful ICO would just be dump in the market right after it hits a trading site. We aren't sure if this would turn out to be a good investment for our kids future,But who know's maybe in the future it would really be a good one if the price goes up ,We don't really know what would happen in the future the price of Bitcoin could go down or the Bitcoin era could end.We don't really know if the Bitcoin would be with us forever or even for the next couple of years. I agree and also i disagree. There are legit airdrops that will pay you but you need to wait a little longer.There are also airdrop that will convince you that it is legit but they won't pay you. People spend time in bitcoin because it is the easy way to earn money. Bitcoin also give you an opportunity to earn money with your own time schedule. I think as long as they have electricity, you have a computer and tools needed you can mine anywhere around the earth.You should also know the effect of bitcoin mining like the increase of he electricity bill. I think there is no signature campaign that accepts newbie .Most of the signature campaign that I see only accepts member up soI guess it is really hard to find one you have to rank up if you want to join a signature campaign. Yes because I am going to put my hard earned money in their project ,Nobody wants to put their money in something that they don't believe in or don't have enough trust.
I think it is true more people or investor more volatility ,Because there would be more people in the market more people who could dump or pump the market. For me it if you are just asking about profit then no even a small capital could earn a profit but don't expect too much.Any amount could earn a profit in crypto currency you just have to get the right timing . No because I really think that ICO rating is just for promotion they are also being paid to promote the ICO.I think their ratings are paid and the higher the payment they get the higher the rate they would put in that project. I don't really think that the 1-2% of the total circulation would affect the price .And sometimes when we promote it there would be a new investor so basically there would be more demands and the price would increase , There are different views for each bounty hunters,Most of us are bounty hunters because of the decent reward that we get from it.And some of us are there to support the project  that we believe is a good one. Just remember that there is a risk in turning your money in crypto currency or investing in it.But it is your money you could do anything with it just be careful. I don't really think that you have to fully understand it I just think you have to know the basics and how to secure your own wallet.To be honest people wouldn't understand something that they don't really want. Don't do anything let your success make the noise,Don't brag about crypto people who are close minded wouldn't change their opinion unless they see it on their own eyes. Try your luck at gambling it is hard to double up your capital in just a short time in trading.It is hard to know which coin could give you profit and how much could it go up. Yes it is but you could also gain a huge profit from it.I think it is better to have other option specially in investment what if the crypto that you choose ends up dropping down you wouldn't have something to back that up. We couldn't tell if it is the best time to enter in Bitcoin.Because we couldn't really tell if it is the lowest price that it could get. To be honest you wouldn't because not everyday the market would increase,And not every time you could gain a profit from your trade. SIGNATUREBitcointalk username: BabylonForum rank: Hero MemberStarting post count: 1141Ethereum address: 0x376120a2aA16baeA717945BB03C07f2FDe95AbA4 Right now it is really hard to get x10 from just 1 investment.If you want to get it then do some short trades and make sure that you would always gain profit. Yes specially if you know how to handle it or if you know how to trade properly.Some alt-coin is really worth it you just have to know what is your goal in investing in it , is it for a short term quick profit or for a long term investment. And when would this happen?I think the price is really high and too good to be true.But one thing is for sure we all want to see the price rise up . It depends on us every one have a different opinion.But for me yes it is a good long term investment. Why don't you do both participating a bounty wouldn't take too much time ,You could do your bounty on your free time it wouldn't consume too much time . I think it is a good one to buy and hold for a long time,For me ETH could get back up and gain a high price again . For me yes it is you would just spend some little time to get some free token,And that token could give you a good amount of money .Even if some airdrops end up being a scam at least you didn't spend any money and just put up a little effort to answer their questions or fill up some forms.
It is also a fast way to lose a money,We should also consider the negative outcome of our choice .Let's face it there is only a good or bad out come of anything that we would do. Well for mw I would just wait till the price goes up or at least reach about half of it's ICO price.Sometimes it would take a lot of time before it happens but at least it reach their goal. Well there are times that the new listed coin could be profitable,But there are also some that would drop down and would be drown and wouldn't come back. ICO investment has more risk than alt-coin that is already in the trading platform,But it could also give you some profit if it ever hit the trading platform or if it at least reach it's ICO price. Long term trade has a higher chance to earn a huge profit,While on the other hand short term trade could earn daily with compounding profit so you could also use it to earn a huge amount but it is too risky. I don't really think that you should consider it as a real job because it couldn't really support you,There are so many scam campaign nowadays so I think depending too much on bounty is not a good thing to do.  It is really hard to tell what coin would make X10 in 2018,There are so many alt-coin and the market keeps on crashing down so it is really hard to predict which one would recover and which one would make it X10. For me ETH would be my top choice for now,EOS,XRP,NEO and Bitcoin cash would also be a good choice to buy and hold. Well it depends on the person sometimes they take it seriously because they believe that they would earn a huge amount of money from it,But for me I think they have to relax and don't depend too much on it. For me I would just normally wait for it to recover ,But if the price keeps on fluctuating and I could take advantage of it why wouldn't I sell and earn profit from it.  Try to read some articles and news decide if they have a good future,For me it is about their plan their road map look if they could keep up with it and know what are their plan for their token or coin. Well there are times that bounty doesn't really let you earn huge amount of money anymore,There are some that would end up being a low price alt-coin or some bounty would just end up not paying . Dump,Dump,Dump we all know what would happen next just wait till the dump is over and surely the market would rise again,It wouldn't continue to dump to zero people would never let it happen and surely some would take the chance to get some while it is dropping low. No not all of them are scam but mostly of the ICO would turn out to be scam because most of them would fail,And then the other would just end up in some exchange with a super low price not even half of their ICO price or even their pre-ico price. Of course it is too risky what if the alt-coin goes down after you put all of your money in it,Then there wouldn't be a back up plan for you to recover your lost it is better to always look for other alt-coin invest in as much alt-coin that you could. Well sometimes it is better to invest than to wait for free money,Investment has some risk yes but airdrops doesn't really seems to be worth it I mean you could gain some but it would only be a few dollars . Nope I don't think that it would ever happen I don't really think that ETH would even get close to the price of 1 Bitcoin,It would only remain strong but it could never surpass Bitcoin. Most of the time I would only look in the bounty section of this forum,But sometimes I would try to search for an ICO that seems to be successful and try to google it if there is a bounty in that ICO. It depends on the crypto that I am going to take for example something like Bitcoin then I would go for a long term,But for some new alt-coin I think it is better to go for a short term there are so many alt-coin that is only good at the beginning . The fact that the price started so low and when you look at the price now,I just believe that in the future it would continue to grow .
Nope I really think that it would be impossible in just a few months left,To be honest I also want to see the price of Bitcoin be pump up but let's face it in reality this is really impossible. We would really love to see ETH bounce back and get higher again,Not just ETH but also the market I think we all want to see the crypto market rise high again . What motivates me the most is the people who I meet in the social media I know them for about 5 years now,And I could say that most of them become really successful because of crypto currencies.  I just hope that it would just continue to rise and make another ATH at December,Maybe it is starting to fly now and soon it would be so high so I guess we should really hold some and buy while it is still low. Chasing the ones that are already being pump is the biggest risk of the traders,FOMO they think that the coin or token would continue to be pump then ended up being dump after they got in,And also putting all of their money in trading so when they need some money for emergency cases they wouldn't have a choice but to sell their token or coin even if the market or the value of the token is being dump.I think most of us already experience it and it is really great to remind your self about what you need to do in trading thanks for reminding us about it. Well I think it is really a good time to buy now but what if the price continues to fall?This is the risk that the people are afraid of when it comes to investing in Bitcoin or in crypto currencies,If you want to get a profit then you have to face your fear and take the risk. There are so many alt-coin right now and I have seen some alt-coin gave a huge profit by just holding it for a long time,But to be honest I don't really know what alt-coin would change my life in the future because  I tried some bounty campaigns and I could say that most of them really gave me a good profit and made my life easier when it comes to money problems. Nope what if the alt-coin goes down too then it would cost more than what you would lose when you just hold your Bitcoin,It is really a great plan but it is also a risky one I tried it before I have some good times and some bad moments in that move . Hope that you are right about it hope that we could  see a steady price increase in Bitcoin until the end of the year,But it seems so impossible right now once the price starts to recover people would take advantage of it and take their profit and the price would drop down again.I think we need more investors again to gain more demand . Why would you even ask for people to follow your step?If you believe in Bitcoin and trust it then you would know that it would recover soon ,If you want to make some profit from it then you should buy some soon when the price drops lower then hold it. The high price maybe and the price drops could also be a reason why they are scared to invest in Bitcoin,They could be afraid to get into Bitcoin because it is only back up by the demand of the investors and if the demand gets wreck the price would fall down. We are only in 2018 and it looks like a tough year for Bitcoin we couldn't really tell how much would 1 Bitcoin be in that year,We all expected this year to be another great year for Bitcoin but at the past month you could really say that Bitcoin is having a huge drop from the beginning of the year. I don't think so that is so over acting ,Bitcoin had never been down there since it hit about $1,000 so why would it hit that low now that it climb way more higher than $1,000? I think the safest way to store your bitcoin is through a hard ware wallet like nano ledger s or trezor,It is safe to store some other alt-coin in that wallet to and I don't really tried the so called paper wallet but they say that it is also a good way to store some bitcoin. Bounty earnings are uncertain due to delays and the price of each token/coin and also the number of participants and the allocated bounty reward,So we couldn't really tell how much could we earn in one bounty and how much did we earn in 1 month because the price of token/coin would change from time to time. Whales are dumping their share to buy it at a low price ,They are using their huge stock to create a huge price drop and when the people gets afraid of it they will also sell their share and that would create a huge dump,And then the whale would surely take the opportunity to buy back what they sold in a much more cheaper price. My plan for this year is to continue to earn and save money until I could afford to buy my own house or at least able to build my own house,And to buy somethings that I could use at my house to design my own house and have some huge savings from crypto. Nobody could really say when would it really happen but one thing is for sure it already happen so for sure it would go there again and it could get more higher than before,I think it could happen but not right now Bitcoin price is too far from it so it would really take some time to get there. Yes you are right it is much better to have a regular job rather than relying your income in just the crypto currencies,The crypto currencies have so volatile price so you couldn't really depend on it too much and also the bounty rewards doesn't guarantee to have a value so don't depend too much on it, Well I don't think most of the bounty hunters would agree to that,Some of us just wants to hold the token and some wants to turn their rewards into fiat as soon as they get it,But if the bounty hunter receive ETH instead of token then that would make the price of the token more stable in the market because the bounty hunters wouldn't dump their token but for sure the price dump would go to ETH so the price of ETH would surely fall down because of it.There are already some bounties that have an option in payment for their bounty hunters where they could get their reward in 50%ETH and 50% token or just 100% token.
Well maybe they are manipulating the market by crashing it little by little and buying some while others are at panic mode,Maybe they are using their money to control the price and to be honest I think they are even earning daily profit from it,Just imagine how much you have earned from your day trade and how much could they earn with their huge amount of money if they do the day trade. The only thing that you have to do to secure your Bitcoin is get a wallet that is secured from hackers,For me it is safe to put it in a hardware wallet because hackers couldn't access it for sure because they need your hardware wallet to open or make some transaction in your wallet,They also say that a paper wallet is a good one for a long term holding of your crypto currency but I never really try it out. I think you are right and there are solid proof to that as we all remember the ATH of Bitcoin that occur on December,Well I wonder how many people lose some of their money because of investing in that price,I think investment really is not about how much you invested it is the timing of your investment,It is also one what I believe because when I was just new in Bitcoin there are so many investment sites (HYIP) to be exact ,And most of them would turn out to be a scam for me you should really get in and pull out all your investment before it becomes a scam so yeah timing is important in investment, The only challenge with a small investment is that you couldn't really assume to get a huge profit,But sometimes when you invest a money in a business and you are really working hard for the business then you could make that business successful,For me small investment is always a good start for investment because you could try everything with it unlike when you invested a huge amount just a small mistake and everything would be torn down. Yes I still use it is the only ether wallet that I know where I could see my ethereum tokens or erc20,I think it is safe just make sure that your way to access your wallet is secured and always check the link of the website. Yes we could really say that it is just a vehicle and we are the one who is responsible for the movement,People are the one who are responsible for the price increase and for the decrease even for the news the bad ones or the good ones we are the one who are making it,It is just the outcome of what we all do with our crypto. Well we all know how it works all the crypto currency depends on the demand so does their price,And yeah for every earning you made in crypto is a lost from some else because they have a weak hands to sell it or they need Fiat ,The Bitcoin have already proves it ,It has been in the market for 9 years and it would continue to be with us as long as there is a demand or a support from the investors. Well if you don't want to hold it then take advantage of the volatility of Bitcoin,Play with your Bitcoin at the market if you want but don't cry or whine when you lose some money because of it,The reason why you should hold is to earn some profit because you believe that the price would fly high soon. Yes exchange have a huge earning from people who are using their website to trade ,But they are also using that money to improve their website or to keep their website trustworthy,They need money to keep their transaction smooth and to upgrade their system and security from time to time to keep their clients safe.   Online wallets could be hacked but the hard ware wallets I think it is impossible to be hacked,They could only access your hard ware wallet if they have your back up keys and it is impossible for them to get the right pattern of random words . Crypto is falling basically because of the demand more people are selling their coins rather than buying it,Crypto price depends only in the demand so if there are more people who sell's their coin then the price would surely fall. Both have pro's and con's but if you want a stable income you would surely be with real job,But if you want to earn a huge amount and work with your own time then go with crypto,To be honest I think it is a good idea to go with crypto then when you earn enough money open a business to have a stable income. For sure we would but it would take some time before it recovers and get that price again,If the price keeps on recovering and rise up again we could see it again before this year ends,Maybe next year we could get way more higher than $20,000 . For me the most secure Bitcoin wallets are the offline wallets,The hackers couldn't access your wallet unless they could get your back up keys to access your offline wallets, Well it depends ,Sometimes I sell my Bitcoin to buy some alts to gain some profit,I would sell my Bitcoin once it starts dumping then buy some alt-coin to gain some BTC from it. For me I don't really think that it would touch that price again,It has been that low back then because there are only few people who are investing in it,But right now there are so many people who knows it and investing in it ,Price is driven by the demand and there are so many people who wants it . Learn from your mistake and never repeat it again,You should learn from your mistake and keep on moving on. Yes the price has drop down and I think it is a good thing for those who wants to invest more.You shouldnt really panic when the price is dropping down just relax and try to get more. Because government couldnt control it,Bitcoin is decentrize and they couldnt gain something from it.It would also stop some people to trust banks or use banks. Because they would lose more client ,Bitcoin is taking the people away to the banks ,People would rather put their money in the crypto instead of the bank to gain more peofit by just holding it.
If you really want to do some alt-coin trading then just do it with a small amount since youre just new.It is better to experience it with a small amount than to cry when you lose a huge amount because of rushing things. I think it is because people are taking their profit even if it is just a small percent of price increase,People nowadays in crypto are so greedy that they would take even a small profit and doesnt want to hold it for too long. If it is an alt-coin then better know what are their plans for the future because sometimes the price of alt-coin would just continue to fall,There are times that it is better to cut loss than to continue on holding .You should know when to quit and when to continue. There are some good alt-coin that is currently below $1,And it is a good one to be honest I have seen some low price alt-coin that made some great improvement on its way,I have seen some who holds some alt-coin that others wouldn't believe to survive but still manage to get pump. Nothing would happen to your crypto if your family doesnt have control over it,It would just be stock ,The only way that you could secure your crypto is by using an off line wallet and make sure you have some back ups to the offline wallet incase you lost it. People are taking thwir opportunity to earn online ,Some of us just wants to earn online because we want to handle our own time we want to spend more time with our family. Pump and dump groups are just using people to get some profit,You could look at it as a pyramid scheme the last one to invest or get out is the loser.Of course the one who is telling the group to buy it is the winner when the group actually believes it. We are trading crypto currency because we want it to be promoted and gain more demands,We want it to be known for everyone so they could also gain profit from crypto currency,I think forex trading is profitable but alt-coin or crypto currency trading could gain more profit and way more daster than forex. I think nobody could really give you a good answer because there are some who would tell you to buy and there are some who would tell you to wait,The question is are you willing to take the risk we couldnt tell if the market would start to recover or continue to drop down. The perfect time to buy is when the market is dropping low ,The only problem is when it continues to drop down instead of recover .We couldn't really know when is the right time to buy because the alt-coin market is so volatile.  But there are some assumptioms and theory though, but then again he still anonymous , no one knows about him all the trace that he left is hes creation which is bitcoin. For my opinion i rather stay though , its not just by commitment , its a promises you both made in the front of God , for sickness and health , and etc... its like a fire though , days by days and years by years the fire will decrease or should i say it can gone , but its a choice , both of you have a choice , do anything to spark it up. Well lots of us or should i say over a 60 percent i guess here on the forum using mew or myetherwallet , so i recommended it too , it's easier to use and safe and hundred percent safe. And I recommend hardware based than software , but then again all are safe and trusted.  All this assumption or prediction are all have an experienced or should i say they review it all , to be honest there are some yes , to be expected , but no promises. On the other hand I expect or predicted at the end of the year I hope it reach my target price which is around 25k to 30k us dollar.  Well as of now the price of bitcoin is still increasing and no doubt still the best time to invest and hold your coins , and investing on bitcoin is profitable though , and I know in the near future bitcoin will be the number one currency will be used , don't be baffled on the price of bitcoin though just ride on the flow.  Well there are many assumptions but then again bitcoin is very volatile it can gradually increase and also decrease , as of now there are many fake news that been spreading and no doubt why the supply and also the demand are very low and which means the price of bitcoin too and on the marketplace go down  Well for my opinion is i admire this country and a quick fact or trivia about russia. Russia is holding the title for the worlds longest railway , here is the link if you want to check it out. And also i wanted to visit this country though  , looking at the picture really captives my heart , looking forward to visit this country. Link: http://www.guinnessworldrecords.com/world-records/longest-train-journey-without-changing-trains Well in asia its somehow hard to find a job , there are many freelancers only , some cant find a temporary job , some are unemployment. Then the bitcoin arrived it gives a hope to some , some are now sucessful because of bitcoin , some are earning money because of bitcoin. Im very thankful that bitcoin created , and to be honest im from philippines.  Well yes it is , and still we are on the middle of april and still the marketplace seems very low or on the down fall again. Im very positive with my coins im holding at , i know that it woulf increase , its normal to decrease though because its very volatile and i think the supply is too low also the demand. Holding to your coins is more profitable than panciking , so better to hold your coins though.  This been years and years talking about bitcoin will be dead or die , its all redundant. But look , still bitcoin survives , not because the price is going down so does bitcoin , remember that its very voltalite , and on the other hand yes still good idea or should i say a wise and better idea to invest on btc. Dont be scared or panic when the price is too low , it will increase sooner or later.
Price is low , but bitcoin i think its not dead though its just chilling , so same as you chill. Dont think and say that btc is dead , remember that its an unstable currency it may gradually go down or go up , not because bitcoin price is low , it doesnt mean bitcoin is dead its just pumping up. Well said , and its very profitable yes , and the volatility which means it can go up and downs , and despite that its risky , well its normal to an investment , and it has good price , investing on bitcoin will surely give you a better future. Long lived bitcoin though . Happy 4 20 though , to some that dont know what is 4 20 its a anniversary for the users of you know , and today is april so 4 and 20 , and usually they used the you know what i mean in the time of 4 20. So again happy 420 guys. Well all my coins are currently on hold because of the down fall of the marketplace , but instead of panicking i buy more and yes, buy and hold is the best solution. Im very optimistic on the coins that ive had , surely it increase and  yes remember that our marketplace is very volatile , also its like a roller coaster sometimes we go up , and obviously we go down. So better to hold your coins. Maybe wait until the price increases and then next thing i'm gonna do is half of it i will invest and half of it i will cash out and save , you will need to be wiser , you will need to be budget your money and it's not just a any other currency it's a bitcoin , and i'm looking forward through it , and then i will say thank you to the person who gave a gift a btc gift.  I have anger management though and sometimes my friend just understanding me what ever it takes , i think its really hard for my friend because understanding or coping up with some problems lime anger managetment , really hard though , but as a friend you will do anything right ? , and my friend become my best friend , and know shes my wife , just sharing though , and i come a lot to many semeniras just to reduce , im gladly or should i say im lucky. Well i hope so , but one of the factors of bitcoin is decentrelized and volatile which means it can decrease and increase all of a sudden, i predict in ten years maybe not just a million dollars , by the excessive and sudden gaining popularity of bitcoin i think in ten years will definitely surprise us , no doubt but i hope and looking forward. I want in the world that is peace , no government , no one will rule the rule , freedom , like a bird without cage , no war just love , that world i want to live in. I think it's better though , i once see it on my dreams , it's so overwhelming though like a unique experience , that i can't elaborate or explain. I hope our world i like that.  Well right now the government of india are now disscussing whether it implemented or not , its not illegal though they just want to keep their people safe on the scammers , as of now little by little bitcoin is now recognizing or should i say gaining its popularity , i hope and looking forward to implement bitcoin , just like my country too ph , all the government are now debating on bitcoin. From the word itself lead , and there are many qualities of being a leader. But for me the most is having a fear on God , having a mercy and a hope , a good model to influence not just the people but the whole world. There are some born to be leader and there are some too that wanted a leader. I hope one day there will be a leader who stand among all corrupt government and bring peace not war.  I prefer using ethereum almost 50 percent though and the other 50 percent goes to the litecoin , this two coins never fail to suprise me. And by the way its year of altcoin and to be honest im thinking of investing on the ripple but still doubting.  But be wise and do something for it dont hope just have patience and be optimistic. , as of now we all needed a patience all the coins are going down dont panic , be wise , think of the positive outcome and be patient thats all it matters, and have a plan a to z something like that because i do it though having a plan , and a stronger and better mind set. There are lot things i wanna do before i do , so my bucket list is , to help the steet children , to be a mentor to those who wanted to be a basketball player. And i want to be a big influencer on the generation. And be happy for the rest of my life. Well its a good news though , buying a meal using kfc really helps it and reducing the hussle. In my state which is philippines still not implementing or appliying bitcoin, but i hope and looking forward. On the other hand there is something it really bothers me what about the price its still consistent? , because bitcoin has a volatility right? , is having a volatility make a big loss for the kfc?  Well I think without bitcoin or if ever bitcoin not created I think I'm just laying on my bed with some foods and not a futuristic person , but thankful bitcoin created and now I'm learning and just influencing my friends , and bitcoin will not die , not today , not tomorrow , not forever. Long lived bitcoin I'm proud where I am right now , still thankful though.  That is true , and to be honest when i quit facebook , i've seen some improvements too such as giving more attention on myself , and to my family instead of just surfing around the facebook. And said by the creator if facebook which is mark zuckerberg , said that he created facebook to communicate others to build a better social relationship and equality , but now we are focusing instead of our own life you know what I mean? , so I think just try it maybe a month or more.  As far as I know is , as of now the government of philippines are now conducting a debate which they just tackling if ever they will approve on bitcoin or applied it on the country. But some recent news I've seen I think the government of the philippines are now seeing the good sides of bitcoin.(This link is the news )https://www.coindesk.com/philippines-just-released-new-rules-bitcoin-exchanges/  Do you think that it's all worth it selling your house , i think sell it when the bitcoin at the highest though and construct an apartment or any business that will gave you a passive income like an apartment. That's a better way to invest on , just think okay , not because the price of bitcoin is at lowest , you will panic , but anyway get some plan and think wise so there would be no loss and regrets at the end.  I don't know though maybe you need to fully condition yourself before doing this though , and well good luck , but still i don't recommended it . I hope that you will successfully do it , and i hope you will you know , but don't force yourself to do it okay?  Well I think I prefer btc the bitcoin is at the lowest though but the eth is quite increasing , it's time to buy more bitcoin , if you are just wanted an short term income well probably wait eth , and if not , if you wanted to longterm , go to btc , both ways are profitable it depends on you. 
Yes we are technically brainwashed at school , and even to the social media , and medias though sad but that is the true instead of living by the truth we tend to live in the society that is cruel and full of fake and lie. We have no privacy , I think we aren't free anymore we're like a bird in a cage with no freedom to fly.   I prefer holding than selling it though as of now the price of bitcoin is at the lowest , but still soon bitcoin will increase so definitely hold it. And i think its time to buy too , cause or the martket are down better to hold and buy than to regret. I hope it world war 3 will not happen though , remember that war isn't good you know that , it can kill a million and over a billion lives , the main reason why they wanted to war is because the POWER , power to rule the world though. We all brothers and sisters why we fight for no reason though , I hope this will not come true , think about the future of the children and the new era.  Yes it is it would be a huge effect on oil industry , but it can open a new opportunity because oil is important right? Its not only for cars though . But on the other hand it is it would be a huge impact , it may lead to bankruptcy. Nice pick but can i add just two maybe add the litecoin or etheruem because this two coins or should i say alt coins this two are have more potential , these coins are going strong for years though and i think they should be add on the top 10 altcoin to invest. Well this been all over the news since last year right , you know to be honest i quite afraid and scared that we need to be serious on drug awareness. This flakka drugs isnt a joke , i hope the government will take full responsibilities and action throughout this. Well to be honest bitcoin is a unstable crypto currency which it can go down or increase but , don't worry bitcoin will recover , some users or holders been panicking when they see some news such as , bitcoin is dead or what so ever. Always remember that bitcoin has an unpredictable price , and yes definitely the price of bitcoin will increase , it doesn't mean that bitcoin decrease he's dead. Yes it's 100 percent secured well maybe we can't erase the word risk , risk is a part on investment , and bitcoin is really safe because it's a decentralized coin , so yes it is safe and secured you can assure that you have a great future on the near future.  Well the only answer is love is powerful it can blind some one , so much desperate leads to expectation , and probably it can lead to depression which resulting to a person to be a broken heart. This is one of the lesson in life that we must learn , don't give all , learn to limit your emotions.  Well i have no doubt this would come sooner or later so yes i positively buy one , but having electric cars will be a big problem to the diesel such as the petrol what so ever. And the reasons for me to buy it it's not in fame or whatever because it's my dream , and i have some link that explain the future of electric cars feel free to look at.Link: https://www.pocket-lint.com/cars/news/140845-future-cars-upcoming-electronic-cars-of-the-future-coming-soon Uhm don't buy when it's high though monitor the price on the marketplace , they do buy low and sell high to gain some profit not buy high and sell low , probably it's a big loss though. And by this act or method this affect the marketplace volatile , so are bitcoin.  I agree though bitcoin cant stay at the same value or price its unstable though but dont ever lose hope in bitcoin , bitcoin may decrease but bitcoin will increase just wait though , dont freak out. To be honest there are times ive been stressing my self out because of the price of btc and all of sudden i just selk out my coins because afraid to take the risk but then again btc is a risky investment so i suggest that keep your heads up wait and its worth it. Bitcoin is like a roller coaster it has ups and downs , so yes its normal to bitcoin that it will go down. And we cant say that it would increase and we cant say too that it will decrease. But as of now im hoping that the price of bitcoin rise up. Just hold it though , now the btc is down it a perfect opportunity to some to buy bitcoin at the lowest price. Well i love bitcoin because of the many factors of it or benefits and one of the factors i like bitcoin is the volatility price of bitcoin. Bitcoin is an endless posibility which you can have a potential to be rich. I love bitcoin long live the bitcoin industry. Its quite sad to be honest seeing bitcoin slowly going down , i think bitcoin will surprised us maybe a next month or next next month we cant conclude but instead of giving or stressing your self out , why not buy bitcoin and eth.  Well the price of bitcoin as of now is below 6k usd , and i think bitcoin cannot be stop but then again our dear bitcoin need some rest and now its decreasing. I hope it will back to the normal where bitcoin price surpassed the price of a gold. Lots of people discriminate and bully instead of peace , love and understanding. And i dont hate islam i love them because they become my friends on my school , can we erase that isalm bring war , they bring peace and happiness though. Because its has so many posibilities on bitcoin though , and i believe i will be rich just like the successful investors and entrepreneur  by the help of bitcoin.  Bitcoin is a hope an open opportunity though , and it is profitable its not totally useless though , if you think it is please change your perspective.  Yes i uses low fees though it is a great advantage though , so i use the low fees all the time and sometimes i tend to meet a person then negotiate , by person to person i can buy at the lowest fee. 
Im just a free lancer that wanted to be rich by the help of bitcoin. On my country well bitcoin still not implemented because theyre still doubting , but yes im looking forward to be one of the successful people by the help of bitcoin.  Yes because as you can see weve been over populated because of this overpopulation, it can positively result to climate change. Two child policy is one of the government been debating years and years , they wanted to implemented this to reduce the overpopulated country such as the china. And i think by implementing this it would technically have a good effect not just on economy but our own world. Yes its quite bad thing because its decreasing the price , and its quite frustrating because you wait it then all of sudden it dump. The target price and including the expectation fell. So i really hate when the price decreasing This is very true sabi ren sakin ng kaibigan ko to eh , oo tama dahil kayang kaya gawin ito ng mga scammers. And i just want to add that for my opion. Uhm , number one is conduct a research a basic search sa projects o sa csmp na sasalihan mo , maging mapanuri ka thats the second saka review. Yun lang naman siguro , di maiiwasan ang pag take ng risks dahil normal na ito , kaya good luck nalang , pero as of now legit naman ata lahat ng camp ngayon. Sir it's not because bitcoin is going down it's mean it's the end or the beginning of the end of bitcoin , bitcoin is volatile the unpredictable ups and downs value of the coins , so either it go down further or it can increase.  Well dude honestly its time to buy bitcoins right now its an open oppprtunity to buy bitcoin at the cheap price though but still it depends on you its just my opinion then hold it until the price increase. As of now the price of bitcoin is going down , down and down better to buy though.  In my opinion its quite seems fine having a cashless society would probably change our life , instead of fiat , turns to some just card or some gadgets to buy some. I guess lot of people will be easier to transact now , to buy anything at anywhere , and to be honest it would probably happen on near future.  Well this is great news , i think this would positively affect the price or the demand on the marketplace . Im happy yet excited though , im looking forward to some further good news.  Well there are tons oo pero we cant assure na lahat ay legit o magbabayad , most of the old members knew it saka its better to ask muna o kaya be aware and be wise , sa ganong technique mas magiging maayos o maaring legit ang sasalihan mong camp.  Well we all know that the surface of our earth is round and we all know that we all have different perspective but , we cant totally say it , but my teacher said that how can it be round if the antartic pole or the end of it is not seen yet. You know what i mean , but still scientist proven that our earth is round. A spehere.  Well we all know that bitcoin and any other cryptocurrency is volatile , so it's unpredictable no one knows , no one will know what will be the price is , we can do is just to predict or to sit on tight and ride on the flow of the cryptocurrency. But bitcoin is volatile right the ups and downs of the value of bitcoin , well on the other hand to be honest i tend to buy a house too though , a lot rather cause the price of the lot is year by year it is valuable and profitable so i guess i rather buy a lot than a house.  Well as long as it is legal on your country maybe it can accept , and also i don't know if there any charity that accepting bitcoin , to another question uhm. Yes it is applicable but, if all the human or all of us will agreed that fiat will change and the cryptocurrency will be the new curency. But I think it's on the future though , i hope so. That is true , seeing the picture really breaks my heart into pieces. I dont know why , us human making this things. I just really dont know, eventhough we help them we feed them in the end we kill them. And yes it is true , we are not just raping them one by one , we abuse them we pushed ourselves to the limit that we dont know how to stop , we cant pull the breaks just to stop but we pull the trigger just to kill. Well now a days its been so much tough though to have or to find a true friend. But i have some friends that been true to me to help and to support me , amd someday you will encounter that , some day there is a friend who can help you and motivate you in many ways. God too will help you and , to be honest if i have some problem God is our number one best friend.  Well still depend on you because the price of bitcoin is at 8k usd so either you wait for some 6k usd i guess but yes it's good time to buy bitcoins, and hold it until the price become high , take the risk and promise it's worth it.  We can't totally say that it would actually disappear though, well maybe in the future but we still needed the fiat money or the paper money, how can the beggars or the homeless be given through bitcoin?, well i think that is impossible so i guess no , it paper money will not be disappear.  Because of the holders and the whales the big whales that been panicking , do you ever familiar with the issues around bitcoin and any other crypto currency around the globe. Well it can cost on some people to believe even though it is fake, and then the price on the marketplace even the bitcoin is affected and the result is volatile either increase or decrease.To be honest I think and I thought too that it will surpassed the 11k usd but again we cannot be stable , we cannot be contented on the price its and unstable currency. So all we can do is predict, and as always your question that bitcoin will rise up again?, positively yes. Well to be honest i don't trade when red i just wait , i keep holding my coins until the market goes green , taking the risk is worth but it can lead to something bad. Even though , i still waiting for the perfect time to sell out my coins, and as of now i woke up and the marketplace is still red , I think the coins seems low because of the issues about crypto banning. Again my answer is I keep waiting to the perfect time, and for the buying coins yes i wait too to the price to be decreased.  Well tama naman ang iyong sinabe napapaisip nga ren ako kung papano ito mapapalaganap, eh yung mga kaibigan ko nga halos karamihan sa kaibigan ko they wanted to use bitcoin because of the price you know what i mean? , gusto lang nila na mag kapera tapos ayaw nila i apply eh pag tuturuan mo gusto lang nila agad agad matuto , pero looking forward parin at sa gayon mas gumanda ang ating community , at sana maging legal na sa bansa natin ang bitcoin. 
Well maganda ito mas magiging settled at organize na ang uber. Pero mas okay kung legal na dito sa pinas ang bitcoin. Dati mga nababalitaan ko airport , restaurant ngayon uber na for transaction ang ganda lang isipin na lumalaki na ang community ng bitcoin.  Well as you can see bitcoin is slowly decreasing as of this month we can see bitcoin is almost at 8k usd. I like your positive mind though, also me i wanted to reach the moon this year, many speculation and predictors that they doubt it , its the year for altcoins they said. We can surely say that it would reach the moon as of now all we can do is wait, and hope.  Not totally sure if the price of bitcoin is stable. More can happen. You can get even more and more down. Depending on the gestures or numbers of people who use and support it. Still supporting bitcoin, most of its users are still supporters of bitcoin. Very much the bitcoin contributes to the lives of people. Hope you just keep raising money here and do not go down anymore.  Not totally sure bitcoin will die next year. It still depends on what happens, when other companies and people in the bitcoin have been hurt. It is possible to eliminate it and get rid of it. So let's defend and fight the bitcoin. Let's not let it go, we know that it's a huge help that contributes to our lives. It is very important for the part of human life. So hopefully it will not get lost quickly. It's not fair for people who have fought for so long. So do not forget bitcoin of ever losing it or not.  Not totally secure, it's still as ridiculous as people. Being victimized by scammers, we can say that bitcoin is secure when he knows it and it can eliminate the scammers. Everything will be more comfortable when the scammers in bitcoin will fade away. It helps to improve people who use bitcoin. Hopefully it will secure and improve security here. It is also for the good of people who are fully using it.  Because they know what a bitcoin is doing well with them. Bitcoin can help improve their life. They will end up in poverty and start with a beautiful and orderly life with the bitcoin their guide to achieve their goals. Many of us fall into poverty and many of us are waiting for something to help us. And bitcoin is what I think most solutions to every person's problem. This is important because it can be very helpful in part of a person's life. It has many effects that are good and bad. This is important because it provides a lot of help to people. First of all he has the ability to develop human life. Bitcoin helps us to grow in society. Bitcoin is also the reason why the once bumps were a lift and have a name now.  In this forum many have confirmed it. So let's just continue to support bitcoin.  Tama pabor ako sa sinabi mo, madami akong kilala na yumaman at naging angat na, at sila ay galing sa bitcoin. Pero may kilala din ako na isang istudyante na gumagamit nito. Habang nag aaral ay iponagsasabay niya ang bitcoin. Napaka hirap ng sitwasyon ma yun, lalo na kapag may mga projects, like thesis, at iba pa. Sana wag natin lubusin ang paggamit ng bitcoin. Gamitin lang sana natin ito sa abot ng ating makakaya. Kumabaga wag natin pilitin kung hindi talaga natin kaya. At huwag natin gawing mundo amg bitcoin, paminsan minsan mag focus din tayo sa iba nating ginagawa. Paggala, pagtulong sa bahay, hangout with your friends. Wag natin lubusin ang bitcoin. Madalas nakakasira din ito ng komunikasyon sa ibang tao kapag nagtutok masyado.  Masasabi ko na handa na ang bansa natin sa bagay na yan. At isa pa kailangan ng bansa natin ng katulad ng cryptocurrency na syang tutulong sa mga nakararaming lugmok sa kahirapan. Makakatulong ang bitcoin na magkaroon ng pag asa ang mga tao na nahimlay sa kasarimlan. Ang pagtulong ng bitcoin hanggang sa ang mga mamamayan sa isang bansa ay maging angat at hindi na maghihirap.  I would like to buy more a lot. It's one of those who own and permanent house or home. I would also like to have a business and have cars, jewels, good accessories and more. I would like to get it all together while I use bitcoin. Besides that, I have many other dreams of life. The dream come true with bitcoin, I hope and trust bitcoin that someday it will help me achieve my goals. Through diligence and perseverance I will also get my long dream come true.  In the present day, people are trustworthy. Most of the people are plastic. They will love you for reasons, reasons they want to get through you or your help. Most people we know today, are not loyal to us. The kind they are kind of in the beginning but in the gift of their conscience we see their true traits that are very annoying. But do not worry somebody really is going to be your acquaintance that your profile is really good friends. Real Friends if called. The Real Friends are limited in our day. Most of the time, because of the system of their nonsense. So if you've seen what's called Real Friend? You're just like your girlfriend, do not let it go, it's hard to find a true, honest and true friend. congrats on people with real friends.  I will explain to them what is bitcoin, explain how it really helps people. I will explain them in detail by detailed, I motivated them to use it, not for me, but for them also the explanations that I am doing. Do I want to change their life, just like they did? I'm also one there. Starting from scratch, I just inspired my friend who taught me what I was doing now. Because of my friend I was successful. I'm in my life. I do not think that's what I learned I would like to share it with others.  Mas maganda sana kung pati din dito sa pinas tumanggap sila ng bayad galing sa bitcoin, yung mga airport sa pinas. Kaso mukang malabo din dito na tanggapin iyan, alam naman natin na ang gobyerno natin right? napaka selfish, di nila aaprobahan iyan kung sakali na may mag request. Pero mas magiging maganda ang transaction kung may ganun. Mas mapapadali ang pagbabayad ng flight o pagkuha ng ticket. Sa pamamagitan ng bitcoin? makaka pag pareserve ka na ng flight. Hope pati dito sa pinas matanggap na din ang bitcoin bilang isang debit.  The most common reason why the price of bitcoin decreases? is the reason for the decrease in percentage of its users. The rise of bitcoin depends on the people who are supporting it. When is it that many people use or support him? the higher or higher the chance of increasing its value or price. But when reduced or lost people use him? there is a tendency to lower the soaring bitcoin value in the market. So let's not let it happen, it's important to be honest and just keep on what we started. It's only natural to have a bitcoin problem, because it is resolved immediately by bitcoin. Yes, just a coin in the last part of bitcoin, you can really think about it.  It's very expensive because of its price, if it sounds like it's really rich hahaha. It's a brilliant idea of ​​it. Because everyone is rich in wealth whenever they use it. It has been so successful since then. And I hope I will also be part of those who are rich in their bitcoin use.  For me the most problematic people in the world are poverty. Many in the world are struggling to live because of poverty. As time goes on, the population of people living in the world grows bigger, Most people in the world need more money. Money with the ability to raise and lift them in the life they live. And there is another problem with the conflicts of world countries. There is a war at every stage of conflict in the countries. One of the problems is the corruption of the government in every country he leads, steal the people's treasury, the money people need to pay. And another is the different beliefs of people. Religious problem. Many are fighting for their different beliefs. Hopefully, the problem with the world will be to make life fun and enjoy the life of every living being in the world.  Often the government is selfish. The type they know is that bitcoin can help people in the community but the government restricts them. Bitcoin does not want to handle the government, bitcoins fight against the government, because they do not hold it? what the government will do is ban it. In fact many people hate the government leaders, they are angry because of their misrepresentation.  It is better to invest if you invest in your income and increase your profits. When it comes to trading it's just like you'll be in a hurry. The process is usually normal once you get the same amount. When investing, you have the opportunity to increase and grow the money you earn. The only problem with investing is that you spend a lot, but you're worth the money when you're here. Invest is better than trading.  The difficulty when the price or value of bitcoin falls. It is difficult to think of ways in which we will do our best to rave ourselves even when it comes down. This is because of the difficulty when you try bitcoin, losing the money that we have financed when the price of bitcoin decreases. If we were to respect it, we would not just pay it as well as our money. It's hard to bitcoin when it's price down so we just have to be in control when it happens in bitcoin.  I think ahm I prediction on bitcoin in future? It will be better and better if we use it. there will be improvements where old bugs here are fixed and easily resolved. Profit and money will be even better. Transactions are easier and there is more security so the scammers will no longer victimize them. They are no longer a fool. I also notice it now, while bitcoin lasts? the better it is now and the better. Especially its price is upwards. 
 Bago ka mag start sa bitcoin mining dapat madami ka munang nalalaman. Mahirap kasi magsimula ng wala lang alam.  Alam naman natin karamihan na pag wala kang alam? wala kang patutunguhan. Malaki ang gagastusin mo dito aabot ng daang libo ayon sa nabasa ko ang magagastos mo dito.  Kaya masasabi ko lang pag isipan mong mabuti ang gagawin mong desisyon kasi once na mag start ka na? wala nang atrasan kundi masasayang lang ang pera na naipondo mo dito.   Absolutely Yes I like it. Bitcoin is very helpful to me. Not for my personal preference. But with other expenses it also helps. Just like the electric bill, water, rent of home and more like school tuition fees. For bitcoin I'm approaching and clinging to the beautiful and light life I am facing. Bitcoin has helped me a lot, and I am one of those who have been extremely helpful.  hopefully more help bitcoin. More life would have changed by trusting and using bitcoin. It's still not too late for the beginners. You can still catch up if you are going to be diligent. Work hard to achieve your wishes. Before you do that? you need first enough knowledge to study what to do in bitcoin. It's hard to get caught without knowing what you're doing. And you need to be as a beginner just need to be smart. Be smart about the processes you go through. Be resourceful to earn big money, just the tactics you need and the brain you will grow. You will still be able to follow if you wish.  Many people think that it is not good for them. But in reality it has a great impact on a person's life, hopefully before they judge, try or do it first. There are also many who think it's a scam and it's just a matter of fact. There are also many destructive people, which breaks the high position of bitcoin. People are so frustrated that we should not believe them if they break a name that someone else knows is very helpful to them.  Just trust us bitcoin and let it do our desires, with her help getting all we want to achieve.  Do not just think weird about it. Better way din yan, pero natuto ako sa pakikinig ng mga english ng songs.. mahilig kasi ako sa english song, tapos may aral pa madalas ang mga naririnig ko. At tama ang panonood ng movies ay makakatulong din, at hindi lang english ang matututunan mo,  pati english pronunciation mo mahahasa din dito. Kaya gumagaling ang mga pilipino sa ingles dahil sa mga taktika na iyan. Kaya isa tayo sa mga pinakamagagaling na english call center agents sa mundo. Mabilis kasi tayo matuto.    Often fear of bitcoin is the politicians. What if the bitcoin expands in the world? Politicians will find it difficult to find or steal money from the people's treasury. Often politicians are selfish, they are too greedy for money not thinking of others. They like that they are just the better life, but just in case the bitcoin has expanded? many have been preventing it from fearing others to expand the scope of bitcoin. Let's not let politicians stop bitcoin, we fight for it to get rid of corruption in town. To replace the former grimace. Bitcoin is the hope of the people, Bitcoin, the hope that will change everything.  It is best to help them to use bitcoin. If they do not have the ability to properly handle or understand. We'll just point it out to them. If your heart is so kind and sweet, then. And you want to help? you help, it helps you to be kind.  To many people who are poor to have a dream. Dreams come to poverty. Hopefully someone appears to be able to teach the poor how to earn money on bitcoin. It can help reduce poor people in a country.  The bitcoin gives a lot of help to people so I hope we share it with others so that they will be fully blessed too.  We can not say that it is dangerous. Sometimes those who can say it are people who are afraid to try. Trying to do so, many people fear bitcoin because they may be foolish, more scam, robbers and think that their time is just a waste. So many others say it's dangerous because there are people who do not like it. Hope to speak before we try it first to find out the true truth contained herein.  The bitcoin has a lot of good effects and that's why we are satisfied with it and do not affect people who are threatening. Fight with fear and do our best.  There are countries in the world who do not accept bitcoin. in other words they are being banned. Because other countries think it is bad and it's a bad thing. And there are others who think that their income is from bad things. Bitcoin is overwhelming but gradually agrees and accepts bitcoin as a debit. Available to compensate for expenses. It is necessary to fully explain the purpose or value of bitcoin. Hope it can also be used in other countries to greatly expand the bitcoin range.  WOW napakaganda ng iyong paliwanag, hope sa mga makakabasa nito ay lubos na maunawaan at maintindihan ang bitcoin. Nasa paliwanag na ang lahat lahat na dapat malaman sa bitcoin. Andyan na kung paano sisimulan ang lahat. Kung paano ang mga gagawin upang makapag umpisa ka. Halos lahat naman yan ang ginagawa, kahit ako ang mga proseso na yan ang ginawa ko noong ako ay nagsisimula pa lamang. Sana maikalat ito upang malaman ng lahat ng tao na hindi pa gamay ang bitcoin. Makakasiguro ako na lubos na makakatulong ito sa kanila. Upang mabigyang linaw sa kanilang kaisipan ang purpose ng bitcoin. Sana madami pang tao ang katulad mo na nagpapalakalap at nagpapalawak sa kaisipan ng bitcoin.  Idol  Palagi naman nag aaway ang dalawang bansa na iyan. Nagsisisihan sila, dinidiin nila ang isa't isa. Hanggang sa may masisi na sila para kagalitan sila ng mga tao. At saka hindi lang naman isang bansa ang nakakanakaw ng yamang taglay ng bitcoin. May iba pang mga bansa ang nakakanakaw nito, nananakaw nila at hindi natin matukoy sapagkat binabayaran nila ang mga tao na nakakaalam para maitago ang kanilang pagkakakilanlan. Hope maging mas maayos na ang pakikitungo ng bawat isa. Magkasundo upang maging aayos ang kalakaran sa paggamit ng bitcoin No, if I ask? bitcoin is very difficult to destroy because it really is really good. Many people want it to end but they are frustrated and just give up. Yes we know that people are strengthening bitcoin. And the man can break it. But in our day now the more bitcoin supports, than the destructive people who want to end it. Hopefully we will continue to support bitcoin and let's not lose it forever.  There are so many reasons why people want bitcoin. And the reason here is that the person knows what is right. Because bitcoin is a cryptocurrency that greatly helps the majority. People are smart so they discover bitcoin too. The benefits of using bitcoin are great. It helps many so many interest to enter into it and try. For people who do not want to try it? try it, so you know the true value of bitcoin. You can buy the ones you want with bitcoin so let's not let it get lost. For me yes, many of unemployed today's have a good life because of their use of bitcoin. Most of the unemployed who use it are unemployed students and still studying. They do not have a job so they make a bitcoin job even though they study they earn. It's better to not be too heavy for people. Unlike jobs that are hard and fast. In bitcoin brain and brains only need and you will already be. Brain = Money, Experience = Knowledge.  So if you know that there is no job I recommend them to bitcoin to help those in need.  Don't make yourself being selfish, just shared your knowledge or what ever you learned a lot.  A very good news for bitcoin users. Hopefully this has been a good sign that this has taken place. Hopefully at all restaurants in the world they will accept bitcoin such as KFC,  McDonalds,  Jollibee and so on. Bitcoin is better when it comes to payment. You can be sure it's trustworthy. Hopefully the bitcoin will continue to spread throughout the world and until everyone knows it. Right now I see that the popularity of bitcoin is gone. There are so many problems with bitcoin today. This is one of the biggest drops of bitcoin value. Bitcoin is much weaker because many people back out. They stopped using bitcoin because of the crisis, and because of the crisis that bitcoin was weakened. So now the bitcoin continues to rise. Hopefully we will continue to support it. Naranasan ko na din ang ganyan,  nag withdraw ako sa banko bale nag complete naman transaction niya.  Bale ang problema,  hindi ko agad nakuha ang pera sa machine,  kaya ayun hinila pabalik ang pera na na withdraw ko at nabawas na yun sa account balance ko. Bale pinuntahan ko ang mismong bank at nag request ako, na maibalik ang pera na nag error saken.  At nag sign lang ako ng papel na nakapaloob kung saan ka nag withdraw,  account no.  mo at pera na nawala sayo.  Then sila na nag poproseso,  aabutin ng 3-4 days ang pagbawi sa pera mo.    At the time it is now that the vandalism has gone a long way. Damage to the popularity of a product, company and others. Many people hate bitcoin. Millenials are one of those, they make a mistake because they think it's not good for people. Hopefully before they get rid of the famous name, know first if they're right. Not only are they going to destroy the famous company. They are not trying. They are social diseases. Yeah but for me it's just natural that the price of bitcoin falls. There are many reasons why bitcoin drops. But I think the main reason for this drop is the bitcoin since the start of 2018. The price of bitcoin has been recorded before the end of the year. The price is up to 800k and the size of the seedlings since the 2018 intake is in almost half the downside so there are people who are angry and have stopped using bitcoin. Hopefully we will continue to use bitcoin even when it drops big. once I was victimized by scammers. Then I trusted him. I think it's okay to talk to him but not. He took all my money and I did not access him because I was blocked from all his accounts. So Lesson Learned "Do not trust people who are kind to you at the beginning" they just make you fool. It is better if we first trust someone we need to know it completely. Do not trust it immediately if it's a good thing, we know it's a fake persons habit.
I think it will increase, it will increase by using the bitcoin of the person. By people who support bitcoin? it will increase but if the previous user loses who support in bitcoin? this opportunity has come a long way. People control bitcoin, they are the power of bitcoin. So let's not let it go.  Hope we are still supporting bitcoin until the end.  Sa ngayon wala pa akong nakikita tungkol sa ganitong usapin. Pero mas makakabuti ang pag gawa ng ganito upang makilala ng lubos ng tao ang bitcoin, upang sila ay magkainteres at tumangkilik dito. Mas better kung malalaman ng lahat ng tao ang tungkol sa bitcoin. . Subukan mo maghanap sa mga facebook page or kahit anong buy and sell site baka sakaling may makita ka. I  planning to buy kung meron man:) Depending on, when the bitcoin decreases many reasons, many people lose bitcoin. They leave because they are losing, depending on the bitcoin value increase in people who fully support it. And those who benefit from it, big bitcoins can help, great impact on human life. When are people patronized? Will the value increase and if not? it will go down.  For me yes, I donate when I have a large amount of money coming from bitcoin. It's happier when you help your neighbor. It depends on giving if they really need them. And it is also better if other poor people teach us to have a dream so they can go to poverty. By your knowledge you will share it with people you've helped.  My only advice is to people who want to try it. They first study what bitcoin is good. And learn what to do when you use bitcoim. To note, they must know the history of bitcoin so they can fully understand why it is rising and becoming popular. Only my advice is you join the campaign and you rank your account until it gets bigger and gets bigger.  So far I can not estimate how many of us have been using this time. Because today the more people need bitcoin for their needs. So many people need and use it and I can not estimate how much it is. But I think if I predict about 75 out of 100. Many are using it because it's more profitable than other tasks. Bitcoin is needs by other people who wants to change their own life. To succeed in their life someday. Di naman kailangan malaking halaga agad ang ipapa muhunan mo sa bitcoin. Pwede ka naman magsimula sa mababang halaga kung wala ka talagang sapat na pera pwede ka mag invest sa mababang halaga. Mag invest ka o magsimula ka sa mababa at palaguin mo hanggang sa lumaki ang kita mo sa bitcoin. Para mapabilis ang paglago ng pera mo? sumali ka sa mga campaign at pataasin mo ang rank mo para tumaas din ang kitain mong pera.  That's insane. 30000%? Maybe but it would take many years to do that, probably. Who knows? There might be better coins that will pop out in the future. Even greater than Bitcoin which means it will be the downfall of Bitcoin. Who knows? Bitcoin is very unpredictable as you can see and it surprises us from time to time which is both great and bad. No. They have their own characteristics and personalities. They have their own pros and cons. But they both are good investments but Bitcoin have great potentials and these potentials aren't harnessed thoroughly so you should hop on and take risks. Well you can buy now that the price had dropped and as we know it will rise up and that's higher than last year. Better invest right now as in at this moment since you might missed it again. Bitcoin is at its early stage where it is not that widely accepted yet but we know its popularity is growing day by day and the governments had taken the attention of it which brings the regulation upon this and put an order against these scumbags who use it in no good and messed up the reputation which scared away a lot of people. We always say that unlike fiat, it is deflationary which means that due to the limited supply of coins, the more the demand the higher the price is which in return lowers the price of the goods. Then why would you put the topic title in that way? If you do believe then you should be saying that Bitcoin saving safe and not as stupid as you. Nope. What do you think of bitcoin? Free money? Hell no! You need to exert some work to get some! Also, if that person is really poor like he can't access internet then Bitcoin can't help them regarding that matter. Bitcoin has a set of requirements as you can see so not everyone can really use it unless they fulfilled it. I see that BTC would continue on flourishing and would reach new highs these than of the previous years. It will become much popular and interesting as a lot of business and famous people would notice it especially in the field of finance. Also, I would like to know how different countries would react on it when it reach to a level where it makes a lot of noises already. Agreed. You can hit two birds with one stone. No need to do a thing that puts the other at expense. I've never entered money in BTC and I just earned it all. Part of my earnings are withdrawn since I need to use it for some purposes and the remaining are either used in trading or just stay still since I do believe that the price of BTC will rise but we can't really tell if it will or will not. Education is important really and it is not really just about money but rather the knowledge that will bring you to places. Let's not forget the fact that fiat is also used illegally. But the truth should be said that BTC lessen the risk to be caught when you use it illegally though it doesn't mean that you can get away with it. Police nowadays should also upgrade since criminals are getting smarter day by day. Lol. Fast transaction is gone now in Bitcoin. Aside from transactions slowing down, the fee is also high. Honestly, I want to go back to the traditional way of sending money or use other coins to perform transactions rather than Bitcoin. Don't get me wrong, I still want btc but a lot changed since then. It's still popular and nothing changes . Maybe someone else gets lost but there are few to spare to continue what they want to do. When is the price of bitcoin stable? let me just. I minimize all the remaining values ​​in bitcoin. I have read because the fix is ​​great enough to have bitcoi. That's 21 million. Let me go and I'll continue, it's important to make a profit . I can not imagine the rise of bitcoin as long as it's important to earn and just keep its price stable. Napaaga kasi ang pagtaas nito. Imbis na tumaas siya ngayong buwan ay hindi. Tumaas na kasi ang value ng bitcoi nitong nakaraang taon, December 2017. Ikinagulat ng karamihan ang pagtaas ng bitcoin. Umabot ng 500k to 800k ang value nito kaya madami ang natuwa. Pero nung pumasok na ang taong 2018 unti unti bumababa ang value nito. Hanggang sa maging 500k na lang ito. It's still not dead. It's still missing so it's not right to say that it's gone. Hmm it's not lost. It just stopped. Just go down because maybe there was a crisis that brought bitcoin. Not only are people always in trouble, sometimes others too. Like bitcoi it also has a problem. It can not always be high. Of course there is a weakness in this somehow. So let's not worry about the situation.
Tingin ko aabutin pa ng mga ilang dekada bago mamina ang 21 million na sinasabi mo. At isa pa madami pang mga mangyayari, may posibilidad pa itong tumaas. Hindi naman natin pwedeng sabihin na fix price na nya ay 21 million. Marami pang taon ang darating at posible na tumaas pa ito ng higit pa sa 21 million. Mahirap minahin ang 21 million, aabutin ka pa ng ilang mga taon bago mo ito mamina. Tataas pa ito at hayaan na lang natin na ang bitcoin ang magpaunawa sa atin. Hintayin natin ang updates niya .  Like you? I'm also a student. First, first check out what the source of bitcoin is. Study how bitcoin value increases and decreases. Study as much as you gain a lot of knowledge. And then, you must try to invest, focus your attention on the bitcoin forum and join the campaigns. Before joining you need to create a first account. Increase your account's rank so high that the money you give us every week or even your payday post. Then when you have enough accumulated in bitcoin? Try to sell it or buy it. Until you grow it right.  Naiintindihan kita kaibigan sa nais mong iparatating. Ang iyong pangamba sa patuloy na pagbaba ng bitcoin sa ngayon. Mas mabuti kung hayaan mo na lang natural lang bumaba ang mga coin sa mga ganitong pagkakataon. Di nama palagi na mataas ang bitcoin syempre bababa din siya. Tulad ng tao pag pagod? napapagod parang ganun din si bitcoin na nagpapaginga. Babalik din yan sa tamang oras, hintayin na lang natin, ganya talaga ang buhay pag bumababa?dapat ito ay Tataas.  If in 2017 the bitcoin has been steady and it's huge to hit it before the end of the year? I think this 2018? we will see a bit more shocking surprises in bitcoin this year. Just take a look at bitcoin explosions this year. just like the bitcoin value increase with no end and the price or value is make the bitcoin more higher than last year HAHAHA. Hope all change their life help from bitcoin.  Tingin ko madami naman, kapag na enganyo ang iba na tanggapin ang bitcoin para sa kanilang negosyo. Tingin ko naman darating din ang oras na ang ibang pamilihan ay matatanggap ito. Tulad na lang sinabi a sa canada ang KFC ay tinanggap ang bitcoin para pambayad sa kanilang nakain. Darating din ang time na pati sa ibang mga restaurant matatangap din ito. Balang araw matatanggap din ito tulad ng iba like MCDONALDS, JOLLIBEE at iba pa. Darating ang time na yun kapag naging mas kilala na ito at tanyag sa mundo.  I think yes, bitcoin has the ability to reduce corruption in a country. Reducing corruption in a country is difficult but with bitcoin possible to make it less. As many people are relying on the government, most corrupt government people are in sight if the human eye is looking at the government we will continue to cheat on them. Let's try to divert our eyes to bitcoin and appreciate it and let us help it, we will not be fooled by bitcoin it will help us to change our lives by trusting him.  Right now, bitcoin is not yet known in the world. It is anonymous, many people need it but the people who need them do not notice it. It has never been known but has gradually become famous and has a name in the industry. The day is near the day that bitcoin is available to everyone or will be needed. It is best to recommend bitcoin to people who are not yet well known. Let us help them change their lives.  At present many people know bitcoin. Many have been inspired and amazed at what bitcoin can do. By inviting other people with no change in their lives. Many have become interested, knowing that bitcoin can help them to get out of poverty. Bitcoin can change the lives of people, can get them out of poverty. So far the bitcoin community has grown and as it grows? it is possible to increase the bitcoin price or value. Im proud to be bitcoiners.  Bumaba ito dahil noong nakaraang taon bago magtapos ang disyembre nagtaas ang bitcoin ng halos sa kalahati.  Naabutan ko kasi bago magtapos ang nobyembre 400k mahigit pa yun pero bago matapos ang taong 2017 umarangkada ito hanggang sa 800k mahigit.  Marami sa iilan ang nagulat dahil sa mabilisang pagtaas ng value ng bitcoin,  masyado napaaga ang pagtaas nito kaya ngayong taon ito ay huminto.  Pero don't worry babalik din sa normal ang bitcoin tataas din ito soon  wag lang tayo ma excite.  Mas better kung ngayon pa lang ay paghandaan mo na at bumili ka na ng bitcoin. Hangga't mura pa ang presyo ay bumili ka na,  mababawi mo din naman agad yun pag napalago mo na ang nabili mo na bitcoin. Di mo lang din mababawi yun,  tutubo kapag napalago mo na kase ang bitcoin na nabili mo?  pwede mo itong ibenta sa mataas na halaga.  Mas mataas pa sa pagkakabili mo,  tyaga lang at aasenso ka. proud to be bitcoiners  Yes it's a good case if it's not a good idea if satoshi make a math formula HAHA. It is best to study it with students who have a Business-related courses. They will study Bitcoin History and how it runs in our day now, studying how it helps people who use it. It's a good idea to study it and tell the success of bitcoin to people and to be able to inspire students at bitcoin someday.  Di natin masisiguro, ang pagtaas kasi ng price o value ng bitcoin ay nakadepende sa mga tao na gumagamit o nakikinabang sa bitcoin. Kapag kaunti ang gumagamit ng bitcoin? may posibilidad na ito ay bumaba. Pero mas better kung marami ang user na gumagamit ng bitcoin para tumaas ang value nito. Ang bitcoin price o value ay nakadepende sa mga tao na silang gumagamit nito. Kaya wag natin hayaan na malugi ang bitcoin, wag natin iiwan ang bitcoin. I am laughing way too hard at this one. Who will actually sell their house just to have money for investment? Whoever will do that is completely insane. All investments are risky. And, are you not aware that Bitcoin is not the one that will give you the most profit? Get Bitcoin out of your sight. Look for the other cryptocurrencies. Yes, I also think that these days are the right time to purchase Bitcoin. Bitcoin is currently approximately equal to $13,300. I think around this price is the lowest value it can get. If you are planning to buy now, you should already do it. Dont be sad if Bitcoins price decreased more after buying it because its price will increase again anyway in the next months. What will happen next depends on the people. But I doubt that people will never be interested in other cryptocurrencies if the price of Bitcoin touches zero. A lot of people are holding different kinds of cryptocurrencies. Do you think they will accept the fact that the price of whatever they are holding will become zero too? If you already changed the password, then there is no more problem. But, if you are not still contented, try to transfer your Bitcoin to another wallet. Or, enable a two-factor authentication if it is possible in Electrum. If you do not want to transfer your Bitcoin and two-factor authentication is not available, all you have to do is to hope that the person who had stolen your laptop does not know anything about Bitcoin. **Successfully joined AdBank Signature Campaign** I do not think so. I am very much sure that people will still look for a way for them to have money. Alternate cryptocurrencies are a good source of income too. They are used as an investment vehicle just like Bitcoin. People will not waste its power. If Bitcoin will be really gone, I will invest in Litecoin, Ripple, and Ethereum.  If Bitcoin is too much expensive for you now, then you are already late. Bitcoins price has no chance to fall hard. It will skyrocket in the upcoming years. But if you can afford to buy Bitcoin at any price, then you are not late. Well, in fact, you are early. The price of Bitcoin will be ten more times of today's price or greater in the future. Oh, really? I doubt that the internet cannot help you. I just researched these things with no effort at all. They appeared in my eyes in nearly a second. You can search anything you want on the internet. Maybe you are just not a good researcher and not a good reader. Or, you are a lazy person. You need to learn by yourself sometimes. Not at all times, people will help you. 
Yes! The price of Bitcoin may be low today but that is actually good. More and more people will invest in Bitcoin because of the current situation Bitcoin is in. People really love this situation. They will buy as many Bitcoin as they can so that their future money will become so huge. If the demands for Bitcoin increases, the price automatically increases too. Do not take suggestions and pieces of advice from people you do not know. Maybe some of the people who answered your question here are just promoting their coin. Or, maybe some are scams. You should research on your own and buy cryptocurrency at your own risk. Be sure that you know all of the things about them before buying them. What you are thinking is actually so wrong. It does not mean that Bitcoin had already reached the peak value just because its price is increasing slowly. What is happening on Bitcoin right now already happened before and that is not just once but so many times. There are just a large number of people selling Bitcoin and a large number of people selling Bitcoin at the same time that is why the price of Bitcoin is increasing at a slow rate. Knowing the perfect time to buy Bitcoin is very difficult. And, the final decision is always on yourself. We do not know the current situation you are in. It is better to ask yourself. If you think the price of Bitcoin will never dump again, then go buy Bitcoin now. Always take a look at the price of Bitcoin to make yourself aware. **Successfully joined SalPay Signature Campaign** Hello new campaign manager, i would like to say that i enjoy joining in this campaign and looking forward for 2018 wage, i will now leave in this and join in more faster campaign because i currently had a financial problem and need to be resolve as soon. Keep going, i see a bright future for this project and nonstop support will i give for this and never be gone for helping this project development. Your post and activities were deleted because of 2 particular reasons.First of which is the instance you are spamming your post. Second is your post might not have sense at all.This instances can make people to report your post and the moderators to delete it. Imagine that you are a private soldier that have entered the army today and for five years straight, you did not do any single thing worth for your superiors to recognized you and increased your rank. This is your situation. ACTIVITY and ACHIEVEMENTS are what matters, not how long are you into something. Sa mga nabasa kong article sa Times at New york magazines, pabagsak na ang presyo ng dollar ngayon pre at dahil dun sinusubukan ng CHINA na palitan ang dollar ng kanilang sariling pera bilang pang mundo pera. SO, gagamitin na natin ang YUAN imbis na USD ka, pag pupunta tayo sa ibang bansa. Ang BTC ay ang malaking hahadlang sa plano ng mga instik dahil pwede BTC ang pumalit sa Dollar imbis na yuan. There is that what we called as a substitute and replacement for all things. If USD will fall as years pass by other currencies will rise. That is always the case for everything, and if that happens BTC has a chance to be recognized as a worldwide accepted currency replacing dollars. BTC value will then rise when that time came. Based on my intuition and news around bitcoin as of late, IT IS soon to fall! For investors are looking now for a realistic thing to gain profit from, and if the number of users and uses of bitcoin in our daily lives does not increase,  it is only expected that the price of the commodity itself will fall. Mas kailangan ng bitcoin ngayon ang mga user nito dahil marami na sa buong mundo ang nag iinvest dito kasama na rin ang mga kapwa nating mga pinoy. Kung rarami ang user ng bitcoin, kasunod na rin niyan ang paglaki ng dami din ng mga investor. Kaya dapat user ang lumaki muna. Ang sakin lang ah. May Punto naman yung unang sinabi niya na pag nag solar panel ay PWEDE magkakaprofit ka kasi hindi lang naman sa pag mimining mo gagamitin yung energy ng solar panel eh, kaso tama rin naman yung sinabi sa return ng capital kasi nasa Pilipinas tayo at kung bitcoin mining ang pinaguusapan natin dito ay di na talaga maganda mag mine ngayon. Matagal bago mo mabawi yung capital mo. I do not think Bitcoin will burst soon, because people interest about it are just keep increasing by the day. Yes, Bitcoin prices will drop in the next few months, but still it will not burst.It depends on your perspective about things. If you are optimistic (like me), even though the experts are saying Bitcoin is a bubble because it only relies on the so-called abstract demand of people, you will still think that it is not and wait our turn when bitcoin will be accepted as a currency. Try not to go outside of your house, cuz instances of you spending money outside is higher than you think. ALSO, just like me, get rid of ur bf or gf if u have one in order to save more bucks, cuz relationships sucks, but thanks to that i found bitcoin and now i am here in your post. I posted this on the meta forum, so let me just repeat what I said there."Stop spamming in one thread! Try to comment on post with moderators and just like this guy and other people said in this thread, make worth while comments and posts that really does connect or answer the topic on hand!See you soon!"    Seryoso ba to?   Baka ipasara ko buong mcdo pag pwede na 'to . Kakainin ko lahat ng burgers dun saka fries.Sana Madaliin nila kung totoo 'to, para marami rami akong mabili gamit yung bitcoin, kasi for sure next year bababa naman 'to eh. huhu  You will need a wallet for sure and a virtual wallet on top of that, because just like real money, bitcoin should be kept place in a safe zone where you can get it through your own way and without any middleman or so, because it will make the transactions more difficult! Isa na namang malaking kalakohan ng ating gobyerno. Pag nilagyan ng tax ang bitcoin, di hindi na bitcoin yan. Para na yang Peso pag ganun, saka di makakatulong satin yan dahil paano pa makilala ang bitcoin sa Pinas kung gaganyanin din naman pala nila.ISANG MALAKING KALAKOHAN! Stop spamming in one thread! Try to comment on post with moderators and just like this guy and other people said in this thread, make worth while comments and posts that really does connect or answer the topic on hand!See you soon!
Of course, you should buy a bitcoin because it does have some "golden" value as of late, but you still need to wait until the price dropped around first week of january or so. I think you have the knowledge and capacity to find the right timing as to when to invest, so you should buy it asap the price goes down. Experts are saying that Bitcoin is slowly becoming a bubble because of a particular reason.It is about what makes bitcoin special, which is more likely the fact that bitcoin is much easier to handle than stocks and at the same time will provide you a faster rate of growth and return in your capital. Yet, as we all know, the greater the thing is, the greater its fall will be. The government should first conduct a feasibility study whether bitcoin is widely known and accepted in their countries by their people. If it is, the government now should implement laws around just like what they did in the paper or fiat money policies we have as of now.Legalizing Bitcoin in the country will help its economy by giving it more ways to accept tourists in a more convenient manner because they dont need to go now into an exchange service in order to get the country's particular mode of transaction. Bitcoin is a resource. And as we all studied in our economy classes and also in some of our marketing and business classes, if a source of money or the resource that can equate to money will suddenly gain popularity, Scarcity and competition are always bound to happen. It is the inevitable and that is what is happening as of now in Bitcoin Mining and other forms of well known cryptocurrency! Sa tingin ko ah, patuloy na tataas ang bitcoin hanggang sa umabot 'to sa 1 300 000 - 1 500 000 pesos per bitcoin. Siguro hanggang first week ng january ang pagtaas nito, dahil malamang sa malamang ibebenta ng ibang tao ang mga bitcoin nila sa mga panahong ito na magdudulot ng pagbaba sa presyo ng bitcoin in general. In my prediction, Bitcoin will keep rising until it reach its another climax point at around $22000 - 23000. This might still persist until the 1st week of January, when people would try to sell their bitcoins in order to breakeven with their upcoming expenses in the following months, but for those inventors that will still hold it, KUDOS to them! Who wouldn't want to receive a Bitcoin now in Christmas season? Considering the value of Bitcoin Today, we can only say that Bitcoin illiterate people are the ones who will only deny this type of gift.SADLY THO, SANTA BITCOIN IS A MORE FAR FETCHED idea... HUHU        Bitcoin is a much easier form of earning money just what this guy said in his post. Whether you are a pro or just a newbie in this field, the only things that you want to watch out always are the price and demand for bitcoin. Also, even tho stocks are available, bitcoin is a much safer investment. You just need to have enough capital to back it up. I think the idea of this guy is brilliant. As we are all somehow involved in cryptocurrency, why don't you develop a betting site where we can use cryptocurrency as a direct mode of payment. Just need to be careful in that blockchain tho.Great work in advance  I am contemplating whether to go for Bitelk or Bitruby, but in da end i still choose Bitelk.I understand the sentiment of this guy. Bitelk sounds cool, yet we only need to modify it. Like change it to BitTech, which can mean that Bitcoin and Technology coexist hand in hand. BitTech can also signify that through the fast development in technologies nowadays, Bitcoin should be accepted to compensate for that drastic change. Bitcoin CAN give higher profits than those other medium. Timing is the key for this one. In stocks, there are tons of things you need to do consider before choosing what companies and businesses you should put your money into, but in bitcoin we just need to know if the demand is still up for its prices and thats it.In a nutshell, Bitcoin is much easier, yet entails more risk depending on what time you are doing the investment! Some of the most common benefits of bitcoin can be googled as of now. Here are some links -> http://cs.stanford.edu/people/eroberts/cs181/projects/2010-11/DigitalCurrencies/advantages/index.htmlhttps://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/100314/what-are-advantages-paying-bitcoin.aspI will not paste or type anything what is written there, just read it there if you like. I ensure you that those are trustworthy informations and sites.So let's move on to my real take on this topic.(FOR ME) Bitcoin in real world doesn't really have any benefits as of now besides the high transaction value it entails and it so-called "convenience" experience of people in making transaction nowadays. Other than that is uncharted land, but as bitcoin will be recognized by each country as a somehow legit mode or tool for transactions, then we can at least expect that it will help us make our lives easier by simply giving us a more simpler way of doing our transactions.  Dont worry bro!It is just some days before christmas and just like those remaining days, useless threads in P&S will be removed hopefully by A SANTA MODERATOR who is in his/her right mind that can somehow realized the useless space it is eating up in our web screens and such. But I totally respect those guys who take every questions in that forum seriously and answered them. Well, Im bitcoin ready, pero im not really sure if this will go well in our country. Because most of the investors in Bitcoin in PH are young and ambitious ones that can destroy the totality and value of the said market. It might affect us negatively! The ones who are informed and knowledgeable about what a bitcoin really is. All in all, Im ready but i think our fellow young filipino investors are not.   It really does not matter if you are educated or not, when it comes to business you just need to identify the problem in a certain place and provide a creative and innovative solution, then all will follow after. Profit will come later as the business prosper. Of course, education can help you in the long run, but business is more about your motivation to solve that particular problem and your ways to solve it.Most people are profit driven, which is why they fail. Yet, whether you are educated or not, as long as you have that passion in doing what you can do best and provide it to those people WHO REALLY need it, any business will succeed. That is the most basic thing to remember in business and entrepreneurship! Isn't that how our society really works nowadays? Sarcasm aside... We are living in a fast-paced world where everything change in an instant, and there is no easier way than to scam others in order for those scammers to cope up with the change that they are so afraid about, which led them no options but to take advantage of others. I think this is not the case for the next 20 - 30 years, for cash is the most accepted mode of transaction in every places in our world. As such, even if other countries will little by little follow suit in this so-called trend in transactions, other people will still think that it is just inconvenience. This can be proven by the fact that even if bitcoin has a relatively high value as of now, people, and lawmakers especially, are still considering whether bitcoin should be used in our daily lives. Hindi po, kasi ang bitcoin value po ay naka depende sa mga expectations ng mga tao dito. Para po siyang diyamante na dati ay walang halaga, ngunit dahil sa mga pananaw at paniniwala ng mga tao sa kahalagahan nito at simbolismo sa pag-iibigan ng dalawang tao.Kaya kahit san ka po pumunta di pa po ito maapektuhan, except na lang po pag dumating ang panahon na tinanggap na ang bitcoin as a LEGAL primary currency and tool for transaction. The main cause of accidents is the lack of training and discipline of people; especially in the Philippines, most of the drivers tend to over speed and drive while drunk. Also, people are most often than not, forget that they need to check their vehicle condition first before travelling, which then eventually resulted to mechanical malfunctions or lost brakes.This is the sad reality as of now, but thankfully we have tesla auto-drive cars now that can prevent this from happening. Yet, we should be always responsible and read for whatever things we decided to do, because it is the first step to ensure everyone's safety in roads. Yes, you can sell and buy things here, but keep in mind that your account is just fresh and some people might think you are not a legit seller. So my tip for you is you can like improve your reputation first in this site and try to also classify and distinguish people that you can trust in this site before selling anything in here. Use a mid-man or an escrow for a more safety transactions in here. (PS: Just google what is an escrow) 
It can be ignorance, curiosity and pressure from their families. And also they might encounter bullying not only in school but even in their community or in social media as teenagers nowadays where so expose in the online world. They still need guide from their parents.  I'm sure that it is a big sacrifice to left their children with their parents as they want to give them a bright future. It is not that easy to earn money especially when you have a big family and you want to provide them more than what we are thinking. I remember my brother say I don't want my child to face the same problem in my childhood especially when it comes to financial problem. Save it for the future. Invest it or put it in many basket. Don't put it in one account as it may be questionable by the government and might ask you a large fee. In our country, bitcoin is not yet legalized. Yet it is a great opportunity not only on colleges but to the whole nation. In my college days, as i remember we talk about cryptocurrency but it is just a mere topic from a report and the information shared were vague and ambiguous. Explain it well to your wife. Might as well tell her your plans don't put your relationship on the edge of losing a wife. It is not that easy to find a new wife, partner in life if you were always selfish.  Not saving bitcoin 3 years ago. And when i tried buy and sell, I buy high and sell low because of being impatient. Joining double your bitcoin scheme then a day after they were gone. By now, I am starting again to save some for the future.  Yes, there are lot of bitcoin exchange that you can change your bitcoin to cash. For example, Coins.ph which also have other services offer and many Filipinos use it nowadays. On the other side, check also which has lower exchange fee and known as legitimate. As i remember in my favorite prayer. When there is hatred let me sow love. There is love in everything, most people saw only the negative which is hatred. Look at your surroundings, in our environment there is so much love. Let me ask you a question, Do you love yourself? How about your family?  They feel somewhat incomplete. They intend to look for companion whom they can feel that they were also cared not just because of money. These people also need affection and love cause after all the possessions gone they might that no one need them anymore. Somehow they felt that they are unworthy by then.  I buy when it comes low, I keep buying at lowest support of price, I only sell when i need, as far as i have money i will keep buying and able to have such more bitcoins, im doing this for a reason, I've been using this for years and witness of it growth and solved my poor life.Price doesnt matter to me anymore because i know when it came down it will double rise up and proven for all people that every problem can be solved if you trust self just like trusting bitcoin to high up sky! 💱💲 Found same question here at forum same board https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1566146.0A survey poll says There are more people who trust God than scientific/ Science methods. Thanks you man, wag na mag english na nonosebleed ako  Sa ngayon ko lang nakita na mods ka na pala dito at ikaw ay isang ekselenteng aktibo membro sagot sa mga katanungan kagaya nitong thread ko. Hopefully mag work din ako kagaya mo in the future, this is my sideline lang kase but i lovely like this forum so much kaya care ko at pansin ang mga ann na nagkalat ay dapat isantabi na  How you explain those things like healing power? Where it came from, how it works. We have Pope(Catholic)which is evidence of god existence, you can see this personally and not only on video. how can he do such thing broken to be repaired/fix again(Living things), is he aliens? I hope scientifically will explain this.The faith between god and us is stronger, its like Captive zero on significant figures without zero at the middle it can be told as captive zero, lets relate it on GodGod is the zero and where are the two whole numbers?One is for ScienceOne is for Human faithWithout the two captive will not exist like GodScience bring back/ know historyHuman faith bring philosophyFrom the start god created two guys a man and woman who ate apples which is prohibited cause them do sins, We are now born to have sins because of malice from that apple, we do such thing wrong( Nobody perfect). Lets us leave this and live in our own business, we dont need this such thing to debate. This is survey po para sa ating local board philippines kung saan dapat malinis at organize tignan ang bawat detalye ng sa ganoon ay mabigyan pansin ang bawat topic at masagutan ang nararapat na post, Nawa'y bigyan pansin mga kabayan ang isang hiling ko na magkaroon ng altcoin announcement thread sa ating local na pisara(thread) upang madaling makita ang bawat topic, malalaman kagad kung asan ang topic at hindi maghahalo sa usapaning local, oo kabayan usaping local din iyon ngunit natatakpan na nito ang ating lbang sari saring tanong/usapin kung saan ang mga topic na hindi napapansin. Dahilan/Reason/CauseBakit ka agree:OrDisagree: I always buy when its come on low price, and below the support and i never fail to get a profit after, its nice when you hoard for a long time but you need such as patience to do this matter and see your big income on bitcoin someday, Like you guys im just a normal person spending to trade so, im not the person who has a extra money as always buy bitcoin and never sell it when price hike. but i guarantee buying bitcoins and after a month you will got a minimum  profit of 100$, already doing it and its help my financial problem and case closed for being poor man to classic  hopefully all of us will be like each other millionaire not just based on bitcoin but also in humanity. It will stay up sa 10k$ pataas because it will go down naman sa january 2018 because of many fork coming this december, pero volatile ang presyo nito kaya wala tunay na nakakaalam if tataas nga ba talaga or baba after time to time, people will switch sa ibang currency if bitcoin price goes up so much like millions pesos na katumbas, hindi na siya affordable but it user still be using it because sa platform nitong taglay, so hopefully ang sure ko lang is every year bitcoin doesnt give a f**k to us because it will keep the hike !   Here in my country, my wallet gives us time as we saved time when we pay our bills.  Yes, we can pay our bills using bitcoin.  Even government services can be paid through bitcoin.  Bitcoin gives us an opportunity to earn more and have a little independence with our finances as it gives additional income.  I am forever grateful that I have involved myself with bitcoin. I believe in God.  I believe that every creation or creatures  has someone that created it called of course, Creator.  Our Creator is God.  Some will say home come you will believe if you cannot see God.  God is like love, we cannot see the love itself, but because we feel that according to what other people, significant one, families and friends do to us, we know that we are loved.  I believe in God. It matters but sometime it is your love towards each other that will make it stronger.  As to how much the age gap will be, there is no specific year because there are many people who dates younger than them or older than them.  It is not on the age, it is on how much love you can give to that people.  Giving your time is the best way to say that you truly love that person.
Bitcoin is well trusted as it is proven to effectively gives everyone here a profit.  The fact that it is the first digital currency gives the trust to people especially to investors.  It is the cryptocurrency with high price.  All other crypto currency price are based on bitcoin.  It truly deserves to be on the top. Good effects of having robot is that your production output will be bigger compared with human workers.  The productiin will be shortened considering that robots will not need to go to the comfort room, talking with their co workers, or having some break.  As to the bad effect, it will cost a big impact as many people will become unemployed. I am not good into budgeting my money for one day.  Most of the times I will alot an allowance for that week and just before the week ends, I need to patch up my allowance because I am already short of money.  I will just buy things that I like and I think I am always hungry.  Well, thatbis because all the earnings I made with bitcoin is just in my wallet.  All are saved. Yes, it will change because we never know what will happened to us in the next days, months or years.  But I also have the same plan as yours with my bitcoin.  I am saving all my earnings because if I just keep it, it will grow its value.  Then if I reached my target amount, I will withdraw some and convert it into cash to buy mutual funds or luckiky to have some investment. It depends on the situation and the life of each of you when you entered a married life.  If you both have a good job and already have a good financial positions then you will unlikely to fight with bills, foods, and other things.  You will live a good married life since you achieve good financial state with your partner.  But if you both are not prepared for a married life then hopefully, you love each other so much. I guess bitcoin price likewise helps to increase its value.  Because when there is huge demand for it, then its price will increase.  But I agree with you that if we will use bitcoin everytime then it will even helps its price to increase.  But the clear thing as of now is that its price is really high compared to other commodities in the market. It is true and we are all here for the same reason.  Being rich and wanting to be rich with bitcoin is a privilege for everyone who uses it.  It is much effective way I think because many people became rich because of bitcoin.  Even a student became millionaire because of it.  And who does not want to be rich? Do not know about the airdrops and not tried it before but I also wanted to save some part of my salary to buy bitcoin.  Bitcoin has been a good investment these days as it gives us real and high profit.  I will keep on holding my bitcoin and save some until I reached my desire amount of it.  But if you look on each other price and compared them bitcoin will show that it has higher potential compared with gold.  Bitcoin price is much higher than the price of gold and it keeps on going up.  For me bitcoin is better because even if you do not have money to buy bitcoin you can always earn it.  Unlike gold which is you need to buy to have some of it. Yes definitely it would be hard to gave up bitcoin.  Bitcoin is the symbol of digital currencies.  All the price of emerging and existing digital currencies are based on bitcoin price.  So I do not think that bitcoin will be disregarded and fail. There will be risk in every investment not just in bitcoin.  And it is normal that bitcoin price changes, it is part of bitcoin.  So I think you just continue doing some trade and even buying some bitcoin.  We do not know if its price will still goes down. I am also attracted and at the same time impressesd that a digital currency programmed to make each of our lives better.  We can send and receive cash without giving our information.  Its price likewise changes and giving us income even by just keeping it in our wallet. In investing when people are getting greedy, it is time to let go or sell your investment and when people are not buying any investment it is time to become greedy.  I do not know the exact terms but it is like that.  I will become greedy but with limitation and to which I can afford.  I will buy as lon as I can but at the same time, I will keep them just to secure profit. Just this past week, we experienced that bitcoin price falls down.  And that would be the best time to invest since its price goes down.  This changes in price does not mean that bitcoin will end or that it will be replaced by another crypto currency.  It is just natural for bitcoin price to fluctuate.   For me, bitcoin will fall down only if people will stop using it. You have a point but the government will ban bitcoin and not just bitcoin, anything that they think would be a threat for its government.  They can ban bitcoin as long as they want.  But here in my country although there is no formal announcement of the legalization of bitcoin, it is legal and we can fully enjoy bitcoin.  You are right, bitcoin in its way the government especially the people living there to have at least a good life. Yes that is right and to support that, little by little bitcoin is becoming known by many people.  It is supported by other groups internationally and that there were a lot of investments pouring in with bitcoin.  This would mean greater opportunities with bitcoin and a high demand for it.  It will become the next currency used all over the world.  Establishments will soon include bitcoin as mode of payments.  Hopefully this will all happen before I perish in this world. That would be a great idea.  To support your move or action, I just learned to save my bitcoin when its price is high.  The time that I learned about bitcoin was the time that I was just looking for additional income.  I am just wanted to buy things I needed which I cannot anymore buy from my salary.  The only time I learned to save is when its price goes up and makes it value really high.  I realized that if I save my bitcoin then I will become rich someday when I just save them.  So I think that would be a good thing, to teach children to save by introducing bitcoin to them. As for me I will just hold my bitcoin up to the time I reached the amount of bitcoin I wanted.  But if there are opportunities to buy bitcoin then I will buy because I believe in the power of bitcoin.  I believe that its price will still goes up because that its what it is showing.  Especially when its price will goes down and that would be the great opportunity for everyone to have acquire bitcoin. I do not think that it will become very expensive as it is or will be used by all over the world.  It would be of the same rate all over the world and that maybe help people to atleast alleviate their lives.  It would help the poor one to afford things which they cannot afford before since the price or value of bitcoin would be fair or equal to each and every country.  But that would be a daydreaming for us because there are other countries who are not in favor of bitcoin. All coins emerging right now are special in their own ways and if you can likewise invest them if you want.  For me bitcoin is special because it is the symbol of digital currency as it is the first one that was created or developed.  After its birth and its success, all new cryptos and digital currencies were created.  It is special for me because bitcoin gives me an additional income which as to this days would be hard to find some.
Every investment are risky.  We just have to chose to risk rather than not risking at all.  Best way to earn with bitcon is to investing.  Just buy a good amount of bitcoin and just let it grow and have profit with it.  Bitcoin can be likewise earn through forum which signature campaign and the like. No one can exactly say what will happen to the price of bitcoin.  It can goes up or can go down when this year finished.  But that video is just also a guess without thinking that bitcoin can be that much priced.  No one knows exactly what would be the price of bitcoin after these day ends. Corruption by greedy people but not by government, yes.  It is evident because there are many investment sites that promises high profit, high return of invested btc in just a short period of time.  It is like 10% interest on your btc everyday.  That percentage is really big that is why many will invest.  After awhile or just before a month, it will turn out to be a scam. Bitcoin has been proven to be a good investment in these past years.  Although it was just launched less than a decade, its value rise up more to the valie of certain commodities.  Plus it gives a huge return when done in long investment.   Although the government should help citizen who are poor, still we should not be dependent to them.  We have to do ways to earn income.  Bitcoin is a good way to atleast lessen poverty.  It helps people by giving them lots of oppprtunities.  Computers or devices that can have internet is all we need. I also think this way and am afraid that thr price of bitcoin will goes up.  That we will no longer need a pyramid or bitcoin. We do no know him much and what we so how much is it.  Bitcoin can turn into a good investment and not. Maybe because women are doubtful and that they are not really into risk.  Although I have friends who are into bitcoin and they are girls.  It just so happened that bitcoin is much known by male because men are always into games.  But I am sure, women can do it and much more what men can achieve. It is just they are too afraid to go outside their shells.  They are afraid to trt soemthing new.  We cannot blame them but if you will see that there are many people who invest in bitcoin and that many earned.  Then we can say that it is true, bitcoin is real and not a scam.   Given the fact that bitcoin is already advertised on social media, then the need for it to be advertised on television is zero or nothing.  Social media or any forms in relation to internet is a good way for bitcoin to be known by those who have no knowledge about it.  Besides tv advertisement is so expensive and who will shoulder it incase? Actually now is the best time to buy bitcoin considering that its price goes down.  And there is no late time when buying investment.  If you are positive with bitcoin then you are willing to take a risk to buy some as investment.  Anytime is the best time. They might be protecting what they should protect.  They fear that it might affect their economy something like that.  I live in a third world country and yet our government does not ban bitcoin.  It is legal, though I did not heard or see any announcement about legalizing it here in our country.  It is legal because if we will buy bitcoin we can do it on banks and remittance centers.   The money and bitcoin itself are legal.  Just like what you said, the transaction or crime is the illegal.  Bitcoin is very legit.  If it is illegal or scam or fraud or whatever you want to call it, bitcoin will never be in the position where it is now.  Its price will not goes up like that and the government for sure will issue warning regarding digital currency particularly bitcoin. How can we even know if that will happen because no one exactly knows when its price will go up or down.  If I have money, I will just buy bitcoin whichbI can afford to lose.  Because if I wait until bitcoin price goes down, I will lose opportunity when I buy bitcoin now and its price continje to climb up.  So anytime is the best time to buy bitcoin. Just do not waste a time of opportunity to invest in bitcoin.  Do not wait when its price will goes down and then buy to invest because no one knew when its price wiill goes up or down.  It is really a good opportunity or the early investors are lucky to have invested when its price is still low.  So just buy bitcoin and believe that you will earn a good profit with it. Because people already knew gold.  And considering also that bitcoin is becoming talk of the town and many are curious on what bitcoin is.  Plus the fact that bitcoin is much and have higher price than gold.  Bitcoin can be earned unlike gold wherein you have to buy some just to have it. So it would be like your answer is no, it cannot be replaced right?  Just like what you said, it would be hard for them to beat bitcoin considering that all their prices were based on its price.  I mean when you buy new altcoin, you will use bitcoin to buy some.  Many people who are into digital currencies have bitcoin as their investment.  Since bitcoin is trusted, proven and guaranteed to give you real profit.  I also learned about bitcoin from a friend whom I met online.  I was looking for an extra income then and then they told me about bitcoin.  Since then I make it a point that I earned a good amount of bitcoin.  It is such a great help for me and to my finaces. I also agree with you.  Bitcoin can give us a good future for now but I also do not think that it can last for 100 more years.  It is because its price is really high now and it will  continue to goes up in case.  And if it continue to goes up maybe the government will do something to stop it or maybe its price will go down and people will pull out their investments. Yes money can buy happiness but not joy.  Happiness is brought about by small things in life but after some time it will gone.  According to people, best things in life are free and indeed it is true.  But most of the time, things that will help us to go on can be bought by money. Plus the risk of having an employer who have no conscience just like what we always saw in the news.  Those who were treated their employees as animals.  In our country, we call those who work overseas as modern day heroes because of the sacrifices they make for their families and for the country.
Bitcoin can makes us rich and will give us the hope that we are all hoping and dreaming of.  We can become millionaire especially those who trust bitcoin even before it was just launched.  They can become even billionaires.  For us who just met bitcoin and knew it can become rich, but this time through perseverance and working smart.  Bitcoin can gives us richness and can gives us all the comfortable life we all wanted. I will not anymore use my bitcoin to buy stuffs and have my phone be loaded using bitcoins.  It is too precious for me to spend it on things which I can use my money to buy for those things.  Just like you said, holding bitcoin is almost the same as having an investment.  Bitcoin even when just placed in our wallets gives us income which if we put on bank will not gives us the same interest.  So I will be glad to hold my bitcoins and wait for the time when it reached my target price. It is true that being greedy is a curse and it is one of the deadly sins.  But we cannot say that if you are holding or hoarding or keeping your bitcoins means that you are greedy.  For me it is just you being into reality and just being smart considering that bitcoin price right now is really high.  So if we keep our bitcoins then it means that we will have something to be assured of, we have money.  And money is the reason why we are all working hard, to get what we want and to help our families.  It is like just saving your money but the difference is its price changes and can make us rich. And even me personally knew this thing would happen, I would invest part of my salary because buying bitcoin will totally paid off.  I am quite surprise of the movement of bitcoin price since its very fast.  And at the same time I am afraid that it might fall because of its sudden hike.  I do not know  but I just wish that it will continue to goes up and that its price will not go down.  If ever that I will have a chance to add or buy bitcoin I will because it will be all worth it. And they are not afraid in the word karma.  They might as well not afraid and have conscience since they can do this things, just for their own sake, for their own greediness.  They are slave of money and do not fight fair.  It is hard for me to smile and become rich when I know that I earned it through bad way. I can say that even poor people can access computers.  Here in our country even we do not have computers of our own, there are establishments who are offering to rent their computers with internet.   Also even we are poor we have education, so we can read and write.  As long as you can understanf things and can read and write, even it cannot end world poverty, at the very least it can help each individual to escape poverty.  Bitcoin can improve the life of poor people. My special someone always procrastinate and always said that bitcoin price is high so he would wait for its price to go down before he buys.  Sadly, bitcoin price does not goes down and continue to goes up.  So maybe it is better to invest bitcoin now than wait.   There is nothing to be worried about or should doubt bitcoin because bitcoin already proven its worth.  Just keep away from scams that uses bitcoin to promose good fortune.  After earning a decent amount of bitcoin, I fully believed bitcoin. That is why bitcoin can be considered as money because it acts like it.  Any thing that money can do can be done by bitcoin.  Only that bitcoin can be used only online and is not yet accepted worldwide and not that popular.  But if we look at it, bitcoin equates to money. And they are just trying to ride the popularity of bitcoin.  Its like they are also trying to have what bitcoin has right now.  Like what you said, some are scams because people wanted to have money.  Or maybe they just wanted to try to copy the popularity of bitcoin. It is all because bitcoin is considered as job online.  Aside from its rewarding value, bitcoin can be earned in anytime and in anywhere.  The fact that it give me an income which is of the same value as my daily income is something I like about bitcoin. Anything we planned and do for the future of our children are all wonderful idea.  Though, we do not know how long bitcoin will last and if it will still exist after about 10-15 years.  Maybe if you want to invest for the future of your children, try do oyher things aside from bitcoin.  For sure our children will have a much brighter future. As they say patience is virtue.  Long term investment gives a huge income or profit.  If I achieved or reached the amount I aim, I will sell some of my stored bicoin.  I will just continue to earn and all the excess amount on my target will be sold and spend in things I needed and wanted. I am also standing in your opinion, but that was two years ago.  It changed when our new president came, President Duterte.  He walk the talk.  When he said he will have a war on drugs it happened.  It became bloody and we see that it is happening.  When he start a war against terrorist in Marawi, he finished it.  And many countries now are helping Philippines because they knew that the leader is not corrupt. I will not buy bitcoin as long as I can earn a good income from it.  Like you said, just keeping our bitcoin in our wallet can give us income.  It is as if an investment because just keeping it in our wallet, its price goes up and higher.  Even in money, it is better to invest some rather saving all of your money in the bank. Certainly who does not want to be rich.  I came from a poor family and live a simple yet happy life.  Having lived a simple life there are times I envy people who live a life of comfort.  And there is nothing wrong in case I want to try a comfortable life.  Through bitcoin it became seems possible.  I hope that I could be rich through bitcoin. Me too.  Besides if they are already billionaires they can actually buy almost every bitcoin created.  So maybe they are not really into bitcoins and focusing more on their businesses.  They knew bitcoin because it is the new currency but not necessarily to engage in it. Because bitcoin is tested and proven.  Aside from being the first cryptocurrency, it already gained the trust of all investors of bitcoin.  All existing cryptocurrency price are based on bitcoin price.  It already showed the world that bitcoin is a good way to earn. I also do not understand why bitcoin can be associated with bitcoin since I do not heard any crimes in the net or tv.  But it is possible considering that using bitcoin is much better and less hassle.  People who are into doing crimes will do anything any possible ways just to execute their ill motives. I knew what television show is that.  Sad that they did not do an indepth research about bitcoin.  My boyfriend's father even told me that bitcoin is scam because of the show.  He knew that I am into it.  I told him that the bitcoin itself is not a scam.  Only the sites that promises income through bitcoin are.I will show them the earnings I have and will shared them information about bitcoin.  It is up to them if they will see bitcoin that way.  I will just continue what I am doing.
Those who can use bitcoins are those who have the capacity to use and access computers and internet.  Like what you said, cash is better than bitcoin as of this moment because all age and level of society can use it.  The fact that every part of the world do not use internet and still no access to technology, cash is still the best currency to use. It is very possible that your $500 worth of bitcoin could double and even 10th times its value.  It is very possible because bitcoin price really gives income and its price always increases.  But as to the issue that it could worth a million is more of impossible.  I am not being negative, it is just too much.  But who knows, we cannot predict about it.   For me I will also hold my bitcoin and continue to save.  I want to spend my bitcoin in a good way like investing it, buying stocks and mutual funds.  I will also want to put up a business of my own.  Bitcoin is too precious and I will not use it to any wasteful act. Having said that, I will also put some of my money into bitcoins.  Bitcoins showed everyone of us that it can really give us income.  It has been tested and proven.  So investing on it is all worthwhile. That is the same thing in my mind if I have a lot of bitcoins, to put up a business.  I do not want to live my life forever being an employee.  All of these are possible now because bitcoin can really give a profit.  I will keep my bticoins until I reached the desired amount and secure my future.  My friend told me that after I introduced bitcoin to her it seems I taught her to gamble.  Because it is like taking a risk just like gambling because you do not know if you will be successful.  The difference is, bitcoin can really give you an income or profit in return.   Or that name is just a pseudonym just to hide the real identity.  Jist like you said, he just do not want the attention and does not want to become famous although he is already.  Maybe it is just his nature not to be known.  Maybe programmers are like that.  Whatever his reason and whoever he is, thanks to him for his brilliant work. Bitcoin indeed is a good way to keep because just letting it sit in your wallet and it can multiple.  After seeing and realizing what bitcoin can do to me, I started to save some of my earning.  Then some of my earnings will be spent into buying things needed for my family. I do not think that losing China is something big.  Just look at the current price of bitcoin compared to the price when Chinese government banned bitcoin, its price drops just right.  Its price dropped a little and the price which is nothing to be worried about.  It just dropped then because there was an issue also stated by Dimon.  But looking at the price right now, we are good without China.  We cannot say how much risk it is to invest in bitcoin.  But the sure thing is there is always risk whenever you invest not just only in bitcoin but in anything.  As they say, when you invest be sure to allot the money you can afford to lose.  Besides, no one knows what will be the price of bitcoin everyday considering that its price is volatile. I cannot say that I would become millionaire by 2020 but I will just claim it, anyway dreaming is free.   It is very possible especially to people who works their entire life with bitcoin.  But if by 2020 and I have saved a good amount of bitcoin, then maybe I can say and hopefully I will be one of the millionaires by 2020. Definitely we do not know about it since we cannot speculate or predict what would be the price of bitcoin.  We do not even know what would be its price after an hour, we could only assume.  Anyways, who do not want that to happen that bitcoin will reach $7000.  By that time, all of us who are into bitcoins will be surely happy.  It can even goes up higher than what you predict and it could even goes down.  Whatever it is I am still into bitcoins. That is what always the problem of those who are not really inclined to technology.  I can attest to that because I am always been afraid to try new things and always been afraid to use technology such as internet to earn money.  Because most of the time, there are scams around the internet.  When I first started with bitcoin, I was amazed by how it can give us earnings.  Then I invest and was scammed.  But even I was scammed, I still try and now have a savings.  You are right, I was have a little financial freedom. Bitcoin has been tested and proven that it can survive whatever scenario would be.  Bitcoin is the first ever digital currency in the world which no issue at all, I guess.  Only issues it has are the one being raised by Dimon and the banned rendered by Chinese government.  Bitcoin is well established as it was considered as a currency to other countries.  It survive and will completely survive. You are correct, that is really a good earnings to have everyday and if you are living here that amount is enough to sustain your daily needs.  It is even more than that.  It is really big compared to the basic salary that every workers here have.  For us to have that salary, maybe some sort of investing with bitcoin and posting for signature campaign is necessary.  It can be attainable and could really be a good way to earn because of bitcoin's ability. That is what my mother told me before when she did not know that bitcoin is totally legal and that it was accepted here in my country.  Just patiently explaining to them that you are not doing anything bad.  You may show them articles that proving bitcoin is a legit and that there are sites and bank that supports bitcoin.  The best thing is if you showed them what you earned and that they see to it that it was converted to cash.  Then you bought something through it. The only way for the bitcoin to be shutdown is when there are no more electricity and no more internet connection.  Those are the things that would stop and completely shutdown bitcoin because those are the main ingredients   for bitcoin to run.  And those things are also impossible to happen considering that government all over the world rely on electricity and internet connection.  I just agree with you.  There are no issues that I heard with bitcoin ever since I joined the community and using it.  The only issue that makes me worried are those rumours that bitcoin is fraud and the banning of China.  The fork and the halving issues but none as to the technical aspect of bitcoin.  Bitcoin is really an amazing program or invention or whatever we call it.  It was intricately programmed that is why there are no issues with it.  They cannot beat bitcoin in terms of how usable and established it is. Greediness at its finest.  God give us an abundant supply of resources in this earth.  And there is scarcity of food supply and poverty continue because their are so wise, greedy, and selfish people who want to take all of it all for himself.  That is why poor people are still poor and rich people continues to become rich. Definitely ans no need to argue for all those things are more than money and has no price at all.  They are priceless.  But you would definitely agree with me that we want the best for our love ones and to our family.  And for them to have live the comfortable life for them, we need money.  And that is the reason why we are here.  Bitcoin is a good way to earn more money.
Well it is because he realized that all what he said was nonsense.  He will not talk anymore about it since no one would believe in him.  And it is all because people just learned that it is part of his style for other people to panic and sell their bitcoins and a great chance for him and his company to buy bitcoins. We cannot say if the price of bitcoin right now is that high because we are comparing it to the price before.   What if the price of bitcoin after weeks and months would increase for about 10%?  Although you are correct, buy bitcoin when it is low but how we will know?  If we have a money that we are willing to risk then buy bitcoin at your own risk. That is the rule, buy on low and sell on high.  We cannot actually predict when will the price of bitcoin will goes up so we can hold it and when its price will go down so we can buy some.  Just buy bitcoin in the amount that you are willing to risk.  Just hold them because we are sure that it will earn you profit. Maybe we are in the same country.  Just like what you said people here are working to other country because the salary here cannot give you a good future.  Those who have a good salary here are the jobs that are for rich people.  My way of beating that is to find a second job.  And that is why I am here and I know I am on the right track. I am doing both for almost a year now.  Bitcoin, makes me believe that dreams can come true.  I have a fulltime job and after my jod day is done, I spare my 2 to 3 hours to bitcoin.  The slaary I have for one day is the same as my bitcoin earned for that day.  So I will not quit my job even if I have bitcoins. Yes I agree, we can say that bitcoin is a bright star.  It is just introducing its names to financial secotr, or whatever sector it is.  I is just proving them that it is, that bitcoin is the next big thing.  It gives everyone high hopes and make them realize that dreams can come true. Those who hate bitoin do not actually knows or do not have any knowledge on bitcoin.  He does not know what bitcoin is for and the benefits of it.  I never met someone who talked to me and said that they do not like bitcoin.   I think it would not be necessary to take an onlinw course just to learn bitcoin.  Most of us here does not partake into learning bitcoin online or any tutorial.  We learned about it through experience and self learning.  But, since you said that you already have a token then grabbed it.  That would be special. Plus there is no reason to fear that it will be taken away from you.  No one will interest and no one will be able to rob it from you.  You are the only one who knew your address.  Less hassle and less worries.  And the best of it is that even if you just let it sit in your wallet, you will earn an income. Certainly, if people around you are interested into something even you do not say it or inform them, they will ask you about it.  Let your earnings be your voice.  My friends asked me what I am earning since they saw me having nee stuff and gadgets.  Then I just told them about bitcoin and asked me a little about it.  Now they are likewise earning. Well it is really risky if you turn all as in all your money to bitcoins.  What will you do if you have an emergency and nothing left to spend.  Even buying things like food and paying bills.  Just invest portion of your money which you are willing or okay for you to lose.   Bitcoin should be part of a discussion but not as a subject.  Everyone can learn bitcoin and it is really easy to learn.  I learned all about it here at bitcoin talk.  I think it is okay that bitcoin will be discussed in school but not as a whole. Yes, believing is like trusting into bitcoins.  If you trust that bitcoin will really give you an income then go with it.  I believe that bitcoin can make us millionaire if we will really work hard into it.  Anything not just bitcoins, if we work hard and work smart we will become rich. Plus the fact that after it banned bitcoin, just a few days and bitcoin price was unstoppable.  Its price goes up and shows a great performance attracting more investors.  China does not affect bitcoin in anyways.   I came to know bitcoin in the mid of 2015.  Just like you I do not believe in it.  I am skeptic about a currency which can be used only online and then gives a real income.  After months I was finally convinced.  Thanks for that friend who did not stop to ask me to join.  I regret it that I did not start right away.   Sorry to hear your lost.  It is such nerve racking considering that you lost that very huge amount of bitcoin.  1btc is really high in value and you lost 95 of it.  You must be really rich by that.  It would be hard to trace where it goes.  Let just karma hunt that culprit. #JOINBitcointalk username: BabylonForum rank: Sr.memberPosts count:  833ETH address: 0xAeda0fAbC7a567394E644a868e58Ebba41410e36 Maybe, it's possible, but it still depends on the situation when people lose confidence in the bank, for reasons of bankruptcy, and in accounts or currencies that are in it. But the bitcoin will also find it difficult to find the ganko because the people are most familiar with it and are most trusted by other companies in the world. But is it better for me to use bitcoin because your money is hidden? it gradually rises even when you do nothing because of the value increase of day, month and year HAHA . 5 years after? I think bitcoin's name is better, bitcoin will make more use because I think bitcoin after 5 years? there will be new features and will improve the money-earning processes. The value that will be increased will increase when the people who use it grow. And security will be increased so scammers can not cheat on bitcoin. And maybe the bitcoin lasted for more than five years, because others hope that bitcoin will further enhance his name and grow up until it becomes popular in the world . I think it's better if you just invest your money in the bank. If you invest because the money has a great chance of growing or growing the money you have earned. Do you just get your bank? there is nothing to it. How much money do you have? there is hope to grow with the help of bitcoin. It's worth your job at earning money, earning money with your earnings at work .
For me? Yes you can buy home or house with the help of bitcoin. But is it still dependent on man, if he is industrious? he will come and get what he wants. But if you are lazy? Do not expect that you will get what you want. You're so lazy to get what you want? you are always in soliloquy and perseverance to get what you want to buy or buy or hope to be. increase self confidence, god and bitcoin . I love what you say, with the help of bitcoin? we will improve and increase our lives. Many people do not like it, saying that we have nothing to do with bitcoin. It's just a lie, there are people who are really good at destroying a famous name. Bitcoin helps us to improve our lives and leave our old poverty. In bitcoin, as you get your paycheck, it also rises, not like others who have long or rarely raised. I salute bitcoin and its ability to help every citizen of a community or country . Today bitcoin is now considered to be very strong in the hearts of the people. They trust it very much because they appreciate the help they offer to bitcoin. As more and more people use their help it continues to grow and becomes popular because of its ability to help each person. Bitcoin was lower than its value, but as the year or the season increases, it gradually rises and until it has been identified by the majority. Are we just getting started? we do not know much but when we have learned more than anything else? we gradually rise to the level of our lives . At that time I had confidence in banks, because I knew it was safe to hide the money you had accumulated. But because of thefts of money in bank accounts in our country? I was startled and scared suddenly. I do not know if I should trust the bank anymore? I thought that your money was safe, but now the bank is trying to fix the problems that are hurting them. How many netizens do the complainants, why they seem to have spent money on their bank accounts. Hopefully they will increase or increase the security of the banks.  I can not even say that our country is teaching about cryptocurrency. But I think the schools in our area are learning about cryptocurrency. With information technology and business accountancy, I base them on those courses because they relate to cryptocurrency. In information technology? because most IT learners? have a lot of knowledge or know-how about hacking work. In business accountancy? With them more related the cryptocurrency, business talk about that course, most BAs love things like, wanting business-related activities. For me, both have a positive and negative impact on technology and internet in our lives. Its positive effect? it helps people to speed up their work, and communication is easier for people away from home, just like a family whose family mothers go abroad to work, with the help of modern technology and internet losing their homesick mom who is working abroad. And much more . Negative effects? have people really used it with unpleasant acts, such as fraud of others, bully bully, being used with evil? because of them they are destroying the good name of our modern technology and good internet. For me I have no regrets on bitcoin, but I think the problem, ahmm I can not say it's a bitcoin problem. The only problem here is that people tend to cheat or scam, many people have negative comments because of the scams that occur in bitcoin. If bitcoin just deducts people they would not be able to repeat what they did. Because many people are afraid to try to invest again, so if you know someone who is afraid to invest you just try to talk to them and explain how to get out of the collapse. It is also natural that a person loses or falls from his lifestyle, and we gradually recover it just as we trust in ourselves, god and bitcoin . Just dropping bitcoin names is people who are rich or alive. Because they think bitcoin is so stealthy, especially the government is thinking of it. But hopefully they will analyze how well it starts or what or how bitcoin helps each Filipino citizen. Just for example, china, they say that they say bitcoin, many are opposed to their intentions because many of our worlds need bitcoin and its ability to lift us to the life we ​​stand today. bitcoin will be demand across the corner of the globe and will be trusted by every person . I have many dreams, I can only get it with bitcoin help . With bitcoin help? I slowly break my dreams. And I do not have the dream that I really want, I still want to have my own home, car, savings and business . In my lifetime it's my dream to come true. Hopefully bitcoin will help me achieve the dream I've had a long time ago.  And if I'm rich and rich? I can not just hide and waste the money I have accumulated, as I said earlier? bitcoin helped me. So if I ever get rich? I also help my fellow poor then, I'm also in trouble so I should also help them to have a little dream . Yes, that's not really a gamble. Because we pay the fair, we are also struggling to get the money we get. There's nothing wrong with taking bitcoin ah .. Is it wrong? are people who say they are not good here. Earn money on bitcoin? we are struggling to get for our own needs and happiness. Maybe others are referring? Earn money or inivest to earn the income he or she gets someday. That's what I have in mind, I just think of the opinions of others. Bitcoin has many benefits to the level of people's lives today. The bitcoin helps them with their daily needs, just like electricity, water and other payouts. Bitcoin strives to make our money easier. Bitcoin has been created to make our life easier, many people use it because most of them are rising from dehydration or hard life. Bitcoin has more advantages. Bitcoin will treat you as a special person and helps lift and change the path of life . If you are right in the religion of Muslims they have their own traditions, allowing them to marry immediately. Before you marry a woman? you must have enough work for the family to build you as a couple. Until you get so much and more? You can be married again, as long as you can get married and get married, as long as you are able to live with your family. Rich Muslims often make such traditions. Muslims also depend on what they want. Where should I be married? have enough work and income, if not? the Muslim woman's family will not allow you to marry or marry her child, You should have a good life with your child . It is not good for the nation to kill innocent people. The president of the Philippines is hopeful of losing its own administration. Hopefully, they will be the right or the worse for the capture of thieves involved in the illegal sale of illegal drugs. Hopefully the police in the Philippines will also be able to test them to find out if they are also perfect . The president of the Philippines has promised that anyone can kill anyone who uses or sells illegal drugs in the Philippines. Hopefully all drug lords will be frightened and lost. To get rid of the massacres in the Philippines. Justice for the other innocent victim of war of drugs. I'm not a parent with a lesbian or gay child. But if I ask? I see many members of LGBT Community often showing me. Hmm for me every time I see such people? I do not even notice every time I talk to them. It is better to let them talk to you just as you look at whether you are kind or not. When you look kind, talk about it and if not? Do not worry about it. They do not talk about their purpose, but you're right . Today's technology has a lot to do, it's one of those things that we use it every day in our daily work. But even worse is that it causes others to suffer, its negative is also much. It was a shame for youths who threatened, threatened, hurt and ridiculed, which we call that the bully was much different in the present and future. Now because the technology has grown? Bully or cyberbullying is widespread in every corner of the internet. The more bully that others experience, the more bully they are, the only ones who see you. But now on social media? often doing the so-called cyberbully, and because of the social media it's made, almost everyone who sees the shame will be punished by people who are bully. You often have pictures that you do not get well, and so much more  . The impact of Work on people is strong but the bitcoin is not a player because he is not quite familiar with all the people in the world, the bitcoin is also a job but that's why the more people choose to work. The only problem with work is tired and stress. And the bitcoin is designed to keep you from tired because you will not even focus on your gadget or laptop or pc to work on bitcoin like here in the forum. But the more I prefer and the bitcoin is better when working Haha. For when at work you do nothing? Do you use bitcoin, have you got a job? you have extra income on bitcoin   . Bitcoin has a lot to offer in the world just like our world today bitcoin's name is smoother in different parts of the world. And he has been helping people to change and become successful in the world. And everyone has great confidence in trusting it because they do not disappoint it. Bitcoin also helps us to change our lives, helping us to stand on our own feet, and to act as a proper and proper person. And it also helps the countries with disagreements, because of their transactional involvement in people's minds and the confidence that everyone wants. Bitcoin gives a lot of good and let's not lose it or break it . Bitcoin is the hope of the world. Before you teach them you should first explain them clearly about the topics in bitcoin. Start them looking at this forum. Which type would they first take to answer, and when they were answered? let them just answer them. When did you see that they responded properly? try them ask questions with difficulty a bit. To know that he is ready to answer the questions he had before he knew and he could not answer. It is better to guide them so that they can adhere to the rules that can not be violated. They need us to guide them until they can do alone . Simply simple, I will explain to him well how to use and earn bitcoin. Sometimes someone else is afraid to try, because they are afraid of being scam or being fooled by other people. Because they are afraid? what I did I explained to them well how to avoid such events. And I shared my experience so that they were inspired. It does not mean we can do it right away. The paper is expensive, used for printing. We can not be fake because we can be jailed or charged. I also thought that before, when I was a kid, why would not they just print money? But when I grew up? I understand more about everything. It's hard to make money, because it's expensive to make money   . 
Based in my experience it because of a friend, a friend who helped me to change my life. That's because I'm just a person who is idle, eat, sleep, wake up. I got used to that. Say as if I did not get anywhere or lazy to act. So my friend noticed that I was. So he referred to me if I ever wanted to earn some money? At first I did not want to invest you, I think I might just be a scam. But I'm mistaken, it's true, and it's really true, HAHAHA!  . Thanks a lot Bitcoin . The peaceful country for me is the iceland, because I noticed that people were silent and were away from the disturbing events. And they are not only in the peaceful country, but also in countries that are hidden beauties and paradise. What a wonderful place, once I was wealthy? that's the first thing I'm going to do because of the greatness of my attraction. And in that area too cold, the iceland is far from chaotic and quiet country . It would be nice to take some money here or let's say you invest in it. Because the money you spend on it is possible to increase and recover the money you invest. Then I invested and I bitcoin then after a few weeks I recovered the money I invested and until I've recovered it. And until I earn more than I invest. The phrase "perseverance with stewed" is true and do not be afraid of what can happen to you. It's normal you've fallen, since almost everybody with a great goal is experiencing it. If you fall? You have to force it slowly to rise  Let's say that the reason for your downfall is that you've made a mistake or a scam. Bitcoin is important to me and the bitcoin is why I am gradually increasing in life. It's so important to me because of her I'm getting help whenever I need, like home, electricity, and other needs in a person's life. Bitcoin has become my ally for all the trials that come into my life. If I lose it I might not be able to get it because I do not want to go back to my old habits that are low or hard. Hopefully just keep the service bitcoin for our people with big dreams . Sa tingin ko 40% di kasi kilala sa ibang bansa ang Bitcoin dahil may mga bansa kase na walang ganang tumangkilik dito dahil sa sila ay natatakot sa posibleng mangyari sa perang ilalaan o ii-invest nila. Sikat ang bitcoin sa lugar na nakapaloob sa local category, piling bansa kamang ang napasama doon ko binase ang kalkulasyon ko sa porsyento ng tao sa mundo na gumagamit ng bitcoin. Sana tangkiliin din ng ibang bansa ang bitcoin upang lumaki ang populasyon sa bitcoin.. at para na din tumaas ang halagang ibinibigay nito sa atin . if there is no technology in the world? it is difficult for a man to find a job. Because if we were to live our old age, without technology? Will it be difficult for you to communicate with others, like when you need a company? how would they call you without technology? will you give a telegram? The difficulty is when we process the old process. Long-term tasks when no technology is generated.technology is important to humans because technology is part of the everyday human life. And if they lose it they will find it hard to survive. if there is no leader in us? Our world is going to be a mess. Think of it, there are people who want them high, but what if some others want them high? is the trouble? there must be one to be able to properly manage his or her domination. If there is no leader? you can have a world war again   it's hard to live in a chaotic country, it is better to have a leader or control over the nation we live in . Yup malaki talaga ang sweldo para sa mga I.T sa kasalukuyang panahon? ito talaga ay in demand para tao dahil lahat ng teknolohiya natin ngayon related sa mga I.T. I.T ang kinuha kong Kurso sa ngayon nasa ikatlong taon na ako ng aking pag aaral, pangarap kong maging future programmer sapagkat malaki ang sweldo ang makukuha nito kumpara sa iba. Kung may hilig ka sa computer mag I.T ka, madadalian ka lang naman kung may alam ka . Yes for me money above all things, and i think yes, in our lives with money we all turn around, we study for graduation, graduate to find a job, we work to earn money. Money is based on human's life and we just rotate. When you have no money you can not live, all human needs are transmitted through money, such as food, appliances, electricity, water, houses and so on. so money is important to every person, but faith in our god should not be lost, because it is only one day that we will dedicate him to that day to thank the blessings we have received from him. Sa ngayon di natin alam kung ginagawa nya nga yun   pero kung ako tatanungin, hindi wala kasing panahon ang pangulo natin sa ganitong gawain, marami syang responsibilidad sa bansa at masasayang lang ang oras nya kung pati ito pagkakaabalahan nya  . Pero pabor ako sa pagbibitcoin kung sakali marami syang koneksyon kikita sya ng malaki kung ginagawa nya din ang pag bibitcoin. Pero mayaman na ang presidente hindi nya na kailangan ito mas maganda kung ipaubaya nya na lang sa atin itong gawaing ito upang umangat naman ang buhay natin sa bansang ginagalawan natin . So far medyo di pa ako bihasa sa Ingles pero noon napakahina ko talaga dito   pero nag improve lang ang English Skills ko dito HAHA salamat dito kung irarate ko sa 10? siguro 6 or 7 out of 10 mga ganyan, at tataas pa yan dahil nasasanay na ako sa ingles. Madalas kasi nasa English Category ako nung una mapili ako kasi hindi ko alam ang isasagot pero ngayon nasasabayan ko na ang topics nila. Practice makes better to improve your English Skills and to increase your English Grammar . Maybe yes and maybe no? fifty fifty decision on my mind  but i agree to the president duterte war on drugs. Natural in war of drugs to die when you fight on some philippine national police. Maybe now i agree for the death penalty law for the sake of the people. To minimize sinful people in the world. But I still believe in the Bible that sinners are not killed because people have the right to change.  Yeah that's true some people in our community didnt know what is this because the other people who didnt know this is may have some reason like they are no free time to find out what it is because they think really, it's just waste of his/her time. But if you want to share your know about this your experiences share it to your friend? family relatives or friend of your friends . So they can be inspired by what you've come up with since you invest in bitcoin. I don't think so my answer but i think first creation of god than egg because how to make the egg survive when no hen can maintain and care for it. Imagine if the egg first had some heat they might die or eat other wild animals. Let's say that if the egg lived and became a chick? They will live without the mother who will care for them.They just die and now we have no chicken in our day, right? There are so many questions that we think we have no answer, but we can do it if you can make a way. It happened a lot before, I guess a lot would panic and it's normal but I think it's not a good thing to do. Just look, bitcoin started with just less than a dollar and now it costs almost thousands of dollar. How would you consider it a fall it falls even up to a few thousands. My point is, it will drop sometime but it will surely recover too. You just need to be patient. I think it had some good and bad effect, it really lessen drug activities in Philippines but somehow it's quite a bad image for our country. A lot of people died because of it, and we don't even know if they are really related to drugs or it's just part of summary execution. There was an incident where a teenager was killed because he was a drug suspect, I think there should be due process to it. Para sa mga pinoy ang pinakamaganda at trusted na wallet ay coins.ph. Napakadali lang ng confirmation at napakadaling gamitin. Mabilis din ang transaction dito, pwede magbayad ng bills, magpasok o mag withdraw ng pera. At marami rin silang offer na discount pag ginamit mo ito sa ibang transactions. I think this is no impossible because a lot of people are expecting it too. And, more and more people are really into bitcoin nowadays because of this speculation. Investors keep on coming and a lot of people are willing to invest more bitcoin. Well, lets just see if this speculation happens.  It's true that bitcoin already helped a lot of people reach their dreams to become rich but it's not even close in solving world poverty. Poverty is a global problem and it's way to big for bitcoin to solve it. I think that poverty is really hard to solve because not all people are willing to share what they have or even open opportunities for other people. I think this is possible because it would be easier and safer for them to do their transactions if they will use cryptocurrency. They wouldn't need to be cautious and scared if police are watching them. Well it's quite disappointing that cryptocurrency could be used to do bad things.
Sa ngayon wala pa akong business, but isa ito sa aim ko kaya ako nagbibitcoin. Pero kahit mag ka business ako palagay ko mag bibitcoin pa rin ako. Kaya ko balak mag business para magkaroon ng stable na income. Mahirap iasa lahat sa bitcoin, kasi hindi natin alam kung ano ang mga maaring mangyari. Mas maganda na may nainvest ka sa pinaghirapan mo sa bitcoin. I think the worst mistake that I've made before was when I played poker with my friends and the stake was so high. I was too confident with my card because I had a pair of ace but the blind was good because I went for triple A's and I went all in because my friends knew me for bluffing sadly a friend of mine didn't fold, and he won with royal flash and I lost almost $500. I always make sure to limit my self when gambling. I just set a certain amount of money when gambling to avoid further losses in case I won't win. It's the safest way to keep you from losing your money. If ever I win too, I keep my starting money and just play with my winnings. That way I can avoid losing any money. I think it's really hard to quit any habit. But, if you're really determined to quit for good, you should discipline your self. Find other hobbies that would keep you away from gambling like traveling, sports, reading, movies and many more. There's a lot of other interesting things to do, just make sure that when you quit, you will never go back to it. One big bitcoin fork already happened and it didn't do much on bitcoin. I think the next one wouldn't be too soon, and possibly most people would just usually ignore it. The last one didn't even do a thing to btc, and it didn't even affect it's price. Maybe a year or few years from now it's possible, but who knows when? Let's just wait for some confirmation. I think you made a bad choice, honestly I haven't made such bet. But, the way you're telling it, it seems that you can afford the btc that you've lost. I really think that the more you gamble the greedier you get. You should've secured some of your winnings. I haven't lost big amount of money before because I just limit my self when gambling. I think I'm doing it for both, the only reason why I'm saving my bitcoin is to earn good money and to save it. I don't even have specific plans as to where to spend that money. So, maybe I'll use some for fun and for my future. I'm saving my bitcoin because I think it can still increase it's price until the end of the year. #JOINBitcointalk username: BabylonForum rank: Sr.memberPosts count:  739ETH address: 0xf4cb6d2C50036dafa14aCc615C33a84871391f9bDone changing my signature code and avatar ( will take time   I think it really is, usually all other coins are just noticed when their price are pumped and people forget it when it's dumped. That's how it works in crptocurrency world. I think bitcoin price will continue to hike because a lot of people are investing because of it's continuous increase in price. I just gamble for fun, I usually play poker with my friends on weekends and drink beer with them. It's hard to just focus on winning when you're gambling it spoils the main purpose of gambling. I think that gambling was created for entertainment and ofcourse for profit, but I think that enjoying it is better. I gamble to relieve stress and to socialize with my friends. Sa palagay ko hanggat mataas ang value nito at maraming gumagamit at nakikinabang dito malabong mawala ang bitcoin. May posibilidad na mawala ito pero malabo itong mangyari sa realidad. Parami ng parami ang nahihikayat na mag bitcoin kaya sa palagay ko mas tumataas ang demand dito. I think this would happen if a lot of retailers are aware of the benefits of having bitcoin. But, it's hard to blame them for not accepting bitcoin, it's hard to do because bitcoin price is so volatile, so if they accept bitcoin as payment for their business they would suffer great loss if bitcoin gets dumped really hard. Everyone who believes in God knows he is coming back, but no one knows when will it happen. And, people shouldn't just confess, repent or ask for forgiveness just because he is coming back. We should do it day by day, we actually realize the importance of God when it's too late or if it's almost our final moment in life.  I don't think so, because I only gamble occasionally and just for fun. And whenever I gamble, I set-up a limit for my self, because I really hate the feeling of losing a lot of money. I just sometimes gamble for fun, or when I'm bored, and to socialize. So, I don't consider my self as a gambling addict. I think it does, a lot of people believes that illuminati controls almost everything in the world including politicians, government, popularity, tv icons, banks, as in everything just name it. If I were given a chance to join them I wouldn't accept it because who knows what price are you going to pay in exchange of what you want. There's no solution to this. People are created to recreate life, so it's impossible to stop the increase of population. The better solution is to let the people aware about the effect of over population. Over population limits our resources, the more people we have the more jobs, houses, natural resources we need.  Politicians that are doing dirty jobs are scared of the president because the president is starting to name them and take action against them. Most government officials in the Philippines are involved in syndicate and drugs that's why it is so rampant in Philippines. But, since Duterte became the president, he became a threat to those politicians. I think for 5 years bitcoin has proven a lot, it went down a little and grew up more. So, if I were to invest everything that I have between bitcoin and gold, I would invest in bitcoin. Bitcoin's price is surging and may keep on going till the end of the year, the demand is too high and a lot of people are holding in to their bitcoin. Unlike bitcoin, gold's price is a little stagnant and grows up or goes down only a little as year go by. I think this is a great idea. This was one of my regret before, I've heard about bitcoin when it's price was very cheap. I could've bought atleast 15 btc that time. But, I was full of hesitation because I thought it was just a trash and a scam. Well, I would've been a millionaire now if I bought it when I was younger. I don't really see gambling profitable in the long run. The reason is simple, the longer you gamble the deeper you'll get drawn to it. It will become a bad habit and it will surely make you greedy and lose a lot of money. I know a lot of gamblers who lost almost everything that they have and their behavior is uncontrollable. 
Mas maganda kung basahin mo na lang rin yung rule. Kasi ako di ko pa nabasa talaga yung rule e, pero sa pagkakaalam ko may mga campaign managers na nag baban ng account pag nalaman na merong multi account. Just to be on the safe side at newbie ka palang focus ka muna sa isang account. Wag mag madali kasi hindi naman tayo nag uunahan dito.  I think people are not interested in using renewable energy because it will take a lot of process. People nowadays wants everything that is instant. So, they just want to keep on using power plant energy instead of helping solve pollution through renewable energy. People would only realize that they should've used this kind of energy when it's late. I don't find any reasons to quit the altcoin world because altcoins nowadays are showing a lot of potential. Though bitcoin is showing more potential, it's also good to invest in to some altcoin for extra income. Who knows what will happen to altcoins in the future, but I'm sure a lot of people will gain a lot if they would start investing now. Well, it's really hard to speculate when, how and what will make BTC disappear. But the main point is that, as long as people are buying and using BTC as their main crypto currency, there's no reason for it to disappear. Just look on the demand, for how many years BTC has been the top among all the crypto currency.  Some people are just close minded or even get affected by things easily. I mean if you were offended you really deserve respect from the people who offended you. That's how things should go. But, in our generation now, people look at them as if their high and almighty. People are swallowed by pride. Some would even get angry instead of apologizing if they commit mistake. Yung ibang kinikita ko sa BTC tinatabi ko kasi ineexpect ko na tataas pa ang price nito. Yung iba naman ginagastos ko sa pang araw araw. Yung iba ipinang bili ko ng gamit sa bahay para atleast may naipundar ako para sa sarili ko. Pero ang plano ko talaga ay makapag invest pa ng mas marami pang BTC dahil napakalaki ng potential nitong coin na to. I think this is possible, but we don't know when. As you can see bitcoin became the main cypto currency for everone. It has established and proven it's place among cryptocurrencies. A lot of people are using it and it's demand is too high. There might be chances that it's value decreases but it recovers fast and is still growing. In my country, politicians are accused to use taxes for their own good. Some government projects are over priced and of not good quality. So, I think that it all depends on the politician. If they are using the taxes properly and for good reasons, I think it would be worth paying the tax. Politicians shouldn't steal people's money and put it to waste. Well, I think that this is a good idea. If this happens bitcoin can help a lot of people in the community. I mean a lot of people is earning a lot of money without a sweat through bitcoin. It wouldn't hurt you if you would share it to the community. Bitcoin can help improving the welfare of those people who are in need if this happens. Maaari itong bumaba kasi malamang madaming mag cacashout dahil sa takot ng pagbaba ng BTC, pero palagay ko makakarecover agad ito at tataas ulit ang value. Maraming beses na nangyari sa BTC ito, at madalas nakakarecover ito ng mabilis at mas tumataas pa ang value. Depende na lang sa inyo kung maghohold kayo o kasama kayo sa mga mag sesell pag dating ng oras na yon. All that was mentioned made bitcoin convenient to use. These things made BTC the most famous cryptocurrency. It also offers a lot of opportunities and income. For example, due to it's price fluctuations, people can gain a lot of money if he started investing bitcoin at low price and if the price goes up 4 to 5 times within just a year.  I think if you can't choose which altcoin are you going to buy, just buy btc. I think it's really the best decision to buy BTC nowadays. BTC price may decrease but it increases even more and recovers fast in just short time. If you want to earn a lot, invest as early as you can. I think it is the best crypto currency. Since it's considered as the main coin and many users are acknowledging it. If you don't have any ideas about other crypto currencies it's better to start with BTC. It's a good coin to invest since it's growing fast and steady.  It varies and it depends on people, but most likely it happens during adolescence. It's the stage where people usually experience a lot of changes in their life. School, physical changes, emotional changes, mental changes. During this age we usually seek things that we usually take for granted before. We wonder about a lot of things. We try to act and think like adults.   Medyo malayo pa ang New Year, pero starting this year and next year, susubukan ko makapag ipon pa ng mas marami. Ittry ko mag invest para sa aking sarili at sa aking pamilya. At, mas sisipagan ko pa ang pagbibitcoin ko para mas marami akong kitain. At, sana makapag pundar ako ng marami next year. For me gambling is a trick, just count it, how much have you won and how much have you lost. No one wins in gambling, or maybe some if you're luck and stopped. But the things is, as long as you're winning you will never stop. It's like once you tried it there's no stopping. The only things that would make you stop is when you have nothing. North Korea is a scary county. It's president is handling the country in a scary way. They're focused on military power and little did we know about their activities since it's quite hard to visit their country. A little information about North Korea is known so we are not aware what they're capable of. So, we should be cautious and alarmed. Well, I think that's a good information. Thanks for that, it would be very helpful. But be mindful of what are you going to invest. It's hard to predict what's going to happen next. This is just a speculation, but this is very useful. So, if you want to earn a lot just take the risk and acknowledge this information.   Mas maganda mag invest sa BTC kaysa sa banko. Sa banko kasi uniform lang po ang interest. Lalaki pera mo pero matagal na panahon ang hihintayin mo. Hindi tulad sa BTC, unpredictable ang value nito. Kung makapag invest ka dito ng mababa ang presyo malaki ang kikitain mo pag bigla tumaas ang value nito, pero may risk pa rin.  I think if someone's doing it a daily habit and it's affecting his/her normal life you can consider him/her a gambling addict. For example, if someone usually go to the casino and spends most of his money in gambling or even selling some of his property just to play.
If they're bullying you to the extent that you can't take it then they're not your true friends. Well, I sometimes bully my friends but I also consider how they feel. I think you should let them know that you're not having fun when they're bullying you and that they're over doing it. If they'll not stop well you should walk away from them. I can't imagine letting my child marry someone who she doesn't even know. Just imagine a man would even feel the same if you will be forced to marry someone who you don't even know. Marriage is something that you should think of carefully. It's not just a decision that you can should do carelessly. I think you invested in to so many coins. It would be better if you just focus on just few eligible and strong alt. If I'm handling that too much coin, I would really have a hard time. Maybe some of your coins don't have too much potential. Better just drop some of it and focus on maybe 5 to 10 of your alts. Good luck on handling your coins. Halos parehas lang naman yan, depende lang sa pagkakataon. Parehas lang kasi yan, parang apektado ng fluctuations ng bitcoin ang halaga ng altcoin. Syempre pag bumaba ang value yun yung magandang chance na bumili ng coins, pag tumaas dun maganda mag benta. Depende yan kung kelan ka bibili at magbenta. Doon nakabase kung magkano kikitain mo. Well, that was a weird news. It's quite rare or should I say it's the first time that I've heard that a man was a victim of rape. It was surprising for women to commit such crime. And imagine it happened for three days. I've read some news that South Africa has a high crime rate when it comes to rape. So, there's no wonder that such thing happened there. I think any kind of betting games where you can use analysis. The chance of winning a game is higher if you can analyze which bet has a higher chance of winning. I think you can use it best on sports or online games betting. Card games are quite easy too, but not all the time. If you can memorize the cards that were used, your chances of winning are  high.  There was a news that all coins will drop on August 1, but there was also a confirmation that it will not happen. But whether the news is true or not, it will surely drop since the news had already spread. People will be scared since there's no assurance what will happen on that date. So, maybe on August 1 all cryptocurrencies will drop but it will surely bloom later on.  I think it's almost the same as sex toys. Why would you indulge yourself with toys if you can have the real deal. Maybe, if you want to add more thrill you can buy one. I agree with the both of you, I think the old school will always be the best solution. Just grab your phone or laptop watch porn and use you Hand.     It's better if you'll just invest your bitcoin. It might be risky, but gambling is not advisable for newbies since you don't have any other means of getting bitcoins. The risk of losing money in gambling is higher than investing. Just learn the do's and don'ts in investing I'm sure you'll earn a lot. I agree with that, you should try it. I browsed their official site and read some reviews and most of it were good. The concept of the game is genius and I think it still progress in the future. Check out and watch videos on how the game works. You'll find you're self wanting to play the game too. I think that its quite impossible for BTC to disappear or even to be replaced. First, it's one of the frequently used coin nowadays. Most transaction uses BTC. Second, it's the first most successful cryptocurrency and I think that makes BTC hard to replace it already made it's stand. And lastly, BTC is still growing. We can't really speculate until when and how much a currency will grow. But, this is just my opinion. Maybe in the future bitcoin will not be of great value because many people will be using it. And if that happens, government would surely want to gain control over it or maybe tax it. We're not quite sure what will happen to bitcoin in the future. But as long as bitcoin is helping others, I think people will still support bitcoin. Let's just see what's in there in the future. The richest man I've seen so far is here. You're portfolio looks incredible. Just 25 btc is enough for me, plus add up your other coins. The question is how will you handle these coins on August 1? Are you still going to hold some of it or are you cashing all out? I guess you take all the coins that you can, I'm not quite familiar with the other coins and it's value. Well there's a lot of answer for this. On religious view, God created the world according to his view. He created life and everything that surrounds it. On scientific view, I guess there's a lot of theories that would support to this. We have the evolution theory and other's that im not aware of. A lot of people discussed about this but the true answer is still unknown. It's really hard to answer this question because there's no basis or proof where life started. I think if you've won enough it's the best time to leave the game or even before you start you should just leave it. Because as we all know that gambling is addictive. Once you start it, it's hard to stop. Either you win or lose you will end up greedy. And the chances are you will lose a lot of money. But if you're really lucky then you will gain a lot of money. Well, I think it's the fact that winning in gambling makes you feel proud of yourself. Who wouldn't be happy to win easy money just within minute. I think people tend to find the easiest way to earn money. And that's what makes gambling addicting. It's an easy way to earn money at the same time it's a fun hobby. Malaki ang pakinabang ng thread na ito para sa mga online gambler na pinoy. Anong gambling site ang binibista nyo at anong strategy ang ginagamit nyo para mag palago ng bit coin?  It's quite hard to predict when to buy or sell. I think it's better if you'll stay on the basic principle, buy when it's low and sell when it's high. Just keep an eye on the coin. I don't think this is possible, normally humans nowadays follow what's trending. We live in an era where we we are technology addicts. Maybe some will resort to old phones but maybe only few will do it. Whenever I win I feel mixed emotions. I feel happy and I feel proud of my self and at the same time I feel nervous. I can't explain why I feel nervous when I'm gambling it makes my hands cold but at the same time makes me feel very happy.
I think the project looks amazing, it would really peak the interests of all the gamers out there. I can see this project's success. Good luck to the team behind this project. The project is very interesting, just look how many players does it have, plus it's being managed by sylon. I'm looking forward to this project, hope it will be successful. Bitcointalk username: BabylonForum rank: Sr.memberPosts count:  665WAVES address: 3P42dNgeeKJdHbMfJ3cXKA35ZY5M66oRVcdLooking forward to join in this campaign and will do my best for this project!I think this will be good if there will be also a personal text  I put one example. just suggestion. It's ok to play with your profit as long as you set aside your starting money. Always make sure that you keep some money and never to  go all out, so that you'll not lose a lot. Just make sure to play with the money that you can afford to lose so you will have no regrets. You should go to college and take the course that your hobby and skills applies. Make sure to pick something that is within your interests. Studying is easy when you enjoy what you're doing. Just have fun and don't put any pressure on your self. I don't have anything against same sex marriage as long as they are happy and what they are doing is right. There's nothing wrong with loving someone. I guess everyone has the right to be happy and to be with the one they love. I just keep on gambling for fun and for a little profit. But the main reason why I gamble is just for fun, I don't take gambling seriously because it can cause a lot of stress when you lose a lot of money. Just enjoy gambling it was made for entertainment not just for profit It's good that his anti drug campaign is going out so well. However, I think it's quite impossible to make Philippines a drug free country because drug syndicates are handled by big time businessmen which is also from other big countries. It's possible to just clean the streets and make it somehow safe but a drug free country is quite impossible. I think money is not everything when it comes to gambling. I think that gambling was made for leisure. It's supposed to be for enjoyment. It's true that we need money to gamble, but the main point is that we should enjoy it and have fun. I'm a christian and I don't hate christians. There's no reason to hate anyone just because of religion. I think religion doesn't brand you as anything it's just the belief that you believe into. Religion shouldn't be a basis when it comes to hate or love. Para sa akin Coins.ph ang pinakabest na wallet para sa Filipino dahil madali lang ito ma access at maraming establishment na affiliated dito. Maari ka ring mag withdraw gamit ang local na banko. Mas accessible sa mga filipino ang coins.ph.  I think experience matters in gambling, because it will give you more chance on winning if you have an experience. Just take playing poker as an example, when you play poker you can't just depend on pure luck. Some gambling games are bound by rules, which you need to know before you play. It think it's easy, maybe it's just because that you find gambling an easy way to get money. I mean just look, in just a second if you're willing to take the risk and bet all the money that you have in one click, you'll be instantly rich,but the sad part is that you might lose all your money. You can have all the amount of money that you want in a second when you gamble, same as winning the chance of losing money is the same. So, this is a bit risky. Try to control your self. It's true that money is important and it can buy all the things that we need. But having a lot of money doesn't make you the happiest man on earth. Of course to earn money you need to work hard, which means you'll have less time to spend with your family, friends, or even do things that you enjoy. In some ways money can bring happiness, but the totality is that money can't buy true happiness. What your cousin did is for their kids future, and I think they will be happy for their kids to have a great future. Happiness sometimes requires sacrifice, that's what makes happiness sweeter. I think if this project will be successful, it will be really helpful to those who will use it. The wallet sounds user- friendly and easy to use. I'm looking forward to it. Though investing is risky, gambling is not a good idea to spend your bitcoin with. The chance of losing your money on gambling is higher compared to investing. In gambling there's no statistic or logic that you can follow, winning in gambling all depends on luck which is just like 50-50. But in investing, the risk of losing your money depends on your knowledge and experience.  Well I think the reason is simple, just imagine those countries who are rich and mineral but is not capable of take advantageof what they have because of being financial unstability. That's where rich coutries come in, they usually fund those coutriesto take out those poor countries mineral and profit from it, leaving the poor country with less profit. I'm too excited on this campaign. I haven't read through all this. I just have a question, how long will this campaign last?  Posible siguro kung makakapag save ka ng pera sa pag bibitcoin at kung malaki ka kumita sa bitcoin. Marami namang paraan para kumita sa bitcoin e, depende na lang user kung paano pagagalawin ang kita at paano magsasave. Malaki ang pwedeng kitain sa bitcoin dahil maraming paraan para kumita ng malaki. Depende na lang sa tao kung paano dumiskarte at mag ingat ng pera. I think when you say freedom it's just like you can do anything that you want without having any hesitations. Just like, whenyou travel alone, you can go anywhere or do whatever you want without asking for someone's permission. Being free is just likewhen you're not bound by anything.
It is surely helpful but can also ruin your life, since mobile phone started communication in real time is easy, you canupdate your friends, family or anyone, anytime and anywhere. It does a lot of things, from texting, pictures, videos and a lot more. However, in some ways it ruined the society, just observe how people are walking facing their cell phones, families having their supposed to be quality time while eating, but instead using their mobile phones. It made human socialbehavior poor, people talk less, they spend less time talking with their family or friends. I guess somehow this is true, you can have your own religion it's part of your right as a free citizen. But don't shove it into other people's face that your religion is better or righteous, don't just start talking about your religionin public because most of them won't even care. They have their own choice too, same as you. So, if you have a religion,just share it to those who are interested, don't insist that other people should have the same religion as you. I think my worst moment was when I betted all my money all at once even my pocket money( I was thinking and feeling that it was my lucky day.)After that, I lost all of it and I was shocked and devastated. I was speechless for a minute and wondering why I did it. I was very stupid duringthat time. I think it's better if you don't do drugs, because it's very addictive and once you become addicted to it, it will not be recreational anymore. Drug can be use in medical if you need it but some county not legalize it and doesn't accept it as medicine but some are aware that drug like marijuana can cured illness or cancer.  Well, I have some superstitious beliefs when gambling. It might be a little weird but I put a coin on my shoes before I startgambling, I also pick my chair before starting. And whenever I win I usually hide some of my winnings, I don't like people seeing my money on the table. If ever I'm winning, I usually keep my starting money and just play with my winnings. I'll make sure that my own money is secured and I'll just enjoy gambling my extra winning money with gambling. I just keep on playing until I get bored.I don't gamble too much, that's why I usually keep an extra money when I gamble. I usually play poker at my friends house, but not that often. Whenever when we don't have anything to do on weekends, my friendsand I usually just sit on their living room, play poker and drink some beer. We usually play at night because it's more comfortable to play cards at night. I haven't before, because I never knew that there was a medicine for this. Is there such thing? And I think I don't need onebecause I think I can easily stop gambling whenever I want. Just make sure to limit your self when gambling so the possibilityof losing a lot of money is less.  Ang kinuha kong kurso nung college ako ay BS- Accountancy, pero dahil pag graduate ko hindi agad ako nagkapag CPA review, napilitanako kumuha ng trabaho na malayo sa kurso ka, dahil sa totoo lang ang baba ng sahod ng accountant kapag walang lisensya.Sa ngayon nag ttrabaho ako bilang ESL teacher, mas malaki ang kita ko rito kumpara sa mga kinikita ng mga accountant na walanglisensya, nag sisideline din ako sa bitcoin sa libreng oras ko. Well, the I think the best advice that I can give is that they should choose any field or job that is somehow connected to thingsthat they enjoy doing. I think that they'll be less stressed if what they're studying about is somehow connected to their hobbiesor interest. Well, I guess this wallet is promising, I really hope that this campaign will be successful. I hope this will solve some of the major problems that other wallets have. I'm looking forward to it. This wallet will be very convinient, I really think that it is user friendly, I think this will help us allto manage our coins and wallet. It will be a wallet made simple and easy. Maybe what you're seeing is just the bad side that happens in our society nowadays. But I think love exists, well if you can't show love for yourself how would you find love that'sjust outside you. You can see love in different ways. Just look at the bright side and observe. World doesn't exist just for hatred. I think I'll just invest and some for the mean time, and convert my it to money spend some for my self and if possible start my own business.Who knows until when can we benefit from bitcoin. So for now I'll just take all that I can and spend later. Spending my bitcoin on investment to have more bitcoin, it was the basic learning i keep on my mind. Having bitcoins is not bad at all: easily use, no need bank management( state) or hassle free, also more potential earning. Sometimes we need to leave the bitcoin if we already have investment, you can't enjoy your money when you died.  Well, I think it's worth to give it a try. Who knows, there are some altcoins that started small and now it's value grew.Altcoins value depends on its investors and users. I think the more investors that it has the higher the value gets. Maybe 100 years from now it will be over populated and polluted, we might advance when it comes to technology but I guessthe environment will be completely ruined. No fresh air, water, surroundings, there's only few animals, no good views to visit.And maybe people won't even know how to socialize since technology is taking over us. Now that Trump won the presidency, I don't think that I could still trust USA. I mean just look at it how cansomeone who used to be part of pro-wrestling win against someone who has experience in politics. Can someone explain? It's hard to conclude that all evil originated in Africa, I haven't heard or read in history that Africa started a war. It just happened that Africa is so poor that's why a lot of people there are sick and the economy so poor. Instead of eradicating Africa why not help them, you could've lived as a human instead of suggesting nuking them. Why not nuke your self first. Bitcoin has a lot to offer, there's investment, trading, gambling and some online jobs that pays bitcoin. Ofcourse those who focuses on bitcoin earns a lot compared to those who literally work because there's a lot of opportunities on-line, you just need be:informedknowledgableto grab those opportunities. I don't hate muslims, it's just simple fact that not all muslims are bad, same goes with christians and all other religions. This is depend on what the person is, nor its religion, Religions Just make us unique not same as other, so many religions have different belief but it always depend how you use it.  So i also don't care the religions. just want to add it as value.
Well maybe if I have no choice, for example if I'm trapped on an island or something. As a human it's our nature to find ways to survive, so I guess it's possible. I've seen it in movies a lot, there's some real stories where people ate humans just to survive.But if ever that would happen to me I'll make sure I'll cook it well, I can't imagine eating raw meat, I might be able tosurvive starvation but it might make me feel sick. A good investor should be optimistic and smart, of course investing is a risk. Nowadays, there's a lot of investment site that are scam, so a good investor should be aware of it. He should know when, where and how much to invest. Timing is also needed for successful investment. The riskier the investment is the more you'll earn, so knowledge and optimism is the key. One of my friend saw me earning some money with just staying online. So, he asked me about the details of what I'm doing and how am I earning. He's planning to start investing and trading now.Not all people would care about bit coin because they're not aware about crypto currencies. Maybe in the future, people would panic if they would know how much we earn just because of bitcoin. I guess society doesn't do any role with it, I think it's just natural that we are addicted to it because it's human nature.It just happened that videos and porn are very accessible nowadays, you can see it anywhere, even phones can store videos.As I see it watching porn or seeing viral sex videos are becoming casual nowadays, people don't make a big deal out of it. Not all terrorists are muslims, it just so happens that majority of terrorists are muslims, that's why most people'sperception about muslims are bad.   Well if your purpose is not achieved at the young age or old age what other choice do you have, the best choice is just to move forward, it would be bad if you'll just sit around and surrender if you already failed, just move forward and try to make the best out of what you have left. Isa sa dahilan kung bakit mabagal ang net sa Pinas dahil sa monopoly, kontrolado ng bilang na network providers sa Pinas, ang speed ng internet kaya naman kaya nilang controlin ang presyo at bilis ng serbisyo na kanilang ibinibigay. Hindi rin sila nagpapapasok basta basta ng foreign internet provider na gusto mag invest sa Pinas, dahil natatakot sila na magkaroon ng kakompetisyon. Posible bumilis ang net sa Pinas kung papayagan ng gobyerno na may mag invest na foreign internet providerdito sa Pinas. Bitcoin lets you earn money, but just my opinion, Imagine if you've studied a major in college, I think it would be a waste if you'll just focus on bitcoin. It's better if you can do it simultaneously, find a decent job that you have studied and do bitcoin as your part time. I'm not saying it's bad just to depend on bitcoin, but imagine in the near future, if youreally need to find a job, what would you put on your resume? Bitcoin experience.  In some ways cash is better than bitcoins, first, it is tangible, you can keep it bring it anywhere(in cases where online wallet is inaccesible). second, it doesn't deflate fast, unlike bitcoin it's price increase or decrease fast, with cash you can be rest assured that when you wake up you still have the same value of money. Lastly, it can be used anywhere, ofcourse not all stores or department stores honor bitcoins, you really need cash to go shopping sometimes. Both are good, but if you have a lot of time you should go for trading you'll earn a lot in trading. However,don't put all your money on trading, spare some for investing. It's best to find a trusted site to invest your money,because some investment sites are just scam. Just make sure that you keep your money busy to earn a lot. For me the best way to control your greed in gambling is that, you should consider gambling as a trap, the more you want to win more the more it gives you a chance to lose more. If you win big once you should quit, just consider your first jackpot as a bait, usually some casinos do that, they let players win and when they're into it they take all the players money because of greed.   I think there's no solution to drug abuse, violence is just a temporary solution, even if the government was able to determine or catch some of the drug lords here in our country, this kind of business is well coordinated. To be successful in trading or business first you should have  knowledge, skills and experience. This will help you to seek and grab opportunities along your way. Also you should've some capital, it's hard to start trading without money. To gain experience you should also talk and ask some experienced traders advice. Ofcourse, as an inhabitant of Earth we must do our share, we must help preserve nature so that the future generation would still benefit from it. Well I think a lot of people would have a lot of time to talk with their relatives and friends personally. example of it is in province, there are no such internet in some place (province) in the philippines. Also without internet you can't post like this   It's obvious that Pacquiao won this fight, even thought Pacquiao is not on his prime age, he showed everyone what a true champion is. Even the score card showed that he won, even the viewers know that he is the winner, but as a champion he respected the judges' decision. The main reason why there's terrorism is just difference of belief, each people has their own belief and if someone strongly fights for his belief there's where terrorism starts. Giving up gambling is just same as quitting smoke, drinking or any other vices, it's quite hard and somehow almost impossible. The best way to do it is to find other hobbies just like watch a movie, play  online games or sports, read books and etc. You just need to be diverted and find other ways to control your thirst to gamble. Sure gambling is an easy money, but it's also an easy way to lose everything that you have. I think our president is doing a good job on carrying out his duties, however, he's sometimes misunderstood because of the way he talks and how he speaks his mind in public. Well I think there's no problem as long as they're not causing troubles or doing something immoral it's ok.Acceptance is the key, they will not make war if we give peace and understanding also open minded for all.
Anything that you abuse is bad, I have read an article that drinking occasionally is good for the health. For example drinking a glass of wine a day detoxifies your body. But of course if you drink a lot you'll end up hurting your liver. I think Duterte's promise to get rid of drugs in just a short period of time is impossible, because drug abuse is a world wide issue. and not only about philippines dealer of drugs, we have also here a foreign dealer, and some are still supplying illegal drug in our country. Its  hard job because filipino will be filipino that will never give up to commit a crime or either our army to stop this why ?  we are a human that can't be always or never do a bad. we all have sin start were born in this world. Usually people who hate bitcoin are those who don't have any ideas about it's potentials. If they hate it just respect their opinion. As easy as that. When people saw a money there eyes automatically growing ($)_($) and they got obsess for that, Our world is just a circle that will cycle, you will experience different when you growing up, so be unique be a maverick(logan paulers).    In some ways I agree with death penalty, but for me it depends on the crime. Maybe those who committed heinous crime deserves death penalty but of course it should be in due process. I think the reason why people pray is that, it's their belief and devotion. It's their way of talking to God. Some pray just because of desperation but whatever the reason is, it's all ends in the same reason, we pray because we believe God will hear it. Well I got curious maybe four years ago, my brother spent his whole day just using the net browsing web sites and reading articles about bitcoin. this forum helps a lot, it make my brother life easier to read and to search and come up of idea, this community inside on this forum give time to acknowledge or share of experience in a way of they will  have money like me just by replying like this. that's why i"m fan of bitcoin community that we had here. Well I think God exists in people's mind because we are naturally religious, no matter what race or nationality you are people are always bound by religion, but not all, there are some who doesn't believe in God. Well some of my friends doesn't have a job, but earning a lot of money with just bitcoin trading and bounty hunt. Well if one can devote himself to this, maybe you'll earn a lot of money. Maybe bitcoin will die if no one sees it useful, in short, zero demand will end bitcoin, just like any other coins The only moment that I can remember that I felt dumb and smart at the same time is when I tried to educate my friends about bitcoin and its potentials, but on the other hand I my self is not using bit coin, which was way two years ago. The answer is simple, it is convenient, easy to use, and accessible. Compared to the latter, imagine going shopping bringing a lot of money is not even advisable. On my opinion most products are made in China because China's man power is above million and they make products fast. That's one of the reason why China's product quality is too poor. Maybe in the near future bitcoin can be used by ordinary citizens. Nowadays, people tend to search for convenient ways to earn. People are linked through technologies and technology spreads news faster than the way it is before. Maybe when people get to know the convenience of bitcoin, people will be eager to learn more about it. Cleveland Cavaliers 99 @ 94 Utah Jazz New York Rangers 3 @ 5 Columbus Blue Jackets Memphis Grizzlies 102 @ 113 Golden State Warriors Charlotte Hornets 106 @ 101 Boston Celtics I can provide an amazon free tier account that has one year free vps. My price is $15 and still negotiable. Pm me back if interested. The coupon you are looking for are very rare. If I was you I will create another google adwords account. You can use your other credit/debit card. I can supply $100 coupon for $10 each but my coupons only worked for new accounts that haven't used any coupon before. How come? This thread has only 393 posts including this post. Did you give bonus to the accounts who deposited and wagered but did not post their kingdice username on this thread?
I like to know first if you offer replacement in case the vps got banned. I bought an azure vps before It got banned after few days of using. I'm allowed to use xrummer, scrapebox and other seo tools on this vps? Don't worry you are already accepted. The red bar is the color coding for full member. Look again Full Member = Red, Member = Green, Senior Member = Blue and Hero Member = Violet. I think you should update the op of how many positions are available. I'm still seeing 5 positions available for hero members. This is to prevent wasting time for the would be participants. I got a youtube channel with 36k real subs. My channel has 200+ original videos. If you are interested pm me your offer.  I can do project in less than an hour. Price is $30. Pm me back if you still needed this.I can also populate your forum with posts to make it look active.And also I can promote via social media and do search engine optimization to make it rank on google and other search engines. You can fund bitinstant with dwolla.  Looks like they will send directly to a wallet. I don't like the model personally.  If I buy stock I want to be able to vote my shares. You need to be registered to exchange currencies too, but if I gave you some dollars for some euros I sincerely doubt anyone would have an issue with it.Also, aren't Bitcoins money like objects? I have $50 in paypal I would be interested in spending on bitcoins if you are still looking to sell. I actually want to buy coins, not sell them.  Thanks though, I'll check out localbitcoins. Basically I am looking for an answer to the question in the title.  I don't mean cash in a bank account, or otherwise stored online, I mean dollar bills, paper folding money.  I saw something vaguely promising on the bitinstant page, but it didn't quite make sense to me.   I wonder if I can fund bitcoin exchanges with google? They accept and send dollars, also Euros and other money. You think I'll be able to get it? no, 80% of the world market, roughly, is on Gox.  At least the bitcoins to fiat market.  Gox going down removes a lot of money, both fiat and coin, from the market.  Presumably the US government is seizing that. This still seems like it would raise demand for bitcoins, not lower them, to me.  If I were DDOSing MYGox on this news i would expect to induce panic buying, among those looking to get out, not panic selling. I suspect the DHS has nearly 7 of my bitcoin    I knew i should take it out last night, but I didn't. So turn them into bitcoins.  They're pretty cheap at the moment... And the price is back to 114 and appears to be holding, really?  No more panic than that? Damn, shoulda cashed out at 118 so I could cash back in, oh well, i till have some fiat on the books.
Not if tyou want to get your money out of MTGOX,  To do that you'll have to buy buy buy. Prices got real interesting after paypal stopped supporting MTGox,  I expect something similar here.  The way he phrases this he would not be lying if he, in fact, has no bitcoins at all, as he would never have possessed the key to less than blah blah because he would never have possessed the key to any at all. heh, trades are still going through, I see them on MTGOX live, but I can't log in. big sell wall pushing the price down.  Is it a short and distort? I'm afraid I can't see that.  Yeah, it makes money for people, but it makes more money for people who have more money.  This shifts some of that control around a bit, but it isn't revolutionary in that way.  It is revolutionary in that it allows people to trade without involving fiat.  That potential isn't realized yet, but it is there.  The potential to make it all about sharing?  Not so much. speculation sub forum. If they did that everything would cost $9.94  making things cost just less than a note is a marketing trick. Could have removed it to wait and put it back in higher. You can spend litecoins, on the Atlantis black market. I'd say that silver is better than gold.  It has more practical uses, and it is not so expensive as to keep those uses from being things it is used for.  Gold is, basically, just expensive and durable. Printed money is shitty for long distance transactions.  Bitcoins are great for long distance transactions.  Bitcoins are shitty for face to face transactions, printed money is great for face to face transactions.   bitcoin is also helpful as far as international transactions go.  So someone who is taking orders intrnationally and buying supplies internationally could be helped by p=using bitcoins. I think that 390 at 116 is what I mean, yes. Looks like a pump and dump, how high will it go? Gox volume is also down, which I am sure is part of it. or, nobody wants to sell so low. If you learn how to predict the whale behaviors you can ride their tails and make some money along with them. I remember being incredibly excited when bitcoins reached parity with USD I hate that, happens to me too.  It'll follow the same pattern for like 3 cycles, I'll buy in and it'll drop more.  Or I'll sell at what looks like  peak and it'll go up.Fortunately for me that tends to only be immediately, and an hour or so later i am still coming out ahead.
Yep, Chart Buddy is totally broken. Are you planning to break this up into several smaller loans?  Or are you looking for one big lump sum? Any hard predictions in the "next hour" span are generally pretty bold.  long term trends on bitcoin are pretty easy "it's gonna go up"  midterm ones, well, they can be trickier, short term it is pretty difficult to guage, barring something obvious like giant fake bidwalls. That makes sense.  I'm fairly confident they'll be WAY above 100 by the end of June, but thank you for explaining that. yeah, I read that article,  it looked like it was making it more complicated than it needed to be but i wasn't certain.   Even  unstable it can be used to buy and sell things in the real world.  What is required is a way to convert to and from fiat within a very short period of time.  If I am selling something and can turn bitcoins that I receive in payment into fiat before the price changes, then I am not exposed to risk.  I can denominate my prices in whatever units my buyers are familiar with, maintaining a constant price in the currency that works best for me.n  This doesn't require stability over days or weeks, just over hours. Can you explain what you are offering?  I have read a bit about puts and they don't make a lot of sense to me. The finish line is the mythical real price. A $5 spread is going to make money, not lose money.  That's 4% profit, even if the trading fees are at their highest they are only .6% one per trade means 1.2% in trading fees so the trader is making 3.8% profit. There was a definite pump and dump involved in the recent rally.  A wall of about $2m that moved up from $100 to $110, staying enough behind that it did not buy any actual bitcoins, and then smaller but still sizeable moving walls as the price approached 125.  That's not usually a great sign. It was pretty clearly manipulated.  All those moving walls. I dunno, a ride up to 300k is gonna be a bumpy ride. I was just watching the bid and ask walls on MTGox live.  The manipulator kept building a bidwall at or just below the market price, slowly pushign it up toward 125. I don't know what was accomplished by dropping the wall just before it collided with the 125 wall though. Well, she's pushing a herd of bots then,  that works just as well as a herd of people. That's basically the situation I am in.Althoguh the fact that people bought for Silk Road makes it interesting, since it means it is mostly drug consumers. They could also be built seamlessly into the system in a way that doesn't have you thinking in bitcoin prices or the prices in other currencies.  That seems to be how things work on the Atlantis Black Market, prices are in dollars, bitcoins are what you pay with.  It wouldn't be too hard for a site to give the prices for items in the native currencies of any number of people while still having payment in bitcoin. We haven't hit 125 I am watching a wall that was at 123, then moved down a bit, then back up, and has pretty clearly been pushing the market up to the askwall at 125.  Whoever it is is definitely manipulating the herd fairly well.  I'm kind of impressed.  They did quite a few legitimate buys, which they clearly plan to recoup when the two walls collide. I've been involved with them for years.  There used to be a bitcoin e-bay, now there is not.  There used to be more escrow services than there are now.  It feels like we are further from the sort of potential I thought it had than we wee back when it cost less than a dollar to buy a bitcoin.I haven't given up, I just wouldn't call myself a true believer.
he just wants cheap coins.  It is hard to debate convincingly when you don't believe it. Oh, and I am no longer a true believer.  I thought bitcoins could revolutionize finance and make it free.  Currently the only thing you can  buy better with bitcoins than fiat is drugs (at least as far as I can tell)  I'm all in favor of a reliable way to conduct online drug deals, but I had a LOT more hope for Bitcoin than that.I still think they're going to keep going up for a while yet though.   I got in in 2010.  I sold too early (2011 and 2012) and don't have much now.  On the other hand, I turned $20 and a little mining into $8000 and I feel pretty good about that.  PLaying with bitcoins is fun partly because it is really easy to win.  Just hold. When you can buy more things with them. A lot of people have asks in at around $125, and have for some time. MT Gox is a currency exchange, not a bank. Me, cause I did buy bitcoins in 2010.  I think "why did I sell bitcoins at $15?" and then i answer myself "because my wife told me to" I still have about 25 BTC.  So I have enough to play with, just not enough to actually move the market. no I do not.  If I had not sold out when it was at $15 I might. I'm not manipulating anyone, just taking advantage of someone else's manipulation.  No guilt at all. So I can catch the peak before the crash and then buy in again when it is low. Market moved up, Hopefully the wall will too. Postal service is mostly for sending things which are too official for e-mail nowadays, and, of course, shipping goods. Why would the Chinese goveernment alow a show on bitcoin if they are against it?  Well, they could do it so people get bitcoin and they can then seize it all... I mean that when i filled in the signup form I accidentally put my password in the username field.  When i fixed it and took it out it would not let me use that password as my password, still giving an error that username and password were the same. There used to be a site called bidpond, back at the beginning of bitcoin.  Apparently it died.  I bet if you set up a bitcoin auction house you could make a lot of money.  I might even try doing that. And if you would have put in buys at 79, you'd have made money, but I bet you didn't. I think they can if the person posting does so from a US ISP. All the bitcoins I have bought were purchased with paypal.  Way back when that was how you put money on MTGox.You shoulda seen the panic when Paypal stopped allowing that. Price also goes down when people need to pay bills and realize their profits or settle for their losses by selling.  it's not always due to being pissed about waiting.
Because with these two you get to direct them, they'll do a custom photo shoot in poses ro doing activities that you request.  That's worth some bitcoin if you have niche desires. He bought all the bitcoins, of course. .1 a minute?  Wow, you pay well.  I wish I knew Chinese. I figured out how to trade ripple, but it won't let me do so.  it always says the estimated cost is 0.  It will let me buy ripple with dollars, but not dollars with ripple. Are Ripple meant to be something that we can trade?  Also, I notice that unlike gox you can only put in as many orders as you actually have funds, is this intended behavior?  On Gox if it eats through all your bitcoin or dollars it cancels any remaining trades. Bug signing up.  I accidentally entered my password as the user name, now it will not let me enter that password. even after I changed the user name. What sort of activities do you think the two of you will look the most natural doing?  Are you comfortable with Dolcett pics? I'm glad.  I've been daytrading, unstable prices are good for day traders. Paypal does cooperate with cash, Paypal cooperates better with cash than Bitcoin does.  Paypal isn't a currency, it is just a service.  It requires the bank as an intermediary between it and cash, but it is way easier to find paypal than bitcoin from cash. I thnk you are confusing China with Western Governments, they don't behave in the same ways. I get relieved when price approaches the buy or sell points I have picked out, and nervous if I start running low on either fiat or bitcoins in my account, but at the moment I like moves in both directions. Stable prices are good for merchant adoption. They can't control the dollar and they bought the shit out of it.  They can't control the price of gold either.  The government buying it and the government allowing the people to buy it are two very different things. China has had a HUGE impact on the price of gold, and the American Dollar.  If they are considering holding BitCoin by the government that would be enormous.  If it is Chinese Phishermen, not as big, but still big. If it goes to multiple bitcoins per cent, spend like $20, you could make thousands, like I did.  I didn't get rich, but I only risked $20 If Paypal makes it easier to turn paypal money into bitcoins that will make me happy.  I have  a hard time turning paypal money into anything. I made that prediction in 2010.  Everyone thought I was Insanely bullish. You just need an escrow service.  There used to be a few bitcoin escrows. It should be good for it in the long run.  MTGox isn't a very good exchange. You can short.
I'll sell you bitcoins for $120 now.  How many would you like? It's what has happened in the past... Stability is obviously kind of important for merchants.  Either that or else the ability to convert bitcoin to and from fiat really quickly (as in about as quickly as sending bitcoins from one address to another) I think the second is more likely than the first in the foreseeable future.  I also think that will increase adoption dramatically, becuase it makes it much easier.  Bitcoin ATM might help with this. It should contribute to people using Atlantis, but I guess Atlantis doesn't have as much press as silk road. He seemed fairly sure that if it hit 95 it would then drop to 73 There's also an alternative to Silk Road, called Atlantis, that has been up consistently and has just as good a selection of products. Magic cards are, actually, still quite valuable.  They've held value longer than beanie babies, that is for sure.  I am actually surprised that there's not a bitcoins for magic cards marketplace out there, considering MTgox's origins. People that want to buy coins want the market to go down, they'll make all sorts of noise to scare people.   You should have thrown some words in there that don't make sense in the context.  Fibonacci, maybe quantum, named off some animals.  The raccoons totally have a chance to take advantage of the possums.  Then people would think there was more than just a hunch and it would end up bolstering confidence and start driving the market back up. I am looking for $700 to $1000 depending on the exchange rate offered.  Let me know your offer.  I will transmit bitcoins upon receiving a Western Union tracking number which I can verify. My wife likes dressing up in kinky clothes.  She's a big girl and I am curious if anyone is selling plus size kinky clothes for bitcoins. pay it back with a snickers bar.There have to be mechanisms to absolve debt in any system, the ones in a deflationary system are just different than those in an inflationary one. So on the original subject, anyone know how much volume SR is doing?  Or other black markets that use bitcoin? Except that you are coming from a position of privilege and have admitted you have no experience being poor.I've been robbed several times, the police did nothing.  The fact that the majority of arrests and court appearances are the poor is one more sign that these systems work for the rich, against the poor.Poor criminals go to jail, rich ones pay small fines and go back to committing crimes. The issue, for me, is not privacy.  I understand that the government is filtering pretty much all internet traffic.  My issue is with storing info in fairly unsecure areas.  I don't want my credit card number being held by my ISP where Lulzsec can get at it much more easily. Absolutely, however corporations are powerful, centrally controlled organizations and we must work to destroy their power as well as the power of government.  They are two heads of the same beast. When?  back during the Civil War? I can tell you have never spent any time being poor.  I assure you, the cops, courts, and military are NOT protecting the interests of the poor or the working class. So start pegging it.  Offer buys and sells at the rate that you feel is a fair peg.I think you'll discover the disadvantage of that system very quickly, but at least you will have learned something. I've got no problem with a troll playing devil's advocate.  Those conversations can be all sorts of fun.
BTC are not centralized, so pegging them to anything would be impossible.However, feel free to create a new cryptocurrency pegged to whatever you would like. I would say the biggest anti-abortion program in the US is welfare.  Having more babies means having more money, who would abort when that baby is a meal ticket? A couple of bits of the bible that I am curious how you feel about.   The first is Acts 5, the second is Mathew 5:39They both seem to be in contradiction to the Conservative approach, Acts 5 to the materialist approach that is opposed to taxes and Matt 5:39 to the harsh punishments approach.I'm not Christian myself, but I am curious how someone who is very Christian reconciles these with Conservative beliefs. I work at a place that educates people on how to use their computers.  However computers are still very new, relatively speaking.   They did not gain widespread use until the 80's and the internet wasn't until the 90's, there are plenty of people who lived most of their lives without interacting with computers.We do need to educate people in computer use, but it is unreasonably to expect everyone to be computer literate at this time. Yeah, you are definitely not computer illiterate uncle joe.   Joe may understand credit cards, you still can't pay him with one.  Paying him with bitcoin is about the same level of difficulty as paying him with paypal, but without the transaction fees. Installing the bitcoin client isn't difficult,  yes, you'd have to walk Joe through it, but it is still a lot easier than paying him with a credit card. That is an inaccurate assumption.  Many traders hold onto their bitcoins or trade them for other goods. Mine aren't.  That does indeed depend, and IMO, anyone taking on a debt with an adjustable rate that they are not fully informed of is a fool. According to one of these articles this has already passed the house, according to the other it has not yet.  Do you know which is the case? Miners turning off their rigs will not slow down the amount of bitcoins being produced.  It will just make mining easier for those left in the game.  Miner's holding coins instead of selling immediately would push prices up. I like that last one, pay for the services you use.  The rich can pay for the cops, the courts, and the military.  The corporations can shoulder the lions share of infrastructure.  We should also include the fact that welfare keeps the masses from rioting/stealing, so the rich, who would be the ones hurt by the rioting and stealing can pay for that too.  Hmm, I think that leaves the middle and lower classes with consumer safety boards, a portion of infrastructure, and the FDA. Personally I would prefer AND.I don't think this bill is going to make anything any better, but it is still preferable to a default. me too.  That would cause inflation and make my own debt less significant.Fire up those printing presses. you can use the same account number every time if you so desire.  Changing your number is useful to know who has sent you money and also for anonymity. it's not,  the ground zero mosque is protected by the first amendment.  The Libyan rebels should not be setting up an embassy until they take control of the country. no revenue increases in there huh? You presume that those with property can protect themselves and those without property cannot.  For how can you protect property aside from by projecting force onto those that wish to take it? If you are currently under contract of any sort than suicide would be a breach of contract.On a more moral level I think it is wrong if you have taken responsibility for caring for someone else, whether by having children or taking on the responsibility for someone who is handicapped. The amount of dollars your services cost isn't what matters.  What matters is how long you have to work to make that money.
time value of bitcoins currently, for me, is that one minute is worth .05 bitcoins.  That's what I charge for readings. Buyer was found, the transaction is complete. looking to sell 75 bitcoins for $1000, you cover the western union fees to get the money to me.  I'll also happily take cash if you are close enough to me to make that happen.  I am in Eastern Ohio. A good portion of it they gave to those same billionaires and companies (at least the ones in the finance industry) A wealthy person who makes his money from investments cannot be fired.  His capital can be confiscated but that is a different matter entirely. This also means that, from a Sanarchist point of view Canarchy would evolve into Sanarchy because the socialist communes would outcompete the capitalist organizations around them.  The issue is the redistribution of wealth that has been acquired through force, without this a Canarchist society would rather quickly evolve into feudalism. If the land is all owned by the ruling class then it is very similar to having landed on their island. Stable prices are good for merchants, it means they don't need to keep readjusting their prices.I think the stable price is going to be a lot higher than the price right now though. build it Stuffe,  the source code is there.  If it is actually better than bitcoin it will replace it. Don't take this deal and starve is definitely a threat of violence. Rights are generally not a very popular approach for left wing Anarchists, we do however believe very strongly in Liberty. Whether our approach is effective at realizing that goal is open to interpretation, but although the periods of Left Libertarian society have generally been fairly brief several have matched the ideal fairly closely.  Catalonia Spain during the civil war being one and Revolutionary Ukraine being another. Does that mean it is illegal to convert it (that is a transaction) or is there an exception for currency converters? no,  but non-violent drug offenders might be wise to take it to a jury more often.  Jury Nullification is actually fairly widely known, if not universally, and support for drug prohibition is less than half the population in many parts of the country. As Arrow said, this is harder to do, also there are cases where people should NOT be falling through those loopholes, and i am glad that Juries can make sure those people are punished. Why?  Where do rights come from if not from enforcement by superior force? I'm a left winger who is opposed to government, so I don't know who would be redistributing these kidneys.I do know that allowing someone to die when you have the ability to save his life is morally wrong, but much easier when that person is far away and not visible to you.  Sleeping rough is not as bad as dying of kidney failure (well,  I don't know for sure, I've slept rough before but never died of kidney failure, but I assume it is worse) so the moral imperative to donate a kidney is actually stronger.  If my daughter were dying of kidney failure and you were a match and refused to give her a kidney I would forcibly take it from you, to protect my daughter's life and I feel I would be morally right to do so.  (assuming I had a doctor willing to do the operation under those circumstances of course)  If you did the same to me I think you would be justified in doing so. The one with the GED, the one with the degree will leave as soon as a better job becomes available.  The one with the GED will not. I'm not saying its the right thing to do, I'd have preferred they let the banks go under, but if they are gonna bail out, might as well bail out as many people as possible, especcially if it doesn't raise the rpice of the bailout. They shuld have done this before bailing out the banks.  it bails out the banks and the home owners at the same time, for the same price. I offer a significant discount.  I charge $1 per minute/card to people arranging payments by paypal,  I charge .05 BTC to people paying with bitcoins.Also, if people choose to go through the provider that I do many of my readings through they will pay $4 per minute, so the bitcoin price is less than a quarter of the normal price.
This would be a change away from one of the basic concepts bitcoin is founded on.  However you could take the sourcecode and make your own velocitycoin, or whatever, that works in this way. new lows?  Just recently bitcoins were trading below a dollar and dollar parity was a high that many didn't foresee for a year or so.Bitcoin has consistently risen in value, with some corrections.  It consistently falls in price only if you take a very small sample of time, starting at a point that was extremely high compared to the rest of the history of bitcoin. monetary inflation is an increase in the money supply.  From that point of view Bitcoin is inflationary for quite some time.price inflation is an increase in prices and can be caused by monetary inflation.Deflation is the opposite of this, it can be either a shrinking monetary supply or shrinking prices,  bitcoin will be deflationary at a certain point, in monetary terms, because bitcoins do get lost and there will be less created than are being lost.  Bitcoin is deflationary in price terms, over any sort of long term scale currently, because the bitcoin economy has grown MUCH faster than the supply of bitcoins. they are in one place though, that wiki that you said "anywhere but this"  What's wrong with the wiki? It is a good thing for the people who are actually good at speculating to cash out, that keeps the price of bitcoins from going higher than it should.  They also know they can make money by playing the market, so they aren't going to cash out entirely, they are going to take profits and stay in the game.  Unless the market becomes too stable for them to take profits, at which point it will be much more useful for merchants.The percentage of successful speculators is going to grow because the unsuccessful ones will run out of money while the successful ones will not. why aside from the wiki page?  What is wrong with it? offer goods and services for bitcoin. People with that motivation will lead to stable prices (at least if they are any good at speculating) This is one of the main reasons people hoard.  I doubt that many of these things will be available for bitcoins in a way that makes them preferable to dollars for a very long time.  Of the things mentioned the ones that I see being available for bitcoins are the guy to clean your gutters, booze (I'll sell you nanobrewed beer for them currently, but I doubt you'd be willing to pay the price I'd ask)  and online movie rentals. Here's the problem I have with AnCap, spelled out by a statist, interestingly enough.It's not MY land.  under AyeYo's solution or an AnCap one.  Chances are it's not yours either, althgouh that depends a lot on how societal change comes. Advertising bitcoin seems a bit silly to me.  People don't advertise gold.  Or dollars for that matter.People advertise certain sellers of gold, or services for handling dollars. silk road does not accept dollars. this solution doesn't even make any sense.How would you put your dollars (or other currency) into your bitcoin client to exchange to someone else for bitcoins?bitcoins already includes p2p exchange, of bitcoins.  If you want bitcoins buy them from someone.  If you think they cost more then they are worth, then don't buy them and wait for them to go down in price  (they'll surely plummet if it is just a speculatory bubble)Speculators that predict the price poorly lose money, which means they stop speculating, it is a self correcting problem. The children are likely to move to the libertarian society, when they have the ability to do so. I think children have some claim on their parents, not the other way around.  Parents brought children into the world, without their consent, that creates an obligation to provide for the well being of those children until they are capable of providing for their own well being or until they choose to change the nature of the relationship.  I am very much in favor of the ability to depart a community, however there are many cases where obligations will need to be discharged while terminating the relationship.  Those are when obligations have been assumed, voluntarially, by the person who is now leaving.  Unless the community chooses to quit him of those obligations in order to get him out smoothly. I don't believe in rights.  They're legal fictions created by governments, much like property and corporations. So anarcho capitalism can't actually co-exist with other systems?  That was alwys given as one of it's strengths.  If you can't compete, quit whining and support a system that can. So vote third party Trying to separate business and government is a false dichotomy,  and is the failure of both Libertarian (in the US sense) and Liberal (also in the US sense) This looks like an apt metaphor to me.However we cannot presume guiltlessness from the companies that operate the sweatshops either.  Yes, they are doing what they can to maximize profits, they could also treat the workers fairly and sell to the fair trade market.
here's where you are misunderstanding Socialist Anarchism.  It's an Anarchy, nothing is "not allowed"  private property just doesn't exist without a monopoly of force to protect it.  it's a philosophical difference, not a practical one. I have 19 years experience reading professionally.  I can read for you over the phone, via e-mail, via a chat program such as yahoo or MSN, via a voicechat program like skype, or face to face if you are in my area (SE Ohio)For long distance readings I charge .05 BTC per card for text or per minute for voice.  This is subject to change as bitcoin values fluctuate but that's the price for the moment. in an Anarchist society of any sort there is no central authority to tax and redistribute production, so the AnCaps would not be taxed and redistributed.in an AnSyn society if people really wished to be exploited by a capitalist they would be free to do so, meanwhile in AnCap society the resources are all already "owned" so formation of a syndicalist commune is not really possible.I don't expect society as a whole to be syndicalist or capitalist in nature,  I just hope or it to be Anarchist and allow the capitalists, syndicalists and other sorts to form their own smaler soceities within the larger framework. It's been due partly to interactions with Anarchists, the ones that were actually out there doing things, trying to reshape the world have been mostly AnSyn.  Creating Bitcoin being the notable exception (I think Satoshi is an AnCap, not certain about that) A lot of it has also been due to my interactions with bosses.  These guys are usually incompetent, and almost always petty tyrants of one sort or another, I can't be in favor of a system where they all own their own little feudal manors and we all bow down to them.  I can't imagine that the people would tolerate this. Payment confirmed, thank you. Sweatshops are a symptom, and not the root of the problem, that doesn't mean they are ok.Just because diorhea is a symptom of Cholera, and not the root problem doesn't change the fact that it is the Diorhea that will kill you. My parents were hard core liberal progressives.  I turned to libertarian capitalism as a teenager, due to reading a lot of science fiction.  After growing up and actually interacting with the real world this has evolved into libertarian socialism  (also known as Anarcho-Syndicalism) The workers are being kept from bargaining collectively by the local governments.  If they could bargain collectively (as the company does) then a fair market price could be reached. well yeah, a cute whorish Oriental despot is way more fun to verbally abuse than the people who really don't get it. I got that like 10 times. lucky bastard Wouldn't do you any good, you can't spend them I keep trying to buy, but it wont let me because that huge trade is still happening MTGox really needs to change the way they display depth of market.  It looks like there are no bids whatsoever.  I know this is not the case since I have some lower than the market that are not being displayed. I got 5 bitcents at one point.  I don't know why. poverty You cut out relevent portions of my post.  I didn't say the discussions of Silk Road here involved buying and selling drugs, I said the discussions on Silk Road involve buying and selling drugs.  it tends to over shadow any sort of practical or philosophical discussion of the site.The equivalent here were the constant requests for an invite, but that is not so bad when the discussion is on the regular internet.  on TOR you get more 502 errors than connections and having that page that you just reloaded 15 times turn out to be people talking about how good that weed was, when that is not the info you were looking for, is quite frustrating. Substinence farming is safer and generally preferable to factory work (depending on the wages offered)  the problem is it requires land, which has been taken by the factory owners.American workers did not organize as skilled laborers, they organized as unskilled ones.  The factory owners, in most cases, are not American, they are Chinese, or Vietnamese or what have you and they contract with American companies to sell the products produced.  Yes, if the workers demand better treatment that may lead those contracts to go elsewhere, in which case the workers may need to eliminate the largest expense, the cut being taken by the owner, at which point they can be competitive again. 1. 1BTC/$1002.  I doubt it will crash, but it is possible3.  If that $10,000 were gambling money yes,  it's a high risk high return investment currently4. It shot up in price a whole lot just recently, I wouldn't expect any stability for a while yet.5.  Now, I'd suggest dollar cost averaging, buy a certain amount in dollars each week, that's the safest strategy for a commodity that fluctuates but increases in the long term, which is the behavior bitcoin usually has. I suspect I might be with you then.I'm an Anarcho-Socialist so i don't believe in extensive property rights.
 well, what is happening in this thread would happen a lot more without a political ghetto to stick the debates in.Afghans drove out every major world power.  The Romans, The Greeks, the Russians,  they are still working on us, but my money is on them.As far as their fairly oppressive social contract that is what they choose, it is not being forced on them by anyone.  It may have been forced on them by the Taliban for a while, but that is no longer the case.  They have a choice in judges and they tend to choose Taliban because that is line with their social values. That AyeYo is letting Atlas get away with claiming sweatshops as a good thing is sad.Sweatshops are NOT good things.  They are not better than the traditional occupations of people in those countries, they are just better than the occupations people are forced into by corrupt government and corporate exploitation stealing their land and the means they use for traditional livelihoods.Without the government preventing labor organization the labor would be much more expensive because they would demand a living wage, health and safety standards, and so forth.   yikes. Literally huh?   Just like happens now.Are you just arguing that an Anarchist system would be flawed?  Because i don't think anyone denied that.What is your system and how would it lessen these flaws? I don't think this board was the right place for discussion of silk road.  I do wish I knew where else it was being discussed aside from silk road itself though.  Trying to hold a conversation over Tor is bad enough, when that conversation mostly involves people buying and selling drugs it is even worse. If I had tribal connections I'd be in Afghanistan.  This is a society that has sucessfully defeated every world power everywhere.  Without any real central government.  They are the evidence that anarchy can be militarially superior. How does that sound like government?I stated that THE MARKET would develop, organically (meaning via prior precedent, what we would today call 'case law') standards for how long a property could be left unattended without being considered abandoned.I further stated that disputes would be handled by arbitration.Where is the LAW, and the ENFORCEMENT that defines government?FYI: without property, society is impossible.[/quote]Standards would be developed, and enforced via arbitration.  Or presumably there would be some sort of enforcement, since without an enforcement mechanism arbitration is kind of useless. I had some resounding debates about labor unions with the libertarian capitalists on this board when it was first starting.  You and Atlas may not be opposed to labor unions, but a large portion of libertarian capitalists are. No,  Taxation has, as it's stated goal, the funding of government.WELFARE has as it's stated goal the helping of the poor. You seem to be missing the fact ALL corporations are government subsidized. You reiterate it here, as if it somehow disproves itself.  Saying Microsoft is not subsidized because their competitors are supported in the same way.  That's right, all corporations are supported by government subsidies, and the fact that all the others are as well doesn't mean that Microsoft is not.As to why the pulled ahead, because they have a corporate model that does well in the environment that they exist in, plain and simple.  Not because they received more subsidies than anyone else, but that doesn't change the fact that they, like all other corporations, are able to exist only because Government makes it possible. Corporations are a legal construct.  Without limited liability laws they couldn't exist.  Giving them a framework to allow their existence certainly counts as a subsidy. That period was corporatist.  The workers did not have the support of the government,  the corporate bosses did.Without the government interfereing the workers are stronger, in fact even with the government interfereing the unions and the labor movement were able to achieve huge concessions from the corporations. Only to you because you do not understand the terms.Socialist does not mean "controlled by the government"  it means "controlled by society"  and that is, in particular, the relevent portions of society.So a flour mill should be controlled by the workers who work there and the people who avail themselves of the milling service.  That's socialism.There is no reason that this is incompatible with libertarianism.  In fact, as a Libertarian Socialist, I argue that there is far less liberty involved for the workers and consumers, if that mill is controlled by an owner or board of directors. I do.I'm a Market Anarchist, and that includes defense of the free market.I don't defend property rights in the way that they are perceived by Anarcho-Capitalists.  I do not believe that actions against property constitute violence against the "owners" of that property.Property, in the way that it is perceived by Capitalists, is impossible in an Anarchist society. Sounds like government.Property is impossible. He's in favor of government, but against the corporations?Stalinist much?That way lies State Capitalism, which is even worse than the Corporatist system we currently have.States and corporations are basically the same thing. I am a Liberal and a Socialist, although not a Statist.To me liberty is freedom from coercion.  When nobody else can claim right to my labor, my time, or my body without my consent. I've sold tarot card readings for bitcoins.
If price keeps dropping miners will drop out and the difficulty will drop. It'll smooth out after Bitcoin is more broadly adopted.  Adoption jumped, leading to a huge rally, so a correction was to be expected.  It had been pretty stable for a long time before that jump, and it will be again after a while.  However the market is not saturated yet, so I expect several more sharp rises and falls before it really settles. I say it's a good time to buy. why are drug dealer illegitimate? I wasn't talking about stability vs the dollar, or any other fiat currency.  I was talking about stability vs the price of goods in bit coins.  If a merchant has to change his prices daily that is an extra piece of work that is not necessary for other currencies.  If the merchant doesn't know if a bitcoin is going to buy more or less tomorrow than it does today then he is going to have to convert it to a more stable currency and that is another piece of work that is not needed when operating in a different currency. First learn to use TOR.  This is not the place to do that.  Once you understand Tor you can come back. Yep, it's actually EDT at the moment, but will go back to EST come fall.  And I tend to keep the price about $1 per card or minute, but I have enough faith in bitcoins that I'm not going to raise it above .05 bitcoins unless they spend a long time below $20 each.  They've been bouncing around a lot.   I think the price will stabilize at about $100, and then adjust because the dollar inflates while bitcoin does not.  Until that point it is gonna keep rollercoasting up and down.  Stability is good for merchants, instability is good for speculators. That's self correcting.  If a lot of miners get out difficulty drops, which makes mining more profitable. It ran up from $1 to $30 really quickly.  a price drop back down to $15 or even $8 is not going to cause a loss of interest. Bitcoin Market was first.  MTGox was the first to go 24/7 Silk Road gives it value. Guidelines and links to erowid and so forth are an excellent idea.Age Verification is Identity Verification and that is a terrible idea. The transaction fees need to be altered for very small payments, but as bitcoin is divisible down to several decimal levels below where it is traded it is ideal for microtransactions. I've been saying this for a while, more and more are being added though.  It's not a fast process, but it is definitely happening. The Exchanges would still do business if there wee things that were easier to buy with bitcoin than with dollars. Darn you Jalum.  I was waiting for $7 to buy back in and missed the low at $10.5(well, to buy 30 dollars worth of bitcoin actually, so no huge loss) This is important, and will happen eventually but not until the price of bitcoins stabilizes. I expect that to be at roughly 1 BTC = $100 with adjustments for dollar inflation. That's a project that people have eben working on since bitcoins were at about 10 cents each.I know Kiba was working on it fairly seriously.  The only one that really came to much was bitcoin sportsbook, which also took bets on bitcoin prices, they didn't allow users to make their own markets thoguh, which I think would have greatly increased the utility. This is why we need stability.I don't see stability happening yet, not for quite some time in fact, but before bitcoin can really be taken seriously as a currency stability is going to need to be reached.  Or at least an easily predictable rate of change.
I'd think throttling newbies could only be bad for the bitcoin market.Newbies are what drive demand. This was why i got into Bitcoin originally.  As an alternative to paypal.The amount of merchants taking bitcoin has increased dramatically since then, although it is still nowhere near the level of paypal. Despite the drastic drop in the bitcoin/Usdollar exchange rates I am not raising prices, it's still only 5 bitcents per card. This is an anomalous decline.  Bitcoin has generally increased in value, sometimes slowly sometimes quickly, declines have generally been followed by increases fairly soon.There was definitely a bubble which popped, but I expect prices to start back up again fairly soon, if, perhaps, at a slightly slower rate. For people getting into bitcoin this is a good thing.This gives you a chance to buy more bitcoin at a lower price.If you were looking for quick profits then not so good, but this is a very risky investment with big potential profits, that risk includes rapid drops. If your name means you are in Ohio you can come visit me and I'll sell you one for cash. .05 per card via e-mail or per minute via phone, skype or other voicechat service.  Payable after completion.I have 19 years of experience reading professionally and offer thorough readings. A correction is a good thing for people who want to buy bitcoins. DEA Agents appear to be driving demand for bitcoin then.That is amusing. I think that the figures that people are coming up with for the size of the bitcoin economy are unrealistic and that it is likely to stabilize at approx $100/BTC  Just my opinion of course, based on a not terribly exhaustive knowledge of economics. The price has skyrocketed within the past few months, prior to that it usually grew at a much slower rate. I wouldn't be surprised if it slows down again really soon. I don't think he is trying to change Bitcoins, I think he is looking to develop a new and better alternative. I expect this to continue.  The hugeness of the rallies has kind of shocked me, and I do expect them to slow down a bit, but I think Bitcoin will hit natural equilibrium at about $100 per bitcoin and at that point will only fluctuate slightly, plus adjust due to dollar inflation. I want to buy 3000 US Dollars with bitcoin.I would prefer Western Union, Moneygram, Cashier's Check, or some other non reversible medium which does not require a bank account to convert to cash.  I don't need anonymity, I do need to avoid the bank as a middle man since I don't have an account.I am currently offering 150 bitcoins, but am open to dicker. I think bitcoin value HAS exploded.  I boguht in when they were 6 cents apiece, that was not long ago, now they look like they are going to make $20 each soon.  That is a HUGE explosion. You must not have been paying attention to the stock market?  Or for more pure gambling, the futures market. Proof of ownership of the outgoing address can be done by sending a bitcent or two. Diorite Enterpristes.It's an extremely solid type of stone.  And it sounds like die right, which is pretty cool. I'll sell you 50 bitcoins for that. I agree, the frog looks better with a smile.
Or it will open up a new niche, a forum dedicated to exchanging illegal services or bitcoins in a secure way.This forum is not secure, you can be farily easily traced by IP if you aren't doing your own security.  It's publically ccessible and easy to get at.  A really poor venue for illegal trades in any case. Well,  I know if I was convinced that some group was a bunch of thieves I certainly wouldn't hire them.  I'm not saying the Polish gypsies don't bear any of the blame here, but there's definitely a racist culture in place keeping them in the position they are in.  I'm kind of surprised there still are Gypsies in Poland, since the Nazi's did an awfully thorough job of eliminating Gypsies and Jews both. There are already quite a few ethical services available. You don't have to be white to be racist.  One great example of this would be Rwanda.Oh, and I'm Gypsy. So long as contracts which are entered into are agreed upon by all members, and do not include obligation upon those that are not yet a part of the collective when the agreement is entered into. Racist much?gypsies are people, just like any others. I agree that some sort of money helps a lot as far as interacting with other communities.  It can be useful internally as well, or it can just complicate things.As far as an Anarchist brewery in current society it would be advantageous to form relationships with other workers collectives to source hops and malt and so forth.  Hops are actually really easy to grow and could be incorporated with the brewery itself, barley takes a much larger amount of land, but would be a major expansion of operations and if there were a local agricultural collective that would make things easier.As far as a housing collective the brewery would be taking in profits in sales that could be distributed to workers they'd have to buy food and clothes and all those fun things after all and as long as the collective is functioning as a part of a capitalist society they need to get those things from capitalist entities.Forming relationships with other communities is always advantageous though, so, for example, if the agricultural collective that the brewery gets their barley from also grows food crops and perhaps chickens and such a relationship could be formed.  People in a housing collective are also likely to be working at cooperative ventures and there could be some sort of relationship between the whole, especcially if legal ownership is held by the housing collective rather than by an external landlord.  Taxes still need to be paid, but minimizing the interactions with the capitalist world is generally in the best interests of any collective. I think we could.  It would have to interface with our current statist society, which would be a drain on resources, but there are breweries that are run as worker owned cooperatives (fishtail in Olympia WA is one example.) What's wrong with the factory owner owning the product of the factory is that then he has the power to set wages and prices, the employees do not have equal power to do so.  This creates an inequality of power, which means that it is no longer an anarchist situation.  The owner is a government.Anarcho-communism has also existed, in Ukraine and Spain,  in both cases it was destroyed by a military attack, not subverted from within as happened in the American West. Stay in touch, your island sounds like it would be a good trading partner for mine.I'll see if I can get father MacGruder to come onboard with the brewing enterprise that will be one of our primary exports. yeah, possibly people had auction orders to pay for and had to buy coins fast.I don't think there are that many auctions though. I expect the Somalians will devolve back into Tyrrany,  I hope they will evolve to true Anarchy,  I sincerely doubt that they will manage to maintain their frontier sort of society for long at all. Communist revolutions, actually all revolutions, tend to be quite violent toward the holders of property yes.This is where we run into a basic conflict, there's not a bunch of free wealth laying around to be utilized by hard workers, there was in the American West, which was what allowed the society that evolved there to evolve, there isn't anymore. By this I mean real wealth, land and resources, not just capital.  Bitcoins make a lovely form of capital, and I am glad that I have more wealth in them now than I used to, but I know that wealth has been redistributed from others, it's not something I extracted from the environment or created with my own labor.So yes, for a new society, of any sort, to be successful the wealth has to be redistributed.  If it remains in the hands of the rulers then nobody, capitalist, communist, or anything else, is going to have any success establishing a new society.I may be an unusual A-com in that I consider a-caps to be far better allies than Authoritarian Communists, but I do think hopefully we've learned our lesson from trying to work with the Leninists in Spain and Russia.  Those guys are jerks.You guys have a similar experience in the American West of being sold out by those that agree with you economically but not politically, however it was longer ago and the lines were not as sharply drawn, so it may not sting as badly. it's going to need some tinkering with the fee structure at some point, so that transaction fees for transactions of less than a bitcent don't cost more than the transaction.  I am sure that this can be done by the person running the client, but many of us don't know how to do that.It's also going to need an easy way to display the balance with higher resolution than one bitcent. Really?  Why aren't they still around then? That was my point,  if Kiba "owns" the house and expects rent, in return for which he maintains the house, and I choose to pay someone else less to maintain it, he is still going to feel he is owed rent.From a practical standpoint all I get for the rent is maintenance, which I could get more cheaply elsewhere. We agree on many points, where we differ, as far as I can see, is how ownership is best defined, especcially without an external authority to do the defining. Eliminating an existential threat is immoral?I know that if I was living in an anarchist society, of any kind, and the neighbors decided they were going to build an expansionist militaristic feudal society next door I'd stop them as soon as I possibly could.  and I'd hope that all my anarchist neighbors, capitalist, communist, primitivist or what have you, would have the same self interest in doing so that I would.Now mind you, I don't think that anarcho-communists are an existential threat to anarcho-capitalists, but that we are seems to be an assumption of many anarcho-capitalists. Ethics are great and all, until you start to bring guns into it.In the case of the landlord and the tenant both are acting ethically by their own standards.  The landlord feels that he has a right to collect rent because he put up the capital to provide he house, the tenant feels he has no obligation to pay rent, because the land lord is simply seeking to extract value from past work and charging an absurd premium for current work (the maintenance, which would be much cheaper from a third party) both would be defending what they felt they have a right to if a conflict occured. I'm not hostile to A-caps.  I just think they're wrong.  You guys have great morals.  Also, with that assumption (that A-coms won't allow A-caps to exist) wouldn't it be in the best interest of the A-caps to destroy the collective the a-coms were attempting to build?
I assume some factories were taken during the revolution that led to an Anarchist society.And you just made it into a who has more guns contest. I assure you, the people with the most guns don't respect property.  You can see that by the way the government has been behaving currently.  They strongly believe all the property to be theirs. Says you.Without a government of some sort to enforce your ownership you don't (or the agreement of the tenant of course) Then he gets outcompeted by the worker owned cooperative because he has to pay overhead on the machine security and also because his workers don't give a damn how good of boots they make, they aren't in business for themselves. If that's how the landlord and the tenant wish to arrange it.Depends on how much you are charging for your maintenance services, and besides, if I have nothing that needs to be maintained, why should I pay you? good for you. And if you are the one working your machine that works just fine.The means of production are then owned by the producers.Meanwhile if you hire someone else to use your machine he won't be able to, it will cut off his head. Why couldn't you host a small anarcho-capitalist system?Anarchists aren't going to prevent you from living in whatever manner you choose, so long as you don't go trying to keep them from living in whatever manner they choose.Ownership meanwhile is a legal fiction, backed up by force.  Anarcho-capitalists are the ones which claim they wish to live in a society free of force, without force ownership is not possi8ble. Didn't say that.  I said that his ownership cannot be maintained without a government.If he does valuable work and trades it to someone for something, great.  if he attempts to simply maintain ownership and collect rent then there is going to have to be a government to protect his right to do so.I'm not saying anarcho-capitalism is evil,  I'm saying it's impossible.  As to your house Kiba, if you are renting it out to someone else, then it's his house (just like that truck that Russian Truck driver was driving in the example someone brought up earlier) Who enforces this ownership?  Without a government of some sort you can't.  As far as raw materials, you extract raw materials, then you trade them to someone who is going to use them to make finished goods.  Same with production machinery. You are confusing market anarchy with anarcho-capitalism.Capitalism means that the production is controlled by those with capital, the owners of the means of production, not by the workers, who do the actual producing.As Father MacGruder points out worker control leads to a bit of a dillema for someone who wishes to found a business and then retire on the proceeds.  I think that I offered a workable solution in that he needs to work hard to cultivate the respect and admiration of the workers so that they choose to support him in his retirement.  If he's cultivated the respect and admiration of the wider community so that they do as well, all the better.Personally if I started up a brewery I'd want to be involved in the day to day operation as a pat of my retirement, formulating recipes and such, things that a lifetime of knowledge helps with and a physically frail body doesn't serve as an obstacle to. I think impossible is a better term than oxymoron.  There's a discussion on that in he economics forum brewing at the moment.Most of the people on this board are Anarcho-capitalists though, so calling them oxymorons isn't likely to get a good response It means this.if a factory is used to produce boots under capitalism the boots belong to the owner of the factory, under socialism they belong to the workers who used the factory to produce the boots.Ownership of the factory is a convenient legal fiction, it's a form of capital and isn't really sustainable without force. Defacing currency in the US is technically illegal.  However it never gets prosecuted, there's a whole web community built around doing it actually (where's george) Personally I put my money where my mouth is over on bitcoin sportsbook, I fully expect this rally to continue. No.  Bitcoin is not controlled by the rich, since it is not controlled by anyone.  It's not a matter of good and evil, if you are not rich you don't want to use a currency that is controlled and manipulate by rich people for the benefit of rich people, which fiat is.  If you are rich and not part of their clique you also don't. The most widely known historical example of Anarcho-Communism is Catalonia and some other parts of Spain during the civil war.  There were operating breweries and wineries there, with the workers enjoying the fruits of their labours and also supplying all sorts of others with victuals. Watch out wading into that troll's nest.   Actually, at the moment on MTGox there are several thousand bitcoins available for sale.  However the vast majority of them are selling for $1 You might want to give a slight idea as to what sort of audience/fetishes it is aimed at. I do production work, I don't have equipment to record anything other than voice although I  have no problem doing voiceovers or vocals, if you send me tracks in need of mastering I can get you a good product.  I can also add synthesized tracks to improve the music as needed.Rates range depending on the complexity of the job. I was looking for something like this.  I don't know what prestashop and ubercart are, but I would like more information if possible.
I think it was a hack.  Someone unloading stolen MTgox dollars. Personalized erotic stories are, in my opinion, a field that is ripe for expansion.  I am sure Celine is perfectly capable of coming up with stories that please herself, that she is capable and willing to write stories that cater to someone else's fetishes speaks more to her writing talent in my opinion.I wish you luck in your endeavors Celine. Different sorts of Anarchists often seem to be arguing for a state when debating since we have different ideas as to what constitutes bad power.  The main reason that, IMO, Capitalist and Socialist anarchists need to keep debating is that I doubt that corporations would simply wither away if the framework of government were removed.  Yes, a Democratic government is far from an ideal solution, and yes the corporations do capture it and use it to enrich themselves.  However it is still preferable to the corporations ruling directly, which is what will happen if they are left in possession of all the resources that they currently possess without the government to keep them in line.I have no problem with market anarchists, in fact I am one, as are many of you who label yourself capitalist, but as long as there is support for ownership of capital determining production, rather than actual use of production determining production then there is support for government. Perhaps if the homeless were willing to be put on display in cages for the amusement of tourists it would be more of a priority to feed them. I maintain that without the legal fiction of a company they could not.  Companies are not real things, they are legal fictions.They externalize cost, through government, without government they could not function more efficiently.If you've ever been involved in a co-op, they tend to operate extremely inefficiently. Why would it be in the interest of the truckers to accept just their wages and not simply claim ownership of the means of production that they are controlling and operating? Without the state to enforce their ownership the trucking companies would not be able to exist. Capitalism means that the trucks are not owned by the drivers, they are owned by the trucking company.  The trucking company receives the profits from operating the trucks, the drivers are employed by the company.    In Soviet Russia the trucking company was part of the government, in the US it's an independent company, both are forms of capitalism because control is exercised not by the workers but by those with capital.  Ownership of the trucks by the drivers is worker ownership, also known as Marxism.  The issue with Mayberry's law is who gets to define exactly what is one person's property and what is another's.  So long as ownership is determined by capital we are operating in a capitalist system, capital however is not possible without government to enforce it. ok,  I'm offering a 50 BTC bounty for an easy to use bitcoin widget for web merchants.  Hopefully others will pledge as well, as this makes a big difference in adoption. it has eben said but it needs to be said more loudly.  A high difficulty prevents attacks.  Low difficulty may be better for miners, but it is worse for the bitcoin community as a whole. If the old owner is now going to retire and not continue his work in the brewery then he'd better hope he's made very good friends with the old workers.The old workers have the experience and skill to make good beer, the new workers don't yet.  That comes through years of actually making beer. I think sally is awfully sexy.I imagine an original print would be worth quite a bit more than half a bitcoin, I don't pay for art currently just because I don't have a proper place to keep it. You stated that healthcare in your country is more expensive, and then cited longer waiting times as your evidence.  Longer lines don't equate to price.  The price is shifted, in your country, from the individual to the government but it is not increased, it's dramatically lower.  Yes, people have to wait longer, that's what happens when more people are being treated by the same number of facilities, supply and demand.When I don't understand someone's argument I don't reply to it.  I usually find that if I don't understand what he said it is not going to be a productive discussion. I know the word was coined by Karl Marx,  I've read his works (if you didn't notice, I did state that economically I am a Marxist)  Capitalism is not free trade. Capitalism is control of the means of production and the products created by those means by those with capital.  That's not free, it's a particular type of control.I hate to turn around the words that were used on me, but you might do well to read the works you are criticizing.  Especially if you are going to proclaim yourself in support of a word defined by those works.  I'd suggest Das Kapital. Why can't a private enterprise put a gun to your head?  Not only has it happened, it has happened often. Without space agencies doing the extremely unprofitable foundation work it would not now be profitable for private companies to get involved in space travel.Whether space travel, colonization, etc. is an absolute good is disputable, however it is highly unlikely we would be involved in it if it were not for government putting us on that path. Health care costs are dramatically lower in countries which have government run health care plans.  Your assertion that governments drive up the cost of health care is completely unfounded.The western railroad expansion was funded by the government with land giveaways to the railroad companies, backed by government force against American Aboriginals. As the Russian Nationalist gentleman explained nationalism means supporting your own nation.  It is important to keep in mind that nation, as used by nationalists, is different than state.  A nation is an ethnic grouping such as Slav, Anglo-Saxon, or Jew.  I'll personally only support nationalists when they are opposing someone worse, which is rare.  Isolationist nationalists are infinitely preferable to me, however, than expansionist nationalists, and there are occasions where nationalists are preferable to non-nationalist opponents (the only example I can think of is China, when the nationalists were preferable to the Maoists) I won't be supporting these particular nationalists with my bitcoins, and I urge the rest of you to avoid doing so as well.  Nationalist does, indeed, mean the same thing here as it does when used as a part of the term "National Socialist" It is not only banknotes which can be counterfeited. The government's role, economically, is to do things that private industry wont do that need to be done.  The space program was an example of this.  Research into medical advances that will save the lives of poor people would be a good example.  Work on transportation backbones, as this is generally too large a project for private companies.  Currently we are facing peak oil and without significant investments in an alternate transportation system the US is going to be in very big trouble soon.  Building a new system (which would probably rely mostly on rail) is not something that is within the capability of any one company, or in their best interests, but it is still a vital project that needs to be completed.
The forest analogy is inaccurate.  Forest fires are an important part of a forest ecology, by clearing out the tall trees they allow fast growing undergrowth to flourish and keep he forest from stagnating and becoming a bog.  Forest fires are absolutely bad for a great deal of individual trees while good for the forest as a whole.The economy meanwhile, is going to be structured to favor one group or another, traditionally this has been by government intervention of one sort or another, it would still be the case in a stateless society however simply due to distribution of resources and local social pressures.  An ideal market favors the have nots at the expense of the haves because this encourages a constant flow of resources, haves that become have nots due to the markets forces are then favored, and able to become haves once again.A market that favors the haves over the have nots leads to increased concentration of wealth and the have nots being trapped in a cycle of poverty.How to accomplish a market that favors the have nots is, of course, a matter of debate.  I maintain that without the state to maintain the privilege of the haves that it would soon fall. Assuming that I have not read these books does no credit to your arguement.  I'm not a statist, I am an anti-capitalist only in that I am opposed to state power and do not see capitalism being possible without state protection of capital.I won't deny that a state does bad things as a prerequisite for any other action and I am far more of a Marxist than a Keynesian as far as economics are concerned (his political theories meanwhile are garbage IMO) Using an Austrian economic approach coupled with a plutocratic government system however leads to concentration of wealth with he rich, who will alternate their monetary policies between Austrian and Keynesian in whichever combination keeps the real assets flowing to them.  By properly alternating deflation and inflation they are able to manipulate the currency and acquire a greater and greater share of the assets. Is there a widget that allows a customer to click and generate a unique receiving address that is tied to their order?  I know that several online sites do this (bitcoin sportsbook does, clearcoin does) I don't know if this is a function that those website owners have built in or if it is something that has been developed separately and can be easily added to any site. I'm going to be approaching a merchant about accepting bitcoins. Is there a simple widget to put on a webpage to generate an address and accept payment currently?  If not I'll probably be starting a bounty for one shortly as it is something that is kind of vital for wider adoption. A change in the transaction fees will be important as well, so that it becomes possible to send amounts smaller than .01 I don't have a problem with inflation of the dollar either.  Inflation is good for people that are in debt and a debt jubilee is long overdue in American society.  With tightening of bankruptcy regulations the only way out ends up being through inflation.My understanding of Austrian economics is that markets are self correcting and government should not tamper in them.  They tend to favor a hard currency reserve to back government money and oppose government spending in general.By enforcing debt collections, protecting private property, and spending on inevitable things like military and police however the government already has a significant effect on the market. Choosing not to direct this effect is simply irresponsible.I agree that there should have been cuts during boom times and that government stimulus has been directed at the rich and has thus done no good whatsoever in the current crisis.    this is the guy who had the Scottish 419 letter up.Now mind you it could be a funny joke, but still, makes me suspicious. Just because someone supports bitcoins that doesn't mean the person is an Austrian as far as their economic beliefs.I feel that government stimulus does have a place in revitalizing the economy and that the reason for the recent stimulus failing was not because Keynes was fundamentally wrong but because it was aimed at the wrong people, the rich, who chose to save it, not the poor, who would have spent immediately and started money circulating. Are you commissioning stories with specific themes?  If so what themes are you best suited to write?Although I am in favor of creative commons licenses for a lot of things, I know that if I am going to pay for work I'd kind of like to benefit more from it than someone who didn't pay for it, are you open to a more restrictive license on your work if you are paid at a higher rate?Just to be clear, I am not currently in the market to commision any stories, although that may change, just pointing out some questions that seemed sensible to me. I would reference bitcoinme.com in your list of sites, it tends to be the easiest site for someone who is new to bitcoins to relate to. Some sorts of hate are better than others because they are based on a more valid basis.  I hate nazis, because Nazis will kill me if they get the chance (I am part Gypsy)  I hate homophobes because they will cause trouble for friends of mine.  So yes, I would say some sorts of prejudice are better than others. They've asked me out before.  I politely say "no thanks, I'm straight" and consider it flattering. The stop orders did not go through.My understanding of a stop order is that it waits for the market price to reach the stop price and then executes as a market trade.  I set several limit orders at the stop price, as well as a stop order at the stop price and neither of my stop orders went through. I am glad that he has done so.  I had considered dealing with nanimogold and the fact that he has been clear about his on prejudice allows me to make an informed business decision not to do so.I hope he and any other homophobes, racists, sexists etc continue to spout their hatred so that I will know who I do not wish to enter into dealings with. Having prudes in our more prominent voices is likely to hurt us just as much if not more.Now I do expect Bruce, or anyone else, to keep actual sex behind the bedroom doors.  I wouldn't want to be associated with someone foolish enough to do it in the road.  On the other hand bringing your spouse or lover with you to a dinner, business meeting, or public event is not only normal it is expected.  Whether that person is the same gender as you, a different gender, or is even more than one person is not something that needs to be judged by anyone else.   Credit coins are a popular idea on alternative money sites.The usual set up is slightly different than what you are putting forth though, rather than 20 BTC of your services they are worth a time increment of your time.  This would allow for them to be worth more than 20 btc, whereas only a fool would pay more than 20btc for a voucher that can only be redeemed for 20btc worth of services.  if it is worth an hour however it could be worth 20btc now, and considerably more in the future as you become more recognized or more trained. Anarchism has been a socialist movement longer than it has been a capitalist one.  There is no contradiction in being a socialist and also against government.I think you may be conflating socialist and authoritarian, and the two are not the same. If you have 3 humans and one computer they will. An aggregate of the exchanges dealing in the currency of the country you live in would seem like the answer to me.  I'd ask a tax professional to get a definitive answer though.
I just want to check and make sure people have had good experiences with these guys,. I haven't seen anyone post any good or bad. That is tax fraud, and they will get you for it.If you were being paid in gold would this scam work?  If not, it wont work for bitcoin either. Yes they are.  Exchanges are barter and barter is taxable income.Talk to a tax professional, this stuff is tricky and if you are making a living the tax man is going to want his cut. I am fluent in English, have a decent quality microphone and a good speaking voice.  I'd love to work as part of a team as I have about no visual skills. games with hidden information that involve reading facial cues and such (poker for instance) are going to be dominated by humans for a very long time.  That doesn't translate to the internet mind you, as the cues get simplified to raises and such. My point is it doesn't matter if one person does this or if he simply makes a bunch of trades, he's going to end up losing money. It looks to me as if your exchange rates are poorly arranged.  I could, conceivably, spend all my bitcoin buying yuan, then all my yuan buying bitcoin, and end up with all your money. Or, if not all the back issues at least a few of them.(I know, right now there are none) Population control was the one that shocked me.  Apparently people aren't supposed to use Rise Up to spread information on contraception? ok, I just didn't see the button.The way the simple orders work seems wrong to me.  it does make it easy to buy or sell bitcoin, but without being able to set a price on the simple order I feel like I lose the function I use the most.  Having to dig into the complex trade in order to set a price seems like a bad setup, to me.stop orders don't seem to be working, although I may just be misunderstanding how they work. I am in the US.  How much is shipping likely to be?  I will have to open my computer up and see what sort of cable attachment I'll need. it's not controlled by the programmer, it is controlled by the people buying and selling bitcoins. Yay!I really wanna bet on interesting things, and bitcoinsportsbook hasn't opened any wagers on the value of bitcoins again yet. A government repressive enough to make Barter illegal is not going to quibble over things like due process. Where do fees come from on auctions that do not close?  I had not realized there was a fee for buyitnow when I posted my auction and it looks likely that it will not close. I don't understand the site.I registered my processors for paypal and bitcoin, looks like I can deposit and withdraw (only not really of course since it is not real bitcoins or dollars)  but I cannot find how to trade. I'm not planning on generating timecoin, if someone wishes to pay me for services in timecoin, I'd prefer he or she buy bitcoin with his or her timecoin and pay me with that.  If it doesn't easily trade to bitcoin I don't want it. My understanding has been, and remains, Somalia is an awful hellhole.It's better in some measurable ways as a sort of a lawless pirate enclave, it was better in other ways as a brutal dictatorship.  Both suck. True, time is valuable, one way or another, it is just valued in different ways.It's an opportunity cost. Utopia means no place, an imaginary place.This would be a Umonia.
Pay Pal will sue for profits, which have likely already been spent. We aren't bidding in dollars, if you want to bid in dollars go to e-bay.  Auction close should not be hooked to the rate on any exchange site.What you can buy with bitcoins is largely defined by prices on biddingpond.  this is a more important chart, for me, than MTGox.  All I can buy with bitcoins on MTGox are MTGox dollars  (which seem to go at less than PayPal dollars, currently.) I strongly suggest that those with tax questions consult a tax professional.  They make their money off of getting you out of paying taxes, and they get paid a chunk of what you save in taxes.If you are conducting enough business in bitcoins that if it were dollars you'd go to jail for not paying taxes, go down to H&R block, or your local tax professional, and ask them.  They don't generally charge for a consultation. Barter is generally considered a taxable transaction.  the government is going to want their cut.However for small, not terribly trackable transaction you don't need to worry.If you are setting up a business, I would suggest speaking with a tax professional. Are these something that might be considered on bidding pond or anywhere else?Post a desired good or service and the amount willing to pay for it, sellers can bid you down if they wish to undercut one another.Since biddingpond is not financed by commission it doesn't seem like it would hurt the revenue of the site in any way. Windows XP compatible required, empty preferred, previously used is fine.  one terabyte preferred, 500 gig acceptable.100 bitcoins offered, willing to negotiate.  Will also pay for shipping, prefer continental US, if shipping is too high we may need to discuss, want secure shipping, do not need fast. Rather than money earning interest money simply appreciates.  Paying early is always better, no matter what, so we could certainly prepay for certain things.  The problem is when they start extending credit.  owning interest, on bitcoins, could turn out to be prohibitively expensive.  Either that or create inflation. except that in timecoin the tax is being paid to everyone, randomly. 1 bitcoin That's why we need it, so people can buy more of them. It could be a bubble, on the other hand if the increase in price, even if driven purely by speculation, encourages more businesses to accept bitcoin as a form of payment that can serve as a real foundation for a bitcoin economy. teenagers also like porn,. and are not allowed to purchase it.Just sayin. I expect to be sniped near the end and don't have that many bitcoins to play with, but if I actually win it then bitcoins are worth a lot more than the price at MTGox would suggest.  Entropia Universe money is tradeable, it is pegged to the dollar. I'll sell beer for bitcoins.  I don't currently have anything in stock but hard apple cider, however I'll have some mocha stout soon and molasses imperial stout soon after.  It's homebrewed craft beer though, so the price is gonna be considerably higher than for budweiser. I'd do this for 32 bitcoins per hour plus the sign.  Admittedly I am not quite as attractive as Genjix.(and no, i am not a Ron Paul supporter, although I don't think he's any worse than the alternatives) I notice the site is down, and I don't see anything similar (that is a non auction site for sale of services/items from one person to another)   Are the bets on the price of bitcoins supposed to be closed?  And if so what are the chances of opening some more up? I notice the price is up around 30 cents.I am not sure why prices need to keep going up in order for more businesses to accept bitcoins though, Just so that bitcoins in circulation are worth enough for it to be a worthwhile market to tap into? or? I do think that violence is sometimes unavoidable.  That includes the initiation of violence as opposed to the use of it in defense.  I think it should be avoided if possible, but there are times when it cannot be.  Also, what is perceived as violence varies based on a person's perspective.For example, if all of the fields in an area are owned by one man, we'll call him mister farmer, and he pays those that labor in his fields barely enough to get by for their labor, while demanding exorbitant prices from those that work in other ways for the products of the fields.  Not to get into the nature of ownership, since in this case it is largely a legal construct in any case.  If a group of people from the local area come and start farming those fields without Mr. Farmer's permission and redistribute the vegetables thus produced to feed themselves from Mr. Farmer's point of view that is initiation of force against his property.  However from the point of view of those people it is Mr. Farmer and his employees (who are, presumably, paid to defend his fields) that are initiating force by physically preventing them from farming food and feeding themselves.I identify as Anarcho-communist because I feel that the engines of economy and social justice are best situated at the small community level, not at the individual level and also not at the level of states.  To Hugo, If I am compelling behavior from someone through threats to their physical well being then I am exerting control over him.   Whether I am doing so through a threat of physical violence or through control of the things that he needs in order to survive is, to me, fairly irrelevant.
With the increase in value of bitcoins I am reducing my prices.  Tarot card readings will now be 4 bitcoins per minute for voice readings or 4 bitcoins per card for readings by e-mail.  This may be adjusted again as the value of bitcoins increases or decreases. Sounds good to me.Anarchists of any stripe are generally not opposed to markets.  I know I am not.  Where I would have a problem is if someone manages to get a group together to control enough of the fields that people locally are unable to feed themselves without accepting the terms that are dictated by that person.  At that point a government has arisen. I'm not a troll,  I've been a part of the bitcoin forums for a while and intend to stick around for a while yet.  I don't check in all that often so don't always respond quickly.Defending one's fields by having neighbors assist in defending them and paying with vegetables is community action, that is at the heart of Anarchist thought (at least Anarcho Socialist thought) but it does mean that in a certain way the fields belong to all of the neighbors.  Holding a giant compound with security doors meanwhile, I don't know that I can address that properly.  I suppose that so long as you are not using that control to exert power over your neighbors there is really nothing wrong with it. There's some obvious confusion here between personal property and private property.  Socialists are not opposed to personal property.  Even Authoritarian stalinist socialists are not opposed to personal property.  That is the things which you personally own and can personally hold and/or defend.  Socialists, especcially Anarchist socialists, are opposed to private property.  That is those things which you own only because the law says you own them, you cannot personally hold and defend them.  As soon as you start hiring other people to hold and defend your private property you have established a government and are acting against Anarchist principles.your house is personal property,  a house that you rent to bring in income is private property.  Obviously you cannot personally defend both your own house and a rental property. That's a problem for Anarchists of any stripe.  Moreso for An-caps than An-socs in my opinion since An-soss usually assume crime will be handled by the community while an-caps usually believe the community is a form of government and that crime should be handled by private security companies (which, for some reason, are NOT a form of government) So he makes something and doesn't give it to me.  um, so?  Why should he be punished for that?  It's his thing, he made it.Just because you don't understand something doesn't mean it is ridiculous.  Anarcho Capitalism is not possible, it has never existed and the closest society has ever come to it (Somalia) is a really awful place to live by all accounts.  Anarcho-Socialism meanwhile has existed on several occasions, admittedly it was always militarially crushed by authoritarian socialism, but that is not an inherent flaw in the system, it's just that the Anarchists picked the wrong allies.  Black Ukraine and the Anarchist regions of Spain were pretty nice places to live by all accounts too. It's important to remember, when quoting Noam Chomsky, that he is an Anarchist himself.  He's an Anarcho-socialist, so he's not arguing for beaurocracy or state socialism or anything of the sort.  He's arguing for Anarcho socialism as opposed to anarcho capitalism because he doesn't feel anarcho capitalism is really possible.I'm also an Anarcho socialist and I see bitcoin as a definite plus for anarchists in general, no matter what our economic views.  I think Chomsky would probably agree. everyone except the people who want to sell bitcoins for more than they are going for. I would also like to see this.  I'm not planning on withdrawing any cash myself, but I do think the price is a bit inflated at the moment because people cannot withdraw cash and i want to buy bitcoins for cheaper than people are selling them. RE middlemen.Unfortunately all the available options are either inconvenient or assholey. An easy way to put your paycheck into bitcoin is going to be an important step.  Something that does not include a middle man such as paypal or pecunix or anything else. Don't forget bitlist.  With such a small userbase bitlist is actually more useful than an auction site because auctions in small groups are unpredictable. Difficulty in converting to/from fiat is a weakness.  Also, people manage to use paypal quite successfully for a wide variety of business uses, including virtual services like subscription payments to World of Warcraft. Yes, paypal is a flawed system that is too easy to chargeback, there's nothing else that is as widespread and although interfacing between bitcoin and paypal is not required, it is extremely helpful.Better ways to prevent scamming really would make a difference. Until the bitcoin economy expands dramatically being able to convert bitcoins to and from fiat currencies is kind of vital. I hope someone starts doing this, whether MTGox or a new exchange.  Paypal may be a crappy system, but it is what i have and it is what so many other people have that i think an easy interface between paypal and bitcoin is kind of vital. Not a bet I'd personally take.  I expect it to drop that low by the end of the year.  I expect the elections to be a bit of a kick in the teeth to the DOW Because then I would be diverting business from the company that I read through.  That's against my agreement with the company.I can advertise independently, and have been trying to build up a bitcoin clientelle as well, but I don't have my own independent website set up yet. The potential income from the bitcoin market is pretty small since the overlap with people who desire tarot card readings is, currently, really tiny.  Unless there's another tarot card reader for bitcoin out there I don't know about who got the other potential customers.  Not enough clientelle to justify hosting fees. Last I checked buybitcoins had 4 coins.  And had that amount for a long time.  I am pretty sure that site is dead. I have one satisfied customer who has paid for a reading directly with bitcoins actually.  I prefer using bitcoins because then the customer does not have to pay until after the reading.  I'm confident enough in my product to take cash after delivery.  Can you say the same thing? I think bitlist is better for this than biddingpond.  Since people are looking to sell things for specific amounts.
I trust several people on here well enough to escrow for a short period,  Not for a 6 year period without some more solid contact info.  Not because I have even a hint of a suspicion they'd steal my coins, but because I am concerned they might lose internet, or go to jail for being an Anarchist, or have their computers melt down, or whatever in that time. Is that how e-bay defines it?  I know you can trade gold and silver on e-bay,  I'm pretty sure you can sell Reichsmarks and confederate dollars on E-bay. I'm a little concerned about this since I don't have any other online money service accounts aside from paypal.  Not so much as far as getting my money out, I can take it out as bitcoins, but as far as putting more money in to buy more bitcoins.I get my paypal money from doing tarot card readings on the phone, I don't really have the option of receiving my pament in any other form.  If I can't find an easy easy way to turn paypal into bitcoin I may have to start trying to encourage people to auction some of it on e-bay.  (hopefully with a buy it now that is not too far from the going rate) As a straight, even odds bet?I figure we need a trusted party to serve as an escrow service.  Either that or some sort of personal relationship such as personal info on one another.  I don't want to tie up more than 100 bitcoins for that long personally.  (I know, that's only about 9 dollars right now, I expect it to be more by then though, and I am actively trading back and forth to make money at the moment)If it is set up at a bitcoin futures market and we are the first ones in I think we'd have even odds as well, although I might be wrong about that. I don't think the goal here was to use bitcoins to buy things on e-bay.  It was to sell bitcoins on e-bay.And they actually do accept other payment methods,  depending on the seller's preferences.  I doubt bitcoin is going to become one of those though. About exactly the same as using all paper money.  I don't know exact statistics, I do know that I know at least a dozen people who operate this way and none have been caught, so the chances (based purely on a very limited sample) should be less than 10 percent. bitcoin is not a currency.  Currencies are backed by governments. Here are the things I'd like to buy with bitcoins.  I don't have a lot of bitcoins yet so even if they were for sale I might not buy them yet, but in the future I would.herbs, specifically Banisteriopsis caapi, Mimosa Hostilis, and Nicotania RusticaShisha tobacco (the molasses coated flavoured stuff that one smokes in a hookah)malt, hops, yeast and other beer making suppliesActually the third I can get on paypal without any trouble currently, so I might not go through bitcoin to get them, it would depend on how much bitcoin I had, compared to how much paypal,  paypal does not allow the sale of tobacco to be paid for with their service, thus the desire for shisha sold for bitcoins.  Nicotania Rustica is also tobacco and the other two are herbs that paypal is likely to frown on.I expect the market for various sacred herbs could be huge through bitcoin as paypal frowns on them and chargebacks are disturbingly common among purchasers. Bitcoins are easy to exchange for paypal, or for giftcards etc.  However as an intermediary they become completely unecesssary.  More bitcoin direct merchants will make a big difference that being able to buy amazon giftcards or paypal for use on ebay does not (after all, if I use paypal to buy bitcoins, and then bitcoins to buy paypal I end up paying paypal more money, not less.) Yes it would.  I want a piece of that action (on the DOW will not get that low side) but it is a long term bet and I don't know anyone on the forum well enough to want to make a bet that I wont be able to settle for 6 years. Basically the idea I outlined.  Except that in mine it was not a binary rating system but a scaled one. This is also true of the outlaw gangs.  One is not better than the other, they are better and worse in different ways, partly due to differing codes of honor, partly due to matters of scale.   I notice bitcoinmarket is a lot cheaper than mtgox, or at least seems to be.  Is this an arbitrage opportunity?  Or is it just that the buyers aren't offering the price the sellers want? You can.  You can do similar things with gold, paper money, and so forth.  The fact that you can make it difficult to steal doesn't mean it is inherently any more theftproof than anything else. Right.  Enforcement is difficult and unweildy.  The market does not need to serve as an enforcing agent.   Not for an IPO, a company doesn't have an established reputation at that point.  Some sort of third party organization that certifies that the prospectus of a company is accurate could come in handy.  of course they'd need to build up trust as well, but that could definitely facilitate IPO's. So does the government.  It's the set of laws which they follow. Bitcoin Market and MTGox might need to worry about this. bitcoins are stealable.  The thief just has to steal your harddrive. Not true.  Everyone that communicates with you has to use it, not everyone in the world.  People that don't use bitcoin can't communicate with you.
Not true at all.  Perhaps bitcoin operates purely pseduonymously, but the transactions are still recorded and the goods and services it is traded for can be monitored.Paper dollars are purely anonymous, but they certainly aren't a threat to the government. Definitely could be a useful twist. This would lower the rate for bitcoins dramatically.  It wouldn't ruin anything.  Bitcoins used to be that low, and they weren't ruined.Whoever this person is with the huge quantities of bitcoins would be taking a loss on the electricity he had invested to generate the bitcoins, unless he played it smart and only sold them for slightly less than the market, in which case it would not be the dramatic crash you are concerned with.  Even if he did dramatically crash bitcoins this would allow other people to buy a lot of coins very cheap and he would then have run out (depending on how cheap he makes them) At which point the coins would have a chance to rally and start back up again. I haven't seen it yet but I'd really like to see a reputation site where people's opinions can be ranked.  So, for instance, Alice can say that Bob is a good guy, and that she value's Bob's judgement highly.  Giving him a 10 out of 10 on both.  Bob feels that Carl is a good guy, giving him a 10 as well.  if Bob is the only opinion that Alice has placed any trust in then she'll also give  Carl a 10.  Meanwhile if she has ranked Donna as a 5 on her judgement scale, and Donna gives Carl a 0 (calling him a thief) then Alice's ranking of Carl is going to be 6.6 (since she values Donna's judgement half as much as she does Bob's) This would weed out people ranking themselves, since none of their many accounts would be highly valued by anyone else.   My problem isn't that there aren't enough bit coins it's that I don't have that much disposable income. So you wont cover copyright infringement?  That's one of the areas that bitcoin has been proposed as a facilitator. I saw both an Ipad and a dell notebook for sale.  I would have bid on them but I don't have enough capital to do so at the moment.  I hope they both go for a fair price. Damaging someone's property is an extremely arbitrary category and that is where a lot of the difficulties are going to arise.  It will be really important for an organization like this to spell out quite clearly what situations they will not cover.That aside, yes I do think this is something which would be a good idea.  Whether as an insurance company or as a legal defense fund.   Hush, that's one of those details that it is best not to discuss. A stable exchange rate will be a good thing in the long run.  It will mean less upkeep for businesses.  Any period of sudden inflation or deflation means price instabilities and confusion because not only is the current price different but the seller and buyer cannot be sure that the price will be the same tomorrow.  I do expect bitcoins to continue upward for a while.  I don't know what their equilibrium level will be and I also expect them to act as a hedge against dollar inflation and move upwards relative to dollars at a fairly slow rate, however I do hope that they settle at a relatively stable spot relative to standard goods and services because that will give them more utility as a medium of exchange.One of the reasons Dollar's are useful as a medium of exchange is because their worth, while continually slowly decreasing, is decreasing at a relatively known rate.  If I agree on a price I know what that price means as far as opportunity cost, both now and later.A fluctuating currency has unknown opportunity costs which makes commerce much less certain. I am curious if your sites design will be open source.  Certain dangerous or possibly unethical predictions were one of the advantages I saw to bitcoin, although, obviously, you would not want to be the site admin responsible for allowing such predictions to be made. This isn't quite true.  What's true is that government enforcement won't exist.  That doesn't mean that alternate enforcement mechanisms couldn't be put into place. A spammer doesn't need to register millions of times though, just once per site.  Then he just sends millions of messages. That works as an e-mail tax.  Doesn't work so well in the case of captchas, which are usually for registration on a site.  .5 is not enough to discourage a spammer form registering and too much to attach as a charge for every post. spammers, not hackers. So there is, I missed it. Selling money on biddingpond is silly.  Well, I guess not if it is money that isn't traded through one of the exchanges, but selling dollars or euros there is silly.I am kind of surprised there is not a Russian exchange, considering how many Russian members the baord has. Still doesn't seem to work.  I see a minesweeper game, but it looks like ti is just the standard windows game, no option to buy anything with bitcoins I have generated 150 bitcoins,  I wouldn't count those as earned though.  I have also earned 70 bitcoins for a tarot card reading (60 coin fee plus a 10 bitcoin tip) And I have purchased 200 bitcoins through MTgox.  I don't know if gaining bitcoins through speculation on MTgox and bitcoin market count as earning either, since you aren't really doing any productive labor. The site is a bit confusing.  Looks like you have some nice products, but information on how things work, if it is there, is not easily available.  Some info on how the gifts are personalized and how much this might effect cost would be good, shipping info also.  A search function would also make the site that much simpler to navigate and purchase from.  Easily accessible info on payment forms accepted, which includes the fact that you accept bitcoins (could mention that you are taking them at the current exchange rate at MTgox or bitcoin market as well, otherwise you'll have to set bitcoin prices in addition to dollar prices.)This could actually be a very nice way to send a completely anonymous gift.  Could be fun for doing secret santa in a security paranoid company or an online situation.
I don't think there is enough value extant in bitcoins to support an IPO on any business of more than very marginal size at the moment. I may be wrong though.  Also I know that the required initial investment on many online businesses is extremely small and could potentially be created via a bitcoin IPO. I don't think porn sites do accept paypal.  Not because they don't want to, but because paypal has been known to freeze and seize their accounts.  Paypal sees themselves as a moral arbeiter and won't allow the purchase of tobacco or alcohol with paypal.  I am pretty sure they also don't allow porn. Link didn't work for me.  What is the game called? Makes sense.  providing services definitely has a lower overhead than providing goods.  I don't think we need bitcoin only physical good stores right now, it would just be nice to see some sellers of physical goods accepting bitcoins in addition to paypal, credit cards, or what have you.  I know that currently tobacco cannot be purchased with paypal, so this looks like a big possible opportunity. Including fee changes and authorizing fees in the GUI would go a long way toward getting bitcoin used by the general public.  Command line orders tend to be unpopular outside the Unix crowd. Exactly.  Linden Dollars and Entropia bucks are also a store of value, Entropia bucks even have a fixed exchange rate with the US dollar.  They are still allowed as in game currency. I disagree.  All you can get with bitcoins by playing poker is bitcoins.  Gambling is also nowhere near as big a market as porn and it does not really benefit as much from the possibility of micropayments.I think bitporn would be an excellent idea and if someone starts developing it I hope they will contact me.   One example of perfectly legal use of P2P is downloading purchased software.  I downloaded torrents of both WoW and entropia universe because they downloaded faster and more easily than trying to download the software from the company directly.  I got the torrents off of the company website.  I don't know how many other companies offer torrents of their software, I expect it would encourage piracy for those companies that charge for the software itself instead of for license to access their servers, but I know that just the traffic downloading WoW is enough to hold up as a significant legitimate use of a P2P network.  I believe they also torrent their updates. It's been stable the whole time I have been involved in bitcoins, with some fluctuations.  However right before I got involved it increased in value, relative to the USD by about tenfold.  As far as I can tell it had been relatively stable prior to that.Considering how tiny the market is currently of goods and services available for bitcoins I expect the value to shoot up again if there is a sudden influx, or to crawl up slowly if there is a gradual trickle. We're using different definitions then.  By your definition Bitcoins are not a currency, since I can't use them for most transactions.  What makes gold money?  What property does it have that, say, plutonium, does not? Since when is bitcoin a cash equivalent? I didn't mean brick and mortar businesses.  I just meant online businesses with a reasonably wide inventory.  Selling things that a reasonably wide section of the population want to buy. I was really into both, at those mentioned points, and I didn't have electricity in my home in 1985 or a computer there in 1995.  I think you are setting adoption points a bit late. I do not consider gold to be money.  You can't go and buy most goods and services with gold.  Gold is a commodity, dollars are money.Bitcoin is a virtual currency.  It has more in common with paypal than it does with dollars or with gold.  I wouldn't really call it money until it is more widely accepted as payment for goods and services. Yay!  Bitcoin prediction market.  I am glad to see this coming together.  I wish you luck, let me know if there is anything I can do to help. If more products are being offered for bitcoins there will be greatly reduced need to change bitcoins into dollars (or Euros).One example I saw was in the bitcoin market section where someone said that he would like to be able to buy barley and hops for bitcoins and sell beer for them.  Now he'd still have to change bitcoins into dollars to pay for shipping, as would his barley supplier to pay for shipping and some other things, but his own need to change bitcoins for dollars would be greatly reduced by being able to pay for his materials with bitcoins.   Two different forms of inflation.  You are talking about price inflation.  He was talking about supply inflation.  The supply certainly did inflate.  The fact that price did not (at least relative to dollars, which had a fairly small amount of inflation in the period mentioned) means that the bitcoin economy is growing in pace with the supply. I am a mild libertarian and internet junkie but I am by no means a rabid libertarian or cyphergeek.   My attraction to bitcoin is that it does not charge me the way that paypal does, even if fees are implemented they are not going to be as high.Currently I am much more likely to use paypal, because I can buy more things with it.  Hopefully this will change before too long, I know that I have seen more products and services being offered for bitcoins, but what looked like an explosion of them when I first started getting into it seems to have slowed to a trickle.Obviously online services are going to be easier to trade for bitcoins than physical goods, because the postal service does not accept them.  I have seen people offering translation services, IT consulting, Tarot card reading (that'd be me) and I'd love to see more.  I don't know if there are any artists out there who are into bitcoin, but graphic design would undoubtedly be the sort of service that would be very valuable and would interface with bitcoins well.  Some actual businesses accepting bitcoins that sell physical goods would also go a long way toward helping them establish a foothold.  I know there is one website selling herbs online, but the inventory there consists of only two things, so I assume this is a personal hobby endeavor and not an actual business.   If there are not enough bitcoin someone will create a new system.  Satoshi has done the hard part already. It's not the political aspect of bitcoins that would stop it, IMO.  A big part of it is the anonymity.  Walmart, and other corporations, like anonymity even less than the state does.  Also, if they were working as a conversion service, which would probably be more likely than actually selling products for bitcoins, they'd want their cut.  
I can't see wal-mart or any other large retailer getting onboard until bitcoins are already very widespread.  Especcially with the prices of bitcoins fluctuating as much as they still are. I don't see the point of them.  Just sounds like bitcoins with a different name, but no actual difference. I don't believe Kiba suggested he was going to avoid taxes. There are a lot of reasons one might choose to ship a lot of packages without money being involved.  There's also nothing illegal or even suspicious about conducting barter through the mail. I am glad to see that this has been added.  I also hope that the Russian users keep posting in the English portion of the site as well though, having this be a cohesive community is a good thing, I believe. I usually find that UPS is a better shipping option than the postal service.  It costs more than uninsured mail, but less than insured.It depends on the value of what you are sending I suppose, for one or two games uninsured might be better, but for quite a few you definitely want insurance.  I also have found that UPS is much less likely to lose packages (presumably because they do insure them)  I've done webpage development, including working with wordpress, which looks like what this is based on.  I haven't done this in particular, but I have a lot of free time and would be glad to work on getting it all together.  If you'd like to send a private message letting me know what sort of features you are looking for we can exchange e-mails and I can get to work on tinkering around with this and see if we can get it done up properly.Would you want merchants to be able to add themselves or need to be added by an admin?   The other questions I have seen being discussed here areIs Bitcoin inflation proofAre Bitcoins legal tender I think that as long as the exchanges stay small we are going to be ok.  I was heartened to see MT Gox add another dollar based exchange even though bitcoin market was not lacking in any way.  Ideally none of the exchanges will get big enough to catch the eye of johnny law, and if the amount of exchanges grows as the bitcoin economy does, rather than the size of any one exchange or group of exchanges, by the time the government is worried about it they wont be able to shut it down.  Shutting down one large exchange is easy, shutting down a dozen is more of a challenge, shutting down hundreds is more work than they will want to do. ebay does not accept bitcoins.  You could buy silver off of bitlist or biddingpond, if you can find someone selling it. 50 dinar is worth about 4 cents, so less than a bitcoin currently.  Admittedly the shipping is going to be more than that. My address should be in my sig.  Some interesting articles, I am curious as to your motivation to increase traffic? Google maintains the rights to code they have designed.  Incorporating it would require data reporting to google.  Generally not a good thing. There are also other wiki's out there with a less deletionist approach. According to Nenelod he is NOT doing that.  he has as many coins as he needs and is on to the next step in his project. One big challenge for trading in WoW gold is that there are so many different servers.  Gold does not transfer between them, so you can only sell gold to someone who uses the server you are on. deflation of house prices is a bad thing because houses are bought on credit.  Deflation of car prices would be bad as well, and for the same reasons.  If you have a loan which is guaranteed by something which is worth less than the loan then the temptation is to walk away from the loan.  This either leads to possible severe losses for banks or inescapable debt, depending on the structure of debt in society. cause he's not in it just for the money.  I am excited to see what sort of MMO results from this. Yeah, I saw that after I posted.  I was under the impression he owned the company, which would mean they are his resources.  Just having 1000 spare cores at home is kinda crazy, but I guess someone realy dedicated to computers might. my speculation is that he is going to use them to buy linden dollars, since that is something he mentioned that can currently be done.
I wouldn't.  The guy uses servers he's rented to other people to generate bitcoins.  If I have paid for a server I want all of the cores doing what I want. hmm, I am pretty sure I was online, but my firewall is zonealarm free, and can be a pain to get anything open. One suggestion would be to suggest to one of the bitcoin markets that they trade in Australian dollars. I am not sure how popular bitcoins are in AUS$ using countries. the blocks will continue to be generated to generate transaction fees as well. Something along these lines has been suggested by several different people so far.  I am fairly certain it is extremely foreign to Satoshi's vision for bitcoins.  Also a breaking update to the client.Are none of the people who have suggested this change coders?  Because it shouldn't be too difficult to modify the code for bitcoins and create freedomcoins or whatever you want to call it. bitcoins need to be thought of more like gold than like dollars.  Gold may be worth more or less in Bangalore than NY, but the fact that it is a valuable thing with limited quantity that is traded in both places does not have an adverse effect on either economy. I like the C with the dots better than the one with the one and zero, I think it translates to teeny tiny size better. I am excited to see a seed dealer accepting bitcoins.  I am a gardener.  it looks like you only have two types so far though, poppies and wisteria.  Can you give me an idea of what sort of things you plan to offer?  (maybe I should be starting a new thread to discuss) I would not expect to be able to continuously generate enough bitcoins to be able to purchase much of anything.  They are a medium of exchange, not a way for people to purchase things without doing anything for it aside from running their computers.  Yes, some people are able to do so (or were able to rather) but that is already changing at this point, and is going to become less and less a part of the model in the future.  At this point we need to focus on increasing the bitcoin economy to support the growth in users that it has experienced.  If you want bitcoins, figure out what to sell to get them. Not true.  $100 are legal tender.  the store on the corner will not accept them.  The fact they will not accept them does not mean that I can then walk out the door with the bag of chips I picked up off the shelf. you CAN trade confederate dollars for something of worth.  You can trade reichmarks for thinks of worth too.  Not because these things are money anymore, they aren't, they are collectible commodities. yes.  HSX is considered a prediction market, although it plays more like a fantasy football league.  http://www.intrade.com/ is a better example of what I am going for.  I'm not soliciting any sort of investments now, just floating ideas, I don't know if any sort of investments will be required and if they are I'll be putting up a prospectus before asking anyone for bitcoin anyways.  HSX uses imaginary money, which some prediction markets do, intrade uses real money.  This one would, obviously, use bitcoins. A very entertaining libertarian cartoon.  It has some major flaws, but it is certainly an entertaining read.  Not sure what it has to do with bitcoins though.  Bitcoins are kind of the opposite of fish. makes sense.  0-4 might be a better scale, with 0 meaning 100% goes to the winners and winning judges, 1 meaning 10% to the minority, 2 meaning 20% etc.  (of course this would get averaged and could be given to users as a 1-5 scale) Judge the results.  So let's say it is the day after election day and Obama has just won the 2012 election.  The judges would log in and click on "yes" and the users that had bought yes shares would be paid out.This is an extremely easy prediction, since it is covered in international news and verified in strict ways.  The market would be able to handle both easy and hard judging situations however.  If someone set up a prediction for instance, that "The world will be a better place on December 31st 2012 than it is today (July 19th 2010)"  this is an incredibly subjective question.  However it can still be judged and what people are essentially speculating on is what the majority of selected judges will decide in regards to the question.  Currently the values are stored in the software in a certain way.  In order to store them in a different way you have to get into the software in a way that is not reverse compatible.  For instance, if someone sends a transaction and is charged a tenth of an itty bit as a transaction fee that is a value that his software cannot handle, this could cause all sorts of problems. ok, it's a futures market.  The things that users would be able to do would be suggest something to predict (such as "Will Barak Obama win the 2012 Presidential Election" or "Will there be more than 3" of rainfall on June 13th 2011 in the greater Seattle Area as reported by the Seattle Post Intelligencer") this puts the predictions into a "looking for judges" pool.  The person proposing the prediction also sets a judging fee, which will be subtracted from the total and divided equally among judges voting in the majority.  Once enough judges sign up the prediction is opened to the users who can then purchase either a yes or a no with a certain spread between them.  The price of yes and no's updates with each transaction and is based on how many users have chosen that answer (and how many shares in that answer they have purchased).  When the issue is resolved the total is divided among the users based on share ownership.  It would need to be secure, and it would probably be a good idea for users to be able to establish accounts which they may deposit bitcoins into, withdraw bitcoins from, use to purchase yesses or noes, and have bitcoins deposited into when a market closes.From a quick look at Open Source possibilities for this it looks as if Serotonin Prediction Markets may be an already existing solution.  However I have not dug into just what it is and how it works, or how easy it would be to convert it to bitcoin.I am, at the moment, poor in both cash and coin,  I do have access to some server space and might be able to cover coder fees, depending on how much they come to.  If I cannot I may also consider a shared enterprise if people are interested in joining as financial backers. (obviously the business model needs some work before it gets to that point) That'd be an interesting prediction for you to set up."User freemoney will lose more money than he makes on bitpredictions site between August 16th 2010 and August 31st 2010"I am checking out open source prediction market software right now.   heh, win or lose the hosting site makes money because they take a small cut.  Like Mt Gox exchange.  Any of you coding sorts out there have an idea how this could be set up?  my coding skills are pretty minimal but I'd love to be involved in some way. That still requires judgement if the submission of predictions is open, which I think it should be.  You need someone to judge if a question is sufficiently precise.  This could, of course, be the job of the prediction market admin, who would hire on more admins as the market grew to require more judges.  I'm just not sure if that is the most elegant solution.
Ok, I have seen some discussion of the mechanics of transaction fees, still not completely clear on those, but I wanted to straighten something out I was wondering about.  Assuming bitcoins deflate slightly, to the point where a 10,000 bitcoin transfer can be expected to generate a fee (which would be 5 bitcoins, if I understand correctly)  If I send 10K bitcoins to Bob, does that mean he receives 9995 and whoever processed the transaction receives 5?  Or does it mean that I am debited 10,005 and he receives 10k? I agree.  The challenge then becomes how to decide the judging fee.  Obviously something like "Obama wins presidential election in 2012" is much easier to judge than "homelessness rate in Topeka Kansas doubles by dec 31st 2011" (I had trouble coming up with a really hard one, but I know they are out there)   Ok, I don't have one yet, My coding skills may or may not be up to actually making one.  But I thought a prediction market in bitcoins would be a good idea.  Because of their anonymous nature it would allow for a wider range of possible predictions than the currently available markets.  My thought is a market in which anyone can offer something to be predicted, with the site admins taking a cut for judging which way it has gone.  Things to be predicted could be submitted and then the judges would decide if they are able to judge that particular thing, and how much they would charge to do so, if they can't judge it it is rejected, if they can but the judge's fee is not met then the market is dissolved at the end and bids are returned.  If they can judge it and the judge fee is met that is subtracted and the rest divided among those with correct predictions based on their market share. Harder than you think. This is from wikipedia. It may be the author's opinion, but it looks to me as if there is no obligation, in the US, to conduct business in dollars. Unless you are offering credit of some sort. This sounds like an underserved market.  Are farmville products transferable? One advantage here is that bitcoins are NOT legal tender, nor are they likely to become so.  The government is not going to surrender their control of money to something printed by everyone. Sure, but as a business you do not have to accept bank balances as payment.  If you don't accept checks, debit card or credit cards there is no way for you to accept bank balances.  I have patronized several different businesses which only accept cash payments, there is nothing illegal about this.  I know that cash=federal reserve notes and is not backed by anything, but there is still a distinct difference between printing money and magicking it into existence with double entry book keeping.  The inflationary result may not be any different but the process certainly is and if, for instance, I have a hot dog business which takes only cash, but I allow regular customers to run a tab, their debt to me is not going to be wiped out when I say that I cannot accept a check, debit card, or credit card payment to clear their tab.   You are changing the terms from the previous debate now.  Previously you were talking about bank balances, now you are talking about federal reserve notes.  Nobody has to accept bank balances.  Yes, the government can print money, but that is a different process from magicking money into existence by changing the ledger lines in a bank. One easy fix.  If itty bits become overly valuable start a new program.  Works the exact same way, but it's new so it's worth much less. You guys keep talking about legal tender laws.  However I know there are businesses that do not accept Credit.  They aren't obligated to accept checks, and if they don't have credit card machines they aren't going to be accepting credit or debit either.  Now obviously limiting payment options limits your potential customers, but inability to accept a certain type of payment doesn't mean the customer is not obligated to pay. Does this forum not log IP addresses?  Of course he could be using TOR, but no way to know without checking... bitcoin has become more popular, which means more people generating, which means less generation per person.  Also, apparently, Nenelod is hogging the generation currently. I thought the goal was to trade it for goods and services.  Certainly some of those goods can be gold and silver. I think this is a mentality that we will need to avoid in the longrun if we are going to have this take off as an independent currency.  Easy exchanges for dollars are good, pegging the bitcoin to the dollar for sales, not so good. I don't see how you can declare a loss on sold services.  Perhaps you are selling your services below market value when you sell them for bitcoin, but you are still not losing money.  Now if you are paying someone else to perform those services, then perhaps you are losing money.  Theoretically your company could be paying you to perform that service, but in that case you need a source of income to pay yourself with, bitcoins don't count if you are paying yourself in dollars. My point was, ok, let's say you buy 5 minutes of tarot card reading from me.  That comes to 50 bitcoins at the current rate.  No tax declaration for the moment.  I want to use those coins to get something that isn't being sold for bitcoin at the moment, so I sell 50 bitcoins to someone for $2.50.  $2.50 is the income that I had better declare.Now if I take that 50 bitcoins and turn around and buy some computer parts off bitlist, well, then it moves into the complex area you are taking about. Ahhhh, I was reading these backwards.  Thanks for straightening that out for me. I put up an offer to buy, it's below the ask price, so I am not surprised no transaction happened, but is it going to show up as the highest buy offer?  currently that is 0 (which I assume means nobody is buying bitcoins right now) Yep, that was my point.  The only exchange that isn't just a mediator is, I believe, bitcoinexchange.com
Yeah, the whole barter aspect (which is what it is, not giving the product away) is where taxation gets complex.  I certainly would not write the product off as a loss, although not mentioning the bitcoins you received might be ok.  My main point was that if you sell bitcoins for another currency it would be abysmally foolish not to report that as taxable income. His stated goal of bankrupting the exchanges is where I think his basic mistake is.  I don't think he realizes that bitcoinmarket is not an exchange in the same way bitcoinexchange is.  It's a market place and if he sells enough bitcoins to exhaust the current demand he will make the price go down, for a while, but he won't be making any real difference.  He will make himself some money, but he seems to be doing so at the expense of his server clients, which is pretty poor business practices and I hope it is pointed out to them. well, leaning on your customers wouldn't work, since they don't know anything about you except for a webpage.  And ending prohibition would be something you would not want to happen, because it would destroy your profit margins and replace your business with something legal and convenient.  I don't disagree with the rant, but I do think it is fairly irrelevent to the topic at hand. Right, trying to find a way to dodge taxes is generally not a good idea. Also because, at the moment, bitcoins are cheaper on MTgox, although I am not sure if there are any actually available since with a higher bid than sell transactions should be being resolved. Your trade mechanism seems to favor those buying bitcoins at the expense of those selling.  I am not certain but I believe that bitcoin market take the average between the high bid and the low ask while you set the price at the low ask.  This is not necessarially a bad thing, but I did want to point it out. I'm not.  It will adjust downward again once he takes his node offline.  heh, calling him on the phone might cost more than 4 bitcoins. bitcoin exchange has been down for a while.  I don't think it has anything to do with him. true,  I guess we find out on Monday if it is going to go up, down, or stay the same.  I predict a fall to about 2 or 3 cents before a more gradual climb resumes. I don't know what bitcoins eventual userbase will be.  However I cannot imagine deflation  ever reaching the level ArtemZ describes.  The reason being that if the smallest possible denomination (which I am going to call an itty bit) becomes too valuable it ceases to be useful.  If I cannot buy bread or milk with bitcoins, or pay my electricity bill, or make other small purchases I am going to transform bitcoins into other currency in order to do so.  When I transform bitcoins into other currencies I am reducing the demand for bitcoins and this drives the prices down.  Now currently I can't do those things with bitcoins, and I am not liquidating all my bitcoins to do so, but that is because i only have a very small amount of bitcoins, and I expect them to appreciate in value.  If I had a large amount of bitcoins (and in ArtemZ's scenario one itty bit is a large amount because it has large purchasing power)  I would want to exchange part of it even if I expected it to increase in value because it would not be of any use to me.  Bitcoins value is determined by their usefulness. Ahh there it is.  He appears to only have 4 bitcoins anyways. I found this site googling bitcoins to see what people were saying.  They seem to offer bitcoins for dollars, via creditcard, at a rate that is radically different than the market rate.  They aren't on the trade page on bitcoin.org though and I haven't seen them mentioned anywhere else.  I don't have a credit card, so I can't take advantage of their significant underpricing of bitcoins even if I decided to trust what seems like a slightly shady site, I am curious about anyone else's take on this though. how do I find that?  I have been browsing the market kind of obsessively today. I have noticed that trade volume is down significantly from yesterday, which I think means price will decrease, for a bit.   I see 1 problem with directing through an exchange.  There is not currently a lot of liquidity on the exchanges, a merchant dealing with high value items or in high volumes could accidentally cause some severe price distortions that would correct and end up with that merchant being paid less than he or she should. This should correct as more people enter the economy however.Another very handy software widget would be something which converts bitcoin prices to dollars at the current market rate at the merchant's preferred exchange.  That way dollar denominated customers using a credit card or paypal or what have you would see an accurate price without the merchant having to adjust it constantly  (this could also work for people wishing to set prices in dollars and have them displayed in bitcoins, probably more useful right now since bitcoin value has been fluctuating (upwards) much more rapidly than dollar value fluctuates.) a prepaid account with the snack machine company works great for snack machines in corporate cafeterias (or other places with a fairly static consumer base) not so much for areas with a large transitory consumer base, such as airports, ferry boats, train stations etc.   I am not completely clear on tax law, and I know it varies from place to place.  However, for those of you who feel bitcoin is a way to avoid taxes, it's anonymous nature may make this easier but anytime you exchange bitcoin for dollars, or any other national fiat money you are creating a record and i would strongly suggest factoring that into your income for taxation.  I know that the eventual goal is a bitcoin economy which does not require exchange to or from another currency, but at the moment that is not the case and the fact that the tax man will get you if you pretend as if income from sale of bitcoins did not occur is something people should remember. I just attempted to post a service (my tarot card reading)  Could just be my e-mail server being slow, it sometimes is, but has anyone else had it take a long time to get the confirmation e-mail? Tarot card readings.  Current rate is 10 btc per minute. Contact me to arrange a reading by IM (I can currently do yahoo, MSN, AIM, ICQ and skype, no problem adding more) or via voice chat (preferably skype) or telephone.   That sounds like something that can encourage a lot of arbitrage, most likely at the expense of bitcoin exchange if he gets it running again.I don't think he has all that much at risk, but it seems like with the presence of a floating market he's going to lose it all at some point unless he also becomes a floating market.
Yeah, I understood the fractional reserve thread.  I am not sure that I fully understand escrow, I know it is usually used in large transactions to ensure the seller that the cash is indeed on hand, and will stay that way.  Part of the purpose, as far as I can tell, is usually to slow down transactions, thus making them more secure.  In this case it seems the point is more to speed up transactions without losing security, which looks more like a debit account than an escrow service, but I may be misunderstanding what an escrow service is. At current bitcoin to dollar exchange that's 500 dollars.  I am curious what sort of software you are selling that is worth that much. what you folks are calling an escrow sounds a lot like a debit card account. I may be reading the page wrong, but it looks to me like the bid is .05 and the ask is .055555 (at least on paypal, which was what I was looking at before) I understand what you are saying about an advantage of being the opening trade, would this be something which was likely to drive the price of bitcoins in dollars up or down though?(edit) so looking at the trading data the opening bid was, indeed, .1  how did you know that? .08 was, if not a bubble, a spike, since it is down to .05 now.  I'm betting on it going down a bit more before it starts climbing again.(of course, I'm only planning on buying like 10 dollars worth of bitcoins anyways, so it's not a real momentous decision) It's definitely exciting.  Makes me glad I got in when I did, and makes me wish I had been in longer.  If it drops soon I'll most likely be trading in some dollars for bitcoins, but I am still of the opinion it's a bubble for now and will drop. I wouldn't go so far as to accuse people of doing a pump and dump.  I think some may be misplacing their optimism however.  I don't know, but I would guess that this is a bubble and that prices will go back down in a short time, although perhaps not as low as they used to be, and I do expect them to go considerably higher in the relatively short term (as in a year or so) Point being that any links between the exchanges and gambling sites is probably a bad idea. The dealer would be sending multiple packages of exactly the same weight, according to the OP.  One to the real purchaser, one to a random address.Of course this is something done for legal reasons, and often.   The point is that it is one more factor that can be used to cut down on the suspect pool and once it is cut down enough they can use other techniques to find out just who is the dealer. That could actually also be a bubble.  Although a different kind of one.  On the other hand it could be a real increase in interest in bitcoins, which would be great if it allows for a real economy to start growing.I think the mention on Global Guerillas may have caused some of the interest, I know that is where I came from. I saw that.  Bitlist.  Needs some tweaking still but it is a very promising development. wasn't e-gold shut down for facilitating gambling?  I don't think bitcoins can be, since they are a decentralized p2p system, however the exchange sites certainly can.   Entropia universe includes private ownership in ways that might be interesting.  I haven't been able to play it yet, my computer is too slow, but it appears that servers are owned by various companies, not by one overarching company. I am really excited to see this.  I think the growth of exchange sites for real goods is what will really build the strength of bitcoin as an actual currency.  I do agree that using BTC instead of $ is a good thing, and that you need to tinker with the price entering mechanism if it is marking amounts as free.  Currently 0.01 BTC is an extremely small amount, but that is something that may very well change in the future and it's usually easier to integrate this sort of functionality early rather than late.  Bitcoins divide down to 8 decimal places. .08 on paypal?  That's like twice the price from yesterday isn't it?  There is definitely some bubbling going on.  I wish I had been in bitcoins earlier and had more built up, I'd totally help deflate it.  Oh well, I am sure another will come along later when I have more bitcoins. The paranoia that I see on these boards kind of surprises me.  If we were to think of this as a cheaper, more secure version of paypal, rather than a replacement for the US dollar I think we'd all sleep easier at night, as well as be less likely to bring the government down on us. Right.  I was asking if this is going to be an option that will be a part of the GUI for the bitcoin client.  Making it simple for someone to charge transaction fees if they so desire. So not for about 20 years?   I've seen transaction fees mentioned a few times but I don't see any way in the client to implement them. 76.181.196.213There's mine.  not up 24/7, but pretty close.
