Update: I just got a refund and then was able to withdraw the funds. This time I received the transaction almost instantly. Hopefully this was just a temporary glitch on their part.  48 hours later, and still no BTC. Support is giving me the run around. This is ridiculous.  I bugged them again, and I got basically the same reply, that a "system administrator" had been notified. No estimated time to resolve. In my mind, there is no acceptable reason to have a delay of this length to withdraw a small amount of BTC. This was my first time using their company after trading some XRP for BTC, and I would be very hesitant to use their service again after this experience.  I initiated a withdrawal of a small amount of bitcoin (<1 BTC) from bitstamp yesterday. The transaction shows completed in their system, yet no activity has hit the blockchain. I filed a support ticket, and almost immediately got a reply that a "System Administrator" had been notified, but nearly 24 hours later, no further reply from support, and no BTC in my wallet. What is going on?   rEBsa3RTygHU6c5s9XKCXQQFPm34K1ZQnW I just noticed this as well.. its very strange. Legally you would probably need a Money Transmitter license in all 50 states. It would cost you several million dollars in fees to legally set up.  Yep, I just got the following spam from 'bittrader566@yahoo.com': It would still be a fishing expedition. I have had a MtGox account for months but I never used their platform for a single trade.  Just got this in my email..  not cool! My respect for Google has only increased due to this quick response. Thank you! I just had this happen to my account too..  frozen out of Gmail when trying to login. I had to verify my identity via a SMS. Hopefully bitcoin will only become stronger due to this incident. (people will take security more seriously) Thanks for getting the Mac version out quickly! I'd like to know this as well. Neat Widget..  thanks! Anyone in the NYC area interested in my mid-2007 MacBook Pro (Model: MA895LL)?  I've been the only owner, and laptop has been upgraded to 4gb of RAM and a 160gb HD. Comes with the AC adapter, non-OEM battery (OEM battery is included too, but does not hold much of a charge), and freshly installed Mac OS X 10.6 Snow Leopard. I'm looking for 40 BTC in exchange for my laptop. (subject to change with exchange rate) I'd also prefer to do the trade in person in Manhattan.Thanks!   Exactly. The rate of bitcoin production is more or less constant. The client only generates new private keys when you create a new receiving address. If you don't do that, the backup can be as old as you want, I believe.
