everything is still ok. if you compare with the past, ETH price is still high. ETH's manager is Vitalik Buterin. I strongly believe that he will have the manor to develop ETH technology. After that, the price will grow back.  No problem man! no thing can always grow or always drop. all things need to develop with Sinx model. up and down. keep calm and buy more coins, bright future is waiting you lolz... this is really a stupid opinion. it is just a fluctuation of the market. Do you see that there are more and more countries accept crypto. G20 also do not ban cryptocurrency. I dont know why can you think that crypto will die?  I have heard that there are some mistakes from ETH technology. But i cant check it. But i think that it is just a fake info. with this situation now, there are some Whale or Shark try to dump the market to buy with cheap price certainly, it will recover. but it also needs more time. As you know, there are too many fake news now and it makes the market falls down so much. the FUDers always sell in panic and this is very terrible. After a long time, they will recognize and come back. although Ripple has a good future now when there are many corporations and banks use its technology for their services, I do not think that it can reachs that target soon. Maybe 2019 it will hit 5$ certainly airdrop is a good way to eann money. However, it is very difficult to find out a good project. I have joined in CTR and Stellar airdrops. They are really good. But with others, they are just scams. I'm very sorry but if your account is just newbie, you cant join in any good projects. The first you have to comment free in this forum by good posts to earn Merit. After upgrade your account to Jr.Member or Full Member you can take part in bounty if you wanna get profit as Novermber,2017, you must be patient. If you sell your BTC now, how can you earn money back? I think you are smart enough to understand.  in my opinion, XRP, WPR and INS are 3 good coins for long term now. These coins come from successfull ICOs which are potential increase in the future.  honestly, 600$ is not enough for you to invest in NEO, BTC or ETH. if you wanna earn much profit. with this fund, i suggest you invest in INS, XRP, Stellar, WPR and SXUT. these are good coins with cheap price, you can buy with huge quantity.  This game is not suitable for newbie who are lack of knowledge and always scare. This market need the investors who understand the cryptocurrency and who are patient enough to trade. it is hard to predict with dip market now. But based on my experience, altcoins price will grow up from June, 2018. this needs a patience from the investors if they want to earn money.  in my opinion, 5 coins under 10$ now can reach 300$ in 4 years are: Stellar, IOTA, Omisego, Wepower and INS. These portfolio combine between big old coins and some new tokens from successful ICO. I believe that it will help you get big profit your portfolio is so good. However, i still add one more coin in it. That is WPR. This coin comes from Wepower project - a good product uses clean energy to mine BTC. espessially, this project is supported by Lithuania Government Minister. I believe that its price will grow up in the future if your friend have succeeded with BTC, you can ask him give you advice. I believe that he will have much knowledge and experience to tell you. there is no doubt that BTC open the new technology trading and payment for human. but it still has many weaknesses such as transaction fee, transaction speed and the size of blocks. i think that the team can solve these problem in the future yes, i totally agree with you. this moment is different the past. we must spend more time to invest and wait the development. The investors is more intelligent and they just invest in good coins I prefer bounty than airdrop because most of airdrop are scams. they create a bullshit token without any product to support it. so do not join airdrop i totally agree with your opinion, after a dropping down there will be a rising up wave. I think it will happen in May and you should buy BTC right now with low price
you should not too be worried about the dropping down. this is just a fluctuation of the market when there are too many bad information in the market. But it is just a fake news and China will accept BTC in the future. i believe that the BTC price will rise up soon in the past i have experienced in panic sell and buy. this is really a worsest feeling when i lose my money. so now, before selling any coins, i have to research carefully and do not sell in panic.  of course, the reward is just for the patient person. most people sell when the price fluctuates and only you hold your coin, you will get big profit.  there is no doubt that NEO is one of the best altcoins in the market. it has a huge development in 2018 with increasing from $50 to $100. I believe that you can get big profit after 2 years. I have researched some ICO rating website and have choosen some potential projects in 2018 that you can consider. my list is Reward Mob, Cardstack, Helbiz, and Crypto flix there are many ways to predict the crypto price. if you are good at technical analyst, you can use the models to predict the price. If not, you must follow the market 24/24 to catch the news to give your prediction  yes, if you can treat trading as a game, this makes you funny and you can do your work better. However, I also wanna remind you that you must be patient in any situation. both panic selling or buying leads to the loss.  2000 dollar is really a good budget to invest and trade. you can choose a portfolio with 3 to 5 coins. here is my suggestion for you: 50% for BTC, 30% Stellars, 10% for CTR and 10% for INS your portfolio is too big. I think you should reduce the quantity and increase the quality. my suggestion for you is: BTC ($2000), ETH ($2000), UTRUST ($500), INS ($1000) and Stellar ($1000).  yes, this is really a right recommend. you can see the bad affection of the fake news into the market now. the market cap reduced from $700 billions to $460 billions. If each investors cant change their mind, the market wont recover soon.  lolz.. yes, obviously, holding is the safest strategy in this market. you can see, the market has passed the strong development and this is the stable time. i think at least next 6 months, the BTC will rise up quickly in my opinion, poloniex, binance and Kucoins are some good exchanges in the marke now. all of exchanges are famous with millions traders in the world. You will be safe when using them I think that technical analysis is just useful with normal market. but with the cryptocurrency market which has many big news everyday, we can not trade just based on the technical skills. we need hunting information skills to succeed it depends on your skills. but i think that it is rarely people who can succeed with trading because the Sharks and Whales control the market. They can pump and dump easily. if you are not good at knowledge and experience, hodling is better.  #JOINBitcointalk username: MacRohardForum rank: Full MemberPosts count:  190WAVES address: 3PB53DTEC1wnt5HUUoMqkSA8xoLo4uAxicD so for me this is time for us to buy more cheap altcoin. people dont know altcoin/token price does have any business with bitcoin and keep sell low.  everything will recover soon so if I have many follower can I get more coin than other. let say around 1000-5000 follower will have more reward? if it break 7k5$ so it can fall to 5k at the end of this week. and will recover a little bit on monday to 6k then fall down to 3-4k just keep calm. even price falling to 2k or 1k. you still can hold. everything will recover soon. maybe need 1-2 years. lol check out some card like centra so you can cash out crypto to money easy without fee. and btw because high fee so I dont think bitcoin price can go up anymore
ya. easy profit but easy to loss your money too. but I think hold both of them are good. so bitcoin can't replace gold so I think you should pick up waves. very easy to create token on waves. another project is stellar. they create a easy platform for us create token.   spectre dividend. just wait they release their payout rate so I will buy some and hold. trade.io is good too if bitcoin price dump. everything dump. if bitcoin price to da moon. everything to the moon/ have my anwser I dont think it over so you should cash out your money to usdt to protect your fund.  cheer when 10k$ just for 1 bread. dont post anything like this or you will be ban by admin.  make money in cryptocurrency very easy.  you can join some bounty campaign, fauchet, trading.. many things to do because it is the only way to move your asset to another country. bitcoin can do it easily Yes, both signals point out that is a scam. You have worked well when researching carefully. This is the best way to avoid losing money. Although BTG price has grown up over $314 now, I do not like it. It is just a fake Bitcoin. I just believe in Bitcoin and Bitcoin cash. That's all To be honest, it is hard to choose the right ICO to invest. There are many factors effect in a succesful project. the devs team can't control all of them. However, let research carefully with his advice, you can increase success's rate. I totally agree with this view. 2017 is a popular year of cryptocurrency. and now, 2018 is the development of crypto. Many and many coporations will accept crypto in payment for their survices. haha... there are coins which has a better growth than Bitcoin now. You can see Dash, Litecoin, Ripple,...Both of them are ok. If you do not like top coins, you can choose new coins such as INS, H2O, PRG, NEU,... to invest.  Poor you. In my opinion, there is no way to recover your password. I think that you should foget it and start trading again. Do not waste your time Although IOTA price has fallen down over 11% in last week. However, IOTA is still a potential coin for invesment in long time. You should buy it now to get huge profit when it recovers No. In my opinion your portfolio are so good now. Did you research carefully yet? I'm so amazing when you can choose the good coins when you are just a newbie. haha...He said that DASH,ETH and Monero are crazy coins? lol....I cant not believe how could he say that. Maybe he is also crazy. haha. After receiving any recommends, everyone should research carefully.... Yes, I totally agree with you. ETH is really a strong coin wich provide ERC20 for development of other tokens. So, it completely increase to $1000 in 2018 and $5000 in next few years After a prediction of  John McAfee about Bitcoin in the past, I think we must be carefully with his prediction. In my opinion, top 3 small altcoin are Change, Oxycoin and Blue.  I think you had the answer now. ETH has become the second coins in market with the market cap is over $73 Billions. Have you buy ETH yet?
Actually, putting all your budget into 1 coin is the risky gamble. however, your budget is not big now. Moreover, this is the best way to earn money quickly now. So, I would like to suggest you one coin, that is Playkey. Its project provides the platform can all poor gamers around the world can lend its PC to play the strong games. And its ICO succeeded. You should consider carefully before buying. there are only 10 days to the end of this year. And despite ETH has a big growth in recently, I do not think that it can reach $1000. There is no motivation now for the pump. what is your favorite time? Long time for investing or short time for daily trading? In my opinion, XRP, IOTA is suitable for long time and MONA, XRB for daily trading. Yes, your advice is right. 3 to 4 coins is a great portfolio. XRP, DASH, OMG are my choices. They have good developments in 2017. Focus the market and trade them, you will get profit. I think that it is very hard when you look for a 1000x coin now. Both of top altcoin has increased very much in this year. So the best way is that you can research and invest in ICO projets such as INS, Trade.io, Wepower,... Congratulation if you have invested in Litecoin in the past due to its price has increased over $300 now. There is no doubt about Litecoin value. It is the silver of cryptocurrency.  Both of them are good altcoin. It is hard to point out which is better. In 2017, Litecoin goes up about 9000% from $4.6 to $366 meanwhile ETH rises up more than 9900% from $8 to $840 now. So, I think you should devide your fund into two parts for two coins. I completely believe that if Bitcoin cant improve its weaknesses, it can be replaced in the future in payment. However, using in payment and price are different. Maybe, Bitcoin cash can be used in payment more than Bitcoin. Bitcoin price is still higher.  Your prediction is really good. IOTA has steped a big step in its development road. The "Internet of things" technology is better blockchain technology of Bitcoin. I believe that IOTA will develop in the future Yes, I totally agree with you. Litecoin is just about $300 now. It needs a pushing to hit the new peak. However, the good news still does not come yet. So, its price won't goes up fast in near future.  Your target is getting $30k from $500. That is really a hard mission. However, I also give you some advice. The first $500 is not a big budget, so you should choose cheap coins to invest such as Ripple, Stellar, Playkey, Civic and Siacoin. The second, with each coins, you have to research and set an target entrying and exiting price. And the third remember that do not greedy. These are just baseless speculations. Bitcoin is still rising in the market. And When Bitcoin reduces, why altcoins will be die? Give me the reason plz? Bitcoin and altcoin have different development. So, you should not be worry about Bitcoin reducing if you dont hold it. Yes, I totally agree with your view. When we invest in cheap coin. We have more oppotunites when it rises. However, to find out a good cheap coin to invest is so difficult. Besides, you also can be dangerous when buying the unfamous coin. therefore, the best way is that you should spend much time to research before giving a decision. My advice for you considering is : Stellar, Ripple, Playkey, Civic,.. If you wanna choose a short term investment coin, you can choose Ripple. In 7 days lately, it has grown over 200%. This is the best coin which has the best development in top altcoin.  In my opinion, INS token is the potential token which can go up 100x to 1000x in 2018. You can research to know that INS Ecosysem is one of the best ICO I have seen with $37 millions capital now. Let invest in before too late. You will be amazed if you know that, Bitcoin and ETH are not fasted development in 2017. The answer is Ripple with 7000% growth in 2017. Therefore, that is certainly my choice in 2018 Both ETH and Bitcoin is too expensive now. If you wanna get money fast, you have to choose the potential cheap coin with huge development such as Ripple.  I think that Litecoin will try pass Ripple to get the third position. However, it can't do that soon. My prediciton is that Litecoin price will hit $400 in March, 2018.  I do not think so. The distance is 3 times, ETH $520 and BCH $1470. How can ETH catch up with Bitcoin? There are no signals proves that I think that is a loop. Bitcoin is the first coin and with own advantages, many people wanna owe it for payment. This leads its price increase quickly. When Bitcoin price goes up too fast, it attracts the investors for profit. 
It depends many things. How much money you have? If you have a big budget, you can choose top biggest coin now ETH, Bitcoin cash, Litecoin, Monero, Dash... If not, you can choose cheaper coin such as IOTA, NEM, Stratis,... You can look at the market now, ETH has passed the $540 level. This proves ETH bright future. So, there is no reson why we do not support ETH now. If you wanna find a coin can hold in 2 or 3 years, you should research the history of development in 2017. It can provide you something worth. IOTA, Litecoin are my choices. There are too many ICO projects now. If you wanna find a good project, you have to research so much. So, I wanna suggest you one potential project I have joined, that is INS Ecosystem. This project has raised over $14 millions dollars. You can access its website to know more. I think that forks dont affecs BTC positively. Maybe when the hard forks happen, the demand of Bitcoin will increase and the price also go up. However, it's not real. After fork, the price also recude as fast as it increase.  yes, I think you are right. All traders know the rule buy low and sell high. But they can't do that because of lack of information. So we need to learn how to get the news first. The first you of trading is that you should not buy anything you dont understand. Before investing in any coin, you must reseach carefully. That's my advice for you I think is a nice idea. Ethereum is going up again after the decreasing wave. I believe that it will hit new peaks in 2018. Because it is one of basic altcoins which  creates the platform for the development of ICOs token. If you wanna find some good projects to invest, I will introduce you trade.io and INS ecosystem. Trade.io creates an asset trading platform with crypto, precious metals, oil, commodities, indices, global equities meanwhile INS Ecosystem creates a commodity platform connecting directly manufacturers and consumers. Both of them are good project with experient Dev team. I believe they will ICO successfully. I think that trade.io is really a good project we can invest. This project creates an asset trading platform based on blockchain technology. It not only trades crypto but also offer Forex and CFDs over precious metals, oil, commodities, indices, global equities. It has mobilized over $13 millions now. You should research and invest in it. The Bitcoin price is $14200 now and there is nothing can prevent it reaches to $15000 before the end of 2017. I also think that it can over $15000 becacuse many investors buy Bitcoin before the hard fork now. Your view is definitely exactly! Bitcoin will be come the best payment system which can replace Banking system now. Besides, Bitcoin also become a good kind of asset like Gold or Diamond. Where we can put our asset and receive the profit. Certainly, Bitcoin will become a kind of currency in the future. It has many advantages about anonymous and not depend on the third parties. I think this will take place in next 30 years. Before the new fork in December 15th, I think you should buy Bitcoin now to receive free coins. Besides, I believe with high demand now, Bitcoin price is going to grow up to $18000 in the end of this year. Nice project. Even same name with another ICO but this is better. can I swap my ethd? I see deadline is 11/10!  I hope this news will help Centra price go up soon I think genesis and hydrominer is 2 awesome project. get more than 5 score on hacked.com I dont think Russia want ban bitcoin. Just like China. people need to know nothing can stop bitcoin now I think we may have a happy life without money. Just like the old day. no more internet, no more electric
as I say on previous topic. bitcoin cash is dying. I still dont know why people dont accept bitcoincash seem this is really truth. people still fall in love with bitcoin and doesnt make any move even bch is better Ya. China ban ICO not ban banana. And  they buy banana a lot. Just check some financial data. I think this is a good project just keep calm. I almost think everything will down when panic sell when China block ICO. but now everything recover and become normal this project is good. had bookmark this project. waiting for more information. by the way the logo is beautiful depend on how much money u have. what is your trade style. u want hold or invest in short term. Long term I think u should buy eth and bcc and short term is... dont known. haha. market is hard to think right now Because ETC very low now, you can afford it and second, it’s from ethereum so you can expect a bright future of etc You are new here so first you have to read and research so that you have knowledge, then find out an ico that you believe and hold a small amout and feeling how the market work. Each country has it own currency and in some country that have an economy unstable, they don’t allow bitcoin trades, bitcoin can influence to their currency Some of coins are disappear, I think that a lot of man have lost huge but the others still hold their coin and this market still running day by day, I think you shoud read more and find out by yourself.     why still have comment about this topic.. it's should be close. now is BTC vs ETH BTC vs BCC rM4KpmWMaqgokuMSQbyCiymJQqCZ9KkQSF Mine is up and listening on 2001:ba8:1c8:104:6a05:caff:fe05:7b39 - no ipv6 connections at the moment though. :p For general exchange withdrawls probably not so useful in markets where other deposit/withdrawl methods are readily available (eg: dwolla in the us, intersango in the uk etc). For people in other parts of the world it does seem like a competitive way to get money out of the exchanges (given that their only other alternative is a wire transfer).There is also the aspect that it allows people to operate completely anonymously. Purveyors of silk products and road builders that accept bitcoin will be able to withdraw their profits in cash to pay their suppliers without divulging their identities. Can someone explain what has changed to allow this to be possible? It sounds like you're somehow able to push payments to a credit card number instead of debiting it. Have Visa/Mastercard changed the rules?Dose this work with otherwise non-reloadable visa/mastercard gift cards? The IP addresses are useless. Anyone can relay their transactions through any other node. Simply blocking blockchain.info from connecting to your node will 'cause some other random node to appear to be the source of your transaction (depending on who blockchain.info hears it from first since they won't hear it from you anymore).You can use the -addnode command line parameter to direct which other node shows up in blockchain.info.While the blockchain info may be more accurate than not for casual bitcoiners (although it is still wrong alot of the time) it will be completley inaccurate for anyone taking the most trivial steps to hide their IP. +1. UKash would be great.. you can buy UKash vouchers at most corner stores in the UK - so it'd be like the cash deposit via a bank, except it's a cash deposit via your local corner store instead (open late, weekends, etc).There's also absolutely no requirement to show ID. You hand over the cash and the corner store guy hands you a receipt with a code on it.I guess the fees are probably a bit higher than the bank cash deposit thing but I think it would be a pretty robust solution, I'm surprised that none of the exchanges seem to take it yet. You might also want to look at contracting directly with http://www.epayworldwide.co.uk/ and/or http://www.paypoint.co.uk/. These are the companies that operate the payment terminals in the corner stores that facilitate voucher sales (such as UKash, but there are actually lots of them - you could setup a bitinstant voucher on the paypoint/epay terminals and cut out the ukash middleman - but it would probably still be good to have ukash since they're already setup and in other countries as well). You can buy an android phone for less than $100 (http://www.dealextreme.com/p/a6000-android-2-3-smartphone-w-3-2-touch-screen-dual-sim-tv-wi-fi-and-gps-black-silver-109574) that could print via usb or bluetooth. The 'companies' underlaying the 'securities' are not untouchable, so the securities won't be either. If the company founders all get arrested and the company's assets sold off at government auction it doesn't make a damn bit of difference that some entry in a blockchain somewhere says you own some part of it. If the company maintains it's own shareholder register then it seems reasonable that it will be about as secure as the company itself - which is basically what you want. This questions comes up every few months. You can't. There is no point in storing the securities in a block chain because ultimately they are controlled by the issuer (company) in question. The only reason it works for bitcoins is because bitcoins basically aren't tied to anything in the real world, they only exist in the block chain.Shares in a company are tied to the company. The company may as well maintain their own centralized share holder register because if they're going to defraud you then they're going to defraud you anyway so you might as well trust them to maintain the register too.
It's quite legitimate to not include transactions in your block if the fees aren't high enough (which currently I guess they aren't!) to make it worth your while. This is the dynamic that encourages users to pay fees and it's a normal part of the bitcoin system. The IP address detection thing doesn't really work.. it relies on blockcain.info connecting to every connectable node (and possibly doing some funny business to get as many inbound connections as possible? - are they in dnsseed? anyone know?)Anyone can relay transactions through anyone else - just do -nolisten -connect=<xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx> when you start bitcoin to make it only connect to one other node and then the transaction will appear to come from that node rather than you when people look on blockchain.info (assuming the node you -connect too is itself connected to blockchain.info and assuming the node you -connect too isn't actually blockchain.info itself).You could also modify your bitcoin client so that it sends transactions only to certain nodes that have connected to you - that way you could selectively relay through hosts that aren't even listening on port 8333.  Most likely so that they can accept payments from Americans and Europeans... All SWIFT does is allows secure communication between two banks. I expect Iranian banks have already setup other ways to communicate with their correspondent banks. With the internet, banks don't really need this middleman inferfering with their communication. A simple SSL tunnel over the internet is more secure and has the added benefit that the US doesn't get a feed of all the transactions. It's also much much cheaper. There isn't much info and I don't know for sure but I'd guess that they are charging £20/month *AND* a 40-50% per transaction fee. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zhou_Tong_%28archer%29Zhou Tong could well be an alias. Is he really 18 years old? Is he chinese? Who knows.  The phone companies charge very high transaction fees for SMS payments.. usually 40% to 50%.. there's no way to make it cheaper using this technology - unless the telcos slash their prices. It seems like it is possible in some circumstances.. such as if they claim their dwolla and/or bank account was hacked. I think it's quite alot harder to get a dwolla transaction reversed than a paypal one though. This isn't really true. Multisig will not stop bitcoins from being stolen. If it's an online wallet that supports automated withdrawl then hackers can just do whatever the application normally does to process withdrawls. Maybe the webapp makes an rpc call to some other server to process the second signature.. fine, you just do that. easy. If you can make automated/instant withdrawls then so can a hacker - there's no way around this fundamental issue. I don't think Birch really understands bitcoin and thinks it's the same (but less efficient) than some centralized system like mpesa. At one point he claims that bitcoin is a payment system and he could use it to manage transactions in pounds or dollars (rather than in bitcoins). The only way that could happen is if the government of the UK or the US moved all pounds or dollars into a block chain as all transactions have to happen there. Given how unlikely that is, I don't think he really knows what he's saying.The bitcoin blockchain system seems complicated and unwieldy but really it's just amazing that someone was able to come up with a system that works without a central authority - at all. I think it's unlikely we'll see any major improvements on the public ledger inside a blockchain idea anytime soon, so predictions of some next big thing taking over from bitcoin seem unlikely to me at the moment.I've had my cards declined enough times for spurious 'for my safety' security checks to be tired of the payment processor second guessing my payments. There is a clear market for cash like transactions on the internet that are private and free from interference (however well intentioned) by any 3rd party.I'm sure there will still be a large market for centralized digital currency wallets and NFC and all that stuff - but none of that is competing in the same space as bitcoin.. they're just new debit card systems. agreed, however it is legal to directly sell securities that you own to someone else. You could accept BTC in such a transaction (or any other form of payment you feel like). The question is only complicated because if you have shares in a brokerage account, you don't really have them in your posession to sell so you would need to convince your broker to transfer them to your client.. that might be problematic, but you could ask your broker to send you the share certificates and then transfer them to your client yourself. I'm pretty sure it would be legal, as long as everyone was properly identified and recorded. If you withdraw shares in certificate form your brokerage you can call up the company's registrar and reassign them to anyone you want, so I don't see why the brokerages would get in the way - but I suppose they might refuse to transfer them to someone else at another brokerage.. that wouldn't be a legal issue though just the brokerage being paranoid and unhelpful. Yes, but that is probably the short term effect of an over investment in shale gas technology.. someone is going to lose alot of money on shale gas. Many of the shale gas fields that were brough online only a few years ago are already starting to deplete. This was not expected. To keep up production there will need to be a massive continuous drilling program that certainly wouldn't be justified by current gas prices. Even as prices go up harvesting relatively small pockets of gas all over the place would require enormous invesment.It may still be one of our better options, but it's nowhere near as good as oil was, unfortunately. People tend to underestimate the sheer scale of what the oil industry has delivered us - it may not be possible to replace.I'm quite interested in LENR/cold fusion as there have been some promising experiments recently but probably nothing that will be ready for use anytime soon.In the short term the oil crisis will be solved by the economy imploding and less people driving around or flying in planes. This is pretty interesting, but actually I think it will end up hurting SWIFT more than Iran. All swift actually does is allow messages to be securely exchanged between banks. They don't need to use it and if they suddenly can't use it - some workaround will be devised which, once in use might turn into a long term swift competitor that can be used by other countries as well.It will still be possible for Iranian banks to access their correspondent accounts at banks they do business with - it just means they won't be able to use SWIFT to communicate with those banks anymore. Initially they'll proably have to resort to fax and telephone or even email but soon some other platform will be developped - maybe just some form of online banking that works over the internet the same way our personal accounts do. Or maybe a standardized web services API. All they need to do is be able to see when a payment comes into the foreign bank so they can credit their local customer, or pay someone that their local customer wants to pay. SWIFT isn't really that great anyway and if an alternative is developped it will probably end up being much cheaper.One thing I read is that Iran's ATM network is linked to the ATM network in Bahrain and maybe some other gulf countries so presumably people living there can easily funnel money into /out of Iranian banks using the ATM network.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shetab_Banking_SystemTo understand how pointless this is - someone in Iran can probably just setup an account (either create a Ltd company or maybe even just a personal account) at a bank in Bahrain or Dubai and withdraw cash at ATMs inside Iran over the Shatab system. seems reasonable to me.. maybe trade into litecoins, solidcoins, namecoins etc and then out via a different exchange. For example buy soildcoins on btc-e and then sell them on solidcoin24.com. You also could do the same thing using liberty reserve or maybe bitinstant on the USD side of the trade.. sell the coins for LR or bitinstant and then move the LR or bitinstant to another exchange and buy bitcoins there.There's even another way you could do it.. List something forsale on bitmit.net - then when someone buys it, drop ship it from amazon using one of the bitcoin -> amazon gift voucher services. You get new bitcoins from the buyer. I've actually wondered about this - would it be possible to somehow bill bitcoin transactions as a cash advance? Perhaps if we had actual bitcoin ATMs that could do a card present pin transaction? Some ATMs actually have menu items that allow you to top up your mobile phone for instance.. perhaps a menu item could be added to some machines to buy bitcoins at an ATM and treat that as a cash advance transaction? So how does someone pay coinexchanger then? I looked at the site but it doesn't say anywhere and I can't be bothered to create an account... seems like this could be sortof implemented by the tor exit nodes putting up a donation address on the webserver tehy run on the exit IP. Then people who use the service could donate to them. If you google for paypal liberty reserve exchange several sites come up - so looks like it's quite possible and even easy. I expect the fees you'll incur from using one of these services may be quite extortionate however.
Your best bet is probably to get an offshore USD account - they're used to dealing with foreign mailing addresses. I imagine there may be some that still have access to the US ACH system. Seems like a pointless gesture that will only annoy people with the same or less ability to do anything about it. Thanks for the explanation  Can you explain why the new Lloyds TSB account is owned by a new shell company called "Interteni LTD" ? Does Lloyds TSB know who they're really dealing with? If you're creating an orphaned block then you wouldn't get the 50btc... so your whole reward would be the stolen coins.[/quote]For this scam to work, your block must get orphaned. It's a possibility still that your block would get picked up by the next miner/pool who solves a block, in which case, your attack didn't work, but you got the 50 btc.[/quote]There is actually a simple way to still keep the 50btc - you just need to pay it to the mybitcoin depodit address that your other funds are being sent too.. then, assuming mybitcoin accepts it, you get to keep the 50BTC also. It would actually make more sense for mybitcoin to have been gradually selling off the bitcoins *before* shutting down the site. Maybe most of them were sold a month ago when the price hit $30. This would be utterly pointless. If people have to rely on a central counterparty to redeem their certificates for gold (or anything else - people have proposed that share registries might be maintained in a bitcoin block chain but again that would be pointless) that central counterparty might as well maintain the database of who owns what. There's no benefit to having a complicated distributed database like bitcoin for that when all the risk is already concentrated in a central counterparty. If your central counterparty is going got cheat you then they will. If the government forces the central counterparty to take some action then they will. It doesn't make a damn bit of difference if the central counterparty keeps the records of who owns what in a simple spreadsheet. I understand that. It doesn't matter. The victim pool would pay the evil pool because of the non-payout hashes they submitted. They would turn around and repay that money to their users who were doing the work. In the middle, they strip out all the payout hashes that their users found. It doesn't help them but it hurts the victim. Well here's one scenario that just came to me.. A rival pool operator seeking to drive another pool out of business could setup a sort of proxying setup where their own users are actually processing work from the other pool. They the withhold all the payout hashes but submit all the others to the pool they're trying to kill. That way the other pool is mostly paying for it's own destruction. Ahh Ok. I think I get it. Interesting.. so if you wante to be a real bastard you could just not submit the 'good' hashes and still get paid almost as much.. but there's no financial incentive to do that since it would be worthless to you..hmmm..  The only way they could check your share then would be to submit it to another miner (or reprocess it themselves I guess).. so almost the same thing but I guess they can do it on invalid blocks as well as valid ones. My understanding of how pooled mining works is;The miners repeatidly request new work from the pool.If they find a block then they submit the solution.If they don't find any solution then they don't submit anything back. Alot of miners will never find a solution to anything during the entire time that they're a member of the pool (but still receive regular payouts of course)Unless the pools perform random spot checks on their miners by sometimes sending the same work that was recently found to contain a valid block, I don't see how they can tell the difference between someone repeatidly requesting more work and tossing it into /dev/null and someone actually working on it.I haven't looked that much into pooled mining though so maybe I am missing something. Actually I think there's a fairly simple explanation for this. The only way the mining pools can tell if you're cheating them is by randomly sending you a range of work to solve that they already know contains a coin and make sure that you actually find it. Perhaps they do this more frequently when you first join the pool. Here's your post #14;In that case your mistake is just that 50% of the computer power is going to be controlled by the top 1%, not more than 50% of the participants. Over time the computing power will become more and more concentrated and less and less 'fair'. There would be no 'fair distribution' of the coin inflation/taxation it would mostly flow to the top few percent of miners. Your system allows the top few percent of miners to tax the entire userbase at a fixed rate of taxation/inflation that they can't negotiate (as they can now with the transaction fees). This would be much less fair than the current system. It wouldn't be envy-less at all.. Soon enough the mining will be far beyond the means of the average joe (and thus the new coins would flow to an oligarchy anyway).. an inflationary system just means the miners get to tax savings as well as people actively transacting.. worse still, unlike the transaction fee system where transactees get to offer how much they want to pay for their transaction (and risk it not being processed), you would have a built in fixed rate of taxation that doesn't respond to market conditions. Does anyone have any forsale?  That doesn't really sound much like a 'currency'. If each unit has a different guarantor of variable quality then each unit would have to be valued differently. I checked my addr.dat file a few days ago and found over 130,000 unique IPs, so I think 25,000 is probably nowhere close. Here's my proposal for how a better DNS bootstrapping mechanism could work.Each client could resolve a special dns name such as u5MGeZm2ktRwMNV.bootstrap.vewhere u5MGeZm2ktRwMNV is the same as the nickname used on IRC and encodes the host/port of the querying client.The DNS server in response to this query would reply with a list of some number of verified bootstrap nodes. Rather than returning a simple DNS A record, the DNS server could reply with an SRV record specifying the port number as well as the address.The server would then add u5MGeZm2ktRwMNV to a queue of nodes to be verified and subsequently it would appear as a reply to someone else's request. Perhaps if I have time I'll hack up an implementation of this. It will be fine once the build is actually released and people start using it.. right now it's only the early adopters who are mostly already bootstrapped.
The post you quoted is from February. The numbers have certainly grown since then.. perhaps 60,000 users.. so 0.06% as large as paypal. It would be nice if someone could post some up-to-date numbers though. SSL probably isn't useful here since it relies on a trusted certificate (if you include a cert/key with the client it can be extracted, if you don't there's nothing to trust). Obfuscating the bitcoin protocol so that it can't be easily identified might not be a bad idea... then again, it works over tor.. that might be good enough. Infact, there's really very little motivation to 'hijack' a new user.. all you can really do is prevent them from communicating with other bitcoin users.. you can't steal their money or intercept their transactions.. all you could do it stop them from connecting to the network.. which they would probably notice and be able to work around. I guess you could force them to work on your block chain, but since mining is now disabled in the main client anyway that is no-longer true either. That would be true of any bootstrapping mechanism you can think of. At least with IRC it's somewhat transparent in that people can log in and see what's going on.. I don't really see any way around this though.. Also, users would probably notice that they weren't on the 'real' bitcoin network since they wouldn't be receiving any payments made to them or be able to send payments and also if they ever connect to a single real node by any of the bootstrapping mechanisms then they'd 'break out' of the illusion. Presumably you would cache the 'latest' state for every coin. bitcoin doesn't lend itself to doing any other kind of work.. what could happen is that governments, corporations or universities could approach the big mining pools and ask them to run their own software instead for a higher return.. so yea.. could happen, but it has nothing to do with bitcoin really. Makes sense.. one of the main uses of bitcoin will probably be to pay for illegal drugs.. the CIA are the world's largest drug dealers. Hi, I would be happy to pay you $500 via direct bank transfer for the 350 BTC. They already have this, it's called FedWIRE.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fedwire And you miss the point yet again. I think I've explained what I meant fairly well already so I'll probably just give up now.A human could ignore your bitcoins.. for example they could buy some from you and then not do anythin with them. I think you'll agree that isn't really your problem. If you buy something from them using bitcoins and they ignore your request for goods and keep the bitcoins then they're a dishonest trader, and you lose out - but that doesn't affect the rest of the market. There are other honest traders out there that you can deal with.The difference is, in that situation it's just a bad trader, in the other situation the entire market has to be cleared by a central authority - the corn dealer or company management. If they turn out to be a bad trader the entire market is invalid and it doesn't matter what system you used to record who owns what, because nobody owns anything because the guy that's supposed to ultimately give it to everyone has ripped you all off. Similarly if the guy is honest, it doesn't matter how he records who he owes what too. It could be a block chain, but it could just be a free spreadsheet in google apps.There probably are some other uses of proof-of-work distributed block databases, just not the ones that you've presented so far. No, you're still missing the point.Stock is only useful if honored by the company management. If you have to trust them (which you do) they might as well just maintain the share register (which is exactly how it currently works, although most companies outsource the maintenance of the database).There's no point in using a complicated proof-of-work system to maintain a simple spreadsheet when at the end of the day you're effectively just going to print off a copy and hand it to someone and just trust that they do whatever it says. They might as well maintain it centrally as it's much simpler. There's no value add for this huge p2p network crunching thousands of Ghash/s when at the end of the day someone can just ignore it.The only reason the bitcoin network works for bitcoins is there are no external trust dependencies. That won't be true in the case of any of the physical goods trading you described.BitDNS could be done that way, but it could also be done a much simpler way without proofs of work. The thing that you're missing is that with bitcoins the bitcoin is the deliverable. It doesn't represent anything at all and that's what allows it to be settled electronically.If you want things in the block chain to represent shares (ie: you want the management to count your vote come agm time or pay you a dividend) or you want some farmer to deliver you some corn then they (the management or the farmer) becomes the point of failure. You're relying on them.. the fact that there's a block chain that says they should do something is completely irrelevant. They might as well just keep their shares/corn orders in a very ordinary spreadsheet.BitDNS is a different matter.. with DNS there is something that can be delivered electronically where the thing itself is stored in the blockchain. This would work.. but you don't really need the whole proof of work thing. If all you want is a first-come-first-served name grabbing model that is basically just a simple distributed database where the p2p swarm stores the zonefile and accepts updates from keyholders and allows new registrations where the name doesn't already exist. I don't see a role for proof-of-works here. Double spending doesn't really exist.. I guess the analogy would be if you tried to transfer (sign away to a new controlling private key) the same domain name to two different new owners.. how much of a problem would that be? Is it really worth doing proofs of work to stop it? Maybe.. but I'm not really convinced. With coins you can doublespend them to anyone.. with a domain name you'd have to find two people who wanted to buy the exact same domain from you at the same time. The motivation for fraud is significantly lower.  There are some pretty serious buy orders on #bitcoin-otc at the moment.chaord    100000.0    btc    0.5    USDMacRohard    25000.0    btc    0.41    USDlyspooner    500000.0    btc    0.3    USDTotal US$ 210250.00 in bids.. all well below the current mtgox prices though. :/ If someone is actually contemplating selling 500k BTC I would urge them to at least sell as many on the market as to bring the price down to 0.40. More money for the seller - and everyone gets a chance to buy  I'll give you $120 for them. So do it. I don't think you'd be successful as I (and others) would probably buy up some of your BTC and not give them back. I've noticed that there are far fewer large blocks forsale than there used to be. If you take out all the buy orders there are still only a few sell orders on the market, all above your sell price. You can't buy those at a profit, so you're going to have to wait for other sellers to come onto the market. Would there be any? Probably not enough to get your coins back. Heh. The support guy is telling off the CEO for answering a question? I don't mine at all myself as I don't like the extra noise from my GPU fan.. not worth it for the profits I could receive from mining. If anyone asks I'd tell them not to bother too.. however,I do find your position troubling. You seem to be making up bogus reasons to justify taking an action that *is* detrimental to the integrity of the network for the sake of protecting the profits of professional miners. If not profits.. you at least want to concentrate control over the network in the hands of a smaller subset of the participants.. I'm not sure that's a good thing. It allows flexibility, but that cuts two ways.A large number of unconnected and uninterested parties contributing to the network seems better as they would be much harder for somebody with an agenda to influence than a small (much much smaller - hundreds instead of thousands of participants) cabal of professional miners and mining pool bosses. Infact.. I think the network would actually be better served by hashing power being as widely distributed as possible - not concenrated in the hands of a small number of miners.
That doesn't make any sense. Surely all hash/s help the network.. why should anyone be concerned about pushing other miners out of the market? Well.. it's already possible to see who paid you using the block navigator... as long as they paid from a 'known' address... How about we have single use sending accounts.. you could assemble the funds for making payment into a temporary local account from your other accounts and then send it on to the merchant's public bitcoin address.You can then prove it was you that sent it by sending the merchant the private key for this temporary wallet address. The wallet nolonger contains any coins as you already sent them to the merchant's public address but they can see that this wallet is where the coins came from. You'd want to serialize these temporary wallet files into some format that could easily be pasted into an email.Large merchants probably would want to use single use receiving addresses as it's easier to automate but single use source addresses could be made to work for small merchants that have static html websites and take orders through email - which may well be our best bet for growing the bitcoin market.. small businesses that can start taking bitcoin payments simply by adding a bitcoin address to their website may just do it to see if they get any orders. The reason bitcoin is not a ponzi scheme is that the dollar value of your bitcoins is just an indicative valuation based on mtgox's recent transactions. There is no certainty that you will definitely be able to sell your bitcoins for any amount of dollars.The difference with a ponzi scheme is that people receive statements quoting the amount of dollars that they're supposed to have, but don't exist. If the price were competitive, I'm sure people would.. Do you have large traffic volume websites? Maybe some traffic broker companies would be willing to intermediate such a transaction.. One of the top google search results is for bitcoin usa is this thread;"Bitcoin domain name land grab is on" - https://www.bitcoin.org/smf/index.php?topic=1829.0maybe they figured bitcoin was some scheme for speculating on land prices... maybe some kind of tracking number you can use to see if they've dispatched the order yet. I noticed that http://www.anonnews.org/ is accepting bitcoin donations. The change hasn't been reverted. The server's PTR is still irc.lfnet.org as it has been since I changed it before. most shops won't care at all. their machine tells them 'signature required' they ask for a signature. that's the entire thought process. Go away scammerhttp://alibabascam.com/#Denunciation%20made%20on%20Feb%2019,%202011%2012:57:59%20pm Only just read this.. maybe some other time?  A simple option might be to port forward port 25 to another mailserver.ssh -L0.0.0.0:25:smtp.somewhere.com:25 user@localhostsaves setting up smtp on the vm just to receive one email. This isn't true. Whoever runs the VM on 174.143.149.98 (bitcoin.org) can setup SMTP in order to receive a verification email to admin@www.bitcoin.org (could also be administrator@www.bitcoin.org, root@www.bitcoin.org, postmaster@www.bitcoin.org, hostmaster@www.bitcoin.org, webmaster@www.bitcoin.org) That will satisfty the verification requirements. If someone wants to do that I'm happy to purchase the cert and make sure that the verification email is sent to the right place. Is it not the case that you can use any domain for messenger? The problem with the gui is that it depends on a new version (2.9) of the WxWidgets library for which there is no package. So yeah.. hassle the wxWidgets guys to update their package and then maybe it will happen.. Print them out and put them in a safe;http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3716.0 This is awesome =)I really like the idea of printed bitcoins.. if only as a reliable backup mechanism. The loaner would have to pay it to the person who they were loaning the money too in return for services offered. It doesn't have to be the same loaner but basically the loaners need to spend their money into the economy.. they basically get free services in return for loaning. Heh. Hi Mark. I was round at your flat on Bilby Street for an nSLUG event many years ago 
