Quite a bit of FUD here.Now i would like to see those maths They started selling 43khash at a time, new shares are 100khash each and sold in batches equivalent of 183mhash.It's been validated that most orders go unpaid etc.The new 40k0 packs resulted in a few dozen ghash indeed by themselves. That is huge, seeing the total network is right now 1 426Ghash. several % of the network there alone.EDIT:This is explained: https://litecointalk.org/index.php?topic=22708.0Now assuming he has had 10k "orders", out of which 80% are paid which is 8000, and if each is the latest 183Mhash pack that is 1464Ghash indeed. But alas it is not, most of them are not actual sales etc. because # gets larger with each comment, page etc. so it's probably more like 4k paid orders, out of which most are sub 100Mhash. even at 4k & 183Mhash it results to about 732Ghash. Still a huge number tho. This list bases on a few criteria, so one must do their own research first.LTCGear has been so far good and so has been PBMining.But i would never put money down on PETAmine, the payouts they give out is far less than what should be for 1Gh, plus other users seem to think it is a long con.Criterias should include real world contact and reachability, a real person(s) behind this and has someone visited them etc.EDIT: Tho thanks for doing the work, it does cut some of the work vetting these out  Good sources on what? Server pricings?We charge for an Dual Hexcore Opteron, 16Gb ECC, 4x2Tb with 1Gbps burstable connection just 99€ a month. Tho the bandwidth is calced among max 150mbps average upload traffic. Downstream doesn't matter to us, and this would be mostly downstream most likely. Tho that is extremely cheap for a dual cpu node, and we are likely to increase that pricing at fall.For storage servers we charge for an E350, 8G, 4x3Tb, 100Mbps Unmetered, 89.98€/Mo + 125€ setup fee.Both of these two are very cost effective options, the latter coming to just under 7.5€/TiB/Mo.Zfec: Good, a common, well used library. Eliminates chances of making mistakes, and puts the pressure of bug fixes on 3rd party on the erasure coding front.Free data sources? What's that?Please explain why transit capacity becomes storage available?Does the system constantly transmit the data again and again and again even tho no one is requesting it?If the system is built so that bandwidth == storage maximum, it becomes INSANELY expensive.Most operators still pay something like 1.5€+ per Mbps, that's 1500€ for 1Gbps connection -> ~300Tb a month transfer capacity. That's 5€ per Tb! For a large operator like that the cost per Tb of storage to offer then quickly quadruples!Nevermind a gazillion of other issues.In any case, as long as the bandwidth usage is sane, for example i have a warehouse which is limited to 20/1M connection or über expensive SDSL, but it needs to be heated up during winters, 5-6 months of a year we need to spend money on heating it up, whether it's oil, bitcoin miners or to this. If BW usage is low, it would make us much sense to put in a couple kWs worth of disk arrays there over time as the capacity gets filled.Which reminds of compression? On the plans?Also, do you intend to build in algos separating colder data from warmer to emphasis warmer data to those storage nodes with more BW and colder to the ones with less BW, or do you intend to let natural selection do the job for you with some ultra simple idea?If the price per TiB on end user ends up cheap enough i envision a lot of parties will use this for backup purposes. didn't notice that - just learned of storj.That article tho - you move directly from storage pricing to compare storage pricing against transfer pricing? What?!?Now that doesn't make - since when did transit capacity become storage capacity?Apples to Oranges.Now, the going rate per TiB per month at lowest levels on current dedicated market is 7.5€ for low end servers, and around 6.2€ for very large nodes.Hence, 100Gb costs a month somewhere around the average of 7.25€ when using the current most cost effective offers out there.and for someone like me who has his own DC... Well, it's on the CAPEX and not OPEX side of the sheet, but turned to OPEX... Well, it's a fraction of that  Depends on what kind of deals you got, what bulk pricing you get, do you outright buy it or do you lease or rent it, what level of hardware are you utilizing etc. If you buy really big, and seriously skimp on the quality level of hardware we are talking about under 1.5€/TiB/Mo potentially, plus bandwidth fees.So approximately 0.15€ for 100GiB/Mo with current HDD pricing at cost level, at high efficiency operation.So, on a system like this, we could potentially see pricing to fall to about quadruple to that fairly easily, when the storage providers start to outweigh user base, we will see it to drop around just 25-30% markup.If average lifetime of data is 1year, and it is read 4 times during this time, we have 3months timespan, hence with 1Gbps you can host about 790TiB. 1Gbps connected server never really achieves more than 85-95% of the maximum, infact, no link can do faster, since usually about 5% is spent on error correction.The true ratios of read, cold data timespans etc. will only be revealed on production, it's totally impossible to predict.What kind of erasure coding is in the plans?Further, deduplication on GRAND scale would be worth it on something like this, on blocks/files larger than 1000Mb or something like that, then the hash tables will stay somewhat sanely sized. but that can be worked in later on... Just saying, deduplication along with erasure coding in this kind of system are not only just a GREAT idea, but almost necessary. Further, the dedup count could increase redundancy factor for that data as well, dynamically making data which is of interest to more people, more resilient to failures, and the cost could be shared by all those users who wanted to store that data, thus driving the cost dramatically down for those putting in data others have put in as well.Those dedup tables will still consume INSANE amounts of storage - but hey, that's what's abundantly available  It would still work rather fast with nicely optimized lookup trees, split those hashes up!  a single look up would consume only a couple of I/Os, needs some careful thought to see the quantity of I/Os and to minimize them.Just because it's cloud, resources ought not to be wasted EDIT: Oh yeah, and i'm sorry to say, but reading that article made the impression that the writer doesn't know sh** about industrial scale computing, at least explain the reason why comparing apples to oranges, and assumptions that 1Gbps can actually do 1Gbps tells writer had no idea of network technology. In all my 15 or so years in hosting industry i've probably never seen above 120M/s for 1Gig link, and over internet  never above 116M/s, and even that is a freakishly rare occurence, average node, average network seems to stall at 95-105M/s commonly. If this comes to fruition and the software is adaptible and robust enough we could easily contribute hundreds of Tbs of storage and probably 100Gbps of burst bandwidth.But it needs to be robust and scalable.We use tons of disks, each system has 2 disks, and they are sold on potential maximum disk usage basis, hence even smallest servers generally have 30%+ of disk space unused, large servers can run 80% empty. We have even nodes with 30Tb+ of disk space and just 4Tb used. For low activity data, that's perfect storage, as long as it's robust.Ie. if users need more disk space available, we need to be able to autonomously, effortlessly and fast go from say 2Tb to the network to 1Tb to the network on a single node.If that can happen and esp. if built in, and the software works stable on Linux, we could put it in 50 servers just to test out.If it actually makes a positive return financially, we could eventually put up petabytes of storage only dedicated to the network.NOW, as a data specialist, you need at least replication in any case, in a network like this probably 3+ replicas. Better yet, since CPU and RAM is going to be abound and no data on this network is going to be need to have tons of iops and real time RW access, built in erasure coding would be much better. Dedup is a must.For example, a 1Gb file, split it into 30+5, 30 data pieces, 5 redundancy pieces. It could be hard coded, say 128Mb pieces for files larger than 1Gb, 32Mb pieces for 500Mb-1Gig files, and smaller ones so that there will be always 16 pieces in multiplication of 4KiB, unless the file is really tiny (<1Mb perhaps?) then just replicated.That will save storage a TON, increase reliability A lot.With 32 pieces + 8 redundancy, 8 nodes can disappear simultaneously without loosing the data. That's in a network like this a bit risky still perhaps, maybe when the network matures it's not risky at all anymore since most nodes will be 24/7 servers eventually Financially, to dedicate resource just for this, i need to see 3€+/Mo per TiB storage and 2€+ per TiB of uploaded data traffic. Market pricing for storage right now in dedis is about 7.5€/TiB/Mo.It's best to let the market decide the pricing.The market deciding pricing is the most important bit: You cannot compete with Dropbox like pricing, then people will use Dropbox. But something which is free as in beer -> people will flock in and use it insanely much, putting pressure for prices to increase.Apps are important too, for example, backing up servers this would be golden! I would love to use something like this to backup our vast amounts of data if the price is sufficiently low, but in my case it's either or, if the price is extremely low, i will use the system myself, if the storage prices are high, i will be providing storage. We cannot justify doubling the cost per user account, except for limited portfolio of services.Further to gain market adoption, things need to be simple. Ultra simple. Even a trained monkey can use simple.But i like this. Looks awesome. Can't wait to see when testing begins!  I was one of the winners of U1 USB stick on Group Buy 6: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=392860.0I never received the USB Stick miner, and Sushi is not responding to my PMs.I've sent him many PMs asking about the stick with no reply Wanted to purchase S1s on later group buys but i cannot until that is solved. Yes, that would make a lot of sense. this "exchange" lost all credibility seeing it is hosted @dreamhostCouldn't be worse choice. While it might workout just fine, to begin with big money on a shared server, with a budget "unlimited" provider ...Cheapest dedis cost under 10€ a month - couldn't afford one?Wonder do they still provide SSH access as well to all webhosting customers .... Just saying there is a ton of attack vectors which shouldn't exist with something involving money ... I didn't get Antminer to use DHCP at all on LAN interface, nor use static settings.So i chose to switch WAN to static and now i cannot connect to it's admin at all despite i see it finally on the network :/What's the method to return it to "factory settings"?EDIT: The good news is that it's at least hashing EDIT 2: Found the info with a bit of googling, seems ot be hashing strong from pool stats so i won't be touching it just yet  Actually yes - just need to be atleast a bit creative.Weakest link in any security is the human - like you are confirming here.By e-mailing it's likely the target will also be revealing his or hers private email address, with your full name, location and e-mail address added to the fact you can probably guess the forum name, and from there things, in conjunction to this thread tells already MANY things, spammers and con artists would love to have a list of contacts like that.A list gathered from this thread on that regard would be GREAT addition to many spammers and con artist's lists - They know you use bitcoin (wallet trojan for example), you are a miner (you got btc), and you got enough money to purchase antminer (say long con mining equipment).Gather a few high quality target lists like that to sum up a few thousand names, a well crafted long con is prone to gather significant return, or a well crafted wallet theft attack.BTC mining related cons have higher success rate as well - as human greed knows no bounds. I know as i fell for BTCFPGA (well calculated risk, the refunding thing was a hoax - yet to receive my refund of 19BTC - but i'm sure most of you don't even know the what was the btcfpga long con), One lost case of GPUs back in the day, and one could argue BFL gear is the greatest con of them all. yea i haven't received tracking info neither. And no, i'm not going to mail cxboy unless sushi says it's fine - until then sounds like phishing. Just made my first order with you Sushi via the site  Site has different info n S1 details btw There is says 80-100Gh wow! Way to show customer care!I want to order, submitted VAT ID, and this is your response? :O Starting bid 17BTC for all 3.Only all 3 are being sold here as a bunch I'm only reiterating what BFL has said, that these are from the bullet run, and normal fab mfg takes at least 50 days longer. That is if they are started at the same time, but i'm somehow suspecting that BFL first wants to test with the bullet run chips before ordering next wafers.These retailed at 4680$, then add intl shipping.The new price is for the new standard run units.EDIT: If you would have followed at all what BFL is up to these days, you'd already know all of this. It sounds to me like you want to make this auction look worse than it is. No, i'm offering *3* units. not 1 but 3 for the starting auction bid. Yes, the 600Gh variants from the Bullet Run batches.According to BFL, it seems one should expect to receive units from this batch up to 3 months earlier than what's currently on sale. I wouldn't complain if price went up - didn't complain with the 65nm products neither when price went up. i was a happy camper at that point.Thing is, with this price cut, they shafted the preorder people BAD! Knowing BFL there is not going to be significant time delay on the cheaper products neither.Competition moved forwards sure, BFL seems to have charged too much to begin with.I have spent A LOT with BFL, up until several weeks ago i was happy with BFL, DESPITE delays. I like the form factor, how they are plug and play ready to use devices etc.That all changed when one of the 65nm 60Gh units i received have 5% HW errors, no reply from BFL - ok it was hashing just fine tho, then my last order of 4x7Gh was received, 2 of which didn't perform even at 6Gh, 1 of which had 7-8% HW errors, and worst of all: NOT EVERYTHING in my order was received! No reply from BFL, no refund etc.and now this "Happy new year, F! YOU PREORDER PEOPLE" shit.They need to compensate that. All those who preordered got properly shafted. The same people who made sure they got the development funds. They are shafting the people who brings in the dough for them.I know i want be making a new order with BFL - no matter what. I'm damn sure i'm not alone.Most likely most of the people who make big return orders, ie. big miners, like myself will not be making more orders with BFL unless they offer A BIG discount compared to the competition to compensate for the lack of customer care, delays in shipping and BS stunts like this.What BFL just did was 60% devaluation of your preorder - i don't believe for a moment there is a significant lead time for the 4700$ price tag items before the 2100$ ones ship.They shafted their most important customer base - those who "invest" into BFL, believe in them. The least they could do is even attempt to compensate for this. I have 3x BFL Monarch 600Gh preorders from the bullet run up for grabs with intl shipping paid!1x 600Gh 10th of October + 13Gh "Mining by the GH"2x 600Gh 29th of NovemberA total of 1800Gh. These are the watercooling upgraded models from the initial bullet run batch.Selling them as bunch. Payment preferred BTC.Bidding starts at 17BTC for all 3. Minimum increment 0.2BTCBidding ends 7th of January.After transaction i will move the preorders to you, as instructed by BFL.Optionally a reputable escrow can be used at the buyer's expense.If BFL ships any of these prior to auction end, the final price will be adjusted as per remaining preorders or cancelled.I also reserve the right to cancel auction at my consideration.
I contacted via site 12th of Dec for VAT deduction but never got reply  Is a 1900$ invoice supplied for customs?Here customs always ask for invoice / transaction receipt, they don't believe anything on the box or inside the box  What about AMT? I saw that, but a simple comparison was not sufficient answer.BFL -> they just shipped my last order of the first gen asic, and now hoping they will actually deliver somewhat in schedule the next gen.Cointerra looks interesting, not sure if i should bite despite very large unit. Hashfast too but it's at the BFL price range with the current discount being offered.Huge leap in hashing power up coming again, and no one is catering on the sub 500$ level. I'm one of those who prefer to spread out investment in multiple venues. Invested in ASICMINER, BFL, BTCFPGA on the first gen, BTCFPGA went bust (still no refund), BFL delivered way late, but ASICMINER paid off big time for me  so in average a good investment.Bitfury is out if they are "temperamental", i want something which is easy to maintain and works effortlessly once setup. Because of mentions above about BFL, in context to my earlier reply. predicting btc value and difficulty for 3+ months is easy: Both are going up. A lot.BFL has always delivered for me, and i'm happy with the gear i have received. Been out of the forums for a few months, busy with other business.I see several new comers to the ASIC field, and could some people please summarize how they look, how legit they look etc.?AntMiner -> This thread i have gone fully through, slightly skeptic but looks more legitimate than some, at least some pics of chips, boards etc. but there was HUGE heatsinks (or what looked like) at the backside of the boards no one explained etc. and the similarities to one of the pre-existing chips is curios one, while they claim to achieve so much more.BlackArrow -> Very good sounding offers etc. but highly skeptic of their lowest $/Gh and J/Gh claims - and apparently they have absolutely no history of products and nothing tangible in hand to show? Do they have a workshop, has someone visited them etc.?HashFast -> Don't really know much about this one.Cointerra -> Went bust, right?KnC -> They are shipping but big QA issues right, but still in the end delivering more than promised? They come and go out of stock constantly? They are in sweden - anyone know if they allow payment during pickup? For me it's quite quick to get to Sweden since i live in Finland  Did their original announced timeline hold?So many entrants on this very expensive field to get started up - somehow i think many of these are outright scams. I'm looking to offset risk by putting in orders for multiple places.No one seems to have anything in hand - except a few very expensive options @ eBay? Profit in what time frame? 1month, 2months? You think 3month ROI is bad? Yeah pricing will be interesting to know.One thing they should add is a dip switch for lowering the voltage for underclocking -> this will make them viable for longer, when it approaches electricity cost, just flip a switch and double your profit margin.Assuming maintenance & upkeep is easy and simple, plus realestate are not issues for you.If this is sensibly priced, fast shipping and proven to be real, i for one will be making continuous purchases monthly.But that's only if things hold up, some details are a bit sketchy, but within the realm of possibility.As for sensible pricing?It's hard to say before seeing the final packaging, final power consumption, and doesn't make sense to do speculation maths right now.For me packaging and ease of maintenance are very important aspects (hence big investment in BFL). I'm a business man with more important things to do than watch my miners 24/7 Thing is, if these are priced low enough to be very attractive -> stock will run out, if these are priced higher -> will there be a breakeven within a year?Priced at around 4$/GH -> I will immediately take a few and accept near month delivery time. After first batch arrives i would double it.Priced at around 6$/GH -> I might get a few.Priced at around 8$/GH -> Only if delivery is within 15 business days and only a few, otherwise it makes more sense for me to wait for BFL Monarchs (Packaging)These are my personal opinions, and what i think makes sense for me. Yes, and that engine is one of those rather low output ones. Yes it is, huge displacement but very low specific output, especially at altitude at thin air.and as you can see from the image it's still huge effort to cool it, look at all those fins!I want to see you try cooling an small displacement inline-4 engine which outputs 2megawatts as waste heat with just air. Yes, megawatts. and no, that engine does not melt. Infact, runs very smooth and without serious heat issues. water always wins air hands down in terms of cooling efficiency and capacity. That's why engines are water and not air cooled (except for some low output exceptions, lawn mowers, mopeds, old VWs etc.)Infact, air is more like an insulator, you can infact use air as an insulator and has been used for ever since human learned to make clothing, and all animals with hair prior to that.If you live in a cold climate your winter clothes are likely designed to hold in tiny pockets of air which works as insulator.YES, air's heat conductivity and capacity is that tiny.Why does it work for cooling them? Abundance.As long as you circulate it and efficiently, it works quite well for cooling small loads, like CPUs etc.Water is not cost effective solution for small loads due to the extra work needed, and little capacity required. Thus A/C + air works quite well.But as soon as you venture into the kilowatt range in high density OR simply BIG setups, water suddenly becomes the best choice by far. very interesting and hoping to see guide soon, hopefully with ebay purchase links  For auction: BFL Little Single 30Ghash/s preorderOrder date 13th of July, order #3218If i'm unable to change the shipping address, i will reship it to you at my own expense.Minimum bid: 30BTC, 1BTC incrementsAuction End: 1st July, 15:00 GMT+3Reserve: 150BTCEscrow: Prefer none, but will accept JohnK or Graet, buyer pays the fees / gives a donation to the escrowShipping: within 3 business days of receiving it and clearing from customs here in Finland, will utilize DHL Express. Buyer assumes all risks for customs delays, manufacturer defects and such.OPTION: We may host it for you in our DC, includes a atom host machine with 100mbps uplink and remote reboot capabilities. Price 35€ a month + 0.20€/kWh, includes coolingIf reserve is not met, i will decide if i will accept the highest bid or not. If reserve is met the auction ends and will try to change the shipping details immediately after payment and send you the invoice as PDF. yeah and 16 * 25$ = 400$ 10B 0.5 Let's see how this goes.If it's real and sensible timeline i'd sure be interested in a few (dozen) I'd probably bite if i'd trust this guy, but i don't. It's just few hundred km for me to visit petersburg so it would have been a cool road trip to take  Clearly, Dogie is biased against BFL.BFL has started delivering which is very evident, all the major costs have now been covered.The biggest costs has always been with the ASICs the initial design and prefab (masking and what not), once these are done the individual chip cost is extremely low.Somehow i bet their per chip cost is in the 5$ ballpark now.Add rest of the HW -> casing, pcb, caps, regs, resistors etc etc. bought in bulk you have something like this cost breakdown:case 5$fan 1$pcb 2$connectors 5$on board components: 10$Total: 23$Assembly + testing: 20$ per unit.43$ + chips = 53$ per jalapeno unit. So realisticially 50 to 100$ to mfg single unit.Since this is an exponential growth business limited by bitcoin valuation, which exponentially raises as mining costs raise, and they are now delivering they are starting to rake in more and more orders each and every day.Why exponential growth?Let's assume 5G unit has a steady ROI of 6months after costs (right now more like 1week, in couple of months 3months, in a year probably 11months), and bitcoin price does not fluctuate.Customer buys 1 unit, 6months later he buys another with the mining revenue, 6months after he buys 2 units, 6months after 4 units and so forth.Since ROI is more like 1 week now, it goes more like this:1 week purchase 2nd unit2nd week purchase 2 more units4th week purchase 3 more units (ROI is getting longer), now 7 units6th week purchase 5 more units, total 128th week purchase 9 more units, total 2110th +15 = 3612th +20 = 5614th +20 = 86and so forth.Now as we start reaching point where ROI takes 11 months, miners suddenly stop purchasing and hoarding, which leads to prices raising as more miners are hoarding, if some major event happens then with several month lead time BTC price will hike and all the miners suddenly sell their BTC and purchase a lot of new equipment, just like what happened lately.Therefore, as long as BFL is shipping they are getting ever increasing revenue.The true winner again is the one selling shovels, not digging the gold.All of this lets me conclude that Dogie has a vested interest in Avalon, Bitfury, KNC or ASICMINER. Probably ASICMINER, and he is trying to guard his investment by spreading FUD and trying to get people to run at BFL at the very last possible moment.You forget just one thing, BFL likely has in their war chest few thousand BTCs alone, which easily pays the current salaries for some months and the components for next several wafers completion and as per T&C refunds are not guaranteed, even if suddenly 15% asked refund today, they'd probably honor 5% and then stop and keep on shipping.Nice try troll, but no luck. I think i'll go buy another few 50G units now, ty very much. EU *is* the freakin' VAT zone lolUnless you are purchasing as a company from other EU country, or reside outside the EU, or in one of the VAT exempt areas you have to pay VAT.If you import from outside EU, then you pay VAT at customs.Movement of goods within the EU is free, so no additional imports tax, just VAT.
I am yet to receive refund, even tho tom claimed he refunded me with false information, only to take it back (claiming mistake) after i notified that's not correct sum nor my refund address.SCAM Maybe they have a cactus or vikus or something at the office?  Wrong.16A * 230V = 3680W maybe but due to PSU efficiency, nature of A/C usual maximum suggested draw is just 80% which is 2944WAs A/C power is a since wave, drawing out 16A @ midpoint of wave is just 150V = 2400W max, PSUs try to optimize to take their power at the sine peaks, but they often miss the mark of their claims, thus D/C operators often recommend 70% of the max, which is 2576W Just couple posts prior i showed that the actual draw of the device is more like in the 22.6W range. Well, it's actually probably a lot less, i did not count in the PSU idle power.36W at outlet for a 1250W Corsair ZX PSU which is 80+ Gold, running at practically idle. lol funny. They missed their target, still the most efficient thing in the works This FUD and BFL bashing has gone so funny Yea it would be far below 50% most likely, i bet someone can find the power efficiency curve by looking up the model usedEDIT:Quick googling yielded no tests for below 330W.But assuming it's even 70% at practically idle the unit is then drawing 22.6W He asked me to reply to this thread that i would have received a refund, while i have not.Shortly after that e-mail he sent me a bogus transaction confirmation, with wrong to address etc.After a while he e-mailed me that he needs to find my order asking AGAIN for order information.So looks to me like he simply replied refunded hoping i take the bait I hope i'll be seeing the refund tho. So they are a scam because they allow pre-orders? No one is telling you that you have to pre-order.Many legit companies have pre-orders. Infact anything you buy a ticket for later use is a pre-order, so movie tickets are a scam too?It's not shame to be fast, albeit that sounds a bit too fast but somehow i doubt it's impossibly fast with skilled people (OrSoC).EDIT: Just to be clear, i'm not saying either way, only that it is possible this is not a scam so far. This is funny. There are many scams, but so far there is nothing to suggest KNC is a scam, infact, quite to the contrary.KNC -> legit companyKNC partnering with OrSoC -> Actually needed know-how being usedOrSoC -> legit company in operation for a really long timeOrSoC -> confirms the partnershipAll that being said, with all the scams going on i'd be a skeptic too.Let's just wait they tell us something more. To get 10Ghash out of GPUs, you need about 18-19 7970s at a cost of about 400$ each or 7600$ which is 111btc right now, plus the accompanying hardware, 5 rigs with 1kW-1.2kW PSUs and power circuits capable of handling 5kW + cooling. Assuming the 200 units of avalon batch 2 (it was 200 yes?) ships and is online fully by then it's 13Thash.If BFL ships by then and 15k chips get online -> by then it adds another 93thash.But i don't see either of happening by mid-april, maybe late april.Friedcat: It would awesome if you could post some pics of the setup! When was work on the next gen begin and what process will that be? I still have the opinion that what Giga is doing with this verification claims process is scammy.It forces people to do stunts to claim them back, making for some people near impossible.And lots of information i DO NOT want to give out.Tax identification number -> Social security number.Photocopies of identification.All the items required for identity theft.Even tho that's not the reason gigamining is doing this, i somehow doubt he has top notch security in place to avoid that data being stolen. Again no thanks.Notarized affidavit: Yeah... I do want to explain to goverment officials wtf is this, and what that paper will stand for, never mind that complication, it costs a lot here.All of this *BULLSHIT* means all he wanted to do was get rid of as many of us as possible for his own gain.is that asset list SHA256 in format of:[email][address]   ie: email@address.com1CAF5612CHMHU...or [email] [address]or [email][enter][address] ? Thumbs up! Looks like it.Albeit one could fake with great effort the current evidence, it's still quite strong. Only BFL track record makes one wonder it's legitimacy.BKM: Bitcoin returns are indeed insane, but also volatile, high risk, and you need to time your trades for the long term return.I started with just few euros worth, 350BTC, and all my mining equipment etc. is paid up so far with that return (including BFL FPGAs, and quite a few BFL preorder devices, ASICMINER shares etc.)But things you are talking about most people don't have a clue about unfortunately.You are right, margins are somewhat low in the real world. Normal DC accounts HW for 2-3 years return.If BFL ships these people hating BFL right now will flock to them to get their piece. I have a lot of preorders and i'm anxious too if they will ship. Opentoe:They also have working prototype(s), atleast according to BFL Josh/Inaba and Luke JR, who is independent developer (BFGMiner)They indeed have promised to honor the sold hash rate, i would assume they will make it up with Jalapenos or multiple unit shipping. Which actually is good -> Multiple units is higher resiliency. For example if they give 2xLittle SC for those who ordered Single SC, if another fails, you only loose 50% instead of 100% of hash rate.Dissecting the higher pricingThe effects are multiple fold:- Early "investors" (ie. preorders, esp. early ones) gets a benefit over others by getting half price units which have higher hash rate (or equivalently multiple units per 1 unit) compared to someone buying today- That same will also mean that preorder people will have higher returns for longer- Active miners benefit over others due to current high BTC:USD exchange rate- High margin might allow BFL to have on-stock products for fast/immediate shipment when backlog has cleared- High margin also allows budget for starting next gen immediately after current gen is on distribution and backlog fully cleared (which i hope they don't even mention before first wafers are out of fab)- Downside is network security -> way less units, with way less hash rate will be sold in total- More downside in network security -> not many are willing to put down 1300$ as their first miner, so entry will be with 250$ Jalapeno not making up that much hash rate relative to other units- If they go for higher availability with increased margins, newbie miners get online faster Now they damn better start shipping within couple of months  Where's more info about this?I did make a order for little single in July ... What vouchers are you talking about?If BFL is a long con, they've put insane amount of effort into it. Especially in the field of even attempting to provide evidence there is progress etc. and other kind of public appearances. Never said i was looking to sell. Never assumed anything about the investor's perspective (daytrading, long term investment, dividend yields or a combination of the above)I don't see the point in owning non-dividend yielding shares in this setting. Or pretty much at all. If you don't get a share of the spoils - why should i invest  At which point, the current market valuation becomes a simple equation of dividend yield to purchase price, giving % ROI annually.Disclaimer: I bought my shares ages ago, at IPO price or near IPO prices as part of a diversified investment portfolio. A tiny portion of the dividends so far i've reinvested and bought a few passthroughs, expecting value appreciation even further. Do the maths about annual gains ... Wildly speculative right now, but just be conservative.Then add the value of *immediate* access, not months from now.Then factor in the low entry cost (1 share), and reinvestment of the dividends weekly. There's no greater force than compound interest.Simple maths really. lol, if they went at that rate really, i'd have no problem of selling my july & august preorders  Fully meant to maximize the life time of the hardware, and to maximize reliablity. No other reason those strict rules exist.Many smaller DCs infact have *no* outside "fresh" air circulation, mostly the same air keeps on moving around. Infact, some shun away because of the heavy requirement on filtration of the incoming air due to dust and other pollutants. You want to keep your servers very clean 
ASICMINER, if by end 200ThThen Avalon current batches if delivered will add to up about 72ThLet's assume Avalon gets in another batch of 600 -> ~36Th more, total 108ThBFL -> not sure about the figures, but they got 5k chips per wafer? if they have 20 wafers coming (not sure again, but i've heard wildly larger numbers too) that's 100k chips.Let's assume yield is just 90% and they only achieve half the advertised speed per chip -> 3.75Ghash -> 375 000ghash or 375ThAdds up to about 683Th, by end of 2013.As for BFL prototype not working correctly -> Prototypes rarely work completely as expected, that's why they are prototypes. It's completely expected that there will be some issues at first.It's not like ASICMINER and Avalon hasn't had their share of problems.ASICMINER is having issues as well. I hear that Avalons are crash prone.Disclaimer: I have 1/3 of a Th ordered in with BFL, and i also have a nice quantity of ASICMINER shares.When BFL starts shipping it's possible i will sell a lot of my ASICMINER shares to get a minirig or large quantity of singles. You have been long enough lurking you should by now know who Luke Jr is ... Plenty of people have received refunds.The product is not yet finished - There are issues putting the power demand way over spec, which in turn means they have to crank down the current prototypes.That's all it is right now -> A prototype.One individual seemingly also has one of those prototypes, Luke Jr which has been well respected community member for quite some time now.If you are making a pottery bowl, half way there it looks more like a vase, did you fail to make a bowl or aren't simply finished yet? BFL is at least showing somekind of progress now, and apparently Luke has one of the devices working & mining @ 14Ghash to finish BFGMiner.Hopefully Luke will send us a video of the device soon Next few weeks will likely be very revealing.If you are worried, then wait until many people have posted receiving and pics/videos of their devices. guys guys, the chip power usage is not the full 195W, it's the whole board.The board itself will consume a lot of the power, most in this case due to going badly out of spec.If the power reqs go far beyond their nominal range efficiency goes shit, requiring higher amperage for the specific output.Power regs ran beyond their spec can consume insane amounts of power, which mostly goes in to heating.So if it was rated for 5A (60W), but the board required 7.5A (90W), due to efficiency going shit it would jump straight to 9A, and further due to heat above 10A. Then the traces might not be large enough for the reg, further putting demand for higher current due to increased resistance. Voltage also drops, it might reach a point where voltage drops, and again demand for current goes higher. To get 20A @ 3.3V with 11V takes a lot more current than at 12V. At 11V it's 6A, at 12V it's 5.5A.Current is what causes things to heat up and is most affected by resistance. You can probably transmit 1kW @ 1000V over the same traces which can barely handle 50W @ 3.3V. (Given insulation is sufficient)All those figures are just speculative, depends on the regs used, trace sizes etc. Just basics really, but you get the idea.So it's entirely possible adding another reg there will fix it.I'm not an electronics engineer, but i've made my dabble into electronics yeap have tried that one as well multiple times. Yet to receive any reply. i Purchased multiple units.2xLittle SC (upgrade from jalapeno), 2xFPGA Upgrade and 2xSingle SC. That's 300Ghash right there.First order in july i think, full expecting they will not deliver early on, infact, i was thinking of getting FPGA but knowing they will take 6months to deliver even those, i went for the SCs to get in the early batches.Yes, i worry sometimes will they deliver or not, but the Risk VS Gain ratio is for myself was so far in the black i decided to go for them, infact, i made 2 purchases during this month. (1*Single SC, 2*FPGA Upgrade)For offsetting the risk on ASIC i also spent on bASIC and ASICMINER. Was considering Avalon but they looked too scammy, and seeing they have delivery issues as well, and the unit is something i can't definitely operate at home, i'm kinda glad i didn't even attempt to get into batch #1.When i see more proof i intend to purchase couple more Single SCs, or going for Minirig, partly from the Single SC profits and partly from ASICMINER divs+selling those shares when above 1BTC/Share which i expect to happen within 1½ months. The ASICMINER shares i got, if i sold them right now i could probably purchase already a Minirig, but i'm not really too keen on putting down that kind of money on BFL just yet, i want Single SCs in my hands first.Also during the summer i will move my mining gear to a datacenter. Secure and climate controlled.bASIC has yet to refund or even reply to me.and yes, BFL sometimes worries me, but i try not to stress over it.In hindsight 20/20 i didn't purchase enough ASICMINER shares early on, should have for higher offset on risks, but ASICMINER is that much opaque i didn't want to really. In the end, that was all that remained from GLBSE fiasco (Gigamining, what a scam). All other shares were a complete loss for me (probs 60BTC+ worth) as i'm yet to see any divs, refunds etc. from any of the other shares.That's how i tend to roll, if i'm making an investment i want to offset the risk by spreading the whole investment in multiple choices, so if one goes downhill i still have something else and not complete loss. That strategy has well paid off so far, in BTC and IRL investments.Why choose BFL? The FPGAs are *finished and polished* product, easy to use, just plug it in and let it do it's work. I hate the other FPGA products because you need to purchase power supplies, casings, fans etc. you just can't plug'em in and have them going on. for bASIC i had to order in some power plugs up front etc. and full knowing it's going to be messy setup. I want my setups to be tidy.Nevermind that BFL's offer is on the better side on power efficiency, thus their lifetime will be longer, therefore profits are bigger, and cooling expenses lower.I shut down my GPU farm last summer, it was too much work to keep it all stable, messy, noisy and too power hungry. One of my GPU rigs even burned due to bad chinese PCIe connector  Plus the final nail was when i blew 3 5850/5870 GPUs within couple of weeks and the replacement cards had severe heat & stability issues (purchased locally 2nd hand from gamers). at once i had 5 fully outfitted GPU rigs running, with total of 16 GPUs running, and 5 GPUs sitting on shelve waiting for me to bother to assemble another one. Today it would be worth to power it all up again tho, and been thinking maybe i should boot them up again until little scs arrive  What email address are you guys using to reach him? None of my emails has been responded to so far!No refund neither etc. All good and fine, but it's 29th of March now and it was 28th of March their time when they made an update Josh also promised a video.I know that i'm going to order a few more the moment i get confirmation of any product shipped & received. for me ~3½hrs.Looks like another blockchain split or something along the lines.Also for last 24h: http://bitcoincharts.com/bitcoin/that is a lot of bitcoin sent! (3mil+ or ~27.3% of all bitcoins in circulation) Hey, he atleast replied to you! For me... Not even that.I guess going the legal action route is pretty much the only thing now still no refund, still no replies to any contact attempts.YaY!And AFAIK i was the 2nd to order bASIC.I've tried to contact many times over the past month or two and not even a #¤"%)¤( reply. https://twitter.com/BFL_News Revising the estimates for 2022.We have already reached 67USD/BTC, so it starts seeming my estimates are overtly conservative.Also, i never made an estimation for the event that adoption for BTC will become easier and cheaper than currently (Bitpay... We didn't want to support them for multiple reasons) and thus taking over most online payment gateway services, such as Paypal, OKPAY, Payza, Moneybookers/Skrill, Liberty Reserve, 2checkout etc.For the bulk of it, it's very feasible and easy. From my business experience: Moneybookers/Skrill killed our merchant account of more than 12 years because our service could potentially be used for illegitimate uses. OKPAY makes it impossible for us to verify our account, and similar experience with Payza. 2checkout TOS bans gift card purchasing, among other things, putting many requirements on how the merchant conducts their business.Paypal has the obvious issues, CC Chargebacks, Disputes, insanely high fees, ie. PP TRX fees exceeded our PR/Advertising plus Clerical overheads (Accounting, office supplies etc.) COMBINED by a big margin last fiscal year. They hide the majority of the fees, while they claim low pct and 0.39$ flat per transaction, they don't tell you that if the payment is from abroad you get extra fees which can tally up to more than 5% of the total payment. They don't tell you which countries counts towards that either, and since we are european but bulk of our market is in Australia, US and Asia ....Plus they take HUGE hidden currency exchange fees, visible most easily when purchasing things, while the USD:EUR is around 1.31 they grant 1.24 ...That kind of risks will make bitcoin the choice in the future when things get a bit easier. Such as direct CC to BTC payment gateway, inexpensive etc.All of this leads me to believe that we should account at least for 1500$/BTC 2022.I will need to do the maths again one day, for now i just wanted to add that my estimates back then were overtly conservative. and to date Tom still hasn't refunded everyone, or even majority AFAIK. I'm one of those waiting for a refund, with no replies to anything. Order: #2731069.99$ + 30$Paid via BTCNO REFUND RECEIVED.I have tried to reach Tom via multiple ways, not even a reply. What is the "official" way to request refund? I was second (seriously) to order the bASIC. Still no refund, no replies date of order was 4th of September, paid by BTCI'd really like my BTC back, thanks! didn't have time to properly read, but i'm interested.Purchased using bitcoin, one of the first preorders, just down single BASIC01 worth fortunately i don't even know any information on how to request one! >_<no emails anything, i don't pay that much attention to the communityI know that this is the last time i ever pre-order anything bitcoin related so how do i get my refund? I was one of the first to order with order id 273ther'es been no emails etc. terribly handled 
Want to buy eve online plexPrefer escrowMake me an offer via PM!  Extending on that, you don't want to run your car at idle for power generation - you want to run it at the peak torque RPM most probably, very often something like 1800RPM-2200RPM. Larger the engine, lower this is.Also, the typical car here consumes more like 1.5L/hr, so more like 0.35gallons/hour, and at 1800RPM you are probably looking at 0.5-0.6gallons/hour.Car engines are not designed for low load constant speed - you need to increase the load ie. alternator capacity and utilization dramatically to get the best out of the engine, even at 1800RPM low load you are running perhaps 2% efficiency, while a traditional, older car engine could reach 20%.for thought experiment, let's think about a modified engine JUST for this purpose.Turbocharged engine, with mild cams for lower RPM peak output (Where you want to run, or close to it), running lean -> slightly below stoichiometric value (Complete burn, slightly more air into engine than required for complete burn). This kind of engine could reach upto 30% efficiency.Now we can calculate from energy content and alternator efficiency.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gasoline#Energy_content_.28high_and_low_heating_value.2913kWh/kg or 9.7kWh / liter.Let's assume we tune this engine for 30kW load, this means we need to burn 100kW worth of electricity, dismissing alternator disefficiencies. After alternator efficiency we get perhaps 27kW of electricity.That means just more than 10liters per hour.Please note: I chose 30kW load as load is required for something of that displacement to get to good efficiency rates, even 30kW might be far too low, but let's give it a chance for being tuned for this usage.At the gas rates like here 95E10 going for about 1.5€ per liter = 15€ per hour and we get under 0.5€/kWh efficiency.The remaining 70kW could be used to heat your house, or alternative methods used to collect electricity from it. But even at 100% efficiency in all parts it would still cost 0.15€ kWh which is more than double what i'm paying locally right now.When you are moving it's not free either, but small load disappears in to the existing inefficiencies, 20RPM lower idle RPM don't matter. Even if you are going highway, and trying to get best MPG possible, it will show up there, but it's marginal.Teal: Big Diesel has higher efficiency than tiny 4 banger. Diesel as a fuel has higher efficiency from chemical to kinetic energy.Reason tiny 4 bangers gets so high MPG is because they are lightweight and small surface area, not exceptional engine efficiency.For a gasoline engine 25% is pretty much the norm efficiency rating, depending upon how modern it is.Many of the tiny 4 bangers getting huge/good MPG (80s-90s Renault Clio, 80s Peugeot 205, Subaru Justy, 80s Nissan Cherry) actually has kind of low efficiency engines in them. They are simply lightweight cars. Subary Justy actually has 3 cylinder engine in it, 1.2l carburated, very peaky output, very low torque at low rpm, even normal driving requires some 3k rpm yet even 4WD on during winter you can achieve better MPG than many big cars. Summer and no 4WD it can achieve 50MPG. That's just 10A. Many modern cars need that for ignition alone, and performance cars may require double that for fuel pump. Racing cars might require 40A just for the fuel pumps!Even 80's corollas have 55A alternators. Getting a alternator rewired for higher amperage is not even very costly, just make sure the alternator controller is able to work with the increased amperage.Friend had 110 or 120A alternator on his M3 for the audio setup.And that's just those cars which aren't especially power hungry ... Let's enter the SPL competition scene: These guys might be consuming 20kW ...Hell, just last week i sold one amp with 4x30A fuses and rated RMS power of 5000W to 1Ohm (very short peak). been away from bitcoin stuff for a few months, and lots happened GLBSE ... *sigh*and some securities asking real life identifying informaiton - No, i'm not going to be sending a copy of my driver's license to some random person overseas. I don't like inviting up identify theft Finally did like week ago to fill the information form @ GLBSE.Hopefully everything gets sorted out for Asicminer. i purchased quite a bit of asicminer! that is a long time, hopefully i now get a reply i emailed them again about my order I asked them via e-mail on how to do this but yet to receive a reply - so how to proceed? GoDaddy was supporter of SOPA, they only backed out of it because of the huge backlash.As a hosting professional for 12-13 years now, GoDaddy is in my books one of "those trendy, fashion things", not necessarily good, but it's trendy "because everyone has it".That being said, it's better than most of the large webhosts, like dreamhost and bluehost who oversell like crazy, provides practically no support.If i were you i'd choose a cloud and operate a VM from there, which constantly, via secure tunnel, backups the DBs etc., maybe in a master<>master config.Then again, i don't do that myself, i'm perfectly happy with simple DDoS protections etc. basic stuff for a dedicated server. almost no downtime during couple of years to speak of.NEVER EVER go with bluehost or dreamhost.Yes, i know, i'm again late to the party! grr I use home server + irssi but ZNC is better for many.Since our chan is on freenode too, i guess i'll join to idle in ##bflusers as well  you got the newsletter too they sent it to me many times Cool looking equipment tho! and posting it all with the cool pictures and all is a cool marketing "gimmick"  Sounds like a major headache for you right now.If you need to sort out your IT contact me and let's get it handled properly - the way you want it Whether just getting you the e-mail server you need, or maybe you want a fully redundant setup for the shop too, i can help you./end shameless advertisementYou really should get those limits sorted out. Then again, even i don't send that much e-mail as we use ticketing  273 being mine! was wondering how high was my order, was hoping to be first to order bASIC EDIT: Yeah were a bit late to the party, i usually catch up now and then and just got angered by the continuous drama (AGAIN). I hate seeing it, i'm here for information, not drama  FFS GUYS!Stop the stupid drama already, that is so freakishly unprofessional it's unimaginable!Makes me want to stay away from BTCFPGA Products, a little from BFL products too! Guys, time to grow up and even try to act like professionals. just try even.Cablepair: If you feel that strongly, open a lawsuit for slander, or vice-versa but keep the drama off the public.I'm sick and tired of seeing this drama wasting space in every 2nd thread, and makes me want to keep off the forums all together and just forget about products of EITHER company for being so unprofessional.Inaba: You might be posting as Inaba, but we all know you work for BFL, you are *ALWAYS* representing BFL. Act like it. Otherwise you are going to loss significant business for BFL. We had this happen, we had a dramatic character in our team and we lost a deal which had a potential for more than 7k € PROFIT PER month as a direct result.Both: Ignore each other completely if you must, or ignore the remarks. Just try to act professional.*END OF RANT* Wow! Immense Count me in for more orders soon Now after you get the device finished if you guys could also design and mfg a case for it too as accessory, that would be sweet! Potentially someting which not only looks cool but allows good cooling as option, ie. adding a fan say 80x80 low rpm low wattage one. well here you guys go: mine are running at 54-56c oO;the default 832 firmware. bASIC product details do not mention power supply, only DC barrel connector in the specs.So do i need to acquire separately a power supply and connector?Or is there even the barrel connector supplied with the device so i can easily hook it up to any power supply providing sufficient 12VDC?It would be really nice if bASIC is just as finished product as BFLs are, ie. everything supplied in a case + fans, just plug it in. and these fees will continue to increase as BTC gains value and smaller and smaller sums are being transmitted.Besides, 0.611BTC is more than 6$ at this moment! Sure it's still farcry to the over 500$ value of whole block, but it's worth a small meal still!Businesses like Paypal lives on transaction fees. We pay enough transaction fees each month that we could hire another person with the transaction fees alone. 1U and 2U rackmount case hardware is *EXPENSIVE*, with 3U you can still use standard heatsinks etc. Maybe with some luck some models on 2U.A proper low height heatsink is going to easily cost 60$ alone.Then add a properly sized PSU there, and your 750W Corsair is starting to look cheap.Then for lower height you need to use smaller diameter fans which are by ORDER OF MAGNITUDE less efficient, infact, in modern 1U server the biggest electrical expense can be at times the fans!Because adding depth to fan is not efficient, but a must do in small diameter, and to drive sufficient airflow you need to spin it at really high rpm these fans can  use considerable amount of electricy to even reach half of what an 230mm fan @ 2.5W can do. Some say these might use even upto 10-15W *EACH* and you need like 4 of them (that's why they are also RPM controlled)Since depth of a rackmount chassis is not set you can make half depth chassis, and you can load any rack in standard setup DC from both sides, mount them from both sides and drive the hot air to the center of rack for gravitational dispension of heat by rack top ventilation hole, creating a natural rack zone hot and cold aisles How well it works depends on the DC, some DCs don't have hot and cold aisles, others does. I would use one without hot + cold aisles for this setup other than which sucks hot air directly from top of the rack and keeps everything else cool Ofc, to get it to work efficiently you need fill up the whole rack, which means that even on 42U rack you need 27 (1 slot for the switch) of these, or atleast near so putting separator plates makes sense That's 75600$ investment per rack for a total of 2.16TH, at a operating cost of roughly 500€ a month depending upon location, electrical rates etc. plus network capacity. many DCs include 10-100mbps with the rack, not really free but "cheap", and backup connection probably will cost about 30-40€/mo for crossconnect + 50-150€ a month depending on provider, how low they are willing to go.If someone wants a low cost location for several Us we should have spare capacity in near months oh, so much useless drama +1 imaginary friggin' big number 
Don't tell me you got everything tied up in BFL preorders  So how many did you purchase?  seeing cablepair and luke-jr being the guys behind, and they seem to be one of the driving forces behind bitcoin in mining regard. well more like jumped on it I just wish some hardware would already arrive, with all these bloody preorders >_< just did order also a SC with order #6894No idea what my earlier order numbers were I just hope when they start shipping there wouldn't be continuously an inherent 6-8 week wait for getting it delivered ...Personally i think they need try to schedule shipments so that international and national customers get at approximately the same time, and make sure that no single order gets at once too much, say FIRST batch of shipment is limited to 2 per for the first say, 500 customers, then 1 per next 500 customers. Then start shipping in FIFO manner.That way as large group of people as possible gets at least something early on AND no one can get like 4TH worth while no one else gets nothing.Or if they have enough products to be shipped, then from get go FIFO manner, but the largest orders ship in 2 shipments, second one with 3 business day delay.Knowing BFL tho, they will have very limited number at beginning, and if i order today a SC it will be February before shipment if they are right on schedule They need to seriously ramp up the production, if i knew a Single would ship tomorrow if ordered today, i would not hesitate to order RIGHT NOW at least 4 of them. Someone truly looking to make a scam will make every single effort not to look like scam. PreOrders are not a definitive sign of scam. We begun with just preorders, waiting time was close to 2 months for DC to setup servers.Pre-orders in certain industries is quite normal infact.Uncoupled ordering and payments is not a definitive sign of a scam, A LOT of companies still operate that way. Even some major companies.I can name a few DCs off the bat which operate this way, one rather large even which doesn't even have online billing system customers could access!While neither is a good thing, it's not definitive proof of scam. Doesn't need to be if the payments are manually verified. That's how things worked BEFORE internet  missing from the list is that i received mine 5th of June. They were in customs for a ~week prior to that. Then get from newegg One They were in customs for 1½ weeks. VAT 23% got applied but i get that back in couple of months as i bought them as a business.Original purchase confirmed 16th of March 2x Gigabyte HD7970 3Gb DDR5 Reference DesignBoth are new, never installed, only another box has been opened, and even then GPU hasn't been taken out of it's packaging.Warranty valid, and will handle if needed (Buyer will pay postage for warranty)Never had the time to install, and they've been sitting around unused.Price: 110BTC including shipping or delivery near Helsinki, FinlandPrice excl. VAT, VAT will be applied for EU residents.Price not negotiable.Pictures: http://imgur.com/a/PaWDuPayment: BTC, Paypal, IBAN Wiretransfer, Cash finally got mine out of customs today Ordered 14th of MarchNot shipped yet.Quantity: 2 Have you looked at the tent type garages? They are sold like for less than 200€ at cheapest ...Tho i would strengthen the joints, but then again we get quite nasty winters and i've seen one holding just fine through winter. So in in best case they are now under 3month wait. en route and few are still available.Ordering more after the first ones arrive, and quantity depends upon preorders.Also waiting on delivery for some 7970s Yeah the exchange rate :/Then again you need to add electrical, space, maintenance, failure rate etc. on the price of owned one.I'm working on assumption that BFL Single MTBF is just 2years if lucky.At 0.10$/kWh you are also spending ~70$ on electricity a year + the host machine. If you need A/C add another 30-50%.Also BFL Single shipping is 34$That already brings ownership of one for a year to over 700$I based my maths on a 1.28 exchange rate. Setup fees are PER item, never to be refunded. It's the upfront cost.The rate per month stays same any billing cycle, so if you choose semi-annual payment cycle you pay monthly rate * 6 at that time, and again monthly rate * 6 after 6months.Setup fee is *NON-RECURRING CHARGE*, and amount depends on payment cycle. If you choose monthly it is 175€, if you choose 6months or longer it is 75€You also got your USD<>EUR exchange rate incorrect.So, 6month payment is:75€ setup fee: 100.50USD6 months recurring charge: 49.95€*6=299.7€  or 401.60USDTotal: 502.10USD for first 6monthsThen 401.60USD recurring charge.*NOTE: It seems USD rate jumped today, just yesterday paypal quoted 1.26 when purchasing stuff from the US :/ That or Paypal has significantly increased their currency exchange profit margin. Latter is more likely.
Updated the pricing post.I still don't know what's so illogical/fussy about them people don't understand :/ Just e-mail us with what item you want, and we'll sort it out for you.Domain for this has been registered, and site will be put together probably during next week.Now question is: * Do you prefer weekly e-mail of graphs vs. a live site? * Do you prefer to be able to set pools at anytime, or is support e-mail sufficient for starting?I'm leaning towards coding a management interface, where you get live graphs, and can setup pools etc. That takes a bit of effort tho. (Especially since i have to code custom tailored CMS from scratch!) I thought this cheapo ethernet relay board software includes an open API.I actually got shipment for mine to US so can't fiddle around yet, but i'm sure i can whip up an easy to use interfacing layer quite fast when i do. But you can purchase that ethernet relay board, and it's completely open, so what's the prob on using them? :O I think the consensus now is that http://www.ebay.com/itm/180563287252?ssPageName=STRK:MEWAX:IT&_trksid=p3984.m1438.l2649 gets the job done  Already taking preorders. If you want to be ensured your spot and price now you can e-mail sales@pulsedmedia.com So who is handling this now?I can accept shipment in USA or Finland, if shipping to USA is at least 10$ cheaper. (Usually isn't).But i need to know who is now really handling this and why should i trust him/her with my hard earned BTC. It's actually sensible, very little known, single paragraph in a single directive.It puts the effort of proof illegality to the claimee, and emphasizes that it may not cause extra costs for ISPs, or make them responsible for proactive monitoring, or to break laws (privacy usually) to cooperate with those.In a case of movie for example, MediaSentry has to send in not only what was copied, but they have to also proof it was illegal for the user, which is almost impossible to know as certain countries allow private copies, other countries allow copying for backup purposes (afaik from any sources). etc.You can check the EU ecommerce directive article 14 about this. It's actually quite hard to understand due to the wording, and some small companies opt to translate it to the worst possible, even worse than SOPA (blanket full censored rights to any party for any reason, without any kind of prejudice. Including your own logos etc.) Obviously those outlets are simply morons. one of the reviews showed ~80% performance for AES encrypt decrypt cycle with 8k*8k image, while at maximum load GTX680 was using 1/6th less energy (system total).*IF*, and that's pretty huge if, this translates to exactly the mining performance, the question remains how well does GTX680 undervolt and downclock, if it does this 15% better, then GTX680 *might* be the goto card for new high end systems.It seems that 7970 will still remain 15-20% better at efficiency. We can only wait and see for first mining results - plus then someone probably optimizing mining code for that card.If the change to CUDA code from opencl truly increases 10-20% then GTX680 might actually be better, if the AES test was using OpenCL.TFLOPS count reflects those figures. I did. Every single post in this thread.Maybe you should stop and try to comprehend what you are saying.It's just moronic to ruin whole bitcoin network over a single miner not accepting TXs in their blocks. They are irrelevant. If they are attacking the network by doing this, you are just adding fuel to his attack on bitcoin.If it were up to people who demand TX fees, demand rejection of no TX blocks etc. bitcoin would be dead, never gaining mass adoption.You guys underestimate the free market, and the good will of people. People like gifting by nature, it usually benefits also the giver aswell. but in case of bitcoin TX fees you are also gaining something directly, a service. so most will include them (i've always included a TX fee myself).You guys keep on insisting for stupid stuff to the detriment of bitcoin. (Those demanding action against MM by changing the protocol) The open source drivers of past were made by open source community NOT by AMD. This is AMD releasing drivers for Linux, otherwise it wouldn't even be newsworthy.EDIT: Actually it might be this was not really newsworthy, but AMD making some updates to the open source drivers which has existed. The article is not very clear on this ... Bitcoin as it currently is, is nearing perfection of what is achievable in real world right now.Any action against MM (if there is such) will make it worse. Like sticking training wheels on a GSXR.But you can do something about MM ... Increase your hashing power and earn more!  All of the above: Don't know, improbable. Performance likely.What it DOES mean is that we can now hack the drivers ourselves to maximize performance for mining  See: http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTA3NDEAlso reported on Slashdot http://linux.slashdot.org/story/12/03/21/030244/amd-releases-open-source-radeon-hd-7000-driver It was a simple boot failure, X didn't start automatically and as i were remote i didn't notice that at first. This is a very probable GO now, targeting first customers up & running by end of april.Hardware en route or available already for sale: - BFL Single * 2  (Should arrive around end of april) - 7970 * 2 - 5830 * 3 - 5850 * 2 - 5870 * 2 - 6950 * 2 - 6970 * 1 - 6770 * 1Preorders for hardware is very limited, usually 1 every 2 or 3 sold & delivered, unless we have already put a significant order in place.BFL Singles will have longer lead time, and more preorders are accepted for them because it's important to get early on the queue.New hardware will be ordered once a month, usually around end of month, so stock status will be updated at beginning of month.Brand name is 90% likely chosen now with domains registered, but still considering alternatives.Payments will be accepted in: SEPA Wiretransfers, Bitcoin, Paypal  and maybe others (Suggest!)SLA & service specification will *probably* be changed so that we can shutdown the hardware on the few days in summer when temperature rise too high for evap cooling to be effective enough - these periods of downtime would be automatically be credited at least 100% if not at higher ratio. This will likely be limited to several hours a day (6max) for a total of ~10 days a year when temperatures creep well above 30C. Only time will show us will ambient stay low enough. Target GPU temperatures are 70C, and shutdown will happen on 80C.Mhash based leasing is currently out of question due to the technical difficulties in operating such.Services are VAT deductible upon request by submitting VAT ID. People outside Europe are not subject to VAT. Maybe as addon cards those would be suitable? People could choose which features they want included, the extra cost in base product is the added headers and design.Would that work? all the talks about pushing against this MM is just plain stupid. Stoppind 1tx blocks? Oh come on.You guys are asking exactly what bitcoin is the opposite of: Central authority.There is no proof of botnet, there is no proof of any ill doing what so ever. Every miner is free to choose to include TXs or not to. TX fees will adjust for that *EVENTUALLY*.This could just be some HONEST miner who made a huge investment. This could be BFL testing all their singles, rigs etc. ie. for 800Ghash it takes "only" 1000 BFL Singles, or 40 mini rigs! *40*, not 40000, not 4000, but 40. The full blown rigs you would only need 16 of!16*30k$ = 480k $. Hardly a sizeable investment in grand scale of things.Even if this MM has 4Thash, and does not include TXs, he is increasing the strength of BTC, as long as he doesn't exceed 50% and does something stupid. Even without including transactions.But no, you guys are asking for Central Friggin' Authority. You want that? Well go use Paypal, and don't whine when they freeze your account for receiving too much in a week!Being under the whims of a central authority is a no go for you? Then don't demand that for bitcoin.People demanding all kinds of actions against this MM are actually doing much more damage to BTC than the MM is. Infact, as i see, MM is increasing the overall strength of BTC. Only downside he is causing right now is slightly slower transactions.Sure, YOUR mining revenues for now are lower, but in the long term you will gain more. BTC price will eventually follow.Every single Ghash added to the network makes just that much unlikely anyone could take over 50% of the network. When we reach a point where 1billion USD investment is not sufficient to take 50% of the network BTC starts being really strong. Currently at newegg list prices that purchases roughly as 4x7970 rigs 754Thash. You only need roughly 10mil $ right now to take 65-70% of the network.Like it or not, but we do need the hashing strength of MM. He was capable of doing what, 1.4Thash? That's just 10%! And doesn't he keep the operation off most of the time?Are we even sure this is just 1 party? No. Ehrm, i got to be using different whois database then (different internet), as i see 95.172.9.82 being Tagadab's at London.85.214.124.168 is Strato's at Berlin.Tagadab however does use Clara for transit at the very least.But there is no commonalities in traceroutes between the IPs for me. Origin from Elisa network in Finland.Same thing when tracing from france.  and remember to also document at the time you hit 10Ghash thinking "wow this operation is starting to become so big!", so we can point out to you how small that was when you hit 150Gh aaahh, i remember those golden days, and how naive i were XD (Except in my case it was about euros of revenue)
From used KWh to hourly usage:Month kWh/30.33 (Average month is 30.33 days)/24That's it, you got your hourly usage So you were correct.You are using ~137W only, that's amazing for those cards --- and can't be correct most likely. Many computers use @ idle that much.But you would be getting ~3.95Mhash/W at those figures tho  That wouldn't work but something like this would: ______F FPGAA FPGAN FPGA  -------and 2-3 side by side. Depending upon the fan size, this would create a 2x2 or 3x3 box, depending upon spacing ofc.That funnel would fail to work because too small pressure differentiation and airflow speed, for the funnel to force the airflow to spread. Pressure being the more important factor. Exactly the reason why i opened this thread was that i've not written a SHA256 algorithm from scratch based on documentation (nor studied it), tho i've written some other 10^(10^100) simpler algos.But my original intent was not to attack SHA256 but rather utilize more of the underlying hardware for even some benefit, even how miniscule a single benefit is. But yeah, i guess it boils down to that. crazy idea: Why not use a heat pump?GPU-> Water to Water Heat exchanger -> pump -> GPUsheat pump "cold side" would be warmed with the GPU temperature, giving you a better efficiency for heating the hot tub, while possibly making the GPUs inlet water temp below ambient, atleast at times.Add water to air heat exchangers or other components as needed, just a basic crazy idea Heat pumps can achieve close to even 1:6 ratios of efficiency, and i'm not kidding, there are a lot with those over 1:5 ratio for sale.But yeah, your power consumption would still increase by at least 800W  Plus the cost of making heat pump to heat the hot tub, no idea how much that will be. Ok, maybe i am not articulating myself clearly enough.DaT: Those figures were examples, completely from hat, meant to make a point. Plus you misunderstood what i were saying rjk: Such a lookup of table of finished hashes or something, was not at all my intention.What i meant, there is cases where at certain situation a certain outcome is certain to 100%.Expanding THOSE lookups where we know that something will result into something 100% of the time is my intention.Let's say beginning of the hash is e5da3, and for some statistical miraculous reason if char[0] == e, char[3]==d, char[5] == 3 then char[6] == a when we know that what we are hashing is N characters long.Or maybe if the beginning of hash is 6be3c118da8acd56 we know the last character is 5, thus cannot be our match.Or maybe if the first round beginning is 6be3c118da8acd56 we know that next round first 3 chars will be dcc, and therefore not a match.Pending statistical analysis naturally.I don't understand why that kind of statistical analysis is so difficult to fathom.Similar things ARE being done with FPGAs, and probably on the GPU code.Also, we know the format the original data is in, which might result in some odd coincidences in the resulting double hash. I would definitively prefer a stand alone unit, if it's convenient to manage.even 20$ extra for such wouldn't matter at all, because that's saved in electricity costs of having a host to run them, nevermind cost of the host machine ... Let's assume system with 6x7970 underclocked and undervolted, that is something like 900-1000W usage, let's say 1kW exact.Enermax platinum costs 330$ for 1200W unit, and seasonic costs 270$They are running at 83% load.Enermax report: http://www.plugloadsolutions.com/psu_reports/ENERMAX_EPM1200EWT_ECOS%202585_1200W_Report.pdfEnermax is actually above 90% still on this load, let's say it's close to it's average of 90.62% at 90.3%So let's say seasonic does 89.6% (load just above 80% so take just a notch off from 89.9%)Seasonic usage: 1116WEnermax usage: 1107WIt's less than 1% difference across the board.For the dell 750W Platinum at ~400W usage i wouldn't mind paying the extra tho!6% difference!24W over a year does add up to 209kWh or around 25-28€ for me.and it still uses a tiny inefficient high wattage fan oO; Yeah, underclocking memory is one important step to lower temps (and cut electricity usage).And i meant more like in a rainbow table fashion, for vast amounts. Like you said, big bandwidth, high latency. but there is also lots of ram.No one of you actually were talking about what i were talking about. Thinking outside of the box here.I was thinking utilizing that vast amount of ram AND vast bandwidth.Like say after round  N compare to a hash table to see if we already have pointers to the end result or N rounds deeper.And do it at vast amounts of hashes at once.Say we calculate 1/4th of the double-SHA first for 500million hashes, then compare tables to known bad prefixes first 1/4th which will not result in what we want with a 99.999%+ confidence.Only the remainder progress further.There is ALREADY similar optimizations (looking on the FPGA threads), where at step # we know something will not result into what we want, or gives always certain result, part can be skipped.Here i'm talking about it on a more massive scale. Think of it as "Big Data".Of course that will require vast amounts of data to be analyzed to spot the cases where this can be done.If extra latency of even 0.5s happens for 10s worth of work, but it results in 10.6s worth of work there is a net gain with the drawback that your result submitting might be 0.5s later than someone elses, but you complete a little bit more work every 10.5s you will over the long term haul in more results.Also, another point to look at is that could somehow different parts of the GPU be utilized to achieve same results even if algorithm is totally "bonkers" for SHA, but always returns the correct result, ie. turning part of the algo into floating point operations (which afaik are done in different part, right?), it doesn't matter even if it's as FP operation 10x more expensive, but if it saves 1 cycle from integer operations every 160 cycles, that is already a 0.00625% increase in speed for just that operation if there is sufficient floating point capacity to do that.I haven't worked on this kind of code, i don't know the exact inner workings of GPU and the code that goes with it, but as a coder it strikes me odd that atleast i don't see discussion about attempts to utilize the unused parts. Optimization is afterall mostly about squeezing the last little bit of work from the underlying hardware, sometimes cutting a step, sometimes adding thousands of steps to utilize additional portion of hardware for a net gain. (Think Memcached and other key-value datastores working in conjunction with MySQL ... or distributing data utilizing bittorrent) Actually you are probably right, i did not check the ground connector count *whups*Well, in any case, it's a good idea to also include extra grounding, just for that extra safety margin  You can start by looking at the air thermal transfer rate + surface area formulas. I guess nothing ready as every custom case is... well custom. I'd say just build it and test it.Just remember that air is actually very poor in thermal transfer, you can actually use air as an insulator if you can stop it from moving ...I've been thinking of doing the same thing, designed a case, based on single 3W 230mm fan after i get my first boards and got a bit of time on my hands, going to design in 3d and then print the casings. Testing will show how well it works.But i'm still of a month or couple before doing that, other things to do in regards of mining first. Doesn't take a genious to do the maths.If there is 500Th going on, even getting BFL Minirigs (15k $, ~20Ghash/s) at 10% price would require 375 000 000$ to make 50% ... Nevermind the ~3.1MW consumption ... ehrm, if you only connect the +12V what is going to ground it?Hence no power delivered as expected, grounding would still happen via mobo and same burning effect will happen if that was required.Grounding has to happen via some route. Probably the stupidest and most popular misconception/myth about electricity is "Grounding doesn't matter so mcuh, so it's ok if we use this 1mm2 ground with the 16mm2 power cable" (I've actually seen that with cars, barely any grounding, huge positive cable, end result: Burning wires) Never, ever underestimate the stupidity of a script kiddie.I just had a script kiddie threaten all kinds of DDoS type of attacks on our business, and even log entries with his IP trying to gain access to one of our control panels, and he threatened under his own name, his full contact details inputted into our system and publicly available, and he hosts warez sites under his real identity.Googling his name resulted in his facebook, google plus accounts plus a lot of other information confirming his identity.Script kiddies are the most intellectually challenged, ego driven maniacs you can think of. certain things just don't "compute" for them.and that's not even the only case, i've seen people bragging about doing DoS type of attacks, under their own real name, all verifiable what has happened, and every bit of evidence pointing to them, like asking to get jailed!As for 51% attack, as bitcoin grows it becomes even harder and harder to pull of, eventually being near impossible to pull of. Before that point is met, it's just expected that some people might come close to that. But as BTC value drives up, so does miner rewards and that much harder it becomes! Updated Mhash/€ rates to the table. 7970 is based on quite low Mhash rating, testing will show what will be attained in practice per GPU. Ignorance is a bliss! Many pools don't charge a fee, and taking away the very tiny fee of those which has is trivial. You want to calculate based on HW potential, not for particular pool. I know you guys are far more skilled and knowledgeable in terms of doing this kind of chance, but in the odd chance i had just a different view perspective.Video cards usually sport a lot of VERY fast RAM as well, so couldn't this be used for portions of the algorithm in a 'rainbow table' fashion.So for some particularly heavy operation in the SHA256 algorithm, trying to fetch the answer from video card ram, or maybe even system RAM as a fail over.This has to be a very small portion key=value based store which is pre-generated upon launch, but a costly one, with a very high ratio of processing cost vs. memory needed.As there is a latency cost, it will likely mean that the code needs to be split into 2 portions from the "look at tables" position, so that results are being cached for the 2nd stage (after lookup) to keep all SPs fully utilized all the time despite increased latency.This would help utilize more of the (already paid for) hardware for a performance increase. Ok, i think i recalled wrong :/ Very much true, but still a denial of service exploit does not give full access ... So in this case it's not the case. I thought the recent RDP exploit was a mere DDoS, and proof of concept was done ~wednesday, far after it became known ... It's not even been "weaponized" yet, so kinda hard for that exploit ...
http://tpbitcalc.appspot.com/is my choice wrong place, should be in marketplace ... Which happens as wire transfer behind the curtain OR is a very expensive merchant account for CC processing.Just goes to show how little you know. First of all, you should learn a little bit of english, if you want anyone to understand you.Wire transfers are FREE here. I'm talking about PP and CC payments, you said CC is far superior. No one was talking about wire transfers.Currently users have no need for BTC because so few places accept BTC. We accept on manual request, but only manual as long as there isn't a WHMCS module i'm confident enough with. At this point we have to charge a little bit extra for BTC payment due to it's volatility.You clearly have absolutely no idea what you are talking about. Were are right now in a state where there is NO demand for BTC payments from merchant point of view, because users see no supply.As soon as there is a little bit more supply, users will adopt when they see the all around benefits. Stabilizing exchange rate will help there as well.It's true however that the sole reason we accept PP is because by nature 97% of webhosting payments are via PP.However, if it would be convenient for us we would push more for Alert Pay, and probably Liberty Reserve too, along with WebMoney and some Asian gateways, unfortunately, becoming a merchant with them has been made rather .... Annoying .... To say it very mildly.If we would present all those choices, i would bet usage of PP would drop to around 40%-50%, mainly being US and UK customers. But at that point we would also add an extra fee for using PP, allowed by accepting Western Union with even heftier fee  At that point PP usage would plummet.However, right now convenience trumps other benefits, managing a bunch of different payment methods can create a lot of extra burden on managing cash flow.Did you know that PP TOS denies you right to charge extra fee for using PP *unless* you accept some other payment method as well with the same or higher fee?PP is currently killing their supply side (merchants), so it's only matter of time supply for BTC services becomes great enough for mass adoption buy consumers (demand of BTC paid services).So wake up, and get first some experience and knowledge about things you don't clearly understand the slightest bit. WOW! You really don't know what you are talking about.CC might be cheap for the consumer, but not the merchant!I operate a small business and pay so much in PP fees it would hire 1 guy fulltime! This with significantly lower than CC processing fees. Changing to direct CC processing now would double up the cost probably.Right now Bitcoin mostly matters for online purchases, anyone looking to make online purchases does not need any additional investment to utilize Bitcoin. NADA.Only investment is a little bit of time to install bitcoin client, register on Mt.Gox and buy bitcoins.Chargebacks are an extreme cost at the merchant side, and this extreme cost is added directly to the end product costs for honest customers. Single chargeback can loose the merchant thousands of euros, atleast in the case of Paypal where paypal might take the chargeback amount + another time the chargeback amount as reserve for costs of handling the chargeback. Even if you disputed successfully the chargeback there is upto 15% cost.Now even at 7.5% cost, even if 0.1% customers do chargeback and you successfully dispute it 100% of the time, is 7.5%+human resources added to the final product price.Computers are dead cheap nowadays anyways, 150-200€ for cheapest netbooks, new 400€ for full desktop.That is less than any serious business would pay in TRX fees in any given month. Nevermind if they actually process the CC fees themselves there is also reserves etc. holding a % for atleast months, or for the lifetime of the merchant account.Payment processing is currently *very expensive*, for example for us it accounts for roughly 6% of total costs! More than our marketing budget ffs.If we'd solely use bitcoin, buyer would benefit: - At the very least 3% average lower service price, more likely in the 15% area (for 100% margin service, 1euro saved in costs lowers end price 2euros, 25% margin service price will likely stay the same) - No PP Dilemnas, getting verified etc. - No random payment reversals with PP and causing need to submit extra info to PP for validation - No sending utility bills, drivers license pictures etc. - Not having to keep a valid CC on file @ PP to be charged anytime for whatever reason PP decides - Not having the chance of PP employee stealing your CC information (In the past even cleaners had access to CC information) - No random accounts freezings - No waiting always PP to load forever (for finns logging in might take 3-7minutes, amazing it doesn't hit timeout) - Fast transaction histories if you need it - Ability to purchase sub-1$ priced services (PP Charge minimum 0.39$ TRX fee), in practice availability of good value sub-5$ services. Anything below 5$ and the TRX fee margin becomes too high - Some long term payment discounts on low priced services are transferred to even monthly subscriptions (TRX fee minimums) - Anyone could use our service, as in practice Bitcoin is available to any nationality without restrictions (Unlike PP)Many have asked us to support WU, but we'd have to charge 40-60€ per transaction for using WU  I just noticed Z-Tex offers 2years warranty, while BFL is 6months, and Icarus probably case by case.So i would think the MTBF is to be calculated around 4-5 years then?So i did some number crunching and all of sudden Z-Tex actually looks promising when bought at lots of 10 (or more), if lifetime can be expected to be at least 4yrs on average.Am i correct that it achieves now 225Mhash/s with high confidence? Or what should i expect as the average rate?Using the fastest bitstream, under proper conditions, does the 2 year warranty extend to businesses as well?Package contents include heatsink, usb cable, and heatsink? the 4608 probably comes exactly from 7990 specs (?)GTX 680 being the midrange, there will probably be a more powerfull GPU under the way, and with equal amount of SPs it might perform well enough to be a mining card. My mining operation is rather small even after current upgrades, but priced at 15k $ i might be able to justify the cost come next winter, 25-30k $ definitively not.Also depends upon warranty (and insurance terms) i can get for the device.But if i decide to go for it, expect steady purchases for new ones every few months.and yeah around 1500W is the sweetspot, can have 2x on 16A circuit. Then again, almost all industrial + DC circuits around here are 25A.Some offices have only 10A. The gap can be filled with FPGA miners or Sngles  Difficulty does not factor into your operating costs, it factors on the revenue side. So irrelevant to somehow forcibly include into the COSTS side of things, when it's REVENUE side But how does one factor power costs when one pays annually, basicly getting interest free loan to pay it once per year AND doesn't need any kind of A/C AND first 7-8kW usage for 10months a year is "kinda free" in the sense that it replaces (more expensive, heating oil costs more for heating purposes than plain electricity here, thanks to taxes) heating Does the first 8kW have negative cost then? *whistles* now after failed underclocking it reports 0 GPUs >_< ffsand no files in ACTIVE/** EDIT: Got it fixed  I'm Finnish, like i told you already, we use Euro, not Pound Sterling.No, i'm not confusing. They do not accept CCs, only finnish banks etc. Even if you are Finn you can't get that price unless you are a company.Because Finland has so insanely high taxes we get sometimes subsidized by multinational corporations. For example, many Germans come here to buy their BMW ...I can sell you some cards for, say 500$ + shipping, i ought to have 2 to sell next week unless mobo, psu etc. for new rig arrives. Doesn't look too bad soldering case imho.I'll give 100BTC/520$ in PP for these if you cannot find a buyer. PowerColor HD5850 Heatsink + Fan. Looks reference design to me.Fan in good working condition. Heatsink quite clean despite running for a year (no i didn't clean it).One of the heatsink screws got cut through while i was screwing it back after replacing thermal paste, so i decided to replace it with a AC TwinTurbo. All screws with springs are included however.Pictures upon request, i already took pictures but it's a PITA to transfer pics out of my Nokia E7.Shipping from Finland.Price: Best Offer + Shipping.Buy out: 25$Payment PP or Bitcoin equivalent. No finnish store sells in either currency ... Sonny told me that they can be flashed by customers, and they are going to release new bitstream which should increase performance later on, and those will be made available for download. It's a finnish store. Unless you happen to be paying far less per 7970 than newegg pricing  I get new ones for about 445$ incl. shipping, with interest free credit when purchasing them ... Doesn't Raspberry Pi have some USB interface?USB is backwards compatible on that direction too, i think. Exactly like i assumed, that is pretty much double price. I seriously doubt 7990 is only 33% more expensive per card. Try more like 80%.7970s are damn cheap right now, well for me atleast ...
Yes, but you could using these have more than 5x7970 on single rig But mostly they are just curiosities  Those coolers somehow looks epic on that board! *thumbs up*Nice results  So USB3.0 device to connect 2x PCI-E devices?On another thread there was just talk about this, i thought i had seen something like this but thinking it had to be a joke or something ...Anyone know who has these actually on sale and at a price? Slush luck: 78%, 112%, 101%1day, 7day, 30daybut it's been a really bouncy couple days. Most i hate about Cisco switches is that every single model has somewhat different management commands/configuration ffs! :/ Indeed, and they told me that any orders done in March would receive that version. oh ffs, any forced TX fee will be top the detriment of BTC. Let the market decide!Market forces are incredibly strong, you guys are not giving it enoug credit.Forced fee of 0.01BTC today would be 5$ cents, ok that's not much for MOST of us, but how about africans? Indians? In Africa 36.2% of people live with under 1$ a day! GDP per capita is just 1200$ while in US it is 48147$, so that 0.01BTC works about 40 times higher for africans relative to their income, now would you pay 2$ per transaction? (Adjusted by living standards would probably be more like 5$)Whoops, you just closed down 922 million people market from BTC by introducing TX fees! :OTX fees will happen, no matter what, when block rewards go down, and more people see value in BTC. Bitcoin is still very small and niche. How many Bitcoin users are there currently? Not that many!Market cap for all BTC too is very low still.People will start paying TX fees overtime, introducing now any rules to stop 0 tx blocks, forced TX fees etc. would hinder bitcoin, maybe even to the point it never becomes widely adopted *oops*The protocol is not broken, there is nothing to fix, 0 TX blocks are not an exploit or an attack.Want TX Fees? By all means increase the required TX for Your blocks.Eventually ppl will start including more TX fees. Last 24hrs was 6730 transactions which is extremely low when thinking globally. Now when we start reaching 100k transactions a day, which is still very low, if 0.1% includes a TX fee of 0.01, that is 1BTC a day - still very small by any standard. When we are close to having all 21million BTC in circulation, and active userbase of 100million, we are talking about something like 50million+ transactions a month. At this time even if just 25% miners adopt a minimum of 0.001BTC fee, people will be incentivized to gve TX fees, say 2% choose to include them at the minimum level that is 1000BTC a month already, still for smaller user base than PP has!Average PP account has about 40$ on it, so at this point BTC has to be *at least* 19.04$ each (see my post in economics), but as BTC people tend to hoard them as investment etc. and no sane person keeps much money in PP, we can safely quadruple this to 160$, meaning each BTC is atleast 80$ worth -> 80k $ worth of TX fees a month with still very small adoption!And to be honest, i see more like people having BIG balances as their savings etc. So we could probably increase that still *10 fold*.If Bitcoin becomes a true success, to which there is currently no objections, we are going to see more like an user base of *2 billion*.With same ratios of 2 transaction every other day per active user average, with 2% paying TX fees of 0.001BTC, that all of sudden becomes: 20 000BTC or 3 200 000$ a month in TX fees. More than 100k $ a day, more than 4k $ an hour, something like 700$ per block!And you want to be greedy now, and slow that day from happening? (Greedyness is one of the biggest reasons new and inexperienced companies fail, hell, even i have fallen to that bear trap with a very popular site making hundreds of revenue daily!)FYI, transaction fees has to be voluntary and arbitrary, so we can allow people a way to transfer cheaply very low quantities also (there is currently some forced fee for very tiny transactions tho, isn't it there?) for micropayments etc. other things which cannot be done with today's money gateways.Think about a situation where BTC replaces Paypal ... And that is just the beginning!TX Fees will happen, people will see value in that, especially if the benefits of including TX fees are heavily advertised by miners: Be included faster, support the strength of the cluster etc. Yeah but in question was USB to PCI-E notice how that netstor product looks a bit like BFL Rig Box? XD ehrm... don't tell this anyone but .... Bitcoin mining is bruteforcing it! *looks shadily around hoping no one heard that*XD there might be, i saw some article for external vidcards for laptops once ... Seemed vaporware tho. or maybe 1st of April joke. It's easier to sort with just devices, but yeah, it could be marketed as such.Those terms are created so that we can still reap the important reward -> upfront ROI on the HW.Dropping setup fees would mean that we are essentially donating money In any case, 75€ is not much! That is some BAD electrical rate :O +75€ if you want to pay monthly.Exactly, i will keep them mining if there is no takers, so opportunity cost is very low.I also get the 7970s substantially cheaper than say NewEgg listing price, that helps too 515.4€ = 670.02$ so it's barely above the GPU price for the 1st year. I fail to see how that is NOT a good deal for someone short in capital? Well, i bited and purchased my first 2 units.Money reserved for next 5 after these arrive.and i still got 7 new GPUs to setup too :/ From european individuals i have to charge 23% VAT How much are you paying for electricity?I was also thinking for serious miners a faster way to grow, as there is no serious upfront costs, just the operational.For me the benefit would be from economies of scale and long term prospects.That way you could get additional 6Ghash/s today instead of just 1Ghash/s for the same money paid today, as an example.The 7970 1st year costs on this should be less than the GPU + Electricity cost even for most US based miners.We shall see, a lot of this i have to setup in any case, and when it's all setup there might be interest all of sudden, and definitively would consider mainstreamers would be interested, those without know how or willingness to setup their own GPU farms, and those which just want to support Bitcoin and enjoy some profit at the go.See if you pay 75€ setup + 43€ for the GPU to be brought online today for ~600Mhash/s, instead of paying ~450€ just to get the GPU, you can purchase full 2Ghash/s from me to have online TODAY. That equals the cost of SINGLE GPU. It leaves me to finance the remainder 3 GPUs + node + supportive/overhead hardware. Platinum cert PSUs are *NOT* cheap.The difference is: 70$ or 280$ revenue on the first month.First year 4xGPU Setup: 2060€ fees collected by me.Cost of 4xGPU + PSU + Mobo + CPU + RAM @ Newegg is roughly: 1963€ excluding PCI-E risers, Fans, power cabling, electricity costs, space costs, CPU heatsink.At 0.06$/kWh, if that system consumes 750W: 302€ for the year, combining for 2263€ costs for you (Plus what 100€ for the other HW, plus space?), meaning for 1st year you STILL get ahead. sub'dThis is indeed rather curious. I guess no ne has more info about the mystery miner ...Let's just hope if it's some über powerful ASIC rest of us will gain access to it as well. GPUs still buy more Mhash / $/€/BTC, while having lower efficiency.I see GPUs being ran side by side with FPGAs, those who have low electricity rates can operate GPUs quite profitably, while those with high priced electricity will opt for FPGAs.ASICs however is going to be an killer application, a game changer most likely. oh X)Just thought variance would be smaller, but i guess not!  Same effect happens when you simply can pay off your electricity bills regularly without selling any BTC.It's nothing special, just a matter of financial effectiveness. http://blockchain.info/During the turn from 14th to 15th there was 56minute gap in new blocks.Only reason i noticed was because i was waiting for some transactions to go through.Does this happen often, i thought it shouldn't? What are the odds of that just happening by chance ... Probably just chance but i would think odds of 1hr with only 1 block mined has quite low odds. Who said i don't do both?On another one of my locations electricity is billed annually ...So if i don't mine today when rates are at $1, but when electricity bill comes and BTC is worth 10$ ... oopsAssuming i actually need to sell BTC to pay that.Electricity bill always arrives at least month later, so if i mined at 5$ then stop when it's at $1 and then sell BTC to cover electricity while i were mining at 5$ ... ooops!Only thing what matters is value at sale time - not anything else, absolute nothing else.If i stop mining while value is low, it's equivalently more time to put off the ROI, 1:1 relation.Some of us can afford not to dance at the edge of cash flow right now, in order to maximize gain.Infact, i've yet to sell a single BTC of my mining profits. I used BTC to purchase some of my rigs last summer tho, when BTC was at all time high.But, oh please, oh please, DO by all means shutdown your rigs down when value visits a little bit lower 
thanks, but there is no /bamt dir ...Now this happened to other GPU, no crash involved or anything, all of sudden just overclocks are gone!noticed because hashing rate dropped a bit on the cluster ... Hahaha, that's a sweet deal! Just don't tell me now that floor space is something like 20€/m2 XD ONLY if you care about today's value - Like i explained, i'm working on assumptions/projections of value after a period of time, not what it is worth today.EDIT: Actually, at least for me, 7970 is by far the best value. I can get new 7970s for same price as 5970s right now, without the hassle of needing to search and scout, and get out of warranty used cards. No thanks. And i can get them TODAY, means 1½-2months of revenue before BFL Singles would arrive. Take a look at, which might help you scale more: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68634.0and give feedback! Actually it's somewhat same as on this thread but oversimplified and turn into a traditional hosting service.(Sorry, not meaning to thread hijack, just saw my idea could be helpful!) I'm targeting long term goals, so even if price goes down now to 1$ i will keep my miners operational. I see all of this as a risk investment and my goals are set on not what BTC is today, but what it is 1,3,5,10years from now. If best case scenario happens in 10-15years i can retire off my mining earnings from the 2$ days or whatever the low point is going to be. Hence i mostly invest outside money to my rigs. Right now i'm on 2nd investment period and i've yet to sell single BTC (quite the contrary).My initial miners were bought with 10€ BTC investment from year earlier, which was worth at peak something like 7500€ .... Looking back now i should've sold 90% of my BTC back then XD My ex-fiance at first tried to some blame game on expenditure, i simply told her "Well, you are a student, living on a shoestring budget, and i bring the food on the table, and now that we are living together you have nothing to worry about living expenses, so stfu and concentrate on your studies!" and that was that, she didn't even say a single word couple years later when my business ran into trouble and i was making like 100€ a month max for quite a while ... That did tho probably contribute to the break up, but we never had even an argument about money after the first time.I would never let girlfriend/wife interfere with my business investments, if i see something is going to bring X % ROI annually, all she'd need to know is that it's going to bring the bacon on table.I'm still investing in GPUs for the moment, maybe i'll get a single or 4 next month or whenever shipping times get lower. Just got my electricity rate lowered significantly and still got few tens of kW available to be utilized  Now that original hardware has paid off 150% it's time to invest again  Any left?Escrow? i'll bite, bought a few tickets  Exactly my point  Updated the pricing, lots of Q&A etc. on the 2nd posting.Feedback is appreciated. ROFLMAO! Good one! Nope, another vendor. What kind of features you would hope to see from an operation like this?I have few ideas to lower the pricing to a nicely low fees, yet make it profitable, by driving in some efficiencies of scale.Payment methods would be Paypal € or BTC.Also one thing to consider is providing other GPGPU or hashing applications. FPGAs probably cannot operate for anything else than Bitcoin, but GPUs could. It's illegal for BFL to collect VAT, but it's not unheard of that US company is collecting VAT to pad their profit margins, as going to court for that is quite rare. Linden Lab/Second Life does that .... California registered company collecting VAT .... Yeaaaaahhhhh riiiiiggghhhhttt..... (No wonder they went from the miracle service to the way of MySpace...)BFL asks for insane shipping extra for international orders tho, that one is a joke, and i would have already ordered units if it were not so, but a sane shipping. When companies transfer too much of their profit margin to the shipping&handling that always puts me off from buying, no matter what. I think i just bid for it XD starting price was around ~50$hoping reapplying thermal paste will solve it. That provider puts money where it matters and not making things fancy, or excessively fine tuned.Not sure how they handle fire suppression tho.My point is that there is a balance on things.I plan to utilize at max 20kW or so at this location, before choosing another one.That is around 80Ghash/s.Yes, not a tiny cluster, but not extremely large neither.The whole point is to make things as economical as possible, not as fancy as possible.You can have fancy right now, just build your rig into 4U case and take it to a DC, anyone can do it right now. However that does cost 100-200€ per rig a month. If i recall right it's 1100€ a month for rack with 16A @ Evoswitch (NL). Whoops, your operational costs just rose exponentially for: UPS, Fire suppression, 24/7 present staff (150€ per hour remote hands), AC etc etc etc.Yet you don't get monitoring with it, but you have to monitor it yourself and make requests to DC remote hands, billed in 15min increments. So you need to hire a local guy to do that for you, here in Finland that is 2k €+ a mo for minimum wage guy, but you don't want minimum wage guy doing THAT JOB, riiiiight?Are you getting where i'm going with this?There will be a point where all of what you mention WILL be economical, but that day is not Before Launch.Why most people don't host their hardware in a DC? Because of the cost of all those supplements. For almost every miner out there, it makes absolutely no sense. For some it does, for most it does.Only reason you are not demanding these from mining contract is perception. Same risks exist for anyone who is having any sizeable mining operation. 1) Complete power cut off, ie. PDUs. Can be automatic with temperature sensors -> detect over 50C in any of the measure points -> something is seriously wrong.2) Like i said, 24/7 video surveillance, tight lockdown. A non-issue.3) 30mins is my normal from door to door travel time, i can make it in 20minutes in emergency. or less.I'm a entrepreneur -> this WOULD BE my job, at least part of it. I can leave and come whenever i want, no problem at all. My responsibilities are 100% to customers.3AM, 10AM, 5PM, whatever, nothing new. If sprinklers go off fire alarm is set off automatically, which goes remotely to fire station.Actually, i'm quite curious how ridiculously tight requirements you are asking for bitcoin mining rigs, these are not mission critical financial servers, these are mining rigs. No one is going to die if they are down for a while, no one is going to go bankrupt, no one is going to have relatively high losses vs. time of downtime, no one is going to take PR damage (except me) for any downtime.All of that asked can be provided, but price will then correlate:That would be 7500€ per 7970 per year, thank you.That will give you a fully HA setup, in 24/7 in location presence, with proper fire management, offsite backups, security guards on post 24/7. Minimum order is 50 units, minimum contract 3years.Ask for enterprise level features -> get enterprise pricing.Or is it sufficient for a bitcoin mining rig to have an annual 99.9% uptime (less than 9hrs downtime annually), where security for the budget far exceeds the expected norm, and any and all issues are replied & acted upon within the day, critical emergencies within an hour or two, at a sane cost.99.9% of the dedicated server market does not offer what you are asking for.Some providers run their DCs completely lights-out with hours to travel to location if need be. They still offer you 99.9% SLA, and many people use their services for something which would cost them with 1hr downtime more than annual revenue of 1Ghash/s of mining rigs.Hell, i've seen (and used) DCs where ambient temp is 50C, with no fire suppression available, and anyone with knowledge it is there and intent could get into. Actually because one of the technicians forgot his keys, with 20minute effort we got through the door without any kind of keys. I admit, that place sucked MAJORLY.BTW, worlds most successful server provider uses the quality level of DCs 90%+ "enterprise hosting" folks would laugh at. Yet their uptime levels at the very least is on par, usually exceeding this "enterprise" offers (disclosure: I have hundreds of servers there, which take less time to manage than just 10 servers at Leaseweb...)oh and this warehouse, i already got there stuff worth tens of thousands of euros, if the place would be robbed or would burn down i would stand A LOT to loose. Epic! ^_^ Hahha yeah, bigger the corporation, more blatant and direct tax evasion they do Indeed, i wouldn't pay that neither, but it's the sad reality for individuals. As a company i will get the VAT back couple months later. Also, the VAT is quite trivial to circumvent when ordering abroad if you know how, there is still a risk of "getting caught", but the cost of that is having to pay the VAT, nothing else.Infact, that happens all the time, even without trying, packages just don't end up in customs even if worth is in the thousands, at times. Depends greatly on shipping method too. Yeah, you are correct.And any system designed to bypass customs (incl. VAT) is tax fraud btw. servers don't need that kind of observation - properly configured these do neither.a 5k server room might go by months no one even visiting there!If fire happens, i will most likely be able to shut down all nodes remotely, so when the sprinklers go off the hardware would be spared, just need to dry and test everything. Just in case i can't be there when the fire is starting up.Seriously tho, computer hardware does not tend to catch up on fire spontaneously and if this grows sufficiently, it's not that big of an investment relatively to setup electronics safe fire system (can't remember the name of the gas used).If you got 40k € (ie. 100x7970) operating, 4k-8k € on a small fire supression system is not that bad of an investment anymore (10-20%) compared to a small 10x7970 operation.
I could do that, problem is i need to charge some profit. Also i need to charge VAT 23% when selling to EU resident.So the price would end up being something like 850$  Being a registered company helps in that part ^_^You might be interested as a fellow finn what i'm thinking about doing: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=68634.0 Not sure of your question. Do you mean a person available to goto the location 24/7? Well the 2nd location is just 22km from where i live - So yes  Takes 30mins for me to drive there, and i do hang around there for other reasons once or twice a week when i can.It functions as our warehouse, plus i assemble stuff there etc.No matter what, i will be placing my own rigs there. Only thing scares me is the temperatures in end of July, early August.Average summer temperature is just ~18C for past few years (VERY HOT relatively), 1971-2000 average summer temp 15.9C, 30km south of the location. I really don't, but i don't sleep, and i work 16hr days so ...Many of the topics has been on my mind for a longer time.I guess i'm just busy person, even tho i consider myself lazy! XDThing is, i enjoy doing research, doing new things, so the 16hrs a day spent doesn't feel like that bad, usually. Having employees helps aswell BTW, did some cost analysis and the pricing is still ALL wrong on the table.First year is the toughest, need ASAP HW ROI to supply to new customers, but with pricing making that possible it's not attractive, and self funding lasts only so far.We have only secured funding for 4-6 units (BFL, Icarus/X6500 or 7970s) a month with 0 revenue for this endeavour.My measurement period is 1year. With traditional hosting, with less risk i can achieve less than 1year HW ROI, this being riskier tho ... But GPUs are easier resale than servers. After 1st year i can probably get almost same price for GPUs than what i paid them for so ... For them i might lower the 1st year cost to something like 50% retail card price + operational costs. This would be 1st year competitive even for DaT!Plus this doesn't require acquiring new locations etc. and there is always the backup that unused hardware can be mining for myself. And there is some other options i'm looking forward to investigate for additional revenue on this!  Updated the pricing again, fixed some flaws in the method of calculation. Still badly flawed tho!Calculating hosting prices is not an easy task for something you don't have comparison base to, and most cost is in the HW, and HW lifetime.Obviously paying setup + subscribing for an year might not make any sense at all."Submit your own HW" is possible too, and pricing would be something like:75€ setup on any GPU (To cover PSU, Mobo, cooling etc.!)BFL Single: 11€Icarus/X6500: 5€Z-Tex: 4€ (Obviously too low if you need support even once)7970: 23€6770: 14€5830: 24€for FPGA i would also need to setup casing etc.No HW Insurance/Replacements included, if it fails we'd ship the GPU/FPGA back to you, and you can ship us an replacement or fix it. Only disaster insurance covered as per our insurance company.Some simple things tho we can do for you, ie. swap GPU cooler or apply new thermal paste. Wow that is one mighty low electrical rate!So your 1st year cost for 7970 with assumed 150W with overheads and GPU cost of 530$ is about: 608$! 467€ ... Wow. That is amazing!My electricity cost alone is 170€ / 221$. And they say Finland is the promised country of Cloud ....In your case you would however benefit from less hassle, but that's it. I intend to spend a lot of extra effort on enhancing Mhash/W ratio, and find my competitive edge on electricity pricing there That means going as far as minizing quantity of fans, replacing all fans with larger, higher efficiency ones.During winter, all but GPU fans would be disabled too, and i expect GPU fans to be running real slow.Problem really is that need to make sure the ambient stays above 4C (Yes, i AM serious). First winter i expect some sleepless nights at the farm measuring temperatures.One solution is to use tons of electronics varnish, and simply let the ambient to go -20C but i'm not a fan of that idea.That can easily save 10-20W per 3-4GPUs from fans alone. Low ambient will help shave off another couple W per GPU.Increased spacing will help too.Undervolt, underclock the CPUs & RAM, find smallest ram sizes available etc.Test and benchmark the sweet spot of Mhash VS. W per type of GPU.I'm actually expecting to achieve a total efficiency of more than 4Mhash/W with GPUs on the newer gear!But only research will show will that be achieved.I also have an idea to decrease the overhead per GPU down to around 9W @ wall  So? How many Siberians you know even being able to do this?Even tho that is the case, for example google setup one huge DC here ...France has high electricity costs, yet probably the biggest hosting company in Europe operates from France ...Netherlands has likely the highest electricity costs in Europe, yet is the Europes "Internet Hub" meaning best connectivity there, and LOTS and LOTS and LOTS of large and small hosting companies, one of europes largest providers too is there.Just because Siberians can get that, does not mean it will happen.For example, they might have very flaky electricity, hard to get HW delivered, too big distances, if electricity goes down it might be down for how many weeks??How about internet connectivity? Satellite? yeah....Anything hosting requires reliable power and reliable connectivity, and distances seem to have an indirect relation (length of power, copper, fiber lines)Tho, if they have none of those downsides.... Well, it's russia and has it's own cultural phenomenons.And no i don't need to be able to sell to 100% of world population, no business would ever start if they'd expect to offers to be lucrative for 100% of world population. Oh yeah, forgot that the electricity is charged annually at the 2nd location, that gives us an advantage because we can get for the electricity price an average of 6% interest over the year, rather safely too!Tho, likely we would save the electricity funds in this proportion: 25% BTC, 25% Stock/Investments (Rather liquid, but has an inherent risk), 25% Liquid Funds & Bonds, 25% cash or further HW investments expected to gain 100%+ in cashflow before electricity is due (January of each year) (100%+ received on HW does not mean it's been paid off). 1) Trust is non-issue. We are a finnish registered company, and doing fraud like that i would be personally liable in the court. Our VAT ID is: FI22551954We got thousands of customers, so any trust issues are extremely bad for us. We've acted even on hints of trust issues within 24hrs in the past, hints caused by people who dislike our success.2) Already got insurance up to 1million euro. Electronic friendly fire protection not right now, we got fire protection, just not electronics friendly. Good point.Dedicated warehouse space: That 150m2 location  More is available fast, or with some searching cheap.24/7 security: Camera surveillance, including online. Access very limited, "off the beaten path". Cops visit occasionally the parking lot, along with security company which visits couple times a night.3) Unfortunately that is impossible pricing at Finland, alone the electricity added tax is is about 0.03$/kWh. Like said, upside is no need for AC.If 100% gain from no need for AC, that already drops effective price to ~0.13$/kWh.AC is certainly not needed 10months of a year. Infact, problem might be we still might need some HEATING during 3-4months of a year! :O On the upside we don't need AC, and even tho office has AC it's not calced in because it would have this in any case and i could put the FPGAs on another room to get the load off the AC.Summer fans + evap should be more than sufficient for the GPU farm.Assume 100% gain on that, it's 30% cost savings.Floor space is also extremely cheap. Basic nodes are extremely cheap. UPS costs a bit if done, but not that bad.A lot of things are very cheap infact, but power is not one of them.Also on another upside, some people are not capable to run their own miners, skillwise or space wise. Also with us you'd have less upfront costs. The setup fees need to be adjusted tho, or 2 levels offered, roughly 50% of HW cost, 100% of HW cost.You also get "insurance" in the sense that HW will be replaced free of charge if failed. The monthly fees cover this.If a particular GPU is unavailable it will be upgraded to similar price & W/Mhash free of charge, or the setup fee considered for 12-24months "value" and prorata credit towards next device.Grown enough, delivery times will be also completely different than waiting for your own hardware etc. Pricing Edited 14/03/2012Starting to near final production costs + prices IMHO.Options for +~50% setup fee of hardware value for lower monthly will be provided if there is demand.Setup fees: 195€ for billing terms monthly & quarterly, 75€ for longer cycles (6months, 12months).RATES:BFL Single: 49.95€Icarus/X6500: 37.95€Z-Tex: 29.95€7970: 42.95€6770: 19.95€5830: 33.95€ ** TO BE VERIFIED -> Unknown power consumption per GPUQuarterly rate(3 months): Monthly rate * 3Semi-annual rate(6 months): Monthly rate * 6Annual rate(12 months): Monthly rate * 12PRICES IN USD: RATE * 1.34   (Xe.com 27th of March)Which results in Mhash per € costs:BFL Single: 16.61Mhash / €Icarus/X6500: 10.01Mhash / €Z-Tex: 7.01Mhash / €7970: 12.80Mhash / €6770: 10.02Mhash / €5830: 9.43Mhash / €This means that at 6month payment cycle (no setup fee later on), your effective 1st year costs would be, including overheads, electricts etc etc, only the single payment, no hidden charges:BFL Single: 599.4€Icarus: 455.4€Z-Tex: 359.€7970: 515.4€6770: 239.4€5830: 407.4€Expect 2-4% lower price on 12month payment cycle.All prices exclude VAT 23%Reseller options will be featured. Bulk discounts will be offered. Please contact me for additional information.The important questions are ....How can you offer below HW costs?Economies of scale, long term goals. The HW payoff is set far into the 2nd year, only thing that matters is positive constant cash flow.Standardized setups will allow us to spend a lot of R&D to push through more efficiency.For europeans just acquiring the HW will cost more than the annual price! Slight difference, but not much.This kind of pricing will allow bigger operators to scale faster if supplies last.Why, oh why? Couldn't you just mine and earn more?Likely, yes. But this often yields revenue upfront vs. mining which is constant small flow. Also there will be some HW to hash for ourselves, but that is mostly the items which is waiting to be provisioned/burn-in test, old HW, testing setups etc. which might yield for us at some points of time even 10Ghash/s+ in burn-in testing!Also, this will yield something which i appreciate: Known, stable return on investment. BTC value goes up & down, and we would at times need to wait months before we could sell BTC, making scaling efforts really slow at times. Personally, i prefer to hold on to my BTC anyway! When?Proof of concepts will be built by end of April, launch shortly there after. Some beta accounts will be available.Full sales should begin no later than end of August, targeting 1st of June.What we need to do is:Web interfaceInterface pool setupLots and Lots of statistics and graphsHW testing, finalizing setups and verifying the average GPU can work at the clocks we want toSetup GPU farm location ready to accept nodes: building shelves, wiring, ensure stability etc.API for advanced usersWebsite + billing (graphics being the most time consuming)Setup other usage options for GPGPU, ie. Folding@HomeWhat if no one is interested?Doesn't matter, we'll just mine bitcoins for ourselves then  Sure then a lot of hours will be wasted into research and development which would have not otherwise been done, but overally i consider the opportunity costs to be rather fair.Who can get an beta account?Those who can give us productive feedback, only a few will be accepted How are you able to finance this?We are an established hosting company with some options for self financing few ghash growth per month on average without affecting other operations at all.If demand is great we might accept a limited amount of preordering, preorders would be limited to something which we can handle to provide within a ~month, not 4-6months For FPGAs the queue might be longer due to the nature of FPGAs arriving in batches, and there is no constant supply.Shipments from US (ie. BFL Single) happens only once every 1-2months as well because it makes no sense to have small shipments from our US warehouse.Do i get HW access, so can i OC the GPUs?NO! OC'ng will make the lifespan of the GPU far shorter, in extreme cases into just weeks instead of years, nevermind the increased wattage and lower Mhash/W ratio. Further, there is group of people who doesn't give a shit about others and will kill the GPUs in a month if it yields them even 0.1€ more revenue, and would cause expenses to skyrocket with constant RMAs and replacement HW purchases (You can RMA single GPU only so many times ...). Further crash of single GPU causes whole node to crash, likely causing downtime for other customers on the same node as well.That being said, we are targeting high performance, for example 600-650Mhash for 7970, if not more. Final testing will show.FPGAs will run at the rates they are delivered, or in case of X6500 what every unit can run with combined few % safety margin, likely 190-200Mhz range. Icarus will yield ~380Mhash, BFL Single ~830.Scale maximum?2012 Fall: Current locations will be scaled to a total of approximately: 20Ghash/s in GPUs and 20Ghash/s for FPGAs.2012 Winter: 60Ghash/s in GPUs utilizing current locations (Requires new electric circuits). FPGAs can be temporarily be hosted where GPUs are.2013: Likely new location will be acquired, scouting will take a little bit of time. New location will add a minimum of ~20kW capacity at the start (80 to 200Ghash/s), but might require AC for cooling. We have a potential backup location with 6kW capacity available. We will acquire similar locations on as-needed basis. I've been thinking about this since last summer, but it brought up again lately and realized this might make a lot of sense for some people.My idea is to offer mining hardware for hosted lease, with some customization options, and a range of products to choose, from GPUs to FPGAs.Pricing would be set according to real world pricing and cost to operate and acquire the hardware - not by the potential BTC mining results.You would directly pay for the mining hardware, not the infrastructure etc. you wouldn't need to care yourself about the physical setup etc.Price would include hardware replacements, service level agreement, and all the overheads needed to operate something like this.You wouldn't not need to worry about anything else than "What pools do i want to use?".You would get access to RRD graphs of YOUR cluster, with each device listed and total graphs.At later point we will also enable you to change pool configurations on the fly for yourself, and for the whole cluster - maybe also some other configuration options to a limit.The performance would be managed by us, meaning we first optimize it for best MH/W combination.The biggest drawback is that electricity is rather expensive for us - 0.18$/kWh in primary location for GPUs and 0.16$/kWh where a small cluster of FPGAs will be set up (office). The upside is that we don't need AC being located near to the arctic circle Office has AC so FPGAs will run cool, with low rejects and high speeds.The SLA would cover: * Network uptime * Hardware uptime * Hardware replacementsSupport is 24/7 for basic questions, hardware technical (replacements) is ~12/7, commercial is available ~12/5 (business days)Capacity to grow offsite location is up to around 100kW (cooling limited), office 7kW.Offsite location has 24/7 recording camera surveillance as well.GPUs already available or en-route:583058505870695067707970All current FPGA options will be made available, with longer delivery times:BFL SingleIcarusX6500Z-TexSome GPUs will be upgraded with better after market coolers if the temperatures raise too high. Target is to keep them below 70C.Offsite location will likely also feature UPS backup at a later date.Office will likely NOT have UPS for the FPGAs Who knows .... Wait what load? XDI thought that was achieved with evaporative cooling? Honestly thinking about that, you can get "semi-free" airflow by utilizing the heat ... Yes, utilizing the heat generated So assume you have a tent, say yurt / pyramid shaped.The shape of "roof" is like a funnel, constantly accelerating the air flow, on top you have say a 500x500mm hole with that sized fan, but very low wattage, say 15-30WBelow you have an open air opening.Because heat tends to go upwards, and BIG fans tend to be more efficient moving air around, you are going to get a decent air flow amount ...Just saying ... Depends on model, but i actually have one with over 2kW rating > +1.I setup my original cluster ALL wrong, result was barely 1.28Mhash/W, 2xFailed 5850, failed mobo, room like a sauna.Now i'm looking towards to achieving over 4Mhash/W with newer hardware!  anyone know the wattage of 7770? Especially if undervolted, and maybe even after upgrading the cooling  Yeap, a bunch of them.Yes, it adds a lot of cost tho :/Maybe one can reverse engineer from one of them and swap the components up for larger ones  hahaha, was thinking I still got some half broken AGP GeForces lying around Also got plenty of prehistoric hardware for load testing I guess adding several fuses, ie. 1 per card and zener diodes might be a good idea.Has anyone enough electricity experience here and willing to tell me how to make the regulatory circuitry as efficient as possible?and to make certain that a significant portion of the load does not come from the battery pack constantly?Maybe utilizing picoUPS is not such a bad idea 
So drawing on this idea further.Circuitry is something like:WALL -> Trickle chargers -> Battery packWALL -> ATX PSUs -> Post Regulated Circuitry (Well call this power source circuitry or PSC)Battery Pack  -> Regulators                   -> InverterPSC  -> picoPSU Per motherboard       -> GPU PCI-E connectors       -> 12V to Mobo loom after picoPSU       -> 12V to PCI-E extender       -> Other 12V devices       -> Tiny inverter for supporting 230V devices (ie. if router doesn't accept 12V, 230V Fans.)Regulator circuitry is: Zener diode + Regulator per "lane", connecting in parallel to 2x1.5F caps.Now tell me how friggin' dangerous is that setup No PicoUPS even needed as pack is constantly being charged and 12V being supplied after the regulators. If utilizing PicoUPS then replace the regulator circuitry with them ATX PSUs then connect to the bank of PicoUPS devices.Hmmph... Time to build a proof of concept?  That efficiency loss is why need to have something to switch.HOWEVER, you could power your GPUs directly from the batteries, skipping the inverter step.and then maybe utilizing a bunch of picoUPS: http://www.mini-box.com/picoUPS-120-12V-DC-micro-UPS-battery-backupconnected in parallel ... hmmph...Run GPUs directly from batteries after regulators, where you have your 12V Gold/Platinum cert ATX PSUs supplying the main power, and a low voltage cutoff board, and picoPSUs supplying mobo power: http://www.mini-box.com/picoPSU-80and splice in the loom 12V directly from battery pack, or use pci-e extenders where you splice-in from battery back, to ensure sufficient power.Cost per system: 50$hmmmph... Ofc, they are waaay heftier. But really what you want to look for is the $/Ah supplied, and just make sure they are capable to output 50% more than your required amperage, which is a non-issue unless the batteries are old.It's quite easy maths really: 12V * 60Ah = 720Wh.rjk: depends on type of batteries. And what type of battery is 6V per cell? take a traditional, used, otherwise functional but battery dead APC backups, replace the batteries with 2xcar batteries. Just make sure it's rated for atleast 700w load.Easy for small load like that  designed to increase pressure. Anytime air pressure increases heat happens.Tho not sure if it's enough to matter in this level of pressure, most likely not, and the temp increase is in in the 0.0x range if even that. +1 but add to that any used HW, from the moment of purchase is just 75% worth of original, for one reason due to lack of practical warranty, risk from buying from unknown 3rd parties on net, and oh well, for being used.I usually ask for 75% retail value and am willing to pay only a under max. ~65% retail, usually around 50% of retail. Indeed did these sell? No pic of all of them.Willing to make quick purchase, shipping to Cali Has these been used for mining and for how long?Despite that, if they are still functional, i will take the rest of them from you for a total of 175$ incl. shipping to Finland (or US if that's cheaper for you).They used to be less than 100$ a pop, without already 1-2yrs of 24/7 number crunching behind them ... I just bought few 7970s significantly cheaper than that from Finland!I'm willing to offer you 300€ for it tho  I'll give 67BTC for the 6990 or equivalent via PP. True.For now tho, i decided to build on the GPU cluster for the next additional 3500W (25A circuits only as it's industrial location).Also on this 2nd location electricity is billed annually so i can utilize the best possible BTC sell rate to cover that by choosing my time of the year to sell (when i think it's highest). Ok, that actually makes it rather simple, only question remains is side B pins 2,3. Should these be connected, they are bright yellow and not on legend, the other yellow is reserved, not to be connected.I guess i'll connect side A 2+3 and #4 on both sides Lol ofc, that's the way i found it last time. Guess too tired this morning. http://pinouts.ru/Slots/pci_express_pinout.shtmlTrouble is the extenders i've seen have only used 1 pair on each side, if i use that pin out i have to connect A LOT of wires. Also from that it's not 100% clear which is side B and which is side A. screw-up here can become costly. Hence, i'm asking. I got a bunch PCI-E x1 extenders but need to add power to them most likely. I recall some people having connectors "frying" without the added power.I can't remember the pin numbers to which put the +12V and ground leads.Anyone got a link where the specs were or a how-to?Don't want to get this incorrect and fry a few 7970s  I've got no experience of caps on AC, and would assume usage of them is freakishly complicated, seeing AC is a sinewave and a capacitor is meant to smooth out voltage fluctuation ...The question really is then -> how big are the caps on high quality seasonic (and derivative) PSUs ... Some server PSUs have so huge capacitors they can take 5+ seconds of power outage without the system crashing ... Tho last PSU like that i've had the pleasure to use was built for 386 era server ... (The case+PSU alone weighted over 30kg ...)most likely not big enough to sustain that kind of loads for the period it takes SPDTs to change and inverters to "gear up" for the output. Oh yeah, the reason to add capacitors is just to smooth spikes out, batteries aren't exactly good at handling big current spikes.The real question is how to handle transition from network power to inverters in case of power failure. That's the only thing i need to really solve still, rest is up for building and testing, see how well it works, or how poorly it works for AC you can't exactly add capacitors so SPDT relays might not come into question...And they are here 12V not 24V. Using capacitor for just 12V is not a problem at all btw.You can always utilize one for lower voltage than it's rating is for, and it does not change the capacitance. That seems to be a lot of 1000 or more.I was more thinking like couple of these lil' puppies: http://www.sonicelectronix.com/item_21166_Power-Acoustik-PC1.5F.htmlWOW that is cheap, was more like expecting 100€ a piece, just result on google  Single car battery is able to supply 720W for an hour, in theory. In practice more like 600W before voltage drops too low and due to the age of the battery.5 for full 16A 230V circuit for an hour.In other words, that single battery is sufficient for a single 4x7970 rig @ ~2Ghash... Or 1 hour for 10Ghash. Most power outages are solved within that time.Plus the batteries are free  The easy part is getting batteries stacked, wired, charged.Still easy is to power up 12V devices from that: I was thinking a zener diode, regulator, capacitor between battery back and 12V DC sources, so trickle charges can continue normal operation like no load was attached while beyond the regulator etc. is a 12V PSU with 12V devices. and when network electricity goes the trickle charger, 12V PSUs shutdown and 12V devices get powered from the battery pack with regulator +capacitor "cleaned" source.Some kind surge protector + fuses might be still good idea tho.The problem arises on how to switch between inverters and network electricity on 230V equipment?How to "join" together multiple cheap inverters for single source of 230V instead of calculating how much to put behind each single inverter?I've heard of switches sold for this usage for rack mounting, but i simply cannot find those "STS switches" for sale. Or would SPDT relays switch fast enough when outage occurs? Doesn't that cause spikes, and need something to smooth out the transition?One problem tho remains at this location is how to clean the network electricity, as it's a bit flaky there, short sub second outages are known to happen there during storms and fuses to blow with no apparent reason occasionally. Network -> converter -> battery back -> inverter -> miners is just not a feasible option due to losses. Cool, sold me on Icarus Also decided i will re-arrange my GPU cluster to my 2nd location by fall, which needs heating 7-8months of a year, means getting some electrics installed tho. But that is "free power" in the sense that the location does need heating. We spent some 500€ heating the place late november to mid february even tho heat was rarely needed because it's so friggin' cold there.Thanks to taxes etc. heating on heating diesel and electricity cost pretty much the same, very marginal difference.
yeah i guess just gotta wait to get one :/ Just an another example how chinese made stuff can be of amazing value But yeah, one could use that board for something else too  At least that pizza looks VERY delicious!I wish one could get anywhere near like that around here in visual deliciousness factor at the very least. Lol: http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2012/03/raspberry-pi.html"When the cost of tablet displays comes down, which they will, I think we'll see sub $100 tablets. And I suspect that will happen in the next 3-5 years."Well, i guess i dreamed up the 56$ tablet i got sitting on my living room table It actually works quite well, has android on it. I played Angry Birds on it for a while and my dad used it for surfing  Indeed, wouldn't prob last that long, but it's nice to see that a "lowly ARM CPU" can pack even that much of a punch.Where did you find them? I've been wanting to order one but can't find anywhere for sale :/ W/Mhash does not work with Raspberry Pi at all (3.5W)Any GPU is many times larger than Raspberry Pi, consumes atleast 10s of times more electricity. Not a comparison really.For something which is made to be as cheap as ever possible, and achieving speeds of a Atom ... That's quite significant. You are not going to line this up with latest Intel 8core extreme series, so why would you line this up with a GPU? Mostly personal preference. That's why looks to me by far superior Actually i mean more like "so far", kind of language barrier going on there.Z-Tex tho is expensive per Mhash, far too expensive.X6500 is retailed by Cablesaurus and i dislike cablesaurus too much for their insane markups, but more the reason was package contents are not listed (no idea does it even include power adapter, and can i get it with euro plug)Icarus comes with best performance guarantee too, and dunno, i somehow like to buy stuff from china  Some of chinese stuff is just awesome value, tho sometimes you get total garbage. In some things tho they price themselves out of the game, being greedy and all that stuff, but that usually happens only with outsourcing, the reason for outsourcing is lower cost, and they expect you to still pay almost same rate as a local guy without language barrier, high education and higher quality of work.Developers are paid 70-120$ a week generally in China but the outsourcing companies are asking for 1125$+ for junior developer a week. Local junior developer costs half of that (straight out of school or still at school) here at Finland. Tho, if that junior developer has even 1-2 years of work experience salary is easily doubled up at times.I'd really like to get few BFL Singles, but the customer service totally sucks, the insane shipping costs (basicly a markup, nothing else), and their intention to significantly raise prices (likely pricing themselves out of the game) makes me not to want to put significant effort in using BFL Singles. (Developing cluster cooling, automation if needed, racking/stacking, things which are specific to BFL Singles and not easy to adapt to other FPGA miners)Just something puts me seriously off about them, they feel arrogant.No other company has issues on shipping to non-PP registered shipping address neither, so that puts me off as well.Also the fact i have to likely wait 3months for delivery.... wow, i didn't know distilled water is just boiled! OMFG!! j/kI've even built my own water blocks.The commercial products i've seen mostly use 10-15mm hosing. Many of the water blocks has been very simple, hose in, hose out, just a big water space inside the block, and some had ribs to have bigger surface area.Good quality water pump is a must, i've never said you should skimp on water pump. Not once. Not even hinted.No matter how you put it, 800-1100watts is still a small heat load relatively, and one definitively shouldn't over complicate things. Keep It Simple, Stupid! or K.I.S.S.I can see the point in adding the silver coil, or even "dead water" or other chemical to kill bacteria, but i don't see a point in over complicating simple things. None of the commercial single system water cooling package i've had the displeasure to work with had nothing like this. One had so bad additive it kept on accumulating in corners and i had to spend significant amount of time running hot water through it to get that stuff out.Use copper blocks, use brass fittings if you go with standard hydraulics fittings (ie. NPT, BSP) hell maybe even AN-fittings (aluminium btw!) even tho that's total über overkill, or maybe just use basic hose barbs (1.5-3$ each) and clamps. Go with a high quality pump with a backup pump (2 parallel) so no need to monitor constantly. Use basic standard rubber hose, if you want to be cheap even garden hose will do the trick (yuck).Add a little bit of glycol for protection of the metals.and do *NOT* omit periodic maintenance (ie. once a year)tho adding dead water and silver coil costs next to nothing vs. the other gear. So why not add them.I must admit tho, i hate water cooling generally, makes maintenance a bitch in regular systems, but for servers (or bitcoin mining cluster) it makes tons of sense.You should take a look at how industrial water cooling systems work ... They are remarkably simple by design. Even those cooling tens of thousands of servers.I started fooling around with water cooling when Thunderbirds were a new thing (or maybe even earlier ...), didn't like it then for single systems, don't like it now. Tho a new corsair's set made it remarkably simple, infact so simple i might consider that for myself too, after i've seen how a system like that works later down the road (maintenance wise): http://www.corsair.com/cpu-cooling-kits/hydro-series-water-cooling-cpu-cooler/hydro-series-h100-extreme-performance-liquid-cpu-cooler.htmlJust installed H100 for a customer wow, that's not bad at all for something like raspberry. yeah sounds a bit like electronics skills come in handy with FPGAs to keep them working, and AC not a bad idea.Was thinking of installing to my office 1kW AC unit, afaik those small ones too get upto 1:3 efficiency ... I could keep the FPGAs churning happily @ 17C ambient all summer through.GPUs not so much, but i got another location which is 900m3 of poorly insulated space to dissipate heat into ... Before even installing exhaust and intake duct fans.Problem is electricity costs here 0.19$/kWh, but on 2nd location it's billed only once a year so i can choose the best time to sell BTCs to cover that. Trouble is, i've had now 2 GPUs fail within a week...Even before using GPUs for BTC i've had several fail on me, so i'm starting to think the average lifetime expectancy might be quite a bit lower than generally thought for GPUs.FPGAs are OC'd to their very edge for mining purposes as well...Top that of that BFL wants over 80$ for shipping for each one .. Ridiculous - and even tho i have warehouse to have shipped to @ States, there is no method for me to use that address as Paypal doesn't accept foreign shipping addresses ...So i'm stuck with Icarus/X6500/Z-Tex as my FPGA options, from which Icarus looks to me by far superior.Tho, i can probably offset some of the acquirement cost by MFG'ng stackable casings for them with optimized cooling  But no way knowing before i have enough to properly test and design the casing. Was just looking about this ASIC, i see it has been mentioned here, but this seems to be the only thread?Didn't anyone look in detail?Afterall, it's a function of costs, if these chips are low powered and cheap, why can't you chain them?Looking at these two:http://ipcores.com/sha_ip_core.htmhttp://www.cast-inc.com/ip-cores/encryption/sha-256/index.htmlI guess single chip achieves atleast 4.24Mhash/s? That's quite weak, but if a single chip costs less than 1.7$ and consumes less than 0.2W it could be viable vs. current FPGA solutions. Hell, even at at 1W per chip it would achieve a nice ratio.It has so few gates it can't consume much! In other words the life expectancy is anything between 3months and 10years, and no one has nfi.Thing is i'm trying to decide to invest between 7970s and FPGAs, and it all depends upon which i can expect to utilize longer ... The payoff period in any case is going to be a long one, thanks to high electricity prices (0.19$/kWh) Also the heat transfer rate sucks for computers which cannot exceed too much the ambient.If you can have large difference on ambient oil works. After a crash on one of my 58xx cards due to a bit too high clock, now BAMT refuses to set clocks for the high usage profile. Infact, the high usage profile memclock got applied to idle :/Had to disable the GPU because @ stock voltages it's running hot and slower than an undervolted card :/Any ideas what's going on? Mining is a 24/7 task ... Does not relate what's the MTBF in the regular user usage and what is it in 24/7 100% utilization. For this task it does.Just because something works in another scenario does not mean it's a silver bullet for all scenarios. Point was, and still is, you don't really need all that fancy stuff, when basics are more than sufficient for relatively small heat loads.No need to over complicate a very simple thing. All those little stuff fast adds to quite a bit of extra expense, never mind requirement for extra planning.Hell, a huge european DC uses basicly tap water as a total loss coolant for TENS OF THOUSANDS of servers. Works just fine, most stable servers i've had the pleasure to work with. Fried system? But i guess if you use enough of electronics varnish ..... Oil is not a good cooling solution even with radiators.If you RTFA you'd notice they are running at near cracking point - the temperature where CPU simply cracks internally due to heat!!Oil sucks as a cooling medium in this usage. (Infact, in almost any) Mineral oil has quite poor thermal transfer capacity, google around about it and you'll notice it doesn't really work for computers at all.If you see the load temperatures in that article it becomes imminently clear ...Bubbles.... So basicly, they are moving the heat out with air
Stock clock for a miner, or stock clock as meant by chip mfg  Yeah, it's quite soon to get reliable figures, but a general direction is possible to calculate.With enough of them out there, it will be possible to calculate quite early on quite precisely. That's how manufacturers get the MTBF readings - not by testing a huge amount of the product for years upon years. I'm trying to figure out what should be the next mining related purchases i do, but one question remains: What is the life expectancy of FPGA based miners?Has people have them fail?How long were they running before they failed?and how many do you got which are still running, and how long has each been running?That data would help me calculate the annual failure rate, from which one can derive the expected average lifetime Versus GPUs it seems people expect GPUs to have an average lifetime of 3years, correct me if i'm wrong. Dude, obviously you do not have a clue about the underlying physics going on.FYI, i've even made blocks myself BEFORE watercooling became anywhere near so popular that you could buy anything watercooling related. Back then i were already using compressors to drive -34C coolant to the CPU. Did you know that you can get by just fine with low pressure, low volume pump (cheapest 12V you can find) if your block is properly massive and TDP is below 100W?Btw, "stop-leak" and other stuff you put in to stop leaks is the stupidest idea ever.Do you know what is the coolant of choice of extreme high output racing engines which actually partake in sanctioned races?Now i'm talking about engines like 2L Inline 4 boosted to some 4bar, Cummins 5-8L diesel boosted to 7+bar?Nope, not distilled water.TAP WATER, with maybe some water wetter.And these machines need to be capable of removing heat in the multiple MEGAWATT range.Are you telling me water is not sufficient to remove your couple hundred watts of heat?As for the dirt accumulation, i've only seen it once, and it was with off the shelf system with which came the "water additive", very small amount to be used, i was shocked to see that accumulation and i somehow doubt that would happen if proper glycol was being used. I suspect the additive that came with it was just some coloring.The thing is with water if you add a little bit of heat, but not much, and circulate it constantly, it WILL have bacterial growth, that's why you need to add enough glycol.Still, WTF is dead water? Other than a sea water phenomenon known to few sailors, which might just be a myth as likely. Yet cars have been utilizing both metals mixed in the same system, in the same cooling system for decades upon decades. Those work wonderfully, and the coolant channels in cylinder heads are WAY smaller than your CPU block has, often a diameter of just 5mm in many parts!So now you are using something which is a strange physical phenomenon known by some sailors to happen in sea?Coolant, proper glycol, is to be used aswell to minimize the build up caused by bacteria etc.Some glycols themselves will build up, and still causes dirt to apper in the coolant, hence, the coolant ought to be swapped annually, maybe accompanied by a flushing the system.Aluminium does oxidize, but it doesn't matter at all in a cooling system, especially if you use red glycol which has properties to protect from that.Might be a worthwhile read: http://www.gewater.com/handbook/cooling_water_systems/ch_32_closed.jspSpeaks in length about corrosion in cooling systems.All you really need is a bottle of cheap glycol and tap water, and annually change the coolant. Useless to spent all that time researching, pretty much use any you feel comfortable, or which gives the nicest color in your senses Forget distilled water, useless waste of money & time for cooling purposes.Just add at least 1%, but don't exceed 50%.I'm not a fan of watercooling computers, too much work to maintain and hassle in regular desktops. For servers it makes sense tho.I recommend the red glycol (i keep forgetting the names lol) because it has the highest boiling point and best protective for modern engines, but for computer watercooling any automotive glycol will work just as fine. I smell a business opportunity for them here, supplying very high efficiency PSUs with modular cabling for clusters  Copper + Aluminium in the same loop is not a fatal problem. Those are combined in automotive applications for decades.Radiators in standard cars used to be copper! Sometimes copper head gasket is used etc.Newer cars tend to use aluminium cores for radiators due to their lower price and weight.Just add high quality coolant or in other words: Glycol for protection. The red stuff is highest quality. You need this in any case, unless you want your loop to gather all kinds of dirt, bacteria etc.It also prevents corrosion.In this utilization even 1:20 mixture is probably more than sufficient and it's cheap. Really cool work, for what i understand this already offers around 30% more per cycle? That's simply awesome.If i were a miner with a significant any scale and investment into FPGAs i would definitely throw some BTC to your direction, especially if that meant i get unlimited access to the bitstream  LOL!Bitcoin pyramid in your sig was funny This has been always happening, getting far lower results than expected. It's odd.Oh well, got to see after upgrade to BAMT on all my rigs.Are pool hoppers hoping to gain bigger gain for their Mhash or why is that even happening?P2Pool subsidy?maybe i ought to setup P2Pool, took a glance and it seems a little bit more involved. To me it's starting to sound like P2Pool definitively gives the best pay, while being fair to other miners out there? My average is .95BTC, variance is small: 0.93-0.98And i'm not really using deepbit at all anymoreEDIT: I'm expecting variance, but the variance currently is a constant -20% vs. expected average. I use Slush's pool almost solely, but the rewards has been far worse than expected always.Before i didn't really care, just few Ghash/s worth for fun running.Currently i have on Slush 1.77Ghash worth of capacity and the yield is 0.95BTC/day while expected is ~1.2BTC/day.This has always been true of Slush's pool, and deepbit seems to be even far more worse.All my systems are properly cooled, have good PSUs, only mild OC if any and efficiency (stales etc.) travels at around 97.8 to 99.2%.I use Linuxcoin, and even after updating to latest Phoenix which increased hash rate ~7.5% i saw actually a decrease on reported hash rate @ Slush's pool, and it made absolutely no effect on yield.Generally my GPUs are running under 100% utilization, somewhat below the average expected by the hardware comparison charts, except for some cards, ie. 6770s i'm running at 242Mhash/s average! (890Mhz, stock 850, temps ~65c, stock air cooler)About to change to BAMT (Linuxcoin has always sucked, but it was most convenient to use last summer) and see if that changes things.But anyone know why my returns are roughly 20-21% below the expected?Direct Ghash/s comparison to pool total should yield 1.214BTC/day.According to: http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.php should make 1.19BTC/day and after taking into account pool luck should still be 1.1186BTC/day.Also someone mentioned that 1Ghash/s stays at around 4$ per day value on average over the long term, How the hell does one achieve that kind of results? :O Thanks for the awesome photos! Exactly what i were hoping, big and detailed images Now i can finally belief this ain't vaporware long con, and put in a order for a few ... Didn't check  in that much details. Simply swap the PSU.Then again, cooling probably hasn't been made to match  Pictures please so i can put in my order!  Noticed this: http://www.sciengines.com/products/accelerators/formica.html32 Spartan6 LX150 FPGAs in single deviceNow let's see who first turns that into a mining rig or something similar  hrrr, i still have a hard time in believing BFL is not a long con. Yeah, i am  Some models have 15A relays. Not that it matters that much, as usually you have 16A fuse for a regular 230-240V line and 2.3kW is already plenty for single rig.I bought a 16relay IP version for testing. Too cheap to pass up! neat.Even better: http://www.ebay.com/itm/USB-16-CH-Relay-Switch-Module-Board-Home-Automation-12V-/180751504176?_trksid=p4340.m444&_trkparms=algo%3DPI.WATCH%252BCRX%26its%3DC%252BS%26itu%3DUCC%252BSI%252BUA%252BLM%26otn%3D15%26po%3D%26ps%3D63%26clkid%3D6788483942134694749Each of the relays allows 15A current to pass through and upto 250V AC, or 24V DC16 Relay IP Board:http://www.ebay.com/itm/Internet-Ethernet-16-Relais-Platine-IP-SNMP-WEB-/180626947903?pt=Mess_Pr%C3%BCftechnik&hash=item2a0e347f3fUSB 16 relay board:http://www.ebay.com/itm/USB-16-Channel-Relay-Board-Virtual-Port-12V-/170432366651?pt=LH_DefaultDomain_0&hash=item27ae8f883b#ht_8976wt_1396If you need big amount of these then a AMD E350, Sheeva/Guruplug, Raspberry or something like that to control the USB versions to get you even lower in price Ofc, utilizing these as PDUs will require a bit of wiring but oh well....Ordering one for testing! 
You mean bullish?  I assumed completely "averaging" it out.Single events are too hard to estimate, no one can guess those. Hence, assuming success, ie. all the problems can be worked through.Every startup has issues, sometimes very critical ones, even Paypal had their share of those.If governments try to interfere with Bitcoin, it has already seen success, and people will resist because interfering with Bitcoin would interfere with other rights too.Which would push the price up even faster.Thing is, more there is adoption that much more the price HAS to increase. There won't be sudden increase of BTC around, so only way for it to work is for price to increase. Which will cause some people dumping their BTC, but in overall people will keep on hoarding.If you notice, the first thing i did was to adjust for hoarding. Conservatively, but still.The 20$+ prices last year was a bubble very obviously, but i think we are now at somewhere around the "real value" of BTC.So yes, next year this time, price could be in 40$+ range, but unlikely, the value growth is likely to be more "exponential" of nature, the first few years value climbing up slowly, starting to get more speed next summer, and ~5½ years from now on, as the amount of new BTC coming around is getting lower, and adoption rate increases over time, reaching huge velocities when critical mass is reached, therefore huge increase in value very short period of time, followed by a short crash due to people cashing out, a moment of conservative investment into BTC followed by steady value growth (Assuming adoption does not keep increasing) until finally stabilizing.**EDIT: The numbers are there, you don't need to be a rocket scientist to understand what happens to the value of 18million BTC if there is 408million users wanting piece of the cake. just realized i forgot to adjust for inflation. I started this by comparing to Paypal, and by finding some statistics of Paypal.Please note that all of this is based on the assumption Bitcoin will have very conservative success - but success over the long term nevertheless.350mil+ Paypal users, from 2009 data we can estimate that that 135million of them are active users.Active account average balance was 45$ in 2009, we shall use that without correction for expected growth.This means 6 075million USD in just active account balances on Paypal in 2011.So by 2022, if Bitcoin achieves just 5% of the current mass of Paypal, which could be very conservative, especially if Bitcoin is made easier for Joe Averages and some kind of Killer application becomes reality, ie. eBay + Craigslist type of events. Technological advances will make a huge influence as well to make this a reality, think about how things were in 2002.If i calculated right there will be already ~19.03mil BTC in the wild by 2022.That seems too much, but i based it on the halving of mined return per 210,000 blocks or 4 years.If it's too much, it only makes this even more conservative.If we assume 5% get lost forever by this time, that leaves us with 18.08mil BTC.If even 5% of Paypal's mass today is reached by 2022 this means these will represent 303.75million USD, or 16.80USD/BTC. Seems far too conservative? Because it is.Due to nature of Bitcoin, people will be inclined to hoard and keep them, in hopes of future gains. Bitcoin is also a value store, unlike with Paypal you are mad to keep any significant balance there for any period of time.So we can assume safely people will keep atleast 4 times more, ie. 180$ or more in their balance.This already leaves us with 67.20USD/BTC. That looks a lot more realistic - still conservative thoBut it remains extremely conservative STILL.  It does not account for new people getting connected, the growth of eCommerce, and that many wants to use Bitcoin also as a offline transaction medium, which AFAIK is happening to some degree already? ie. cash based exchanges, actual coins & bills etc. Which is impossible with Paypal.We will buy more and more stuff online, and for many parts of the world internet is just beginning to see widespread adoption in some parts of the world. There still remains billions to be connected to internet. With the raise of better and better mobile devices, these people will get connected.Just from eCommerce growth we can assume at least 50% growth by 2022, which is probably off by order of magnitude.Add to that it's quite likely we will probably see nearly double the internet users by 2022, let's say 80% for a total of 58% of current world population using internet.eCommerce growth will bring us to 100.80USD/BTCInternet user growth will bring us to 159.26USD/BTC.Unlike credit card companies, and almost any method of transactioning out there has fees of at least % for merchants. Only cash, and in most parts of the world bank wire transfers are free, neither of which is easy to automate for some portions.This will mean a lot of Merchants will choose to support BTC when value slightly stabilizes, easy to automate, no transaction fees, likely to just increase in value - what's there not to like?Assume this adds an conservative 10% to the % using BTC.Russia, United Arab Emirates, Asia, are pretty much blocked off Paypal - In real world this would easily triple the amount of user base. We will choose an very conservative 50% for this figure too. This too would of course increase adoption within Merchants but we are not adjusting for that separately.Merchant adoption increase: 175.19USD/BTCRussia, UAE, Asia: 262.79USD/BTCAdd that to other potentially disrupting technologies: Think pre-paid Bitcoin "Credit cards" to use @ grocery stores, this "CC" would store the keys required for the grocery store to make the transaction from your wallet. Remember that with real cards merchants are trusted like this too. And this isn't even that hard to do.For short term someone could offer regular prepaid Mastercards which are prepaid using BTC To recap the percentages of increase from 16.80$/BTC Are:Hoarding/Investing into bitcoins: 400%eCommerce Growth: 50%Internet userbase Growth: 80%Merchant Adoption: 10%Russia, UAE, Asia Access: 50%IMHO, these should be calculated in exponential fashion as in described above.The 16.80$/BTC came from:5% of Paypals mass 2011135mil active users with 45$ average balance representing 6 075million USD.18.08Million BTC in circulation(135mil * 5%) * 45$ = 303.75Million USD303.75 / 18.08 = 16.80$/BTCUsing 25%:1 518.75million USD84$/BTC.Growth factors:Hoarding: 336$/BTCeCommerce: 504$/BTCUserbase: 907.2$/BTCMerchants: 997.92$/BTCRussia, UAE, Asia: 1496.88$/BTCMy instinct is telling me however that we are going to see somewhere in vicinity 1000$/BTC.If we use the 45$ average balance figure, and 10% of internet users are actively using BTC in 2022:408million users.18 362million USD.1015$/BTC.This holds better with my instincts I did do some heavy assumptions here, but please do point out if i had blatant mistakes. Just remember on this i assumed mainstream success if the value seems too high to you.If you did like my speculation, please donate something: 1983sUSuHXAWSMnYCX1ZJ2RFZBPPQwNVYDReferences:http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_many_members_does_PayPal_havehttp://statspotting.com/2011/09/paypal-statistics-one-fifth-of-global-e-commerce-conducted-via-paypal/http://www.quora.com/What-is-the-average-users-PayPal-balancehttp://techcrunch.com/2011/01/03/j-p-morgan-global-e-commerce-revenue-to-grow-by-19-percent-in-2011-to-680b/http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm Details please  If someone does an cost-effective and easy solution for hard power cycling, i would not hesitate to spend several hundred euros immediately for just testing gear So if someone finishes that Arduino design and makes it easy to order complete units i would buy several immediately.Even if i have to solder the 230V (110V) power cables onto the relay board wouldn't really matter.Another thing i'm looking for is something which can switch from power source to another, say network power goes out, it changes to inverter operated from a bunch of car batteries kept charged by a cheap 40€ trickle charger. Arduino with relay board and ethernet shield works out to something like 275$ for around 40 ports. 160$ of which is relay boards, 8 of them.Tho requires a bit of work to get running, but ought to be rather easy after that.Not a perfect solution, but half way there. I've done quite a bit research on this for servers, namely how to build a cluster of cheap servers on the cheap.One option is to use Arduino with a Relay board and Ethernet Shield.That will give you maximum of around 40 relays, depending upon model of Arduino used etc.Parts can be sourced from: http://arduino-direct.com and eBaySome information: http://arduino-info.wikispaces.com/ArduinoPower#4-8As for finished product i ended up choosing IP Power 9258T and Avocent Direct PDU for initial setups for it's low buy-in price.For KVM i ended up choosing Belkin Omniview for larger setups and Aten CS1716i for smaller setups.For big setups Belkin Omniview works out somewhere around 30-40$ per node, depending upon do you get your gear from cheap or expensive place.Aten CS1716i is a few $ more expensive per node only, but the Belkin also provides saner setup by the means of using CAT5 cabling  BTC fine, with somekind of escrow?you didn't answer my earlier question. And that machine can't quite reach 2Ghash. More like 1.5-1.8 The rig comes with everything, just put power on, and start miners? Now you are trying to just annoy me."If you was a competent linux user you would know this and edit your configuration files accordingly.". I do admit i don't use it on desktop - because it sucks as desktop if you need to get work done, but that is quite an insult. I probably have 100x the experience you do (I do happen to manage hundreds of servers).Systems in question which i've tried:ASUS P5LD2SE MoboCeleron 2.66Ghz CPU1Gb DDR2 667PowerColor HD5830Kingston USB Stick for bootAnother System:ABIT IN9 mobo (their flagship before they went bust)Core2Duo X6800 (yes, extreme series a bit overkill for this)4x1Gb DDR2 6672xClub3D HD5870Kingston USB Stick for bootOne did work, but i can't recall the specs of the machine anymore. Very similar to those tho.Catalyst etc. complains lack of drivers.aticonfig init makes new xorg.conf, but then X won't start up.Persistence does not seem work, used unetbooting to create the sticks, and specified ~1Gb for persistence. Hasn't mattered tho so far that much i've been arsed to look into it.This isn't a linuxcoin issue it's just how the drivers work. It is VERY much Linuxcoin issue, if newer Linuxcoin does not work but older does. Simple as that, doesn't require a genius to understand.why can't you just VNC into the machines ?. So linuxcoin has VNC setup out of the box? Tbh, i did not bother to take a look if it were, i did not see NX or VNC references in any obvious places.now am I meant to make linuxcoin better if everyone just posted "it don't work" ?I did reference earlier discussion about this very same problem, on the previous page someone else was having similar problems.What I'm not interested in is people posting rants on this thread moaning about broken machines and not posting anything usefulThose machines work perfectly, ty for asking. It's linuxcoin which does not.I reiterate a bad workman always blames his tools. So it's my fault that LinuxCoin has bugs?  What does it say about developer who always blames users "it can't be a bug! i created it so it's bug free, it's your fault for not putting effort work around the 'features'!" I did accept the SDK -.- I tried from terminal, and from system, and as a regular user etc.and keymap has nothing to do with being broken. Being broken has everything to do with the drivers not working anymore. There are also other minor bugs and glitches which are annoyances.Also a bad workman is someone who does not recognize when tools are broken, or does not recognize when a better one is required.Plugging monitor after booting -> when you boot up say 5 machines from cold, are YOU going to wait for one to boot up individually, or power up all at the sametime?Or if you meant "why would you need monitor after booting up", maybe starting the miner and verifying clocks. Didn't intend to just idle those machines.aticonfig can see the adapters, but not phoenix, or amdoverdrivectrl etc. complains lack of ATI drivers. i used aticonfig initialize, but that is to no avail -> restarting X causes only a black screen, won't come back.I would call that broken, when out of box advertised features do not work, not even after sensible amount of research & trying, whereas a older tool works as expected Btw, Ad hominem is an argumentation mistake, quite an serious one. i have the same adapter not found errors with 0.21b, the older a version worked fine.Works only on 1 machine, couple others does not work.Also on top of that, if i do not have monitor plugged in while booting, when i plug it in it complains "Video mode not supported", meaning it's running resolution beyond the tiny old Dell LCD i'm using.So i'm mostly running the older version as the newer version does not work at all for me.Trying the above mentioned -> http://developer.amd.com/sdks/amdappsdk/assets/ati_stream_sdk_installation_notes.pdf section 2.2EDIT: Typing all kinds of special characters on US keymap wasn't my idea of fun, it's just easier to use old version or roll my own in the next upcoming weeks than fool around with something obviously broken. From 338.9 to 352Mhash/s on my 6950 (only @860) ~3.86% gain Will donate a bit as well if this is stable  Nope, not using the latest, but atleast the 2 first queries are mine, and my added indexes are in place.Haven't yet checked what the diffs are.I'm running about 1.1Ghash against this, and i noticed severe drop in earnings too, due to the more frequent phoenix crashes.Will need to put aside 2 identical rigs to properly test is there difference.My rejected rate is also "through the roof", at about 7% via this proxy! But again, need the testing setup of 2 identicals to verify.Need to go buy more 6950s or 6770s to setup 2 identical rigs  Atleast i do, Yes, 66.5 dBa In all seriousness tho:http://www.gcaudio.com/resources/howtos/loudness.htmlThat is about as much as normal conversation.Currently at my workstation the noise level is probably plenty above 66.5. PSU is both a transformer and AC/DC switching unit. First you need the transformer to get to proper voltage, then you put in a transistor bridge, few diodes etc. and you got yourself DC. I also would recommend a regulator and few small capacitors and low Ohm resistors, and a heatsink for the regulator(s). The combination of regs, capacitors and resistors should filter everything out Working with high amperage low voltage is safer than high voltage low amperage IMHO, because the electricity does not "jump" as easily. High voltage is needed for being able to go through highly resistive materials (see Tesla coils for example. That's also why engine spark wiring insulation is such an important factor). My hobby used to be RC cars, and i had 7.2V 400A peak battery packs... I was more worried about getting them pierced while driving (and resulting explosion & fire) than getting a shock.Here is how you can build it:http://engknowledge.com/power_supply_design.aspxI would design it to be quite parallel, meaning multiple transformers, multiple bridges, multiple capacitors etc etc.So that any single component has smaller impact if it fails on operation, or is otherwise flaky. I would design regulators, capacitors etc. well beyond required spec to reduce risk of failure.Also, doing it from this low level you could add some basic electronics to handle backup power, see for example: http://www.dreamgreenhouse.com/designs/12v/index.php (links to their UPS project),  http://tech.icrontic.com/articles/super_ups , http://1wt.eu/articles/alix-ups/Last one is the most intresting one infact Google is your friend, but i wouldn't suggest trying this with no past experience on the required scale.... I can sell you some at 0.3BTC(3.6€)/ea. for quantities over 10. For less 0.38BTC(4.56€) each. I got 20 in stock, more coming in several weeks. Includes shipping.Can accept also Paypal, Moneybookers, SEPA wiretransfer. that looks insane, more pics please!  currently testing the flexible mining proxy and it reports almost 7% rejected! :OHaven't checked direct to pool rate.
IMHO, code should be commented nevertheless, saves time reading. Ie. doc blocks to explain what for a method is for. Later on this saves time when you can just generate code documentation, and can refer to. Larger the project is, the more important this is. Tho this might be a bit small project for such level of documentation, nevertheless a short comment here and there is a good idea.If you check some major project commentation rules or philosophies, like Linux Kernel, they suggest that one comment per 10 lines is a good level, level which you should target.As for the queries, if you can avoid on the fly created tables, that's better. Indeed, i did not even check how my queries did, as i was expecting them to work as expected.I spent sometime working on the 3rd one, and i achieved in under an hour to make the work amount less, less subqueries and on the fly created tables. No temporarys, no filesorts etc. but on the testing machine i'm using (Athlon XP 1900+ so REALLY slow), i couldn't verify results as times went into margin of error easily, and might just be parsing the query & deciding indices etc. takes that damn long on that slow CPU, with my tiny dataset at the time. It was faster without mHash rate, slower with mHash rate added (comparing oranges to oranges, so i compared to yours without mhash rate, and with it). Now i have larger dataset so when i got time i'll check it out again. Tho, i might begin from scratch as approach is wrong.Now i got 50k rows in the table, but that's still too small, i want to get to atleast 150k+ to be able to properly go through it, despite handling on this slow machine.Why are you using echo_html function in the view templates? Have you looked into smarty btw? It's very easy to implement, and makes views damn much simpler to view (just view as html and most highlighters are perfect for it). And those saying it forces bad code behavior: It's all about how you use it, it doesn't force anything, it simply compiles the views you ask for, and actually provides an EXCELLENT "isolation layer" for different layers of code, and eases debugging quite a bit saving tons of time. Overhead is extremely minimal too, and the first time you want to even think about it is when you are hitting high requests per sec.Also, i noticed some core functionality issues with this: phoenix started crashing now and then, about once a day per instance. Using BTCGuild, Bitcoin.cz and Deepbit, got 2 workers put for it, another works with 2 discreet GPUs, another with just 1. Sometimes it will just not pass new work, and sometimes it pauses work for a while. Is it only me? I'm using LinuxCoin v0.2a and it's accompanying phoenix.EDIT: Still getting quite fast load on dashboard with this dataset. Infact most of the time in the ms range. At slowest nearly a second. What is the point where people are starting to experience serious performance degradation, all the time? They would not know the account i requested the withdrawal to. They would definitely know account balance.They wouldn't have access to my email.In any case, i got finally my account opened! And finally first withdraw from couple weeks back arrived!  Did tell them my IP. It's practically static (changes only couple times a year)but i guess doing somekind of thing like that could work.RL info tho should be sufficient, afterall e-mail, company and bank account details do match and are easy to verify by them. Unless as said, they expect that my e-mail is compromised too. Ok, my claim gets denied constantly.I've validated my e-mail address, given approximate withdrawal sums, told name, address, bank name, account # for withdraws i've done, told how many & amount of deposits, submitted company VAT code, link to website. I think there's nothing more i can give them proof apart from them coming to visit me!First time i use them and this shit happens!So they think my e-mail account is compromised, and my bank account is compromised?My e-mail address has partial match for my account name, company info shows same as account name, account registered using company email address.Probably someone compromised my body too then, and i'm a drone typing this by someone using somekind of mind control device?I understand the need for strict verification, but this is a joke. What are the chances of potential attacker having access to all of this, and knowledge of my full activity @ Mt. Gox? They are in a hurry, and got tons of accounts to validate, but they shouldn't hurry at the expense of being precise.FYI, i made withdraws multiple days before they closed their site, infact i expected them to arrive before they closed down ... those are not my queries! :OHere they are:$viewdata['recent-submissions'] = db_query($pdo, '            SELECT w.name AS worker, p.name AS pool, sw.result AS result, sw.time AS time            FROM submitted_work sw, pool p, worker w            WHERE p.id=sw.pool_id AND w.id = sw.worker_id            ORDER BY sw.time DESC            LIMIT 10        ');                        $viewdata['recent-failed-submissions'] = db_query($pdo, '            SELECT w.name AS worker, p.name AS pool, sw.result AS result, sw.time AS time            FROM submitted_work sw, pool p, worker w            WHERE sw.result=0 AND p.id = sw.pool_id AND w.id = sw.worker_id            ORDER BY sw.time DESC            LIMIT 10        ');FYI, i have not actually even checked what they do exactly, just wrote simplified queries.EDIT: I just checked, and interestingly doesn't hit index, which is really wierd. Oh well, i check why at better time. That might give some hint of the effect, but really we start seeing difference at around 10x that size ... Yes, but approach was wrong so it might actually perform worse.Try also how these affect: http://pastebin.com/kcWN9gPHHow many rows in your submitted_work and work_data tables? well, i fooled around, according to profiling my changes are beneficial to the 3rd query but due to the really tiny sample data set i got the actual measurements mean nothing, the spent time might just be all in parsing the query and optimization engine, not the actual query.So take even the earlier ones with a grain of salt: I've got no clue of the impact as i can't actually measure the difference, even tho i'm using for testing a ancient Athlon XP 1900+ ...As soon as i got enough data i will see again how my changed queries affect the performance. wow, there is many kinds of bad things going on code QA wise.This code is what i call confused newbie abstraction.Using functions to output HTML in a view (already outputting HTML)? Yup!Using abstration function to output a simple form image button? Yup!Doing insane joined and dynamic tables query for a few fields of simple data? Yup!Anyways, 2 first queries optimized, one less table to lookup, indices being actually hit. Far from being completely optimized (still a filesort happening!), but should proof to be an order of magnitude faster, DESPITE hitting more rows. I have NO way to test however, nor profile correctly due to lack of dataset size, so measurements would be less than error of margin.Replace admin/index.php 2 first queries with those found at: http://pastebin.com/hwncLV1wNOTE: I have not done proper testing, results seem to be correct tho EDIT: Looking into 3rd query now, it's worse than expected. Will rework complete query and accompanying view portion. It actually checks all rows multiple times, assuming MySQL realizes how to optimize. It makes 5 dynamic (on-the-fly created) tables, hits *ALL* rows on submitted work, creates temp tables (lack of suitable index), 3 times filesort, 13 tables total, and if i interpret correctly total rows to go through is in the range of hundreds of thousands rows or more with my 2526 shares submitted test data! :O Same thing happened with stock clocks, and cooling is sufficient.Update: Since updating my system, adding crossfire bridge seemed to solve the constant crashes!I can now freely stop & restart the mines, both GPUs work fine etc. no more crashes. So it seems the reason was you need to add the crossfire bridge oO; I looked at the linked post... There is a bunch of bad things i could now say about that cron job ...Slow, prone to fault gum h4x to fix performance issues? People! This is how we create bloatware!Fix the problem, not the symptoms! LOL! Yeah that would cause some serious issues (first query in admin/index.php) 3rd query is a monstrosity.Well there is the problem, using dynamic (on the fly created) tables etc.These queries is almost like SELECT *, wonder if they ever hit any indexes ...In any case need bigger data set before i can optimize them properly.But on first query FROM ( XXXX XXXX ) sw should be change to just choose the damn table, moving the LIMIT 10 at the whole query.Inner joins -> just choose from multiple tables, use same p.id = sw.pool_idSo something likeSELECT w.name AS worker, p.name AS pool, p.pool_id AS poolId, p.id AS poolId, sw.worker_id AS workerId  [AND SO ON FOR ALL FIELDS REQUIRED]FROM submitted_work sw, pool p, wokerWHERE pool.id = sw.pool_id AND worker.id=sw.workeridORDER BYLIMITINNER JOINS are like SELECT *, if i recall right Bottomline is that carefully crafted queries can do a full text match scored on a 100G dataset with multiple text matches, joining multiple tables (not using JOIN clause tho, but still called joining), on a Quad Core Xeon with 16G ram (pre-i7 xeon) in well under 100ms. (Target was 15searches/sec, achieved peak was above that, and bottleneck was actually the PHP syntax parsing for real world scenario which transformed our simplified custom query language into a mysql query, for easier use for the end users) Installed and seems to work. Tho weighting seems to be quite a bit off (haven't looked at that portion of code yet).Quick glance at DB shows no reason why it should be slow, if queries match. So those who are having speed issues probably have bad MySQL config just. MySQL scales really efficiently and i don't see immediate reasons why this would be slow, but have to wait for data set to increase.If anyone got say 8G+ dataset they don't mind sharing, i would be willing to look into it. Or any size with which someone is having some serious perf issues.Code should be PLENTY more commented btw  i've had almost all the same problems as described  Those which i haven't, is simply because i've not tried to do the same thing.I have erratic speeds with dual 5870s. Also noticed that screensaver will cause lower hash rate with low end CPU (in my case Celeron 2.66Ghz), which is wierd.the system with Q9550 is about 0% CPU used, the celeron one is constantly at 50% or so, and causes lower than expected hash rates apparently. Erratic with even GPU0under windows, stable hash rate on both GPUs. (tho also different GPUs) i'm looking at way longer terms.maybe because i come from hosting industry already.Several weeks ago i had few Mhash capacity, today am running 1.3Ghas, and expecting 1.4Ghash/s worth of GPUs to arrive tomorrow, with another 1.4Ghash/s worth arriving next week.We are also going to push out a business based on this (mining hosting, fully automated, really easy to use. look at HW section for more info), which offsets the risks to a degree.But we work on way longer ROI expectancies. We do benefit from no sales taxes, industrial rate electricity, even tho still damn expensive, and most of the year is very cool here in Finland so no need for much of a cooling, infact we save some money on not needing heating at our location during winters. That is offset tho by overheads (accounting for one).So we are going to keep heavily investing until 100Mhash/s is only worth about 1/4th of current, at which point we will try to save the situ by enhancing W/Mhash rate or swapping for better W/Mhash HW.Ofc, we can afford to do this, incur barely any extra costs apart from investing in HW and Electricity by doing this and have guaranteed ways to recoup most of HW investment without any problems. Can this include some actual proxy kind of features, ie. caching?So that this could be used behind a flaky internet connection to keep miners 100% at work, if the flakyness is in the seconds range?Or does this try to connect the pool directly on the same instance as the miner connects to etc.?What i'm wondering, would this enable me to run miners behind a 3G connection I'll try this out soon, and i will then optimize the mysql db for you after it starts to slow off (one my of specialties is optimization, esp. mysql), to increase the performance.Not sure how well you've done performance wise, but we can make it work even with Tb sized datasets if you want to. Contact me via PM or freenode #PulsedMedia if you want to chat about it.I have a mining hosting idea (in the mining hw section) for which using this as intermediary could be PERFECT. Just need more stats etc. and eventually tagging, grouping nodes/gpus etc. "advanced workflow features", and RESTful API (or more like my own relaxed version using of which is way easier than full REST spec).Sorry for the basic questions, just yet is not time for me to research into this, i got other dev. tasks i need to finish first before i get to play around with this  it's stable under linux, but not under windows.Problem is that i can't get good speed stable under linux, only 870-880 is the maximum stable clock and stock voltage. Temperatures give room for a slight increase in voltage to get to more average result.But most of all, i'm curious as to why, as isn't voltage forced by bios/hw.I'm using LinuxCoin: So yes, included CCC but CCC lacks all overdrive features. AMDOverdriveCTRL cannot change voltage. ATI's own catalyst on both, latest i believe on both. no 3rd party apps messing.On linux i can't raise the voltage even. My contacts come into play, i can be certain for anything that can be used in mainstream i will get at least something.Then comes the local forums, auctions etc. which will take the 650W PSUs, 1200W PSUs etc. for better prices.Even 5+ yo mobos have market here, so does even original DDR or even earlier! Infact, very old RAM is the most expensive around here (10+yo), and there is still people needing those oO;and in most cases, just upgrade CPU + RAM and you got a highend machine All you listed, except PCI-E extenders are easy sales. PCI-E extenders are a minority cost (under 5$ each) and does not matter even if i end up throwing them out. If i get x16 PCI-E extenders, those should rather easy sale to gamers with cooling issues.The low end vid cards will sell as well, no probs.One thing about Finland: People are poor. REAAALLY poor. 40€ might be an painful investment for some. And i'm serious! Many people working full time earn barely enough to feed themselves, even if not at minimum wage because you loose the social benefits and acquire extra costs to be able to goto work. Some for being already broke and paying off debt can barely afford anything. Even at mean wage you can't afford much, 200€ will be painful for many middle wage people.Also stuff costs insanely much here, you are lucky to make a daily budget for food for single person below 3€ a day, and if you want to eat proper foods and properly, without skimming it's easily 8€ a day. Pizza costs regularly 8-10€ and Big Mac lunch is 7.5-8€. 1.5L bottle of coca cola costs 2.5-3.5€ (cheapest knockoffs are 1.3-1.5€/bottle). Small cup of coffee at a gas station 2€. Pint of beer at cheap bar is 2-3€, regular place 3-5€, expensive 5-9€. 1Liter of milk is about 1.5€, 400gr (0.4kg) of macaroni is atleast cheap at 0.28€. Cheese at least 6€ per Kg. Tuna costs about 1.2€ for 150gr (0.15kg) or cheapo with fishbones and stuff 0.5€ for 150gr. Coffee packet of 400gr is about 4.5€ for good brand, cheapo about 2.9€.I just bought Antec 300 case yesterday, cheapest place asked 58€ for it, inc. VAT 23%. I just had read on one forum someone bought the same case new at US for 40$(28.37€). USB Sticks cost atleast 6€ each. DDR3 RAM costs close 10€ per Gig (vs. at US you can get 2x4G for 65$). It makes very often sense to order from US/Hong Kong/China even with insane shipping fees and customs duties, esp. for small stuff like cables. DVI-I to VGA adapters cost 8€ each here! (vs. order from HK 0.99$ inc. shipping). Even on enthusiast forums it's kind of rare to see high end computer hardware being sold oO; Highend is REALLY hard to sell here, when 8800Ultras were not that old, next gen was just released, people were bitching my asking of 300€ per card (at the time they were listed at around 650€ per card new). I tried to sell a Quad Core Extreme CPU, 2nd fastest, listed at the time at 950€, people were bitching why i won't sell it for 200€ because a 60€ core2duo is so much more worth for money.So the low end stuff has their market, and it's a huge market. I get constantly question "can you get me a HDD for even 5€ cheaper??", "Can you get me a brand new computer, i got 100€ to spend?". Most Finns are trying to nickel & dime everything they can.Median US income (2007) is about the same in euros as mean FI income (2009 or 2010), but taxes are through the roof. At US i hear a gallon (3.97L) of fuel costs about 2.50$ (~1.79€), so you get almost 4 times as much for just a bit higher price. My belief are rents are about the same in USD than here in EUR, so ~39% difference. etc etc etc. the list just goes on.Because everything costs so damn much here, when people go abroad a major portion of the trip is shopping for regular items (not souvenirs or novelties), because even expensive stuff abroad is dead cheap for FI prices! Before Estonia had to raise prices due to EU, there was a lot of people constantly taking trips there to bring alcohol and tobacco, as they could get 100% profit margin, and it would still be like 1/3rd of the price here! :O Indeed these prices are way beyond new prices.Ie. 6950s cost under 180€ here new, and he's asking ~211€ for used card.Shame, cut those prices by 40% (to sane used value) and i might take a whole bunch, despite the shipping!
USD is not backed by anything else than the paper they are printed on/metal used for coins. Gold backing etc. was removed a reaaally long time ago.You should watch: http://www.zeitgeistmovie.com/The portion about money is made very easily understandable Infact, most money does not even exist what is in circulation. Money is literally printed, and mostly economies are based on loan. Hell, for USD the US govt doesn't even own the currency!  It's private currency. The examples were kinda close guesstimates. Not actual maths, i need to do couple days of maths to verify everything at first.Also need to do some kind of estimate on buyer amounts, scaling requirements etc.But i guess we will have at least 12Ghash by launch date for offer. That would be quickly scaled to 20Ghash during the first month, if not faster. That is already quite an nice capacity!  Using new 5830s that would be about 41 cards online. Link, want to check specs etc.  Clearly it is money for money, but so is any hosting model Customer gets in this: - access to any desired amount of hashing power without figuring anything out - No need to fully purchase the hardware upfront - no need to manage hardware, software etc. just "push a button" - no need to manage electricity capacity or scaling issuesWe get: - Money upfront towards the Hardware - Steady monthly profit - We get to own the HW (ie. sell it if it becomes useless)So the business model will be staying ahead of the direct HW owned profit vs. our pricing, to a degree.With monthly our benefits are emphasized. This would allow us to grow our cluster waaaay faster than otherwise, as we get money upfront, not after the fact.While at first glance it might look like it does not make sense for us to offer this, ie. we'd be doing an charity. That's actually a PRO for the business.Truth is that if we spend like 10k € on hardware day 0. We have to wait atleast till day 11 till we can add capacity by mining ourselves (whatever the return happens to be). Selling that same capacity to end customers at day 0 for 1/3rd of the cost + mohtly rate, allows us to add ~3300€ worth of hardware online, which we can use for mining, or yet again sell, and cycle for 1100€ more capacity.That would bring us at day 30 capacity of at least 14400€ in terms of investment.At which time we get again monthly payments.Assume monthly payments total to 1/5th of HW price after costs, it would mean we have gained 33% + 11% + 2.2% + 20% + 20% on the hardware at end of month 1, totaling 86.2%.Assume difficulty raises so much that HW ROI drops to 25% monthly in the next couple of weeks, this is significantly higher rate of growth.Assume atleast 10% turnover monthly too, ie. at day 1 of month 2, we can again sell 1k € worth of investment to new customers for new setup fees.At which point HW has devalued itself only by 20-25% worth.New HW gets released, we instantly invest into it, and start recycling our HW, and after enough has been swapped, lower prices accordingly, meantime profitting from old rates with new HW (increased profit margin).The model you describe would require customer to pay HW + Operating costs for 1 year upfront, with no way of backing out, meaning it's actually worse than just doing it yourself, way more expensive, way less flexible. You'd pay full HW price + full operating cost, but end up owning nothing but the gained BTC, meaning you loose immediately 100%+our margin on the HW investment. Makes absolutely no sense.This should be win-win-win situation, customer wins (lower initial investment, lower risk), we win (risk is offset by customers, operational costs covered if BTC goes haywire), bitcoin network wins (commercial mining service!).The example pricing on my initial post should be actually quite close to the actual. crappy 250W PSU from the 90s will probably have reeeaally bad efficiency. Imagine running 10x200W GPUs, each with 250W cheapo crap, with 60% efficiency. You are drawing 333W per PSU from the wall. 3.3kW total. You spent 100€ on the crap PSUs.Buy 3xCorsair/Enermax, say 120€ each. 360€ spent, but you magicly gain close to 90% efficiency, if not over. Let's assume 87%. You are drawing ~230W per card -> 2.3kW.So you are saving 100€ per month right there!100€ vs. 360€ -> 2.6months for ROI!Nevermind reduced risk, warranties etc.Ofc, the 250W cheapos, if bought new will have a warranty too, and are likely close to 80% efficiency, so ROI will increase to 9-18months.Short term -> Cheapos good. Long term -> Cheapos not so good. (Unless the cheapo happens to be mfg by Enermax or Seasonic) delivered as expected  An idea - Mining hostingAn idea to offer mining hosting, your feedback appreciated First a little bit about us(??)Pulsed Media is a smallish specialized niche hosting company. There is 2 of us working daily on tasks, and we got quite an nice market share for our niche. We do well by our automation and methods to increase stability, performance and usability above all others I've been familiar with bitcoin for over a year, but have not been doing anything related to bitcoin, letting it to mature a little bit more  Recently, i've setup my first ~1.4Ghash of power, and waiting for GPUs to arrive for another 1.7Ghash. This is just for testing before starting to roll out a cluster.Plans for a cluster?The plans immediately shifter towards building a cluster, autonomously managed etc. This requires a little bit of sofware development, but nothing we couldn't handle to build quite fast if we put our minds into it and put some time & effort to it. Just something like 50-80hrs of efficient work for internal system built fully Hashing contracts ... Cluster ... This gave me an ideaI saw the hashing contracts and their outrageously high pricing, i mean, more than the mining income is! :O Like WTF? (No offense meant, but really ... Charging HW + Electricity + 100% Margin? and you get to keep the HW!)Ok, you are free to ask for whatever you want, and if you still get business - Good for you! They are also quite opaque offers, little background info etc. force for 3 month contracts etc.Why not offer properly?We got space - We got contacts - We got (some) budget - and most of all, we are establishedWe are an already established business so there is plenty of BG info about us, we are stable and always looking to expand. So there is certain safety about what we got to offer, and we got established routines for managing a mass of customers in terms of support, and administrative tasks.We got plenty of space and power!We got roughly 150m2 space which is 4.4m free height, and mostly 5m high, also we got plenty of power. Currently we got installed capacity of 14kW, but being in a industrial building means we can install more with a week of notice, and the upper limit is quite high (being a big industrial building), probably 100kW+. Despite being off-net location we can get there atleast 100Mbps connectivity as well, if not faster, if required.This space is currently used just for building custom computer chassis', warehousing and other kind of DIY projects. It's rented as cold, so during winters we anyways need some heating there! It gets really cold here during winters, peaking out at around -30C, and regularly over -20C. Summers tho might hit 40C (on direct sunlight), but this space is slightly cooler than outside during summers  Heat will be somewhat of an issue during summers, ambient hitting 35C or so, but downclocking HW should handle that without installing any kind of AC We already got several outlets for venting air to outside in the wall too, one of them being "damn big". and ceiling being high means there is always room for the heated air to rise and transfer through the ceiling.ContactsWe got contacts to local refurb. hardware dealers, meaning we can reseller rates(=REAL cheap) on older hardware with 2x or more PCI-E connectors, fans, memory, cpus (ie. Celerons with heatsink just 5€ inc. VAT!). So some of the hardware can be built on REAL CHEAP.We also get access to wholesalers so we get under market pricing. As a registered business VAT will be returned to us in a few months (23%). And this being Finland -> there is quite a lot of competition in computer hardware pricing, and relative to population there is a lot of computer stores :OSome budgetWe got also a steady budget to invest into new hardware, which does not affect the day to day operations. The same budget would just go somewhere else instead (ie. marketing, or 3rd party development). We could easily add several Ghash/s each month without selling any BTC, or without any revenue from hosting.In practiceFirst of we need to add to the available space some shelves etc. nothign major, some exhaust fans, cabling and acquire a steady reliable internet connection there (not some 3G shaky one). 3G could work in the interim, maybe with mining pool proxy (haven't looked into it yet).Then we can immediately shelve around 12kW-13kW worth of hardware (leaving a bit of room for peaks ie. rebooting etc.). Add some remote management HW (VPN Gateway, remote reboot etc.).And build up our software and monitoring. Build an nice interface for end users. This being the major work, maybe not in terms of hours, but how much thought needs to be given to it.How would it work for end users, AKA CustomersWhen you buy up, you would get an interface where you configure your pools you want to use. It would show the number of cards, and give you ways to distribute among pools, or add weight to pools and it automaticly distributes or uses just as a backup some of them.You would also see graphs of actual Mhash/s you are getting, and can upgrade/downgrade anytime.This could potentially work on a Mhash based billing as well, allowing us to choose the most efficient HW possible and billed hourly. Billing hourly would give the user a "upper limit" selection for Mhash/s, and actual Mhash rate would be charged, no need for separate SLA. If monthly rate, then some kind of SLA needs to be provided.If we cannot flexibly control the rate of Mhash/s (ie. stable multiple instances per GPU and using Aggression to determine rought Mhash/s rate. Something i've not even tested), customers would choose something like Low-end GPU, Mid-Range GPU, High-End GPU and number of them. Definitions being something like under 200Mhash/s, 200 to 350Mhash/s, above 350Mhash/s. However that would complicate matters, and more fine-grained control is best idea to develop.PricingDue to heavy investment required (GPUs ain't that cheap afterall), pricing would consist of a setup fee and monthly(or hourly) rate.An example pricing mostly out of my head:0.25€ per Mhash/s setup fee and then 0.5€ per Mhash/s per month. So for 200Mhash/s the 1st month price would be 150€, 2nd month 100€.1Ghash/s would be 250€ setup, 500€ monthly. (afterall with 3x6950s consuming over 600W alone).Option 2 could be higher setup fee lower monthly:0.50€ per Mhash/s and then 0.3€ per Mhash/s per month.1Ghash/s would then be: 500€ setup, 300€ monthly.On monthly options: Stop the rental, and you have to pay setup all over again if you want to continue.On hourly basis we could charge just one time setup fee, which ups your upper limit for Mhash/s.Example:0.35€ Per Mhash/s setup fee. Minimum 50Mhash/s increments.0.0009€ Per Mhash/s per hour. Minimum 50Mhash/s.1Ghash/s per hour would be: 350€ setup fee, 0.9€ per hour.Accounts would have to preload credit, at minimum 50€ worth per time.All payments in BTC or EUR.Mass discountsWe could give mass discounts for those who get high numbers.Say, if you pay setup for more than 2Ghash/s, for all above that we could lower the per Mhash setup rate by 0.05€ or something like that ScalingHourly rate might be easier to handle scaling in business sense, if charging is based on the actual received. (Say averaging per 5mins and so forth).So if we get tapped, we can allow people to get setup for their chosen amount, and then we go get more HW. Ofc, if we are completely out and cannot roll extra capacity fast enough we would need to halt new setups.Why would we do this - looks like charity to me?Setup fees. Simple as that. Allows us to add more HW on the line faster, and we get to keep ownership of the HW for resale if they become useless and for other customers.Sure, you will earn more than you are paying us, but we also get multiple streams of revenue, and can tap into non-techy markets by making it simple enough! People who have no clue, or cannot setup their own mining rigs.Sooo, what do you think? 2009+ Medium or Large would be good for you probs Yea, we are starting to look into BTC seriously and might eventually add it as official payment method. Just trialing right now, looking at accounting, tax repercussions etc.  ~11EUR. So i even gave a "benefit".Latest on bitmarket is 12.97€It's been fluctuating around 12.5-13€ at Bitmarket for quite sometime now.Remember: Used stuff is only max 70% worth today's retail price. Especially buying abroad when you most likely loose warranties ... (with original receipt, and if mfg has presence in country, then you still got a warranty but not otherwise) Sorry but if i'd be looking to buy same or more as new cards, i'd buy new  Seriously, 6950s cost just ~175e = 14.5BTC.I can probably get it all shipped with 230$ to Finland via DHL Express, but as i said, i will not pay higher prices than new. There's a reason i asked for EU, namely: Customs.Try to explain them about BTC etc.Nevermind customs is easily 31%: 23% VAT + 8% customs duty.  Tho as a registered company i do get the VAT back in couple of months.EDIT: That being said, feel free to make an offer. not really, they are kinda besides the point.The different values under linux & windows are in question, driver issues, or just dif between linux & windows drivers?I can't control power even under linux, i can't get it to 1.2 like under windows the default is 1.2! :OThat's the thing, why different defaults under linux & windows? Will buy GPUs HD 5xxx or 6xxx. Preferred are: 5830, 5870, 5970, 6870, 6950 (Reference design), 6970, 6990Will consider others in 5/6k series too.Mobos, PSUs, CPUs and RAM also being sought. Cheap USB sticks.Good cases, fans also considered.*** ALSO SPECIALTY HARDWARE ***Things which will help me manage our mining cluster such as: * IP KVM * Remote Reboot HW * UPSs: Any kind starting from 550W output, battery does not need to be in working condition. Even custom built are good! * 3G/ADSL Modem (ie. Cisco with 3G backup) or plain 3G physical standalone modem which will reinitiate connection if failed * VPN gatewayNew or used, doesn't matter.Will pay in BTC after confirmation. Larger transactions will require eBay/OTC/other proof than just a picture.Picture proof always required.Preferrably in original boxes but not required.Offers including shipping to Finland in BTC. Shipping (to arrive) within 7 business days (~1½ weeks), preferrably less than 4 business days.Looking total to spend 150BTC during the next couple weeks. Indeed it would still need machining, there is some people who make the custom bellhousings, but asking 700£ for each which still requires machining, and he only makes 5 or less per year, doing castings only once a year ... It might be just easier to fabricate where are these located, within EU or US? I'd like a few transmission bellhousings but it would require a lot of work to figure out the mold alone oO;Let me know if you have any interest in such, as it would be quite an amount of work to figure them out, but you could make a good deal of money selling them to the right audience Nevermind they would be kinda big. where is this physically located? Just thinking if it would have customs ... I were assuming a set of patches, but apparently not. No reason to be an jackass for a valid point. can you somehow move the game to another steam account? If so, i'll grab it!  indeed if not unlockable not a chance it makes 432MH/s. My well cooled (only GPU in that chassis) manages to crank out only about 360 unstable, 340 stable.If i just could get the voltage up so i could get to over 875 clocks stable ...I'll give you 10BTC inc. FI shipping for that tho.
Exactly my point, but not everyone realizes that, even if they are technically adept they might not realize that  Point is it's better crafted than the average. "Dear Mt.Gox user,Our database has been compromised, how you already know.To protect your account in the future, please download  the Certificate (self-extracting archive) from Attachment and install it.If you were using the same password on Mt.Gox and other places (email, mybitcoin.com, etc), you should change this password as soon as possible.Please accept our apologies for the troubles caused, and be certain we will do everything we can to keep the funds entrusted with us as secure as possible.Any unauthorized access done to any account you own (email, mtgox, etc) should be reported to the appropriate authorities in your country.Thanks,The Mt.Gox team"Wonder how many fell for that  It is "from info@mtgox.com" too  looks very interesting! Is there going to be simple command line commands i can use to fetch data collected by smartcoin so i can hook it up for central monitoring?I would really like to test it, and if we choose to use this for our mining rigs i'll happily send your way 1BTC for each rig we put online  (Currently planning to build 5 during next 2 weeks, and atleast 5 per month there on)Well, checking PulsedMedia.com will tell you what kind of feedback you will be getting  Long term here too, already gained hundreds times more than the cost Infact, my mining HW is 100% paid by holding BTC for longterm capital gain For the short term i intend to sell 80-90% of generated profits to get more HW online, and later on start stockpiling more again  I got a HD6950 which when on windows had 1.2 coreclock and temps was ridiculously high (upto 90C!), i put it into linux and voltage is 1.1 and i cannot raise this.The card is only stable (24/7 stable) to around 885Mhz on stock voltage, and there is lots of room temp wise now, running at max 67C.Also core clock was 850 on windows, and 800 on linux by default oO;So how can i increase the voltage?EDIT: CCC does not have the +20% power thing, or any performance settings under linux. Am using LinuxCoin. Please, post also instructions  I'm actually doing the exactly same 180-185M max per card ~stock clock. (stock 850, running 860)Currently aggression 4 and aggression 8 -> 78 and 180.Shutting down youtube brought adapter 0 (main monitor) to 156 average (154-157 bouncing)Still need to checkup a lot on overclocking ATIs, first ATI GPUs i've owned in.... Like 8+ years. I've been NVidia all the way until recently my last 8800Ultra burned. Depends upon the quality of the PSU. Weak 600W will be same as 300W quality.Weak: All is counted as total. Corsair, Enermax atleast count ONLY 12V rail outputs to the marketed total.2x6770 sucks about 220W, my CPU (even tho it's extreme series) prob around 130W, and rest prob 50W. and GPUs and rest don't enjoy even solely 12V.In any case, they are now running stable on the *same* system, in crossfire. Kind of, still reports 2 adapters, yet i got crossfire enabled. Whatever, is not crashing anymore. (Not needed for gaming). Next week 2x5970 arrives anyway and got to upgrade PSU, hopefully some store will have 1kW enermax in stock Oh and quality differs: 550W cheapo PSU was not able to power up a system which a really old Enermax 350W was happy to powerup  I think that system required something like 450W and the really old, too small Enermax didn't have problems with that  Nope, offers plenty of power for 2x6770  (550W corsair) awesome!  Tipped you Next week it's time to start building our cluster mgmt software and was just thinking howto monitor, thanks for solving it! Rest should be easy  will you sell for BTC? Shipping pref direct to Finland but US is ok too.Bundle price for all 3? There is a reason i got access to a big amount of servers and you don't. It's called business sense, knowing what's what.for some people it really doesn't cost more to have 100% used or 0% used CPUs. I got burned by Coins4Trade paid via MB for BTC, 4BTC @ 13EUR each, gone I've tried to reach, and even replied to the thread, no reply back. This happens with Phoenix commandline too... I can't order, complains not confirmed address while it most certainly is   I'm running Win7 64Bit.I just acquired for testing 2xHD6770. Not running crossfire, running a monitor on both cards.If i start 2 miners, it will result in crash if i stop either one. If using Guiminers crash may occur already when starting.When i quit a miner, things continue seemingly to work for 10seconds or so, and then halts. If i wait long enough system finally reboots.Using drivers + catalyst from couple months back. Happens also on stock clock.Also, why do they consume all power of a core? :O I got quite powerfull CPU (Best of old Core series, QX9770 @ 3.4Ghz) so that strikes quite odd as well  Cool! Shame tho i've let the domains expire where i had 150k+ weekly visitors (Chinese, didn't turn a advertising profit, tho they stayed over 15mins average  ). I bet this could have made me a few comfy BTCs  So i acquired today for testing & fun 2x6770s (same price as 5770).Well, i dont' got the crossfire bridge, so they are running separately now, i do have 1 monitor connected to each card.Problem is: IF i try to mine with both vid cards at the sametime it most often causes a crash.Using via GUIminer i can start them running, but as soon as either one stops it's a crash again.I've tried phoenix, guiminer and puddinpop's (which worked the worst).Running win7 64bit. Not a dedicated mining rig, a workstation i decided to finally get some GPU power on as well Thanks!  yeap, and atleast here in Finland if you are able to wait couple weeks, stock is of 0 issue.They will get it to you, even if it takes 10 weeks, at the price quoted. Even if that price is wayyy under market. Clearcoin? 
I will sell 15BTC for MB payment for 225€Payment to MB -> I'll send the Bitcoins. X) for 100BTC i can get 3 of these and still have some left over  still waiting for my coins ... i never said that nor make implication of such!I don't have to pay the electricity bill. Leased servers, you know. Thank you So that would mean 1.5$ per node per month, with luck.I guess not really worth the effort to setup all nodes with miner, even tho it does not add any extra costs for me to do so. These nodes are at a DC and utilized for hosting, but their idle CPU cycles are going 100% to waste  Seriously, if i swapped all of them to ATOMs no one would notice - that's how little those nodes needs CPU. It's all network, ram and storage i/o.But you are right, it's probably not worth it even to set it all up.I do however happen to have about 10 un-used computers with atleast 1xPCI-E x16 lying around ... But what is worth say 6870 or 5870 in BTC made in say slush's pool per week right now? Well, in this case the cpu cycles would be "free", it's just matter of setting them up (Any pooler has API for adding new worker?).What kind of revenue can one expect with 300mhash/s per month nowadays? So i'm guessing 300mhash/s takes a year to make even 200€? We got over 100 Core2Duo servers with CPU >80% idle, and a few Core2Quad xeons with CPUs idle too.Are they any worth on mining?Quick estimates based on testing on a few servers: - Core2Quad ~6000-8800khash/s - Core2Duo ~2500khash/sI've been considering this for a long time but never had gotten around to it, until finally today reading up on pooled mining etc. i gave it a try So if we put 100 Core2Duo nodes crunching, worth anything?Quick calc: 100*2500/1000=250Mhash/sAre CPUs really THAT slow on this type of thing? Someone claimed 2x5830 can do 300Mhash/s, so is it really so that putting these 100 nodes crunching would be able to just barely crank out 2x5830 hashes? :Oi'm using jgarzik's and compared 4way to default algos too. We decided to see how BTC is going on and give out a few accounts for low BTC rates! Pulsed Media provides one of the easiest to use, highest performing seedboxes in the market, with heavy emphasis on easy to use GUI with a desktop client option!This is a once off thing for now, and "sales" will be limited to just few (no matter for chosen term and plan). The lower end choices are higher priced due to the handling, and 12months options are extremely cheap.Support can be reached via e-mail, you can reg client portal and we can input you product etc. on our regular billing, so you can get support the normal way, and renew at end of term via normal payment (PP, MB, SEPA zone Wiretransfer)100Mbps Unmetered OfferingsOur 2009+ 100Mbps Unmetered series is splendid value for money!Starter: 20Mbps Upstream, 70Gb Storage, 250Mb rTorrent RAM.2BTC - 3months, 3BTC - 6months, 5BTC - 12monthsSmall: 100Mbps Upstream, 115Gb Storage, 250Mb rTorrent RAM.3BTC - 3months, 5BTC - 6months, 7BTC - 12monthsMedium: 100Mbps Upstream, 250Gb Storage, 500Mb rTorrent RAM4BTC - 3months, 7BTC - 6months, 9BTC - 12monthsLarge: 100Mbps Upstream, 500Gb Storage, 1000Mb rTorrent RAM3BTC - 1month, 7BTC - 3months, 12BTC - 6months, 17BTC - 12monthsPM me for payment info, along with desired user name. Hope the seedlist is long and those are fast peers able to take a pounding.When given enough incentive, even the root DNS servers are in danger (most of them got taken down couple years back by a DDoS), so the list needs to be long, and those nodes need to be able to take it.So the list should be atleast 1000 nodes, for which it doesn't incur too much damage if getting DDoS'd. Even if they are average 100Mbps nodes, or even 1GigE, it's tho still easy to drop. Freenet + Seedlist i don't see to be enough in the long term. Adding a node to connect to manually just is not an option (the same list posted here in forums could be as easily be DDoS'd).Maybe with an list of 10,000 nodes eventually, and random trying networks with dynamic dhcp pools where it's known that there's a lot of bitcoin users (couple ISPs) as tertiary fallback. Those along with static HTTP (trusted volunteer maintained ones) and dns pointers (trusted volunteer maintained ones aswell) would proof to be enough fallbacks for not to worry.Admittedly, this is not a problem today, but as BC grows and it's value grows, i'm very certain there's a huge interest and incentive to disrupt it for some people. People with huge resources. Think if an 5mil node botnet is used for an attack... Maybe even with just 2Mbps average outbound it would account to 10Tbit/s attack.For now however, it's enough. The password should be hashed in DB. It's plain stupid and ignorant not to hash them. Eventually if there's databreach and passwords are not hashed ...It should work:Browser -> send to server (pref SSL encrypted) -> server receives and directs to script -> script hashes (adding salt, pref static + dynamic) and saves to db or verifies from dbSecurity is a complex matter, but basics should be adhered to nevertheless. That the variable coming to server is unhashed does not say that the DB uses unhashed pws.The password is practically always transmitted cleartext to the server, within SSL session most of the time however, on crucial things. But it does not tell is it hashed in the database or not.The thing about if the encryption is clientside, it's trivial for any hacker to hack as the algo can be trivially disassembled and disseminated.It's a very bad idea to transmit the password in GET variable tho. Well atleast POST and not GET. (Btw, 99.9% of web services transmit password from user browser to the server clear text, no JS hashing or something before transmit)And another thing: The spread is insane. Insanely expensive to buy BC and selling BC mediocre rate for today. Oh cool, BitcoinExchange is operated by Finnish company as well!  /offtopicWhen might BitcoinExchange be back in operation? Dedicated servers for offerNow you can get dedicated servers as well via BC!We want to offer a limited supply of servers by BC.These offer unlimited transfer, and when requested OVH admin will be set so you can yourself request OS reinstalls, handle netboot, reverse DNS etc.SP-09 MiniCore2Duo 2x2.33Ghz (3Mb L2, 1066Mhz FSB)2Gb DDR22x500Gb SATA2 HDDs100Mbps unmetered1355BC a month + 1667BC setup.Availability: 3 serversSP-09 StorageCore2Duo 2x2.66Ghz (3Mb L2, 1066Mhz FSB)2Gb DDR24x1500Gb SATA2 HDDs (YES, 6TERABYTES!)100Mbps unmetered2521BC a month + 1667BC setup.Availability: 1 serverC-250GCeleron D/215/2202Gb RAM (DDR1 or DDR2)250Gb HDD100Mbps until 3Tb, then 10Mbps (Until more BW bought or end of billing cycle)Availability: 1 server515BC a month + 1667BC setup    or    6018BC a year, no setup.OrdersYou can either directly send to 17Hk5CWYmw2Le89BFVXw4mNMvZxCRcy2Ya  and vary price by 0.03 to 0.1 up or down, and PM me the sum you sent and what you want for quick order.PM me for private bitcoin address to send to and what service.Servers will be delivered within 48hrs of payment received.SupportHere via PM, or e-mail.Offer validityUntil end of july.You can also get these offers via Paypal & Moneybookers via our website. If particular server is not available at our site, open a sales enquiry and it will be added there. Sent mine 5BTC back aswell. Well that's about to get fixed  That contains all current blocks i assume? What about updates?I could add that to our default "testing" torrents, that means it will get widely, and heavily seeded over time. Full speed for all  Plus advertising for bitcoin EDIT: wow, it sure is poorly seeded right now. getting 9k/s. I put it on one seedbox. Aah, i looked there but it looked like defunct site earlier. Then it read 0.04 / 0.05
