Well, we can either wait for jgarzik to release his "woefully incomplete" documentation, or just have someone take a few hours to do it from scratch and not have to deal with the headache that this is causing. Just do it.  It's been a day now and despite several requests that he release the documentation under Creative Commons, he hasn't actually moved to do anything except cause more drama.  If he doesn't want to play nicely, then we just need to walk away.  Lets just find someone who's willing to do what is necessary in order to keep everything free as in beer.  We don't have to do anything to the protocol, just have someone else document it.  If the documentation comes out exactly the same, then that's proof that he doesn't have a copyright, as stated earlier in this thread. Sound exactly like creative commons.Sorry, ignore that, it sounds far more confrontational than I intended it. I'd be surprised if he couldn't, or if he didn't have his own documentation somewhere in a notebook that he's using for an ashtray.(I have no idea if Satoshi smokes and presume that he doesn't)Personally, when working on an open source project, I find it hard to believe that any documents relating to the protocol could cause any sort of dispute over their authorship, especially when we have such fine resources as Creative Commons.  I don't think anyone would have any problems with that. As I'm trying to start an escrow service anyway, I'll volunteer my services if they're needed, although it would be even sweeter if they accepted bitcoins on their website. I'm moving (slowly) towards setting up an escrow service.  I'm planning on building a database that will allow people to advertise how many successful transactions they have made. I'm not necessarily disagreeing with the general idea that you're espousing, but your example doesn't quite work very well.   Freenet has the downside of quite possibly actively turning someone who uses it into a criminal just by its use, whereas it is likely much harder to prosecute someone for performing a transaction using BTC.  By worrying about who uses BTC, or how welcoming the project is to various people (we should welcome everyone to use BTC for legal reasons regardless of their political views), you're putting the cart before the horse.  I'm more concerned about building the clubhouse than who's on the guest list.As for whether or not someone is accepting bitcoins for access to porn sites: I haven't seen it yet.  If someone wanted to make such a transaction, they would have to advertise it.  It can't be too prolific if no one has really seen it yet. I haven't actually seen any sort of porn or drug transactions using BTC... there was the guy that talked about sending heroin, but that was just a thought experiment.  Going back to the original comment that you quoted, I feel that what both you and creighto are saying is self-evident.  I wouldn't expect walmart to use bitcoins unless there was an economic reason that didn't make them look like pedophiles/drug dealers/bad people.  To me, you might as well be saying that the sky is blue. Not necessarily hosted by launchpad or anything, just packages available from a mirror somewhere. Yeah I've built the binaries before, I want to be able to upgrade via the update manager rather than manually downloading the binaries. sabbers worked with me to find a way to complete the transaction.  Definitely a good trader.   Actually there are several people on the forums who are working on doing exactly what you just advocated, I'd advise finding them and contributing. But how exactly should they be better protected?  Has anyone built a package for the GUI client yet? Now if we can get a repository set up, everything will be awesome. When you say "Heron", I'm going to assume that you are referencing the "heroin" thought experiment that someone was using in another thread.  Kind of a significant spelling error, although I would totally buy into a service that delivered Great Blue Herons through the mail. I'm having a hard time understanding the rest of your post, but I feel like you're complaining that the "anarchists" will ruin things and you want to try to remove anonymity from the network, is that accurate?  As far as the "anarchists"(lets not get into your use of a straw man here) go, you may as well complain that they are bad for all of the freedoms that we enjoy.  I think that there's a productive critique in your post about ubiquity of BTC, but it's hidden by the complaints about what the bitcoin network is capable of. Minnesota up in here! That's what I did and it seemed to work.  Cheers! You downloaded all the dependencies too?  I know I had a bunch of problems until I did that.  Good luck, I've done it myself so it's definitely possible.
