buuump? I dropped both cards down to their stock clocks and suddenly it works. Tested for multiple hours twice. Once while working on the house and then again while out to dinner. For some reason Furmark & Shogun 2 don't expose the faulty OC (which was only 50MHZ per card core), but bitcoin mining and Modern Warfare 2 do. And Bitcoin mining causes a hard reset instead of a simple driver crash like MW2. 36 characters with symbols. Come. at. me. I signed up for Mt. Gox without an email account. Meaning I won't be able to set a new P/W when it comes up. Did they just effectively delete my account for that and steal my $500 in BTC? Solved .. I think. It was apparently my OC of just 950 core. I dropped to 900 and have had both mining contently for more than an hour. Weird that Furmark, Shogun 2, and Haven don't reveal this. MW2 had driver crashes at 960-ish, so I've just dropped down to 900 again. My hash rates have dropped by ~30-40 on each card though :\. I'll try to get away with 930 tomorrow. I need to mine to make up for all the lost time. Thought I found it when I removed aggression from one card. It lasted a good 15 minutes. Vectors maybe? This is just slightly annoying because if my system ever shuts down unexpectedly, my RAID driver automatically starts verifying the array, which makes the system take forever to start back up. Nope. Not temps. Like I said, I can run FURMARK on both cards at the same time, no issues. Furmark makes them hotter than Bitcoin mining does. Hi, Phoenix has been causing hard resets for me when mining with both cards. I can mine with one indefinately, or run a furmark instance on both with no issues. Game on one while mining on other, etc with no problems at all. But if I start two Phoenix miners my computer will just suddenly reset within two minutes. However, if I give one of the miners no arguments at all this doesn't happen. I started a thread about the issue I'm having: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=19289.0Never had a rejected share or artifacts, and can furmark on both cards, so it can't be a hardware problem. What if the value of bitcoins drops below the value of paperclips? So, I'm trying to run Phoenix Phatk on my dual 6870s (not crossfired), and some kind of software problem with phoenix makes the system reboot within two or three minutes once both cards are mining. This had me chasing my own tail forever until I realized it was a software problem and not an issue with my hardware. Extensive stress testing confirms this with certainty.GPU clock is 975MHZ, RAM clock is 1100 MHZ.No artifacts. Ever. No rejected shares, ever.Either card can mine alone -- forever.Both cards can run their own copy of furmark -- forever. No errors.One card can run Shogun 2 maxed (90+% GPU usage at all times, identical thermals to Bitcoin mining) while the other mines coins. No issues.Both cards can mine fine together IF AND ONLY IF one has no arguments set with Phoenix. I lose TONS of hashing power on that card (280-->230.)The arguments I use follow: k phatk VECTORS BFI_INT AGGRESSION=8 worksize=128So uhhh .... any ideas? Try poclbm on one card? I'm running Catalyst 11.5 with the 2.4 Stream SDK. Phoenix 1.48 with the included phatk version. Ok, the RPC connection error is gone, now it just tells me bitcoin isn't connected, and namecoind getinfo shows 0 connections ... hmm ... Hmmm .... I can't seem to get it working. Have namecoind running on a Linux machine at the moment, port 9332. Can't connect via RPC from another machine on the same network. I have 9332 TCP & UDP open in iptables. This. Also the false pretenses. I'm going to call them and see what's really up, maybe squeeze some BS rhetoric out of them. Hey look, someone else who realizes this. Not if my growth model is right. It puts the proper price of BTC between $10 and $13 right now. I knew it was overvalued at $30, so I sold, then bought when it hit $14 because the European timezone and the start of the week would drive the price back up to at least $20 briefly. I sold at $22. Apparently. /signed. Either Mt. Gox deletes the dark pool functionality entirely or I jump ship to Trade Hill as soon as it gets big enough to be a main trading hub. See topic. eBay is currently aggressively deleting all Bitcoin listings, claiming that selling them "violates intellectual property and copyright."Pretty disgusting huh? At this point they still have thousands of coins, unless they sold recently. No, but it is a risk that I am aware of. That said there's a good chance the EFF would jump at the chance to sue the balls off Paypal over that. they accept Bitcoin donations, so the media waves (and the changed perception if they win) could send the Bitcoin exchange rate way up. Who knows how many coins EFF has.
