Ok. I changed my mind about how I should mod(should I ever mod in the future here or else where), but I am not visiting the press forum or bitcointalk anymore.Well, let just say I respectively disagree with how moderation should be done.  Did not gain much if anything from ensuring press forum is clean and threads follows the rule of that subsection except for my own satisfaction. The site owner and mod team essentially told me that keeping the particular subsection clean is not a priority or is important to them. They won't help me reduce the number of irregularity events caused by people who don't read the guideline, don't read their own thread, and don't read private messages.As I have better thing to do, I might as well just play minecraft and be entertained by this thread. Ain't fixing people's shit at the press forum anymore, either as a mod or a regular user.1. Been told that I can't say "NEED DATE FIXING" in the forum thread.2. Been told to simply quietly correct it.3. Not getting support to help reduce irregularity in the press forum.4. Been told that this is only "guideline". 2013/07/16 should be 2013-07-16. There's ads? My goal is to reduce the need to fix press thread to zero so that I literally eliminate the need for moderation.  If people aren't reading my PM or showing that they understand the guideline, then it is one more person to moderate in the future.With a temporary ban, I can force them to learn rather than avoiding reading the thread they post in or avoiding reading PM. I am now a mod, but I have no way to force people to read the guideline. I believe I should be given the power to temporary ban people for 3 days for not following guideline, especially after not fixing their shit after I give a nasty reply and a nasty PM. Date fixed. Title corrected. PM sent for date fixing. Send PM for title fixing. Date format bit broken. Should be 2013-07-12 not 2013-7-12. Title needed. Reported to the mod for regulation violation. Please conform to the rule of this board or prepared to be corrected for your irregularity. I am no mod. Reported for no link. Also, date is still wrong. DATE Format should be 2013-07-10. Date wrong. Should be 2013-07-10.Also, this Rimbit sounds bollocks.
People don't read the sticky. Instead, you should force people to read the guideline when they are about to post. Annoying yes, but I hate having to chase around a handful of people who don't care about the date format and don't fix it. Reported again. DATE DATE DATE! Reported for non-mention of bitcoin in article. Sent PM. Sent PM For date fixage. Date format WRONG! Reported. If bitcoin is not mentioned, then it doesn't belong. Reported. PMed for date fixage. DATE NO FIXED YET! DATEEEEEEEEE? Reported for still broken date. DATE NEEDED! PMed for date fixing. NO DATE??? PMed. PMed. PMed. DATE FORMAT WRONG!
DATE FORMAT WRONG! WRONG DATE FORMAT! Reported for being unrelated to bitcoin. PMed. Unacceptable! The rule is very simple. PMed the OP. STILL NOT FIXED!LOOK AT OTHER THREAD TITLES TO SEE WHAT IS WRONG WITH YOUR! IT NEED DATE! 2013-5-29 should be 2013-05-29. DATE NOT FIXED? UNACCEPTABLE! DATE NEED FIXING! Your thread does not follows the press guideline!READ THIS!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=76487.0AND THEN FIX THIS THREAD!Or FEEL MY RAGE! Reported to mods for no fixing even after PM. NO DATE? NO DATE? DATE NEED FIXING OR I'LL "FIX" YOU! NEED DATE! Just tax everyone with VAT and property tax. Then you can stop invading people's privacy to get your mooooooooooonnnnnnnnnnnnnney.And hopefully not spend it on pointless wars and things like that. DATE NEED FIXING! DATE? WRONG FORMAT! FIX DATE!
NO DATE?? No. Good for the world!The moar Chinese, the better. The moar Americans, the better. The moar people, the better.Does it matters who adopts bitcoin? You cannot have no obligations if your income is in bitcoin. When there's a way, the government will tax you. Bitcoin or Dollars or Gold. Doesn't matter. NO DATE??? The Feds being independent means that they don't have to play politics, which we all know sucks.However, it does not mean that the Feds will do a good job of managing monetary policy.  NEED DATE! Date is fixed.MISSION ACCOMPLISHED! NO DATE? FIX YOUR DATE! FIX YOUR DATE!FIX YOUR DATE! So? The press section is about bitcoin, not about events that are related to bitcoin but otherwise have nothing to do with bitcoin. Do they mention the word "bitcoin"? IF not, it DOESN'T BELONG HERE!MOVE! MOVE! MOVE! Sire, still NO DATE! As long as they are not in an exchange's wallet... DATE NEED FIXING!   DATE NEED FIXING!   Welcome back, EFF. I pick 33% because it's a guess. I don't know. However, I do feel that criminal charges is one possible event that could transpires. With more information, I may be able to make a better more educated guess.  I recorded a prediction here: http://predictionbook.com/predictions/18175The prediction:US government will indicts MtGox or its officers on criminal charges by the end of 2013.My confidence is 33%. Subject to change as news reveal more details. I always thought of bitcoin as a commercial adventure.  Need date?
Failing to lrn 2 bizness? What? Speak ENGLISH! NO DATE! Date format wrong. You don't have to be a scam artist to write an ineffectual book about self-improvement. So, instead of dollars(or addition to), they now accept bitcoin.   * kiba puts on his devil's advocate hat.Confirmation bias? Date improperly formatted, sire. You added the date wrong. There's regulation that's good, and there's regulation that's absolutely a killer. Bill Gate is an old man and he still respect it. That's because he's a technologist. But it doesn't say "silk road". DPR isn't that much of an idiot to do something like giving identifying information to dudes on the internet, giving dudes his addresses, and so on. I also reported this thread to the mods several time.  Except Gavin. Finally, the god damn date is fixed. What douchebag SilverVigilante is for taking so long. PMed. Take a look around the press subforum and see what's different about your thread and their. Then fix it. Man. The fucking date still ain't fixed.   PM! NEED DATE! NEED DATE! NEED DATE! Remember, bitcoin exchanges are one of the hardest business to be in. The fatality rate is around 45 percent, and the average lifespan of a bitcoin exchange is about a year.
If it plans out that way. Bitcoin drama hurts our ability to grow, because energy is spent on lawsuits instead of growing bitcoin economy. Jesus. More bitcoin drama.  You didn't even read the thread or watch the video! The voice is clearly not Sal. Summer vacation are outdated concept. You should always at the minimum takes one hour to learn something new or practice old skills everyday. Check with your tax accountant/lawyer. No shit, sherlock! Sent another PM to the OP for getting the date formatting wrong. NEED DATE IN TITLE! NO DATE? MADNESS! 2013-5-2 should be 2013-05-02 Dude, just use a generic male human silhouette as a representation of satoshi. Or better yet, use cryptography symbols. I pmed this dude, and he won't even correct it! What a douche! Bitcoin is pseudonymous, not anonymous, and a user must take care to be anonymous.  There's ads on bitcoinfoundation?   DUP! https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=189335.0 Does it say "bitcoin" anywhere in the the a article?No? Then it's offtopic. 2013-04-9 should be 2013-04-09 I thought the chance of failing was about the mortality rate of bitcoin exchanges, not the currency itself. Need date in title.
Date format reversed. So what? gmaxwell: haters are going to hate. It's called different writers having different opinion.  Dup!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=170813.0 I remember reading his blog and thinking "he does not do this research". Who care about his economics if they don't do their FUCKING RESEARCH. BOO! Inaccurate!This guy didn't do his research.Uncensorable payment don't count? International transfer don't count? What are you smoking? This video sucks. A lot of time, the graphics have nothing to do with explaining how bitcoin works. http://phys.org/news/2013-04-high-volume-bitcoin-exchanges-breached.html PMed. Better fix it. Or I'll get the mod to fix it. No. Because Lee didn't said that the bitcoin price won't reach dollar parity. Instead, he said that bitcoin will spiral down to zero. Name those "experts". You reversed the date. It should be 2013-04-23 2013-4-23 should be 2013-04-23. Great. Less work for me.  Date should be 2013-04-21 not 2012-04-21. It's not alleged quotes. It's actual quote by satoshi nakamoto. Please just fix your mess, or I have to report this thread to the mods. NO GLARING ERRORS DETECTED.
The number #1 use of mintchip is to buy bitcoin. But of course, they just decided to reject their own poll on how people will use mintchip. 2013-4-19 should looks like 2013-04-19 NO DATE, MAN? Project dead?? Should be 2013-04-17 not 2013-4-17 IMPROPER DATE FORMATTING! Unless a teenager is a programmer, he won't give a shit about bitcoin. THERE I SAY IT! Need proper dating! No daaaaaate? Remember, not every bitcoin foundation member is an anarchist or a libertarian. Asking the bitcoin foundation to support anarchist ideal is like asking the American heart association to support anarchism. PMed. I prefer that the bitcoin foundation be as non-political as possible, except whatever is needed to protect bitcoin.  NEED DATE IN TITLE! All system is nominal. Bitcoin Foundation is a not a place to implement your anarchist/liberal/socialist/libertarian politics.Sincerely, A Bitcoin Foundation member. The last thing we need is the IRS thinking all bitcoiners are tax evaders. You guys gave me a heart attack until I realized that it's back in 2012.   It is strange to seek cryonic, and stranger still the opposition to cryonic. US CRIME ENFORCEMENT AGENCY?  Is it an agency dedicated to increasing crime rate? Steve is an old dude too!
No date. PMed. As long as miners can't use free electricity, it's ok.  NO date, man? I AM PISSED! PMed the dude! Let hope the forum thread's date get fixed. I PMed the dude and he won't update the thread's date? I AM MADZ! PMed. No date? You want to waste your bitcoin on a class action lawsuit? Even if you win, I doubt you get much more than a token 0.01 BTC.I LULZ. NEED PROPER FORMATING OF DATE! NO DATE? HERSEY! I don't think it explains the technical details very well. For example, it doesn't explain why there's mining. They don't split?  Wrong section. the fuck? But nobody would ever use a lazlo in the future since there nobody will have all 21 million coins! He's a frenchman who died early at the age of 49.But he's also a economics theorist who gave us the "parable of the broken window" and other gems. PMed the OP. Hope he changes the DATE! OP reinvented the idea namecoins two years after the fact.  NO DATE IN FORUM TOPIC?
2014? SHouldn't it be 2013? Plz fix your date. What? I thought it ran by tcatm? That's propaganda speak.Nobody wants to believe that the founding of their nation is based on a stupid war based on naked financial interest and tinfoil religious conspiracy theory. The post's date should be 2013-04-04 rather than 2013-4-4. Please put a date on the forum topic. I PMed. It sucks that it costs like 30% of your paycheck but what sucks more is the stress brought by overly complicated tax code. If all 300 million people pay a simple tax of 1000 bucks a year to the US gubernment, they would have something like three hundred billion dollars to work with every year. Very simple tax and plenty of money for the government to run.Alas, our government is not a lean, efficient machine. Hundred of billion of dollars are lost every year to inefficient military research program, pointless wars, jails, porks, paperwork for social security, and enforcement cost for the US' byzantine tax code. For the love of god, just charge a uniform added value tax or a sale tax.Who fricking cares about capital gains, income tax, property tax, etc?ONE TAX! ZERO LIABILITY! And no, you can't use the tax law to implement your favorite social engineering scheme. Also, I don't give a damn about those fucking turbotax and the rest of the tax preparation industry. Go do something more productive and fulfilling than doing tax. I'll keep annoying people until it get updated. No errors is detected by kiba. WILL SOMEONE UPDATE THE DATE? WHY YOU VIOLATE THE SCARED RULE OF PUTTING A DATE IN THE TOPIC?? Quite surreal that they're calling the bubble pop early. I am pretty sure that they just don't do the research. It also happens to science journalism too, as well any subjects that you are an expert in. *When bitcoin price is not rising like crazy*Friends and family said that it's scam!*When bitcoin price is rising like crazy*Friends and family wants in!The problem with them family and friends is that they didn't bothered to understand how bitcoin works, why is it good, and why it might be bad.  The benefit of knowing bitcoin is that you can do the sniff test. One of the most level headed article on bitcoin. Change the title with proper dating, sire. DATE? DATE? DATE?
DATE? DATE? DATE? DATE? WHERE IS MY PRECIOUS DATE? DATE!!!!!!!!!!!!! IT NEEDS DATE!!!!!!!!! DATE NEEDED! DATE NEEDED! The number of merchants is steadily growing and people won't spend their hard earned bitcoin!Perhaps the publicity isn't a bad thing if it creates stronger fundamentals for bitcoin? DATED NEEDED IN TITLE! DATE NEEDED! The drop in the reward subsidy haven't affect the price of bitcoin even one lick. I think it's safe to assume that the state don't give a flying **** about financial privacy. Alex is an insane talking head, just like any other talking head on Fox News and NBC, except the audience are libertarians.Remember, beware talking head that is always sure that they're right and never actually put their mouth where the money are. KIBA IS MADZ. KIBA WANTS PROPER DATE FORMATTING OR HE'LL BAN YOU! Who cares? Bitcoin way more important than some nobody asian country. I don't care about some blog post. I care about getting my tax done with the least pain and the least money lost. Anybody knows of a good lawyer or accountants who deals with bitcoin? I need to do my tax before April 15. KIBA MAD!   MOVE YOUR TOPIC OUT OF PRESS SECTION!Sorry. It must have been moved or I have posted in the wrong section. What was the previous processing fee? 3.5%? Bitcoin does not have an ideology. People have ideology.  DATE FORMATTING NEED FIXING, SIRE! Taaki also looks like a terrorist.  
NEED DATE FORMATTING, SIRE! DUP!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=155509.0 NEED TIME FORMATTING, SIRE Can we stop posting zerohedge articles for a while? So for 9 months, she be allowed to live..but afterward, she will be executed and her baby adopted by a hopefully wonderful family? Have you consider submitting an application for one of those braingate trial? Stupidest bitcoin article by The Economist thus far. Unconvincing. Plus, what about wordpress and reddit and mega and lot of other good news? IMPROPERLY FORMATTED DATE! Why does this belongs in the press section? No external media is reporting on the scam. I thought a "she"? Guys who are too sure of themselves are most likely to be wrong.  "chainblock", "a silicon valley partners with a bitcoin miner", "bitcoin becomes harder to manufacture".  NEED DATE FORMATTING FORMATTING NONSTANDARD NEED DATE FORMATTING, SIRE! We want the date formatting to be like 2013-03-06 without the 8:32 AM. NEED DATE FORMATING, SIRE! NEED DATE FORMATTING, SIRE! Dude, the blogger should at least admits that he's wrong.If he did, he have balls and I respect him for it. 
Maybe Regression theorem is just wrong? It's a hypothesis that can be falsified. The Verge, Slashdot, Arstechnica are techy as much as Hacker News. Slashdot was the first to cover bitcoin, even. Yet, the evolution of their views are different. Which will get you downvoted quick. Trolls don't live very long there. So why does Hacker News like bitcoin or at least neutral about it and other sites hate bitcoin? Thinking about money is hard! It's one of the strangest fiction ever invented by mankind. Oh, I stand corrected.  Everybody forgot that namecheap.com is run by Zhou Tong, the embezzler of bitcoinica?Edit: sorry, I got confused memory. No, they were one of the first wave of immigrants into the bitcoin. Nowsday, they're just old farts who refuse to update beliefs. They should make everything legal tender! Although, I don't think the NH likes receiving trucks for tax payments. That's where all the libertards live. If you want anything cool that libertards likes, you better move there. Fixed. http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=5242268A hacker news discussion on silk road. Everybody on Hacker News already knows about silkroad, though. It just so happens that hacker news want to talk about bitcoin today.The article itself is a fairly old one from 2011, although it has been continuously updated since then. They can, if they know where you live. Even if you have a brainwallet, they can resort to torture. If you guys want to die of food poisoning, that's fine with me. If everybody knows "The Innovator's Dilemma", why do they act like it's not true?     When the asteroid miners come back with the gold and silvers, we'll be the one who's laughing. MUHAHAHAHAH. Bram Cohen doesn't like bitcoin. "I came up with an interesting business model"? People suggests everything from a group of people to individual as "most likely".
IMPROPERLY FORMATTED TITLE.   You have just pressed kiba's berserk button! HE DEMANDS PROPER FORMATTING FOR TITLE NOW! Maybe amazon is a full reserve bank for the purpose of amazon coins. Why is it important? You can't gamble with it, purchase drugs with it, purchase cars with it, etc. The whole point of my idea is to align all the interests and bypass anybody who aren't helpful. Manga are left in the dustbin of history, mangaka can't monetize their work, translators only work part time, and so on. Sure, you and others may buy physical copies of the book but it's a hassle. Plus, some of your money also go to printing operations. I have an idea for a silkroad version for Asian comics. http://kibabase.com/articles/manga-readersBug reports and criticism are greatly appreciated. Feature requests are not.I am poor at grammar and it will take me a while to get real good at writing paragraphs without making a single grammatical mistakes. So I appreciate grammar nazis.Also, the reason why I won't execute the idea I proposed is that I wrote about the idea without being anonymous, making me an automatic suspect should the enterprise happens. It's not about the elimination of all gambling services. it's about the capture of the individuals who run said gambling services. If you're not anonymous and you own a gambling service and is located in the US and is well known where you work....well...you're screwed.  It doesn't matter if said gambling services continue to run without ever being shut down.SatoshiDice, I am looking at you. Ok, I think this turned into a politics. Maybe we can get some moderators to split off the thread? Anarcho-capitalists are under the libertarianism banner. Anarcho-socialists are definitely not. Video....YUCK!Transcript? And it allows congresscritters to hide their bribe stash.   Some libertarians are anarchists who saw the state as completely illegitimate. This is the ideology of the Silk Road's operator.Libertarianism may be the ideology that drives Satoshi to create bitcoin, but we don't know if satoshi is a libertarian. Bitcoin is very appealing to the libertarians though. An idealogy. Do they even know it's there?! Maybe the CIA knows it, or a couple of senators know it...but everyone will be like "What's bitcoin?" Bitcoin will die when we become so rich that we don't need money anymore! Instead, bitcoin will be a retired technology. Libertarianism? Who care about that? Bitcoin will succeed and fail on its own merit, not because of a couple of radical fringe of idealogue, although we were the early adopters. Complete nonsensical statement.Printing money is not a violation of free market principles. It's just stupid in a market in which currencies are allowed to compete with each other. Fiat currencies like the USD have an overwhelming advantage because it's the only form of money accepted by the government, which allows printing money on a whim to be more harmful than otherwise. I only skim the other part of it, too lazy to read the rest of it. I am not impressed by the eassy, though. I reported this thread. The title isn't fixed! How annoying!   Are you a corporation? No. So, stop complaining. Satoshi develop on window?  
They're not really an independent currency. Just US dollars by another name. In South Korea, students protest and riot several times to get rid of consecutive dictatorship before they have a democracy.http://askakorean.blogspot.com/2009/05/protests-in-korea.htmlMakes you wonder why the most rebellious of all people, the Korean, are not accepting bitcoin everywhere in their society.   In a p2p foundation profile. http://p2pfoundation.ning.com/profile/SatoshiNakamotoHe's also 37 years old. STILL IMPROPERLY FORMATTED.   Security works like that. What's the use of having a large army, locks, bank guards, and so forth if people are angels? People aren't, so we are force to make security a part of our budgetary concern.All the technology that makes bitcoin would be moot if nobody read secrets or steal coins. We could just use a global central database server and keep it at some United Nations building. 4 digit wealth for those who accumulated at least a thousand bitcoin. 5 digit wealth for those who accumulated at least 10 thousand bitcoin. IMPROPERLY FORMATTED. DUPLICATE. One of my hobby is to bash democracy and get karma points for it. And let not fund a guy who lost all his coins.   And nobody cares about litecoin. Why attack it when you can join it? There is a tendency to be "us versus them" mentality on the part of bitcoiners. Forbes usually have Jon Matonis writing about bitcoin, so Forbes magazine doesn't really count. Improperly formatted title. And here lies the problem. Democratically elected and a technocracy are mutually exclusive proposition.Either you get politicians that's smart at getting votes or is smart at solving problems, but you don't get both. It make certain classes of bad actions impossible to do but all other options are still available. Way to go making those words meaningless.   Then don't use socialistic languages to describe bitcoin.What bitcoin does is give us a very special form of economic regulation. * kiba decrys ugly bitcoin logo. Improperly formatted.
Which is utter bollocks. All you have to do is point out that some bitcoiner have more bitcoin than others. Bitcoin is not remotely like anything like Ithaca HOURS dollars or any other "community currency". It is a global capitalistic monetary system that doesn't give a damn about social justice, equality, and the like. Lies. I find no bitcoin.You need to be punished for linkbaiting. Can't find solar panels on bitcoinstore.  wrong picture: http://www.bitcoinstore.com/dell-330-0874-flat-panel-monitor-stand-for-latitude-e-family-laptops.html Why do they care? Bitcoin addresses are just gibberish to everybody. There is no "Bitcoin's attempts to go mainstream remain to be seen". There is a bitcoin coalition of some sort, vague and hard to define. Their common interest is in furthering bitcoin's spread for profit and glory. They do not agree on everything, do not share political ideology, etc.  Don't give me that crap. People are paid to work on linux, firefox, apache, and any number of large open soruce projects. In fact, some projects are responsible for the livelihood of developers, such as ruby on rails. You could say that open source spawn commercial activity. Why shouldn't it be the same with bitcoin, in which their whole points is to support commercial activity!?You think those linux foundation members are doing nefarious things? I am sure that they are getting some "financial gains" from funding Linus' works.If you want to fix under-representation in an organization, you fix it by joining it as a member so that you are represented.  Security is an easier problem to tackle in an open source project, sufficiently managed. That's not to say decentralization don't have costs. It would be a lot more efficient if we just use a group of servers managed by a few trustworthy individuals, but it's also quite vunerable to takedown by nefarious organizations. That's why bitcoin exists. Arguably, you could say bitcoin is a lot cheaper than other approaches, but you also have take into mind the mining rigs that's popping up all over the planet.And a lot of people really don't like how bitcoin operates because it is blatantly inefficient in a lot of way.  You can join the Bitcoin foundation as an individual member, have more corporations join it, etc. The problem with decentralization and extreme resiliency is that it is EXPENSIVE. It is EXPENSIVE to educate a developer into knowing the codebase and working on it fulltime. It is EXPENSIVE to build a completely separate node software when it can be concentrated into one project. It is EXPENSIVE to make bitcoin totally resilient against any governmental attacks, any privacy-breaking attempt, any bugs in the system.Security is expensive. Think of all the locks, the policemen, the soldiers, military R&D, mining rigs, and all the bank guards in the world. Now think of the money that could be spent on something more useful and relevant to our lives if everyone is a goodyshoes.So you want resiliency and security from "gavin dies, we're screwed"? Well, are you willing to pay for the cost or providing said resiliency and security? It seems that you are bent on decentralization, resiliency, and security at any cost.There are no such things as a free lunch. Just because nobody have the skills like Gavin to develop the bitcoin protocol, doesn't mean it's centralized. To be demonstrated. Remember, the bitcoin node map is essentially a population density map. The problem with them is that they are too political(thus will never be universally recognized by bitcoiners) and they have nothing to do with the development of cryptocurrency technology. Satoshi is a lot more suitable than anybody else, because he invents bitcoin, and when he disappeared, he becomes a symbol...like batman.  I am not sure if ribuck or me was the origin of satoshi as smallest unit of bitcoin. No detection of mistakes. Pretty damn accurate?   Hacker News reader are far less likely to make stupid comment about bitcoin. Yeah, but what if the coins are stored on gambling servers? Sir, rails is not a language. It is a framework. ###CultureThe one universal cultural practices that bitcoiners have is to say "FAIL!" and then faceplam after everytime someone misunderstood bitcoin. In time, bitcoin dominated the world and become the one universal currency. However, the original bitcoin culture survives as the faceplamming people, known for faceplaming everytime somebody make stupid statement about cryptocurrency technologies and money in general. It is well known that the quality of a news organization can be verified by the accuracy of bitcoin articles, thus they can be correlated by the amount of faceplamming actions commited by bitcoiner.That is not to say bitcoiners are smarter than anyone. On the contrary, they are known for being the butt of jokes, scams, and their own self inflicted stupidity. However, they understood bitcoin better than anyone on the planet.
DId you hold ALL your money in cold wallets? Autofail analyst. Said analyst need to go to back to school so he does not autofail like a typical journalist again. Thanks for the freebie, paypal! Zip, zerio, nada, zlich. The audio is not loud enough :*( Wrong subforum! There's nothing mindblowing about this. He's just a blip on the radar on the road to currency domination which will be at least a trillion dollars market. I knew what the scam was, I am just questioning the existence of a website operated by pirate40 for his scam. There's a site called bitcoin saving & trust?   * kiba faceplams. Yes, if you are living in the US and they know that you have bitcoin! * kiba faceplams. Title wrongly formated.   Deliberate or stupid? Bitcoin is being used in the underground economy is a good thing.The way bitcoin wins is that everyone use it, even scumbag congressmen and the CIA. DNS trouble, apparently. I am struggling to find a solution to my mess. To be honest, it's just one writer, but it does reflect badly on the magazine.Even so, I think the magazine is occasionally great. I love to read them when they have the good story. However, today isn't it. *Faceplams* at the mtgox hack. Also, the news article is quite boring. duphttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=131818.0 Maybe they're a scam. Maybe they're not evil, but are stupid. They sensationalize anything as bad as possible to drive pageviews after all. That's the wrong reason. The usefulness of bitcoin is that it is a censorship-resistant currency, not that it is an government unsanctioned currency.
Bitcoin is not a currency?   Bitcoin nodes generally corresponds to population map. Have you check the population density of this town? And the author owns bitcoinHogwash. A worthless debate on what is fiat currency, how money drives it values, etc. People are just very confused. Year-Day-Month format. Vitalik Buterin, he always get mentioned in BBC? We lost traction recently?  He have a compartmental mind. Satoshi intended bitcoin to be used for monetary freedom. But bitcoinr doesn't give a damn about your monetary freedom. He also love privacy. Duplicate. Improperly formatted subject, dude! Bitcoin doesn't give a damn about your revolution, or your anarcho-capitalism, or your political idealogy or your <sacred principles>.People do.  No offense, I just think that they don't understand bitcoin. The vast majority of people will not understand why they should use bitcoin. Why do you expect the same of economists? or he's trying to throw us off by making us think he's British!  Duplicate. Any translation from moonspeak? Stiff competition? Everyone is scared of entering our niches! It will neeeeeeeeeeeeeever be in widespread use because it is not in widespread use.   Wrong section, not formatted correctly, etc. This doesn't belong in the press sect, yo!
Working now! The verge crowd is dumber than hacker news. I got a 404, sir! I don't believe the government is all that smart or evil. Blockexplorer app? Wouldn't it better if they use bitpay to accept bitcoin? We already have one:The Field Medal award. They were also ungodly inaccurate. They should have consult Gavin and learn what's possible and what's not. (And it won't make the show boring, trust me. Constraint is a beautiful thing. See the movie "Contagion".) And the fact that it is easier to hide money makes bitcoin more powerful for good doers as well! I suspended development after learning of an already completed clone of operation fabulous. No words on when it will be activated and online.Mc_lovin is not the best communicator as he seems to have too much going on in his personal and business life. Attempted PM communication several times and getting no response despite that mc_lovin is alive and well and talking on the forum.I still haven't provide any value to Operation Fabulous yet, so OF is entitled to a small project sometime in the future, especially if mc_lovin is a better communicator and more available. "bizarre community"?    Bitcoin should also be labeled "privacy" paradise. We must take the message to the public that there are two sides to every damn coins in the world. It can be used for immense good and also immense bad. What a crappy short article. Or maybe knightmb is just a shithead extortionist. One of the dumbest irreversible mistakes that they could made in their young lives. What a boring article. I just didn't read it because it was so introductory. The interviewer is bad at asking questions that Matonis didn't answer. "Is bitcoin a corporation...the rest of the question...?"matonis goes on "it's an asset class...blah, blah, blah" That's wrong. Sleep is very important to the performance of many tasks, including some that are life and death matters. You need sleep. (Unless, you're one of the freak of nature that only need 4 hours) Paywall me not like! Ok, Mc_Lovin is not the greatest communicator there is on the forum. He seems to be awfully busy. I am still waiting for him to discuss payment and development issue.I don't have much motivation to work on this project without until all these issues are discussed, especially payment.
Coinbase is not a media source. False information are the enemy of adaption to obstacles and adversaries.  Perhaps, those banksters are not so evil you thought? As always, sensational headline. Which means nobody will! The mass, or  too much information to digest? Nonsense, an American bank probably don't even know what 2 factor authentication is. Ruby on Rails, coffeescript, haml, bootstrap, and all that yummy alphabets. We ain't destroying opfab's current codebase just yet. We're just letting it sit while we develop a clone that's written in standard tech.Yes, I absolutely recognize that this is the last choice that any developers would do in my shoe. Even if I want to, I don't think mc_lovin likes the idea.(Competition versus benefit of contribution plus the thorny issue of how to compensate contributors) Good news, folk. I convinced the owner to develop a clone using supported technologies.The only question is how long it will takes. And they will be like:THE RICH IS USING BLACK MARKET SERVICES while the poor are stuck using crappy health service provided by the government. Guess what everyone is going to choose? The instant method. This is a bad idea. Coinbase is asking for your password when it want to access your bank account. Do not use! Freedom allows scammers to peddle their wares, but freedom also allows legit types to peddle their wares too.The vast majority of bitcoin transactions is going to be positive, so I believe the cost of freedom is justified. Nope. Instead of managing users' fund, just use your money. For example, if you could only risk 1 BTC, than only keep a cold wallet deposit of only 1 BTC. That way if the VPS get robbed, you lose your 1 BTC instead of the customers' money. Mike: ever thought of buying a video camera to record your transaction? How many Iranians are we talking about? 10? 100? 1000? AML programs are harmful to bitcoin, because they impose a large cost for dubious benefit on users of exchanges.Also, banks hate it too. Make it more costly for them to earn money. They don't give a damn about their customers practicing tax evasion and other nonsense.
Nothing to do with bitcoin. I propose we call anti-money laundering programs as anti-monetary liberty programs. That should be art of the political platform for bitcoin: DESTROY all Anti-monetary liberty programs. What people think of as dirty money is what I called privacy money. Moo. The argument is that bitcoiners are still hitting nails with microscope instead of using microscope to examine nails. I will be rolling like nobody's business when it comes to developing a clone from scratch. However, the caveat is that I am no security ninja and the new version will be unproven. I did figured out how to make payment works without requiring interaction with a hot wallet at kibabase.com.(Since then, I abandoned it for free content business model) I might develop something similar at operationfabulous.  It was negative.  Also, bitcoin was never hacked. And nobody will actually use it. More interesting than most blog post on bitcoin.However, I have to admit, individuals in the bitcoin community are embarrassing the rest of everyone, especially those who got taken in by ponzi scams operated by pirate.It makes us look like idiots. Quabitcoin? Why you code in a horror of a language? Occupy protestors are really a bunch of spineless idiots who don't balls to invent and use a new currency like Bitcoin. This is why we should practice fear inoculation: http://kibabase.com/articles/notes-and-thoughts#fear-inoculation Dictatorship or scared off their pants Americans? We been waiting too long using a substandard board. WE DEMAND PROGRESS! Well, I didn't pay anything to the funds, so I don't really have much of a right to say something. Information about mining is a bit inaccurate. Only one person or mining operation or mining pool at a given time will win all 50 bitcoin. Otherwise, it seems all the other information is spot on. The key to survival for the United States is not its USD, but its people. Use and adopt bitcoin, focus on making schools really good, allows people to immigrate en-mass, and make life simpler for the average Joe. Everything is slow slow slow because BioMike choose to write from scratch and use non-standard technology. There's no git repository or instruction on how to set up development environment. Even the most active owner on Operation Fabulous don't interface with me everyday.I'll figure out it gradually, but it will takes some time. When I do finish figuring out stuff out, while upgrading, I may be able to work on your request, or not. It all depends on what's the most urgent and important issue. Who the hell are they? Journalist is a crackpot. Our Satoshi is no crackpot.
Exactly. Income tax are disgusting violation of financial privacy. If you want to avoid tax cheats, get rid of the IRS and just get all your money from sale tax. Other than that, it's an invasion of financial privacy and everybody who vote for the law should be persecuted for treason. Or maybe they just don't know about you? No offesne, but what will prevent the SEC from hammering down on you? If someone can figure out how to operate anonymous corporations that are nonetheless ethical and is held responsible, they will rake in the dough. Well, I managed to not lose any bitcoin via sheer inactivity in the economy.   So, he decided to screw his reputation with the community in the hope of not getting jailed by the gubernment. This is not going to end well. I am glad that I am uninvolved with 99.99% of bitcoin businesses at this point, including the GLBSE. I now have the hindsight that they are ways to lose bitcoin rather than gain bitcoin.  For good reasons, they're scams. For bad reasons, it's unauthorized. Nefario isn't a scammer until he got caught by the law operating a security exchange without the permission of authorities.The fact that the GLBSE is a cesspool of scam funds and questionable investment makes me...who give a fricking hoop? When it's all said and done, all your money will disappears and Nefario will be in jail.  GLBSE should have been a black market operation, no offense. The fact that the founder is known and visible and that the exchange is centralized is a big red flag. Also, the GLBSE in its current incarnation doesn't work well with anonymity, as there were a number of scams and scandals that were the result. If you could solve the scamming problem, unsanctioned and unauthorized business will have a place in the world. Other than that, a GLBSE is not a good idea. Rumors of our near death is greatly exaggerated. I am underwhelmed and unconvinced. Did they mention the word "bitcoin"? IF not, it doesn't belong here. How about paying a team to do it open source? What you're saying? Bitcoin is a goldmine of information for any economist. All the information about economic flow is public, yo! NSA is not always an evil organization that seeks to add a backdoor to everything, ya know? How would NSA like it if they propose a backdoor to their own government, and enemies use said backdoor to break into it? It would be beyond stupid. Commentators are a bunch of idiots who don't understand what a ponzi scheme is. Deflation won't kill us, because we have to spend money eventually on food and water. There's always a demand that can't be squished by monetary incentives to save.
Somehow, I doubt the economy will tumbles down that fast or that bitcoin will grow that fast. We have a tendency to overestimate short term change and underestimate long term changes. Examples, please. I don't understand Italian. Can you give us a gist of what they said? One of the dumbest statement ever made in this thread. Hacker News get bitcoin. Slashdot don't get it. Either that or hacker news commentators realized they're getting downvoted for posting dumb comment about bitcoin. This is a debate over nothing. I am tuning this thread out until the hater discussion get separated. Foundation members are not the only people who can fund Gavin and the others, you know? If they need money, they can go beg on bitcointalk. I don't know. Maybe, they're just busy? This is just fear mongering. Those people who are on the board are not anonymous. We know where they live, what companies they run, etc. You think there wouldn't be an international manhunt if they tries to run away with the money?All of this calls for transparency and financial privacy, not letting any foundation represent anybody. Unfortunately, I fail to see why it is dangerous. To me, the foundation have zero power at all beyond the consent and support of the community. As far as I am concerned, the developers will continue their dance with the independent horde of miners.  They are not just stylistic issue, they're also readability issue. Clean code is good code.Given that the codebase use echo for html templates, I doubt it have a comprehensive test suite. I am not knowledgable enough about a raw PHP site to write one anyway. Sorry, it's 5 bitcent. He can't actually limit anyone's right to form a collective or a development cabal. He's just whining that nobody in the foundation is doing what he wants. What about it? The people here is an echo chamber of bitcoin lovers. I don't think Gavin is going to waste his time. Beside, Mark Karpeles totally want his business. Because part of the job of the bitcoin foundation is to correct misconception in the mainstream? So what? Anybody is free to create a corporation or a charity that support bitcoin. They don't need damn permission from you.So having influences and fame is power. I guess being a rich bitcoiner is having power too. I guess we should equalize everyone's power. One thing the bitcoin foundation can do for us is to organize American bitcoiners to call their congresscritters when there's a really bad bill that could mean bad things for our community.(I am not sure if other countries work like that too) We need socialites to woo every congressmen!(Seriously, it sucks that we have to play the lobbying game in order to keep our enemies at bay) This journalist understands us.  
Geeks don't know how to lobby. How can we ever defeat hollywood and Western Union? At the very least, pay Gavin and the developers to work on the project.I hope one of the work the foundation will be doing is remedying errors like that. That's what localbitcoins.com but it's also centralized and don't have critical mass. Why do you assume that they're getting compensated for filling up those seats? So the foundation are going to talk to people ad nauseum: "No, we didn't invent bitcoin. We just help support and promote bitcoin." That works for me. How about the Bitcoin Support Group? Or the Bitcoin Helper Group? How about the Global Bitcoiner Association? It's called assuming that bitcoin economy respond to every minute positive and negative news. Maybe it should be renamed the Global Bitcoiner Association. Wrong, just the world oldest and most successful. Individuals miners have more power than the pool operators. They can switch to whatever pools they want and the pool operators can't stop them. The state is not a monolithic entity. The FBI don't gives a hoot about bitcoin destroying dollars, just as long as they're getting paid(does it matters what?) and you're not committing frauds. The CIA loves an anonymous way of funding their spy operations. Taxation works the same way. They could tax people without violating their financial privacy, but they don't wanna. The government could see bitcoin as a threat or an opportunity or just not care about it. It depends on how they see it. It's like a doctor seeing a new cure for cancer that will end his job. He can see it as a threat to his livelihood or he could embrace as saving his life.  Very well. I understand your concern for big misunderstanding. However, I think they are overblown.Sure it does, but they are weak or insignificant or they have become part of the HTML5 army. Think of android, for example, they have lot of powerful enemies.IF the bitcoin foundation can convert enemies to allies, it will done quite well for itself. Even if the bitcoin foundation is only used to fund Gavin, it would be worth it. Don't pirate software?   Everyone who own a single bitcoin profit when the price rise. So no bitcoiners should be on the bitcoin board. Only paypal and mastercard and everyone who hate bitcoin should be on board.(They don't profit from bitcoin, remember?) The bitcoin project is de-facto the official standard bearer for the development of the bitcoin network. The Bitcoin Foundation is just formalizing it.HTML5 is determined by a standard group. There's no evil people going around making HTML5 into a tool for government spying. And how do you suppose we figure out if the half of the membership is actually ghost stuffed by a nefarious anonymous CIA operation?  Foundation: Guys, 70% of the members in the bitcoin foundation want to deanonymize the network!Us: Bullshit! People at the meetup say they're voting for anonymity!Foundation: But they're real! They all paid a membership!CIA: MUAHHAHAH! We are destroying bitcoin for our government master. Wait, this mean we have no anonymous way to fund our spying operation. What will we do?Remember, anonymity cuts both way. They allows power for good, and for evil! Sometime, anonymity allows bad people to unmask an individual's financial privacy and get away with it. Anonymity is important to you and me, but not necessary the whole of humanity. Also, the forum have trolls and idiots. Who wants to read about idiots arguing for ponzi scheme? The bitcointalk forum is an embarrassment. Give me an example how a fat ass target foundation will cause us to lose everything? And the foundation don't have the ability to compels the miners. 
Bitcoiners are the 0.0001%!   If it's all based on rumors, perhaps we should read about the membership requirement on their page instead. Any perceived attempt by people to organize a higher hierarchy in the bitcoin world is seen as threat and "centralization" by bitcoiners even if said schema have no power and doesn't actually centralize anything. I suppose microsoft can just buy seats on the linux foundation too.   Dude, wikipedia people are not the wikimedia people. I know this because I am a former editor myself.The foundation have no more power other than being a decoy target for governments to target, which is a good thing. Getting bitcoin mentioned casually is the best. Breed familiarity,  and eventually trust. http://www.diigo.com/item/image/36ppp/73xqHere is what Operation Fabulous looks like now. Most of my time is not spent on adding twitter bootstrap, but rather writing out the sorry echos that are everywhere. Ok. I am officially horrified. The home page is managed by a php file that echo everything. This should just be HTML proper or be done entirely in haml. Always underpromise, and over-deliver my friend. Ain't a bug to me.  I received a folder and the bootstrapped project. I have no access to the server and even no database!Tomorrow, I'll see the handy work of biomike. I suspected I will be more horrified than happy. PHP have a really bad reputation as a web language and community. If he was shunned from his tribe, how will he get a woman? The better solution is for Casascius to figure out a solution that doesn't involve trusting him. Or you guys could suggests a solution that Casascius can implement. You may not have been approved. PM mc_lovin.In anycase, I am seeing that he's working on improving the site look, but it will be a while until I get handed the source code of the site. Then, I can start making modification to the site in all...sort of ways.  I think I might made 14 BTC with the site. Nowadays, I make 0.05 bitcent every 5 days like clockwork. Winblow and SQL injection really???   What a lame debate. All we have to do is wait six weeks. If they ship it, apologize. If they don't, you can whine and complain and do whatever you guys do. That would be indeed the world's most elaborate scam. However, we should keep in mind that the CEO of butterfly lab is not anonymous and already been on the feds' radar. So the feds are more likely to chase him like bloodhounds more than they do by chasing international anonymous bitcoin thieves and fraudsters.(which is none at all) SR crashing is not impossible, just very hard to do. Meh, I don't think silk road is going to crash us.
When is the next delivery date for their ASCI miner? Anybody got a plain English explanation?  Would be great if you provide a history of the matter so we can verify for ourselves that it's a trend, and not just a few "uptick".edit: fixed missing not. Not sure if it matters but those damn thieves still get away with the coins. The only way to become a rich bitcoiner is to horde bitcoin with extreme paranoia. Nonsense, as the poor make quite effective use of mobile phones. If you can't afford the money for development, which sounds like what you're trying to get out of fundraising, then you can hire me on the cheap to improve things around here, however small that may be.Be aware that I can find far better value for my labor on the market, but I am willing to help you guys for token wage at first, until you got more customer and can afford to pay closer to market value.I want operation fabulous to succeed too. So it'll make me money in term of additional publishers in the ecosystem. No, I don't think so.  What kind of IPO? The GLBSE one or a legally enforced one? Come on! This is a laughingstock. It's a fricking technology conference. They should be able to stream this thing live! What kind of bollocks is this? Big difference is not always made by big guns, but lot of tiny weeny guns. Received this much lifetime from the address listed at operation fabulous: 14.97095204 BTC   Also, it appears that I am earning bitcoin like clockwork. Every 5 days or so, I would get 0.05 BTC. Only bitcoinweekly.com is earning anything. Kibabase is earning nothing(mostly because its traffic is low).I hope operation fabulous is going to get modernized soon. It's driving me insane. No, progress looks dead. If you have reported what's going on in a weekly or even a monthy dispatch, I wouldn't be whining. But now I know. I am hoping. Is there a chart detailing nodes growth over time? New owners(edd and all) are too lazy.   Russians happen to love internet money! Wikipedia may have a left wing bent to it.  If you don't like it, participate in it and if that does not work start your own.  The wikipedia people are even kind enough to give you all of the tools for free!   You can even with a little more effort populate it with the current version from wikipedia, lock it so only you and people with opinions you like can edit it, and create your own version of the truth.I have disagreements with how they operate and therefore do not contribute, but in general they are a valuable source of information.(que all of the users who will quote errors in wikipedia.....)[/quote]They are also the most increasingly dysfunctional bureaucratic organization known to mankind. Yes, they produce good work, but their glory day is long past. Anybody worried about mtgox losing their money by one of its employee forgetting the password to its cold wallet? Or perhaps magicaltux got hit by a bus? This seems to be just a press release.
I don't think it's "build it and they will come". It's the real deal. We even have a mystery founder.  * kiba knows the OP will never actually pay attention. So far, they're talking about Romney and not bitcoin.  Hey, I thought we're all about financial privacy? Sometime, I believe this is all just a coincidence.When something bad happens and the price rose, the bad things got attributed for the price spike. When something good happens, and the price declines, the good things got attributed for the price correction too.Moral of the story? Sometime the bitcoin price just wants to spike for no other reason to screw with us.   So, um, I been writing lot of random stuff on http://kibabase.com/articles/notes-and-thoughts for a while. I still haven't really promote it to anyone for feedback. The grammar is not top notch but I hope you find something of interest. Good or bad feedback, gimme! As long they're constructive, I'll take them into consideration. If you want to just criticize my grammar, that's fine.Take note that those random stuff are just random stuff waiting to be developed into a complete essay or integrated into other piece of random stuff. Let me know what you find promising and what you find stupid. They will keep saying it's a scam years after years until they realize that this isn't a scam. How about you collaborate with http://bitmit.net and other platform services and quantify the economy of bitcoin?  Did the service get updated lately? It seems stagnant. Please compile statistics from the stories, access the reliability of the stories, then we're talking. Right now, it's just a hypothesis, with strong pointers.Remember, it is easier to convince a human with a compelling story than it is easy to convince someone with statistics. This is called the "narrative fallacy", a term coined by Nassim Taleb.Anyway, the purpose of my initial post in this thread is to promote fear inoculation. I hope whenever you guys saw a story in the mainstream media about a massacre, you'll remember my post and knows how overblown it is and tell your parents, your kids, your spouse, your friend, until death statistics become common knowledge that the media will say "this is a novel mass murder incident". In Bitcoin we trust. All others, bring data. In other words, citation needed. (to be honest, I should cite my statistics too.)Here my citation for death stat: http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/lcod.htm/http://www.disastercenter.com/crime/uscrime.htmThe rest is math I entered into google. There had been a few cases in the media of no-knock raids going wrong. This is a problem with improper police procedure and improper use of force. The ultimate cause is of course, the drug wars, but proximate cause is much easier to address. I believe all murders are generally included in the statistics, especially concerning the death of everybody. Regardless of your hatred for policemen, your probability of murder is very low compared to your likelihood of dying of heart disease or cancer.If you want to reduce the rate of unjust murder by policemen, you could start wearing a sousveillance unit and follow the cops wherever you go. That is probably effective, but I am not sure that it is truly effective or the most efficient. If you're looking for efficient, you want the cops to wear a sousveillance system on their job.Anyway, if you want to reduce your chance of dying, the best place to start is your heart. Research what is necessary to improve your heart's conditions and ways to achieve it. The doctor's advice of eating less and exercise more is the most useless advice ever, no matter how true it is. The problem is not knowledge of what will make you healthy, but in figuring out how to make it a habit so you don't stop exercising six months down the road.Remember, the media like to focus on disaster porn and disaster porn happens to be rare and novel. Mass shooting don't happens everyday. So turn off your tv and research and make a rational decision. In 2010, 14,718 individuals are murdered that year, in a population of 300 millions.The mass shooting in the Aurora movie theater claims 12 lives, the shik temple mass shooting claims 7 lives for the year 2012, ending with a total of 19 lives. Assuming a conservative 13,000 murders out of a population of 300 millions, that mean 0.0043 percent ~ were murdered. Of that 13000, the mass shootings claim .146915384615 percent.In 2009 alone, 599,413 people die of heart diseases. Another 567,628 individuals die of cancer. Heart disease and cancers are the biggest killers in the US.Gun control and gun violence? Maybe you should worry about whether you exercise more and contribute to anti-aging research rather than worry about some kook printing some guns. He can buy guns on the black market and goes on a shooting spree if he want, but that's totally unlikely. Mostly, he's just a harmless kook. DOES NOT BELONGS HERE! And somebody still have to build their niches. Because you need an ecosystem for bitcoin to be successful. You can't just buy bitcoin and expect the ecosystem to grow. I thought he said a country will adopt bitcoin within 5 years.The only question is: which country would be so bold as to adopt bitcoin as their official currency?  Investing in coinbase is also betting that bitcoin is going to take off. It's a double bet. "It's Mathematically IMPOSSIBLE!" LOLZ!
The population will screams "ABUSE" at any smell of censorship, no matter how well intentioned. I am sorry, you're going to have to start a new forum to compete with bitcointalk. Did that get explained to the audience as well? It wasn't just all hype is it? I don't have anything of value worth ransoming. I am going to disable the system on kibabase.com until I build up a few worthy articles to advertise to the world. It is up to the banks if bitcoin is a threat or an opportunity to crush other bankers.  ...Bitcoin world domination! Goal?Enable bitcoin to dominate the world. As far as I know, nobody actually use the business model the way I implemented it. Bump down the price to 0.01 BTC each article. Next, I am going to work on articles that are interesting so that somebody will donate an actual bitcent. It appears that nobody wants to donate even 1 bitcent.I know content might be a problem, but they are not even worth 1 bitcent? Not even 1 bitcent to test out the ransoming system?If you have reluctance to donate, please let me know.  That's just pure speculation. Only both at 0.06 BTC. You have access to old versions, but not new versions. In the action column, it indicates the type of changes. An update means the content has changed in some ways. However, there's currently no way to indicate changes. Like I said in a previous post, Notes and Thoughts contains new notes on the American medical system through the perspective of Kiba as a patient, and book reviews note for each books that kiba recently completed. The changes in Why I Unlicense is merely a minor correction, so it only get 0.01 BTC.The way donation works right now is that you donate to reach a certain funding goal(in our case, the grand total of 0.06 bitcoin), then all the content ransomed is released. If I have to make a new address for each item, it will mean I have to input more addresses, which is a kind of pain without automation. I noticed an article not too long ago about how to make a living from your writing and it details something like that.Anyway, I encourage people to visit http://kibabase.com and donate some bitcents and help test out the system. The price total is only 0.06 BTC! Let me know if you find the story. I would like to include it in my Notes and Thoughts somewhere. Nope, that's different. I don't have any interesting/useful code to ransom at the moment. I worked out some of the bugs and finally have some content ready to ransom as a test. Also, I added the ability to customize pricing.Here are some of the articles ransomed:Notes and Thoughts is basically a collection of random thought and notes that may or may not be interesting. I documented my experience with the American medical system and wrote a short one paragraph summary of books I read recently. It's priced at 0.05 BTC.Why I Unlicense is my essay on why I chose the public domain. It's priced at 0.01 BTC because the changes is really minor.Why should you donate some bitcoin? Think of it as a donation to test out an interesting idea. Please note the balance do not yet update automatically. So what? Ponzi happens everyday. I demand that this thread be moved out of press section as it does not have bitcoin as a keyword mentioned. No mentions of bitcoin.
Gold?Gold is only living on borrowed time. Once somebody mine an asteroid full of gold, it's all over for the goldbug. However, for the rest of us, it means we can use gold in area where we are previously afraid to use gold. This mean gold will get incorporated into our bodies, electronics, etc in a higher percentage. Every member should pay a fee that will be used to raise the bounty price.For example, gold members pay 20 BTC a month, silver members 5 BTC a month, and bronze members only 1 BTC a month. If there are 20 members that are gold, that mean 400 BTC are contributed each month to the bounty coffer. Not sure what's surprising about that. This is something that people in various part of the community are working on. Frankly, the people who make the most money will be the people who hide all their money under their mattress rather than invest in sketchy companies formed entirely over the internet.Unless there is some kind of formal mechanism and ways to hold officeholders responsible, I am not investing a bit. You guys lost money? This is why I dare not to touch any GLBSE funds with a ten foot pole. Agreed. There will be lot of loud wound licking and howls of pain from angry marks.However, the economic damage will be minor. Different part of the government cares for different things.For example, CIA would love bitcoin because it would be able to launder money more easily for secret operations. Even though Satoshi is supposedly Japanese, we never really have major Japanese participation. * kiba sighes.Bitcoinica is NOT A CURRENCY EXCHANGE! There's no such thing as "intelligent" person when it come to election and democracy. Politicians have the impossible job of knowing and being well informed in a diverse range of field, from science to economics to software. The solution is to obviously limit their role into something that they can manage without their brain exploding.Bitcoin will be that way too. The majority of future bitcoiners will not care one bit about bitcoin or Satoshi Nakamoto and the economics. They will think of it as MONEY and they will use bitcoin just like they use the dollars and euro. That what everyone accepts, why question the wisdom? They are not really bitcoiners as we think of them today. They attack bitcoin through guilty by association instead of understanding what bitcoin is good for and bad for. Bitcoin is itself only a technology.The Americans elect them. They're responsible for ensuring the men that are staying in office, yet they deserve so much better. Lobbying is just petitioning. The founding fathers are just incredibly naive in how they design the government. Bitcoinica is not an exchange. duplicate:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=99102.0 That's wrong. Bitcoin Weekly's business model absolutely works. The problem is with me and the site technical operation. With the development of kibabase.com, more of my energy will be spent on writing and coding, rather than managing ransoms like it was in the past. A refined system will eventually make it to Bitcoin Weekly and we may start producing articles on a regular basis, again.I will probably put up the ransom for "Notes and Thoughts" at a very small price as it is mostly my unorganized thought. So if you guys are going to donate, just think of it as helping me test the system rather than actually expecting to get anything interesting.  Less insulting and more analysis please. I thought it was written by Jon Matonis.  It wasn't, and I never heard of Senator Joe Manchin until now. No offense, but weapons sold on the Armory website are exppppeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeensive. Hi, I am a hobbyist game developer who knows javascript/coffeescript, canvas, processing.js, and knows the ruby on rails framework. Let me know how I can get involved(for BTC of course). I will be especially interested once your game get released.What's your tech stack?    I never claim it was never done before. You should seriously read the thread before you comment. When I first encountered bitcoin, I thought to myself "great agorist currency that can't possibly works"  
Reality does not care if you are the victim. If you are stupid and careless, your money WILL be stolen. I guess the early bitcoiners who manages to survive the hack and theft and scams are the 1%ers. Isn't it's weird/stupid that ZT refuses to get a lawyer?  O RLY?Where the empirical evidence, yo? Based on experience with other libertarians, that statement is demonstrably false. You must be trying to troll people. And you didn't get a lawyer?   You shouldn't call it a scam based on merely bad security practice. Trying your best isn't good enough for bitcoinica customers.Either you perform to the satisfaction of the customers or you don't. But the intersango guys gave up so they get a big fat 0.  Yes, and it was successful. However, it was a huge hassle to do it manually. That's why I develop a prototype at kibabase.com. Eventually, the code will come back to bitcoinweekly after it's all polished and the kinks are worked out. Not interested. Server operator and content provider are assumed  to be the same person. Also the web app can't deal with anything more complicated than listing donation address in advance and checking the balance against blockchain.info. The problem with all these business models is that they are oriented toward one-off projects, like a film project or a music album. Mine is oriented toward regular release of new content along with a smaller ransom goal.This is ideal for someone who's a webcomic artist that add new comic strips on a regular basis. They don't try to build massive hype, but their archive do the hooking for them. This is also how bitcoinweekly works but I got tired of the whole process so I decided to build a prototype on kibabase.com that largely automates the operation. Hi, I been working on a business model idea for ransoming content, using kibabase.com as a prototype site.How it works:1. You hold new content and update for bitcoin organized as a "Ransom Bag". Then you count up the ransomed and determine the ransom price.2. You wait until the donation amount reached the ransom price...OR new content/updates is added3. If there's enough donation, the "Ransom Bag" is opened and now everybody get to enjoy it.Also, my server do not use a bitcoind and hold any bitcoin. Instead, my web app use blockchain.info's JSON API to get an answer. This way, even if a hacker broke into my server, they can't steal any bitcoin as there is nothing to steal.The only thing I need to worry about is somebody tampering with the bitcoin address. This is something I have not developed any countermeasure for.RIght now, I don't have anything to ransom yet and the site is just a proof of concept. MtGox was also hated by a lot of bitcoiners and some forum thread about mtgox raged for 50+ pages, just like bitcoinica. They also have a meme invented against them. It was called being "goxed".However, mtgox survives/resolve the crisis, and people move on with their life, and the hatred, if not mistrust, disappears. Bitcoinica consultancy on the other hand, just utterly fall apart after zhoutong/friend_of_zhoutong stole the money.Only in crisis do people discover the true strength/weakness of an organization and the characters of the people who run it. If an exchange never been through the baptism of crisis, you don't know their integrity.(To be fair, mtgox never have their money stolen by a possible insider who seems all trustworthy) This thread rage on for 82 pages and we're left...with no utility as to increasing the strength of the bitcoin economy.We can argue whether or not Zhoutong is guilty or not, but at the end of the day, you ain't getting your bitcoin back any time sooner.(Yes, I am at fault for talking too much instead of doing too) I hope it doesn't mean that bitcoin is anonymous by default. Probably not? Must be a bubble! No, you just zoom in where bitcoin.org is located. The flip side of freedom is responsibility.  The bitcoin team isn't going to simply oppose their source code contribution to the project. Doing so is quite self-harming. Given that the conference is a big chance for the bitcoin community to get together and build business tie and relationship, so to deny going there is self harming.Intersango is a bitcoin exchange among many, so boycotting it doesn't cause much self-harm. We just use mtgox instead.
Don't care.Whoever hold the funds is responsible for it, period. I don't care if you didn't talk to or wasn't informed by the company. If you're messing around with a startup in a startup currency, you should at least understand what the fuck you're doing, including knowing how to reasonably secure this newfanged internet money.At least you're willing to take responsiblity and do things that the bitcoinica consultancy refuse to do so that we can put this fiasco behind us. Greed and self-interest flow to whatever actions suit them, whether or not it is beneficial. It is up to people to shape incentives, monetary and social, to make sure the greed and self-interest flow to beneficial actions instead of malicious actions. So you didn't get fired?I hope this incident taught you not to store customers fund in a hot wallet and use 2 factor authentication. Basically that. I hope the wound licking will be quiet when it's all over. I think people disdains others who are in bitcoin for short term gain and being blind to scammers because of their stupid greed. I am going to wait until they announce a fix to the vulnerability. We have standard? It's all convenience versus security. I rather for an exchange to take 24 hours then to take a minute to process if it means the difference between theft and continuous operation. You sure know everybody in the community. Given the bitcoinica hack, you shouldn't build your exchange on a VPS? Why is it unlikely btc-e have no cold storage wallet. Doesn't all exchange have a cold wallet? Wonder what that means? Are the bitcoin holders who have an account there are made whole or wut? Seems unlikely to me. The owner is up for a rude awakening. Look like the beggers are taking advantage of situation and getting their stolen coins. You couldn't ask for a worse hack/theft than bitcoinica. If we aren't screwed then, we ain't screwed now. How much do you understand about bitcoin? Are you briefed on how to store it properly? I hope you don't forget the password or somethingNo offense to you, but if Tihan managed to screw it up by storing bitcoin in a hot wallet, then I am going to be skeptical of anybody who's holding money. Future NOVA documentary: Lost Treasure of the ECDSA: Inside the Effort To Recover Lost Bitcoin Can somebody give me a TL;DR situation on this whole Patrick thing? "I don't always use a hot wallet, but when I do, I use mtgox!" -- Tihan, the idiot who stored bitcoinica funds in a mtgox account. Just because they're planning a whacking on the forum, doesn't mean they have the guts to do it. Nonetheless, the Bitcoinica fiasco does seems to bring the worst out of people.
Don't exchanges get their bank accounts frozen all the time every two weeks? Didn't say anything else, my friend. I wish an investigation happens as quickly as possible. Genjix is probably not talking because "he stopped yapping and got lawyered up." Here is a simple legal advice: stop yapping and talk to your lawyers. It might help assholes get away, but it also help innocent protect themsleves. Me too, but I am going to keep giving Zhou the benefit of the doubt no matter how unlikely it sounds until he's either convicted or innocent. AFAIK, he attends school in Australia. I am not much older than Zhou Tong is. I am only 21. I believe wisdom is often obtained by learning of others' experience. (Mybitcoin hack incident, bitcoinica hack incident, etc)After the last theft, I secure all my online bitcoin accounts with 2 factor authentication. Can you confirm or deny that a police investigation is ongoing? Now, if you really are innocent, you seem to have exercised very poor judgement about pretty much everything.(your friend, not taking advice of security professionals, etc) And if you're cleared, you still have the reputation of high integrity, but nobody would ever trust you because you lack wisdom. (At least, I wouldn't) No offense, you should shut up and get a lawyer? Well, if you're still posting after that, I doubt no advice will help you now.  Everybody have the right to a trial and due process of law, no matter how douchebag or guilty a person is.  Wikipedia article doesn't contains the word "embezzlement". Big deal? It's all moonspeak to me. I am thinking this could be a setup job by Zhou's 'friend'. Based on previous history, Zhou shows lot of integrity but not much "wise judgement".But without evidence to back it up, it is a baseless speculation and we're relying on Zhou's word that it's a "friend". I hope a proper investigation will reveal more. Dunno. It's time to read up on the Singaporean legal system I guess. I am hoping when they do a trial, we will be able to see transparently every piece of evidence, opinions, etc, or something like that. I will give you the benefit of the doubt until the very end even if nobody else will, but it is up to you to defend yourself. They were...investigating? I mean, we are talking about a prominent bitcoin community member who have a big reputation(which is now busted). Would you accuse a person who seems so trustworthy without a lot of investigating? I think not. Can you extract the log saying why he did it? You can quibble over my judgement over previous line of evidence, but now I updated my belief about this incident to 80%(and increasing) probability of an inside job.However, I will assume Zhou Tong innocent until the legal proceeding is resolved or Zhou Tong admit to the theft. Very interesting information.However, I will reserve all judgement as a member of this community until the criminal/civil legal proceeding is complete. The accusation is heavy for a person who have his whole life ahead of him. If Zhou Tong is responsible for the theft, I hope he will do the right thing and return the funds promptly and quickly as possible so that bitcoinica customers can move on with their lives.
*There were no Australian arrests, however the indictment pointed to funds funnelled through that operation that were sourced from Australia via Western Union.*Ladies and gentlemen, this is how you get arrested! How did they suspend your investment?   I developed a chrome extension that talked to bitcoind. Is that mine? It all started with the hack way back in May 2012. If you ask them why is it impossible, they might have no explanation as to why it is impossible. Yes, I been here since before the 1 dollar per bitcoin horizon, but it doesn't means I remember everything throughout my 5255 posts long history. Citation needed? Anyway, paypal is not a "competitor" to bitcoin. The competitors are the governments. It may be the reason why you guys are not getting refunded. They may be embroiled in a legal civil war each other trying to blame each other, rather than doing what's right for the customers. In said legal civil war, nobody will touch the funds because their lawyers said so.And nobody will be talking until the legal dispute is a done deal.But this is just speculation, and there's no messenger telling us what's going on. Unfortunately, the news industry is full of lazy writers like her. The only reasonable crime you could charge them is extreme negligence, not theft. You don't have any evidence for theft except your suspicion that this is an inside job.There should be a proper investigation before we can speak about charging somebody, or did you lose your rationality when you lost your money? A real scam would have the team running away real fast to avoid capture from the police. However, their names and faces are known and they are not running away. At least one individual even contributed code to the bitcoin codebase. The intersango team didn't keep the fund, Tihan did, and he did it in the worst possible way you can. Stupidity is easier than intelligent actions. Don't matter. Their reputation is ruined. Nay, if you got any common sense, you talk to your lawyers, period. From my understanding, it doesn't matter if the hacker didn't log into a LastPass account. That's because API key is the same password for a MtGox account. The hacker is anonymous, so they're going to blame identifiable individuals, even if the evidence is sorely lacking. Any time a hacking fiasco happens, it basically turns into a witchhunt, because people feel extremely powerless.  MtGox filed a police report, but would not details what they know until investigation is over. Bitcoinica are probably talking to their lawyers about what they should do. That is your opinion. Care to back it up with facts?Unless you have evidence that this a premeditated theft and knowledge there is on-going lies and misdirection by bitcoinica team members, it have no basis.  A successful hack attempt is the simplest story and have the strongest evidence thus far. All the other hypothesis don't have much evidence and is more complicated to attempt.  That's the "THAT WHAT THEY WANT YOU BELIEVE" indirection and so on that is a common feature in a conspiracy theory. Always remember that the more complex a gambit is, the more likely they will get caught.  The flip side is that a lot of people will get burned and a few people get rich and there will be lot of people who don't do their homework.Fine by me, actually. But don't crying to me if I told you to do your HOMEWORK and you didn't.
Hi, you misunderstood me. I was talking about mtgox, not LastPass. You can check it for yourself. They really don't try to block you after 3 tries. It probably doesn't have anything to do with how the hacker guess it but it could help. She have two problems: Laziness and inability to update belief. Site store kinda messy. Could be done better. Last time I check, MtGox doesn't prevent people from trying as many time as they want. It should be something they fix, but don't. The old rules still apply: If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.No matter what, it still won't excuse you from doing your homework and due diligence.  Why go through the trouble of telling people about hacks and passwords and staying where you are when you can just quietly shut down and run far far away with the money from where you live? Why the complicated gambit of appearing legit and why risk jailtime for your robbery?Let me tell ya, it isn't really an inside job. It's really just extreme incompetence. There's no conspiracy, because if there was, it was an extremely unbelievable conspiracy with a well executed unnecessary complicated gambit.And it won't make you feel better knowing what I said. The sad fact is: being an early adopter does in no way guarantee that you'll become rich.People will be scammed, lost bitcoin to bad investment, lost bitcoin to forgetting passwords, lost bitcoin due to no backup, lost bitcoin to real life circumstance, etc.Bitcoin is not easy money. It's the same god damn woman from hypergridbusiness, you idiots.  http://www.hypergridbusiness.com/2012/07/5-reasons-grids-should-avoid-bitcoin/ We need a bitcoin motivational poster:DO YOUR HOMEWORK! I doubt there will be more than a handful of bitcoin purchases but I hope they like it nonetheless. I was busy working on other projects and didn't have the time to develop the extension very much, but I didn't forget to update chrome-bitcoin every Friday.This time, I merely made a transactions page in which you can see the last ten transactions. Next update will probably have something to do with blockchain.info. If not, expect to see the transactions page improve. I would like to follow the beat and pulse of the community by tracking economic activities. It's a shame that those information are considered business secrets. Really?  Bitcoin also need the consent from its enemies to keep money flowing into the system until we get big enough. Why? Why? Except the whole price increase is done before arstechnica reports on it. Ten year is enough time to make wikipedia skeptics to go away. We just need ten years for bitcoin skeptics to go away too. Instead of hamsters, you should use naked mole rats!  Why, you ask? Because they can live up to 28 years, can't get cancer, don't age and is immune to hot sauce. That's why!  Yes. It's important to remember that EVERYONE can adopt it for any reason and that include 1%ers and drug lords!
There exists "rich" bitcoiners and "poor" bitcoiners. People have no say in what "rich" or "poor" bitcoiners do with their bitcoin and they can tell them to fuck off, and rightfully so. What bitcoin enable is the autonomy of individuals, that eventually form large groups and communities. But it would be hard for 99% to compel the 1% to give up their bitcoin. Considering how "unfair" bitcoin is, it's really a stretch to call it "currency of the people". But how do you explain the existence of rich bitcoiners?I think it should be "in crypto we trust" to emphasis mathematics and cryptography. Which logo?   I'll just update my probability of 30% confidence to 75% confidence that he is a manipulator.EDIT: Change my mind back to 30% after reading a thread in the speculation forum. Meh. I still think he's just making shit up to just fuck with people. * kiba don't speculate anyway. He just hold coins, thus he doesn't care about the bubble all that much. How is that proof?  Never mind, I'll just read the lesswrong posts. They're always interesting. Unless we have cold hard evidence(TM) from mtgox, pirate is just making shit up. Let me know when one of you built a vending machine or something cool. Which town are you speaking of? Personally, I would invade a libertarian town. Is it possible that you would provide market data on total BTC transacted per day? The power that may be is really just a bunch of brats with no sense of responsibility in the larger world. They wanna make mooooooooooney...Until they got screwed over by bitcoin. Speculation... speculation...and moar speculation.   Bitcurex, you did not answer my question about 2 factor authentication methods. Did genjix attended? I have mine protected by 100 ninja minons. Don't just admire, be paranoid, my friend.   Doesn't matter. Grand epic stupidity is still the default scenario here, unless you got the smoking gun that there is an inside job. I posted that, actually.   They need to stop suing each other and get to the business of refunding the customer. I don't care how much these guys hate each other.
Sounds like you hit every security checkboxes in the list.But I would like to remind bitcoiners to not trust anybody and never to use an exchange as your wallet. Also, don't forget to ask question and DO YOUR HOMEWORK.Is there a way to do automatic withdrawal to a locked address? For example, user ALICE haven't done any transactions in the last 30 days, transfer ALL bitcoin to her specified address. This way, anybody who forgot that their bitcoin is at an exchange will have it at their saving wallet in 30 days.Also, what 2 factor authentication method do you have available? * kiba thumbs up   No, no, no. It should be Satoshi Nakamoto. Do you have any proof of the fact that they're stealing from you? If not, the most you can do is "gross negligence" as to be practically criminal. Anything beyond that is just tinhattery.  Remember, stupidity on an epic scale is really indistinguishable from malice. Gald to know that bitcoiners are generous.   I am more interested in having people who are victim of this made whole so that we can fucking move on and get on the business of building the bitcoin economy.The best thing for the investors to do is to get someone start processing claim and refunding everyone as quick as possible. As soon somebody got paid(doesn't matter who!), the better.The fact that nobody from bitcoinica is even talking is beyond stupid. Where the fuck is genjix now? I hope he isn't dead.  Only lawyers will win. Everyone simply lose. I'll need to debug the interaction with blockchain's API to see why it's not working and make it work. With luck, next Friday we will be able to use the extension with their wallet service.A little bit of a warning though: There's no 2 factor authentication if you choose to use my extension with their wallet API.If it's not available for next week, rest assured there will be other enhancements and changes. Don't you know that everything is automatically copyrighted? I already paid for a music download. I just need moar income. (I get .05 BTC a day) Dunno. I thought it's bit more complicated than that. In any case, I actually did try to connect to blockchain.info plain text but it appears that I can't get anything useful out of it. NOO! You must use emacs!   Never used it. MtGox is lucky. The hacker didn't delete their database, for once. Bitcoinica wasn't so lucky.The nice thing about mtgox is that they apparently not only were able to dodge a bullet but was able to learn from their lesson. Bitcoinica didn't. Instead, they got hacked 3 times. Remember, it is the natural state for human beings to be ignorant.  Who the hell will actually put their money in bitcoinica again? Not after a 3rd time, I tell ya. Bitcoinica is doomed. I can directly hook into their json_rpc_api if I figure out how to use SSL.https://blockchain.info/json_rpc_api Also, I would like to point out that mtgox appears to not have login attempt limitation. When I forgot my passwords, I tried more than 3 times to enter my password.(Probably at least ten time until I realize that I was using the wrong username). This should not have happened, methink. I predict there won't be much business at first with the first big company to accept bitcoin, at least, not immediately. It would takes more than just one big company in my opinion. More like, multiple companies. Once that is achieved, we have social proof and then everyone will just copy the big companies(because big companies know how to make money right?)I am still not sure if it will lead to increased adoption however. It would make it a lot easier for bitcoiners to stay within the bitcoin economy, though.
Smartphone penetration in the US grown to 54.9%. At some point in the future, smartphone will be ubiquitous. A yubikey should be cheaper than a phone. I am told API key was already revoked. Information seems to be conflicting and confusing.  MtGox is not the whole free markeet you know. They can do whatever they want and users can choose other providers that doesn't require 2 factor authentication.On second thought, this could be mandatory at mtgox too. * kiba faceplamsMemoryDealers: You should have known better than to risk such a large sum of money at a 3rd party site. On closer inspection, I don't like people's money going into a very large ponzi scheme that will impact the confidence and the economy at large. I can only say "I warn ya". Given that people are extremely lazy about account security I propose that mtgox requires mandatory 2 factor authentication for all accounts.Also, stop withdrawing coins and dollars immediately! There should be a 24 hours notice for withdrawal. This give the chance for users to review and stop an action if they deem suspicious. (For users who crys for immediate gratification, force them to use 2 method for 2factor authentication at once, charge them a high fee for added risks, etc)Also, 40K bitcoin withdrawal limit is incredibly dumb. It doesn't match up with 40K USD for a long time now. If my security suggestions are dumb, feel free to say why. I am not a security expert but I am very interested in NOT REPEATING the bitcoinica fiasco or the mtgox fiasco or any other fiasco ever again. You're right, I guess. Even if the bitcoin were offline, the thief could have wait and wait until the balances were loaded into mtgox and use to pay customers or the site start operating. That's how you get caught. Only paranoid men survive, while reasonable men becomes extinct. They just need automation.It does. Having a balance with mtgox is effectively a hot wallet. Can I ask you why you have such large amount of money in a third party site? Does anybody if MtGox employs pentesters? If you don't have a need to IMMEDIATELY do transactions with bitcoin:Here how it would works:1. Put all your bitcoin in a cold wallet and place it in a safe. 2. Open it once a day to process all the pending transactions. 3. Put the cold wallet back in the safe.What it need:1. Several USB drives.2. Software to keep transactions request and query the blockchain and then write to USB drive.3. Making sure you have enough public keys on hand.4. At least one airgapped computer dedicated to processing the data in the USB drive.Anybody who knows security, feel free to points out any flaw. I updated today as promised.This time, the popup will give you information about your last transaction as well. Lawyers are going to be very expensive and what if the "investors" don't have any money to make you whole? It doesn't matter if it is orchestrated or if the party involved were EXTREMELY incompetent, it is still...and have become criminal. Bitcoinica have to pay staff to deal with this. Anytime they're not operating, they're not making money.In short, they are losing money to eat, pay rent, keep server up because they didn't do due diligence at the beginning of time. Who the hell are the owners? Everyday he stays in the UK, another day goes by when the police can arrest him. He's a person and we know his face. If he's trying to run away with the money, he have nothing to gain from reaping scorn on him.Sometime, the simplest explanation is that people screwed up so massively that it looks like an inside job.Frankly, I am tired of people screwing up left and right. (Even I lost some coins...to mybitcoin) This is all nonsense without facts to back it up. Me neither. Sorry for everyone that was involved. It must be a sucky day to be the owner of bitcoinica.But still..Bitcoin not in cold wallet? WTF MAN? This is basic bitcoin security 101.
WTF man? Why aren't the bitcoin stored in a cold wallet? All these face palm are really uninformative. The site is real but I have no idea what it's supposed to do. Plus, this have nothing to do with bitcoin. It sounds like they're playing business bingo to me. Fairly random assortment of items for sale it seems. This is an uninteresting thread because they did not capture a silk road drug dealer, but a silk road user. Expectation is not a 100% certainty. It's wide band of probabilities.  I am not related to YCombinator. Bitcoin doesn't just grow itself, ya know? The bitcoin community did some advertising campaign that put us on the map, such as the EFF donation drive and the animation bounty project. Those were just brilliant and the EFF campaign put us on the map, while the animation project help present bitcoin in a very slick manner.I wish the community exert every fiber of their being on something cool and high impact again. Remember, YCombinator invested in a bitcoin startup. If that bitcoin startup succeeded and makes YC shit load of money, everybody else in the VC community will rush like mad and get in. Of course, many venture capitalist will lost a lot of money over this, but it will put bitcoin on the map. Dwolla's motion lead to Tradehill's entire case to be dismissed.Dwolla was supposed to be irreversible. Turn out, it is not. I hate reading some god damn thread and then have nothing of substance come out of it.   Anybody remember wikipedia? Now, everyone like "meh". If he's a scammer, how come he isn't jailed yet?  Problem with MtGox is their AML and KYC regulation. You can't just sell off your bitcoin, you gottach have your identity verified and mtgox gottach spy on you for da government. If you have to think for yourself, it would take forever. Plus, there's limited memory space in your brain, so you can't know everything. What you do is rely on rule of thumbs, black boxes, and source of authorative knowledge(such as your parents). This have vast implication for humanity that people like to ignore when they build governments, corporations, and any kind of organizations. It seems that the new owners are too lazy to do anything with operationfabulous. They could at least hire a developer to update it and fix it up with new features or something. Also, they are not responsive to email. Some email I sent never get replied to.Operation Fabulous is really a great service, and I hate to see it stagnate.  I would like to help improve their service, even if only I get paid very little. I just recently enable 2-key factor authentication on all my online balance bearing account. Big exception is operationfabulous since they don't support 2 factor authentication.  If you can get in early, you can just sit on your butt doing nothing while bitcoin become a trillion dollars success story, but that's dependent on bitcoin succeeding.Everyone wants to own their own platform, but sometime there's just more slices of a bigger pie to be have in joining the Bitcoin army. The sooner companies realize this, everyone else is a goner(unless they also join the army).
A venture capitalist already made a bet on bitcoin and his name is PG. The rest will follow.Why? They don't wanna miss the next Google. You should!  Did it have 2 factor authentication? Why should we trust you? AML/KYC is often associated with the company sending financial information to the government on the activities of their client. However, verification is different.  For the last two month, the price of bitcoin was impervious to publicity.  [citation needed] And bitcoin should fit with the story. If not, no use mentioning it. Ouch! Such an elementary mistake and shame on investors not doing their due diligence. BTCIt works! It suppose to have that kind of capability but I am not sure if it still works. I am sorry that you don't feel comfortable using this extension.  Kickstarter type projects have investors?   Does it have an API? Dude deleted his post. It's an open source project. You can look at the source code and see if I am secretly stealing bitcoin from you guys. Thanks. I improved  it by saying what the bitcoin extension actually does. Proofer: broke link. It's all just a coincidence.   Just use bootstrap for everything. Once your project takes off, hire a designer.Also, I am looking for people to help work on making the bitcoin extension for chrome more useful.
The bragging type will eventually brag enough to be caught. The only question is will he brag enough? Updated with new version as promised. Let me know if there are any problems. I meant that the earth receive more energy from the sun then we use in one year.  https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/npcplhlpjnnoclccciijknpgjkfbddbgPay bitcoin and see your total balance in the convenience of your browser! Bitcoind and initial configuration required.==Homepage==http://kibabase.com/projects/chrome-bitcoinHomepage is pretty undeveloped at the moment. Will update it with tutorial and how to use it.==07/20/12 Release==Popup.html now have link to a transaction page which list the last ten transaction from oldest to newest.==07/13/12 Release==0.0.4 is released. Some of the changes are:*Add last transaction in the popup. Examples are: "Last receive: 0.3" and "Last spent: 1.0"*Removed a whole file since it wasn't working anymore and wasn't impacting any functionality.==07/06/12 Release==0.0.3 is released. Some of the changes are:*When your daemon is down or the options you input is incorrect, it will show a link to the option page within the popup.*Further code cleanup==Original Announcement==After a few days of struggling, I finally got the extension working again. It only does really basic functionality like get balance and send bitcoin as I was only focused on getting it working again.==Requirement==You will need bitcoind and a properly configured bitcoin.conf with its password and username. In addition, you will also need to configure the bitcoin extension to use said password and username to connect to the bitcoind. (I know this is a few steps too many) This extension needs testing and it is recommended that you do not keep more than a handful coins for use.==Development==As far as development goes, I plan to update the extension at least every Friday with new features and bugfixes. It is also open source and I welcome contribution.Github page:https://github.com/kiba/chrome-bitcoin==Donation==If you like my extension, consider donating to 1MT6zn6r2QeCmXWk45c6dL6wmaCAL6ZrRU. My goal is 300 dollars worth of bitcoin. Right now, I have zero bitcoin worth zero dollars. I am 0% in reaching my goal. This will help pay for the rent. Did you know that the earth receive more energy from the sun then we receive in one year? Did you know that some asteroid in outer space contains at least 1 trillion dollars worth of precious metals?Also, economic growth isn't always about using more resource. It can be that we get more out of the current resource we have. It doesn't seems to be a kickstarter system to me because it's more than just a fancy widget that show much money are raised. You know what really make me rage? Anti-money laundering laws. I don't care if they launder money, but I do care if they're spying for the government without a warrant. AML essentially makes bank into unpaid spy.But do I hate the bank for that? Not really. I hate the government. Of all the ways they choose to tax and fight crime, they chose particularly privacy destructive laws. Is the magazine translated into Korean? This story is suspect.  I must ask....does anybody actually use OMC? Is there anybody who actually use OMC for anything other than interacting in virtual worlds?Use bitpay or just pay your servers and domain in bitcoin.Just because you don't personally recognize them doesn't mean they are unknown. Also, a lot of transfers are done by bank transfers and bitinstant. Exchanges are always looking for better way to get your money in and out.Paypal and credit cards are dangerous to use simply because bitcoin is non-reversiable and paypal and credit cards are.Frankly, I should stop responding to this lady's comment. But when somebody is wrong on the internet, I wish to reply. [/quote]Most bitcoiners are male. Either that, or the woman hates Justin Bieber.  If you see titles like this: "5 reasons to <blah>" or "Ten way <blah>", you know that the writer is desperate for traffic. Clearly, she need an editor herself. Or maybe she's desperate for traffic, no matter how badly written the article is? I recommend you change your name as it is too similar to Bit-Pay. No. It doesn't hold any bitcoin, so trust is not required. It only track addresses for you. There's no such thing as a free lunch. (TM)In any case, the article seems to be written in a panic or a way to pad views for the sake of padding views. NO offense. It's very painful inforgraphic. Let say it's not very easy on the eye. I made a widget already, but I am not showing it yet. First, I need to get out a bitcoin related extension for chrome, then I can start raising money. Need to pay rent.  That's only dependent on responsible monentary policies. All the insurance in the world won't protect you from idiotic bankers. It's a false sense of security. [Citation needed] Banks are too attached to their mainframe and their existing business, as well being too slow to react to anything.If the CEO know what's good for his business, he would create a skunkwork division and plans to sell off everybody else to all the other banks once the skunkwork division is profitable. 
Companies like Apple and facebook wants to make lot of money, not create an ecosystem. As long as they're fixated on making their own walled garden with high fees, we have an advantage.If we accumulate a coalition of companies into a Bitcoin army, then even apple and google can't stop us. Moreso, if any of the biggest tech company decides to join the army.We need to become so attractive, that they rather join us than fight us. Where the wallstreet journal article? It's a startup currency that acquires startups! Isn't curious that a community form around promoting some kind of money, which by then should be booooooooooooring no brainer? It's like forming a community around promoting a kind of concrete.  Service works, without a hitch. Probably a bad idea to setup an exchange at Burning Man due to possible bad publicity. It's lot easier to set it up at various physical libertarian gathering. I sense a DERAILMENT! Not much yet, other than being a really interesting facet of my life.  My bad. Probably I misremember. Vending machine kinda sucks. It should able to accept bitcoin from a phone or something. Did this guy talks to only yes-men when he started his project? Stop discussing Satan!  Let discuss bitcoin! Like, why didn't the bitinstant guy record a session? Next time, record some video! bit-pay have over 600 merchants using it! That's what I am more interested in, not a company selling mining tools. Some dude refer me to the site on some forum about open source gaming. I dismiss it as an agorist currency that can't possibly work.That was after the first slashdot coverage. Then I eventually become convinced that it was useful. I was there before the bitcoin price reach 1 dollars.   Thanks. I don't understand withdrawal process for international transfer and I am afraid. I am still afraid of paypal but thanks for letting me risk my money. Pleassssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss discus bitcoin?   Presumably, they accept at 0-confirmation.  How they accept bitcoin? Through a smartphone app? Make sense, as I never actually see anybody buy a magazine. 49% of total reserve gone for MyBitcoin is corrected to 51% of total reserve gone for MyBitcoin based on en.bitcoin.it's article. However, I still have no idea where the number for the stolen bitcoin comes from. I saw it in the original list, but I do not see any citations.
Getting burnt seems to make you a reasonable man. But this guy have a terrible reputation due to alleged housing scams that he ran. Sorry for the list being so short! In the future, more and more content will be added to the list. There's a link to a list where I got events to research from, but it doesn't have citations and the details differ. Nearly a hundred views but no recorded visit or response? Weird.   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/a-list-of-major-bitcoin-thefts-scams-hacks-and-lossesNow that this article is published, I can officially say this:Bitcoin Weekly is ALIVE! Its death have been greatly exaggerated.Note that I am a terrible writer and there's possibly lot of grammar errors that still remain in the article. Let me know some of the mistake.Lastly, future publication will not be free. It will be funded via crowdsourcing for each batch of new materials and updates.  It's a misconception that Amish are technological Luddite. Rather, they evaluate new technologies and determine if it is something that they want in their community. The difficulty of minting bitcoin is based on difficulty of the problem, not that there are more bitcoin in existence. The difficulty of the problem is determined by hashing rate and speed of which bitcoin is minted, and is adjusted with an eye of keeping the minting rate on schedule. Simple. You hack the mind who help make the bill in the first place.   Streisand effect!Attempt to censor backfire, resulting in unintended massive amount of publicity.  How about this? Government sponsored heroin clinics where this woman could work to treat heroin addict. Best of all, government will subsidize the price of drug, destroying the heroin drug market in the process. Win-win for everyone, except for organized crime and the prison industry. How dare she call bitcoin a non-currency!Would you rather have this young man die of a heroin overdose in the privacy of his home or getting shot by a drug dealer or sweeped up by police? The comment section is full of horribly ignorant comments. It's September 17 2007. So, it's a 5 years bank run.  Hi. I requested an interview and this interview was accepted, except I didn't receive any reply yet to my PM or my email. Damn. The media bomb on bitcoin is still ongoing? This per account is a bad policy. Why? Let do some math.Imagine that there 100 accounts. 90 of them contains 99 BTC. 10 accounts contain 101 bitcoin each. Since the 100 BTC are moved to cold storage, that mean 1 BTC remains for withdrawal for the last 10.  Add them up, and you have 8920 BTC that are hot while 1000 BTC are cold. This is a disaster!  If a thief access and compromise the hot wallet server, he will be able to steal 8920 bitcon, which is 89.9193548% of your total holding.What if every account have 99 BTC? You're even more doomed! Now, the thief will be able to steal all 9900 of 9900 BTC. He will be able to steal 100% of your holding.Indeed, what I am saying is improbable, but I think in the end will expose you to more risk. However, if you keep your hot wallet to a strict limit to say 5% or 10% to total holding, you reduce the probability and economic incentive of a theft attempt.Even better: keep all your coins in cold storage and process them at least once a day. Security is important, and I think your customers can handle a little inconvenience. (If I am somehow wrong about the math, let me know) It's probably not. GLBSE is like a black market for IPO, which relies solely on trust. Are you counting total balance of everything or just one account? What is your security policy? Hi, I am going to use the OP's post as a source for an article I am working on. It will be more comprehensive and detailed, and the OP will be credited. Hi, I would like to do an interview with CoinDL for bitcoinweekly.com
This is a really lame thread. You guys already decided he's guilty and not guilty before we even have a trial. I don't understand this moonspeak. Let the court decide whether or not the he's guilty. Everything else is just mad and wild speculation.  Twitter bootstrap is your friend if you want pretty-by-default websites. Euro is now the second most traded currency on bitcoin exchanges. You may think bitcoin is a game, but apparently those Europeans don't. Don't you mean, "never bothered to reinstate a method to accept bitcoins following the MyBitcoin mess"?Which is why it's a good idea to concentrate bitcoiners if possible. http://bitcoinweekly.com will be coming back soon! I will start publishing essay and analysis. Right now, the site is now revamped with a more minimalist style using twitter bootstrap and the writing system is up and running. Unlike our competitor at bitcoinmagazine.net, the content don't start halfway down the screen. There are no urgency to sign up on the emailing list, follow us buttons for the various social networks, people bragging about how many points they earn from the magazine, or any of that nonsense. We have a simple header with navigation list.....and the content(Random articles, comment section, ads, and the footer). Everything that is distracting is down at the bottom.Crowdfunding will be the mainstay of bitcoinweekly business model as it used to be before. Essentially, bitcoinweekly will release new contents for a collective fee. You can contribute as much as you want and as little as you want, as long all the donations added up to what bitcoinweekly is looking for.However, there are some issues: I don't have any money to hire writers/reviewers. Thus, I lack both manpower and writing expertise. For now, I have to do everything myself, unless some people are generous enough to assists in editorial reviews. Even more, I don't have any ideas on what to write about. If you have any ideas that you would want me to write about, let me know.  Authorization not done yet. Working on an article. I asked about possible freelance work and the technology stack that you are using a little while ago. Will you reply? http://bitcoinweekly.com is refreshed with twitter bootstrap, now with more minimalism than ever before. Nonworking navigation links are also pruned. The comic section disappears.Stay tuned for more tweaks and development. There is no "new" or "old" or "official" bitcoin logo. Just some small things. It could be google map, statistics, or graphs, or all the above.What is your technology stack? Looks like it's twitter bootstrapped. Also, any chance of being able to work on your site in exchange for some bitcoin? It looks like stackoverflow. In order for gambling to have good return for players, the house will have to lose! Beside, I don't see how adding a gambling service add much to the bitcoin economy. How many god damn gambling sites you guys have to produce? It's called data, my friend. Let data decides, not what you conjecture.Do A/B testing or soemthing. Better handling of your customers. Don't be the google adsense of the bitcoin economy. No. BioMike told me when I was asking for more work.  FYI, Operation Fabulous is already brought by someone else. Whether or not they will begin the effort of revamping the site is anybody's guess.
People should be rewarded with partial answer somehow. One guy might not have all the parts of an answer, but several people will. I am no django developer, but I am a ruby on rails developer. Should I still apply? What's your technology stack and is it possible that I could do some development in exchange for some bitcoin? As a publisher, I love the fact that I can literally walk away and don't have to manage anything.Anyway, the reason why operationfabulous is like that is because of a non-BTC site called projectwonderful.com. Very interesting going-on. I wonder if this mean that the price of bitcoin in USD will break out too?Or is the BTChina just an anomalous price that will no doubt get a correction? I forgot my password. Is there a password recovery mechanism around here? This thread reminds me of a story I wrote about bitcoin. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-rising I hope they don't get hacked. This guy need to do more research and digging. Also this: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=81581.0It sounds wrong. Satoshi is the inventor and there is no bitcoin company. Maybe he means a bitcoin related president and entrepreneur. We should taboo the word "democratic" from this discussion. It feel like an incomplete article.  The bitcoin trademark should eventually transferred to a bitcoin foundation or something. It's certainly not democratic. People don't vote. People do consenus or start their own network. I am no web deisgner, remember! Just want your site to look great by default. Cool! Let discuss the price and the work via email. I am at hackerkiba at gmail.com. Hire me, and I will twitter bootstrapize it and jquerize it.  After your site is made pretty and generic, you should hire a designer who know how to turn it into a not-generic bootstrap website.(I am just a coder who can't choose color combinations to save his life. Twitter bootstrap help me make pretty web app by default.) Some people said you should never host with a VPS or do dedicated hosting and instead do everything with colocation hosting. What do you think of that? Would it make sense to require 2-factor authentication for everybody? Personally, I find erring for convenience over security to be a questionable practice. Interesting. I didn't know the organizational structure of Bitcoinica changed recently. If I were in charge, I would still reimburse the dude.
There is an awfully lot more noise than signal in this thread. Did not do their research: There is a name collision with the inactive bitcoin weekly magazine at bitcoinweekly.com, which I own.This could be confusing when I start up the magazine again. How do you want to handle this? What's for March? Bump. Not a very good article on how to stay anonymous using bitcoin to buy illegal goods. Real business ships. Official logo? It's something that bitcoin don't have.   Bump. I had gotten a non bitcoin job. The bitcoin economy is not large enough.In any case, I will continue to wait for people to give me jobs in the bitcoin economy. Well, I don't know how to do that programmatically. I already test the request from bitcoinmonitor earlier. I just need to expose my development environment to bitcoinmonitor.net so I can see if everything works together.I believe I have written all I need, it's just that I need to debug and fix any bugs that prevent my app from demonstrating proof of concept. That's what just I need, although it seems a little bit complicated.  I was wondering if it was possible to test the notify url with the localhost. If so, how can I do this? Hi, I got coffeescript/jquery skills in addition to canvas. Unfortunately, the only way this will work if I am doing it on a freelancing basis and be paid piecemeal for work I done. Yes, it should be predictable and easy to use. Bump. So far, a few promising leads had disappears into dead end. FinCen should die and all the resource that were devoted to FinCen should be invested in catching actual murderers and scammers rather than violating the rights of normal people who dare transfer anything larger than 1 thousand dollars. Police, go catch those murderer, thieves, and human traffickers. Don't bother with the drug trade. That's for doctors.Sincerely, A taxpayer. What do you think of paying a bitcoiner to develop the website for you? You know...like me?   You can't afford items in euro yet a TEM equals a Euro?   I was supposed to be working on this! Need to finish it before everybody else.
Who said so? I basically disagree with your post.While it may be argued that quantitatively, running and using services that accept Bitcoin payments is more effective than donations, donations serve multiple purposes.[/quote]Yes. The EFF accepting bitcoin (for a while) brought us publicity. Eventually, this lead to additional bitcoin business poping up.  Sounds like a job for.....a computer program. Cool, you're the last guy standing. What do you think of hiring developers to do smallish feature for your service? Skeptical of investment scheme. Only trust index funds because managers usually never beat out the average in the long run.In any case, I want to invest 1 BTC just to see what happen. What does this have to do with bitcoin? I don't know how hard it will be for me to do it. Doesn't seems hard, but simple sounding can be deceptive. If you're really interested in paying some BTC for such a site, let me know via email. I probably could build something like btcpak, but it won't be as good or as useful and will cost you a pretty penny. I suggest that you shouldn't ask people to clone site and instead try to distinguish yourself from whatever btcpak does or find an area that are under-serviced.I also have no experience yet in dealing and interfacing with a bitcoin daemon or bitcoin/traditional financial system yet. bump again. I guess there's nobody in the bitcoin economy that need my service. Hobbyist game developer here. I have some experience with trying raise BTC for game development. That being said, it does not goes well with the bitcoin community, or rather any community if you don't have a compelling demo.Failed to reach my 300 dollars worth of bitcoin during March. Ran out of motiviation-fuel for the moment to continue my project and now I need money-fuel. So I am trying to freelance in the bitcoin community when possible, but it does not look good when every lead I follow end up with no project on my desk. * kiba sighsThat being said, I don't plan to give up on my dream of fundraising money for my game and make it go for it, fulltime. Bumpy bump. Still no taker.  In all seriousness, is email a horrible way for you to interact with you? I am still waiting for your response. Don't have any digital goods I can sell on the site, but I can code. That's the whole issue of the bitcoin economy. We gottach keep existing business alive, keep new business going in, minimize business shutting down.Slow growth until we hit the sweet spot when everthing goes BLAM!In the meantime, bitcoiners ought to be patience and keep the light on. I think some racists are taking advantage of the situation and turning it into a race issue. The constitution isn't just  the paper and its amendments, but a whole set of precedent and interpretation applied to them. The court is really the only thing that prevent the USA from turning outright into a mob ruled government. You may even say that it's probably the only reason why the US government have any legitimacy. Donating to the EFF was a publicity booster.Tell me how would this boost bitcoin into the media? weex: do you check your email regularly? Or do I have to pester you everytime?I politely waited a day before pestering you. Weex, I contact you via email. Was wondering if you're going to reply to my solicitation about possible project? Don't we have an awesome video already at http://weusecoins.com? And you're on my ignore list for being an idiot and polluting this thread with rationally unjustifable opinion and then not admitting your mistake like a true rationalist. You said that they are asshats. You have yet to prove that this isn't yet another hatred of tribes that you disapprove of. Face it, politics is tribal, not rational.
I worked on a script that make use of a graphing library in javascript for operation fabulous here: https://operationfabulous.com/advertiser/index.php?e=site_page&wid=101&from=0 Precisely. You do not like libertarians coming to use bitcoin on the ground that they are asshat and politically undesirables but you give us no evidence as to why we should give a rat ass or even if they are asshats. So, by definition, it's anybody who you strongly disagree with that are asshat.   Cool! It's always nice to see my work live.* kiba hopes for more work for kiba from operationfabulous Hey, do you think there's some room for a freelancer like me to work on smallish feature on your site? I think I got an outline of a working system going for my bitcoin widget idea. Tomorrow is testing time and working out the bug. I hope the creator here will answer my question soon!Or maybe other users can? What happened when you input an address that is not valid? Is it possible for me to use the API to validate the bitcoin address somehow? Or is that not possible? After having no idea how to do this thing ever, I finally figured out how to get a watcher created.  Hello, I have replicated the python example with ruby code.Code:require "json"require "digest/md5"data = '{"signed_data": {"userdata": "", "amount": 122678000, "confirmations": 2, "amount_btc": "1.22678000", "address": "12r9JzPNnyWs2j1s9KLW5keqBr4kbJjxz6", "created": "2012-04-06 08:56:00.094725", "txhash": "e0c84120068bfefddab051e751f3df963c4ed29e7b13eadac026e6f17f55fb06", "agent": "callback_test"}, "signature": "17403f7757433850382cc6bd94e09827"}'data = JSON.parse(data)tx_hash = data["signed_data"]["txhash"]address = data["signed_data"]["address"]created = data["signed_data"]["created"]confirmations = data["signed_data"]["confirmations"]userdata = data["signed_data"]["userdata"]amount = data["signed_data"]["amount"]agent = data["signed_data"]["agent"]amount_btc = data["signed_data"]["amount_btc"]signature = data["signature"]sigstring = address + agent + amount.to_s + amount_btc.to_s + confirmations.to_s + created + userdata + tx_hash + "437050d0d90c72d3d357b84c098bd61ee1751ec9"my_signature = Digest::MD5.hexdigest(sigstring)if my_signature == signature  puts "BEEP"endNow, I  am trying to learn how to use your API so that I can do something interesting with it. Hi. I am worked on something for operation fabulous. Hope to see my change on the operationfabulous site soon.   I am experienced in rails, ruby, javascript/coffeescript. I also can work with canvas. Knew some node.js.Javascript and rails+ruby are my biggest strength. I developed site like: http://bitcoinweekly.com, and demo/game-under-development like http://thecity.kibabase.comI prefer a lot of small projects, over a few large projects. I will be happy to do cheap paid audit work so that you can judge if I am suitable.If you want to work with me, let me know at hackerkiba    at   gmail.com. It turned out that my collision function was already tested and useful! I also figured out how to use the "debugger" statement, which will allow me to figure out all kind of stuff faster.Anyway, I solved the bug behind gathering timber. Now timber actually disappear and picked up and dropped, etc... We now move on to add addictive cutting, which mean that if you want to chop down a tree, you have to do it several time! For tree, it takes 10 times. Cutting down logs will always take one time. I did some preparatory work on floating texts so that we can have "TIMBER" and chopping texts for cutting. (In the future, we might have audio sounds for those kind of things)Also, a lot of thing are broken, so once the logging feature is completed, I will begin to fix all those regressions that are around before we can do a deploy. Who would think 145 LOC is awfully short?   Now, it's written in coffeescript and I only care about coffeescript. The output might be bizarrely complex for all I care.  It is per my hacking policy that I slim down any file longer 100 LOC to take care of technical debt that accumulates. You don't want to spend all your time writing them up and making it clean only to mess them up with extreme code addition but you don't want to wait too long to the point that it slow down your coding to a screeching halt either.Anyway, my output is too irregular lately, thought it's a normal considering that I have my up and downs in motivation. Lately, the code been giving me hell as I come to grip with old code and try to understand it. I reorganized the map file once again(it exceeds 100 LOC regularly), consolidating collision check functions into the Collision class. That gave me a lot of errors in my code in which I have to jump around to find. Very frustrating since the environment don't produce useful stack trace to use. I finally got the gatherer unit to look for timber, not trees. However, there's a bug in which it will pick up a timber at the stockpile location and drop it at the same location again and again, which took me a while to figure out. I tried to use an untested collision function that unsurprisingly doesn't work. I'll have to figure out how to make it work.  I noticed a file about the base unit system is 145 LOC long. That trigger a MANDATORY rewrite. The remedy was code reorganization. The combat mechanic got a whole file dedicated to itself.  This took a significant chunk of my time out of what I am supposed to work on. The upside is that we get cleaner code which will save me time in the future.Next, I continue work on the meta system for jobs so that stockpiles can assign several different type of jobs at the same time. I'll have to divert my development effort to add a small worthless placeholder feature in the game that takes an hour to implement. This meant, the tree chopping with satisifying "TIMBER" notice will arrive slower, along with other gameplay feature that are in the pipeline. Keep in mind that my time spent on this project is by necessarily limited due to low donation. It's a real opportunity cost.Important gameplay features come first. Next is the tutorial and system that allow players to discover and learn how to play this game. The rest of everything is on the backburner.Few donate because nobody found the game interesting yet. Some people even thought that this game will never be fun! So my priority number one is to build the big system needed to have fun. Resource gathering, production, military organization, combat simulation, social system, etc. It may seems that I been dead for a whole week or something, but I am continuing my mission!Right now, I am developing tree cutting and mechanism to support tree cutting. I plan to complete the feature with "TIMBER!" everytime the logger cut down a tree. It will also have "accident" mechanism in which an unlucky creature stuck at the wrong location and the wrong time will die in a tree felling accident. Anyway, I scaled back development way back since people are not donating any BTC to justify my desire for full time development. I believe it's best to report that to the actual company that submitted the job. Coinworker probably can't help with you with that, I think. Cool! I hope that mean dreamhost will accept bitcoin soon. So it cost 10 dollars each time someone deposit money? Sounds reasonable for the fraud that can be committed against bitinstant.
This is why bitcoin should build up presence in New Hampshire! Concentrate bitcoin in one location, and you get a lot of face to face usage and stronger network effect that will begin to spread across NH's border! We need good news too! Well, MtGox was beaten when the first bitcoin exchange appears. MtGox won by being more convenient than others. They're also one of the first to implement mutli-factor authentication. Now they're competing with bitpay, which provide competition.Not exactly original, but winners are often decided on execution, not the most original idea. Such market centralization often trade convenience for resiliency. I prefer to err a little bit on the safe side, but that's not what the market decide.Anyway, I think resiliency will come from having a stronger market. Right now, we're still peanuts. Strategically, that should be our main focus. It what allows the bitcoin system to survive hit after hit and keep on running. Keep in mind that mtgox and other exchanges were absorbing failed exchanges. It's proof of our resilience. But to survive and to thrive, we need more, and much more. We're a small portion of their business now and they are never really part of our community to begin with. Yeah. They're real communicators and owe up to their mistakes.Corporation are to me, highly defaced, zero authenticity, every single channel managed by PR, etc. When people shout at the corporations, the corporation doesn't seem to reply and keep doing the same thing oblivious to people's problem. I like people who actually talk to their customer, very casual, and no nonsense. That's reassuring to me. Doesn't mean that our situation can be improved. The point of decentralization is resilience, after all. I wish we can get some positive publicity for a change. Hmm. Can you tell us what's going on? Does that mean you're going to provide services as planned in bitcoin.com? If not, what will happen? Anyway, wish you best of luck and the most expeditious lawsuit as possible. They are so good that they basically become a monopoly in itself. Maybe, they don't offer the best services in the world and so on, but it is very attractive and as bitcoin grow, so does mtgox's strength. Also Mtgox's strength also come from the owner's pre-existing hosting business, allowing them to bankroll mtgox's growth.I think the best way to achieve this is to increase liquidity between all the exchanges, like what bitinstant is doing right now. This ease the ability of exchanges' ability to compete and differentiate. If MtGox is forward thinking and willing, they should cooperate because it is in the collective interest of bitcoiners to do so. They might have to compete harder now and in the future, but if they're good entrepreneurs, they should welcome the challenge. I am extremely surprised. As far as I know, you did not disclose to us that the bitcoin.com domain have a constructional obligation tied into it until today. Now, it simply redirect to bitcoin.org.Who is the owner of this bitcoin.com and what are they going to do with it? Is it satoshi. I hope the lawsuit end as expeditiously as possible, or otherwise, only the lawyers will win. Yeah, nobody use gold for anything BUT storing it as wealth protection. They should obviously looks for way to automate the whole send and receive thing. If it's microbitcoin they're dealing with, they can even afford to have only a 10 BTC hot wallet for instant transfer outside and withdrawal. What revenue you derive from this project? WICKED COOL!  Anyway, bitcoiners foresee this a long time ago. We just didn't know who's going to execute it. So what? The Chinese are not doing anything bad. Why don't you make it a policy to distribute CC content and not any of the products produced by those big corp?By not sharing big evil media corp's content, you're effectively boycotting them.
WTF?Piracy currency? What's that? I hate to see you use the law that can be used against us, bitcoiners.  What I been doing for the last few days is just working on the terrain system. It's a hell lot more work than I thought.I also built a primitive help page. It's not much but it's better than nothing. In addition, I worked on scenario reloading to help me test better. The game is now 3.5 Kloc! I  am rather confused. Don't like to judge until I have better information about this CoinExchanger, ie, posts and comments. First, people need to decide if it's worth suing the company for 200K combined total. Linode might have a very good lawyer and it will tie up the case for many month, if not years.Second, I don't think linode is in the business of storing and protecting valuables. You can't get much from a 50 dollars a month web host.  Let just hope you don't store 40K bitcoin of your customer's money on your red hot wallet next time. Yeah, it's more likely market panic.  If you don't remember your password, it's as good as lost(Unless you found a way to crack them in a reasonable amount of time). There's a tradeoff between convenience and security. The limit for withdrawal is 10K USD for verified account, and he would need to pass fake information to MtGox's money laundering office. So the thief would need to create multiple accounts, multiple identity or compromise several mtgox accounts.IANASE, but keep in mind that AML increase barrier of entry, reducing competition and privacy of users. Keeping record of user identity is also a security liability if identity thieves get their hand on it. AND mutlisignatureAND low amount of BTC in your hot wallet in case your defense in depth got bypassed. Zhou could have reduced his loss significantly by reducing the amount of bitcoin that were in the hot wallet. It could be 10,000 bitcoin, for example. This doesn't hurt bitcoin. It makes bitcoin stronger. What doesn't kill us makes us stronger, more aware of the danger. Maybe you should consider reducing your hot wallet? A little inconvenience is a lot better than losing that much money. Ok, you're going to be suspicious of Gavin, the bitcoinica guy, and Slush? It would need to be worth the lawyer fee to sue. That was in the work in the last couple of days, as I been listening to feedback for the past two months! However, the new stuff aren't yet deployed.1) I added a help page. You can access it by pressing "h" while the menu is open in game mode. This explains what's going on in term of interface.2) I added tooltip which allow you to identify what you're seeing by hovering over any tiles. You will be able to identify units soon too!I could construct a tutorial on how to play, but given a lack of gameplay features, I think it is too immature at this time. You wouldn't be able to do much anyway. Plus, I don't have a framework for tutoring just yet. They need a trigger and goal detection system first. Even more, a tutorial probably can't be perfected on the first try. It will probably be confusing and people will give up in frustration. That's why feedback is so important! If everybody is silent, nobody tells him why it is wrong. Whether or not you donate, speaks up! I like to know. Captain obvious. I am more interested in investigating the reasons behind why they decided it wasn't worth it.  Why? Bumpy bump! Not even a single satoshi was donated?Is my game not good enough to fund? Have I bored people? Do I seem suspicious? I heard a polish exchange lost their money there because they didn't backup the wallet somewhere else.
Nice! Just keep on building critical mass and even the non-libertarians will accept bitcoin. Only made like eight bitcent for an hour worth of work, but it's better than nothing. How many did you practice publicspeaking? This is merely a signaling thread meant to make geeks feel good for supporting a candidate that protect/help bitcoin, but nothing was really accomplished.Nothing to see here, move along. A plead for some BTC in exchange for development of a game: http://kibabase.com/articles/help-crowdfund-a-game-the-city-for-marchNeed the money to have a roof over my head, continue development, and stop my savings from bleeding to nothingness. Aiming for 300 dollars to continue development for the whole month of March. Hope to reach this goal by the end of March.You can follow my progress and ask development related question, report bugs, and ask gameplay questions there: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=63537.0Please ask questions about the future of the game, fundraising question, and so on here.Stay tune for screenshots, videologs, and so on. Encryption should be standard in every military. If you're not encrypted, the enemies can spy on you,  threaten your family, and do bad things to you.Whether or not the military is actually there for the right reason and doing the right thing is another matter entirely. I dislike talking about silkroad. We should cement dollars with illegal drugs, not bitcoin.For illegal drugs and firearms, the money of choice is STILL the dollars. Finally. Some feedback! Status is mainly in the form of crystal piles going from black to blue. The changes is very subtle, so it only let you gauge somewhat vaguely. I just finished developing the tooltip system today. It let you see figure out what object is on the map, although it doesn't see any description of units. In any case, the tooltip will be an ideal place to learn about how much crystals are in a single pile.In other news, I did some work on thickening the paths between crystal trees and getting it looks right. That doesn't seem much, but behind the scene, I am really building the proper toolkit that allows me to generate buildings. After several days of codewacking with the pathfinding, I finally hammered it back into a usable shape. The game now have true pathfinding, HURRAH! Also, I got started on procedural generation. First, I got rid of the white floors, and stop generating them completely random. Instead, I path to each blue squares with gray floors. It's not completed, and I am not sure that's how I want the streets to be like that anyway.I should be generating buildings at some point later this week. Their audience is going to need to be familiar with bitcoin in order for it to work really well. Yeah, it's a chicken and egg problem. To me, it's just a bunch of noise. It seems that you are posting on really old posts. Every evil bitch story about paypal makes Bitcoin and alternative payment platform stronger and stronger...until we reach critical mass of anger. Then it's too late. A bitcoin related site doesn't promote Bitcoin unless the site generate publicity for bitcoin. Hmm, why does it have to be a gambling site? Yesterday, I was too tired to do some work and spent most of my time sleeping.Note to self: no more sugary drinks Does it accept donation? No deployment yet. Various bugs and kinks are worked out after the pathfinding system break up everything. I think there's more to fix before I do a deployment. There's also the issue of the algorithm for pathfinding may not be implemented properly. It's my first time with a pathfinding algorithm though.Tomorrow is video devlog day, in which I will record a youtube video to show off what I been working this week. Well, it's more like bitcoin help facilitate an exchange. Not sure what you're saying.People who only have ideas and no skills can only talk.
I  am already doing that. I am developing a game for BTC. Ideas are only 1%. Show me if you can execute. I did another coding session before the day is out. This time, you won't see much of anything change, because I am merely changing the underlying data structure. I also started work on pathfinding. Tomorrow should be the day when I focus exclusively on pathfinding. With any luck, we may be able to accomplish the weekly goal list before it's supposed to get started. I realized that I didn't deploy yesterday. I'll have to change my policy again so that it won't happen again. Also, I will be working on code that massively disrupt the game's codebase, so don't expect new deployment as often.For today, I added more information in game on how to use it and prepare for work on pathfinding, which consists of adding walls to the game and building a scenario for it.I also wrote more on the overall development arc, including what's to be expected in the next few weeks as far as development goes.http://kibabase.com/articles/the-city-development-arc-the-conveyor-belt These jobs seems highly difficult for me to do. Any chance that you will have easier work for bitcoiners to do? Hmm. It looks like I am going to have to experiment with it to totally understand what the heck I am seeing. Who's paying for these work anyway? Are you a spambot? Do...or offer up a bounty for something concrete. That is all. Peter Thiel, last time I check, doesn't own paypal anymore. Now it's closed. First day development resume. I spent all my time fixing annoying pixel imperfection because drawing efficiently is a complex affair. Otherwise, the game now autofocus so that you no longer have to click on the game to start playing with it. Sounds like you got momentum. Any chance you'll hire me for a little bit of work on your game? I am a coffeescript/canvas ninja! Bug is known. I have a github page for this: https://github.com/kiba/The-City/issues?sort=created&direction=desc&state=open Thanks to whoever donate 5 BTC! I lost a day in development, because I was busy revising an article, submitting it to Hacker News, and watching traffic spike. Then, my internet connection went down. So I didn't have a chance to work on the game that night. So services that are dependent on your site will be doomed if your site goes down or goes out of business. I think it's a cool service to use though. Is this site open source? What's it written in? He's an awesome all round transhumanist/technolibertarian who think big. However, like others said, he didn't to do his homework on bitcoin. Awesome! I did a pure bugfix coding session. I discovered a lot of drawing bugs that are now fixed. I still have a couple more to go.
A report on the game: http://kibabase.com/articles/the-city-stage-2-development-report  Each or total?  I think you ought to write your game in javascript and canvas to achieve maximum distribution. I finish all the milestone goals for "Stage 2" of development. What a journey! I am letting the weekend ferment the game into a polished and unbuggy but unfinished game while also giving me time to write a report.Phew! I am glad that I have the grit to continue for more than 2 month in development. Time will tell if I will spend decades developing this game. And he even sold hosting & domain name for bitcoin. Primary work is on the combat system today. I should be finishing it anytime now. Once that is done, I will put in the final piece for this particular milestone. That's the wrong word to use. How about this: unethical and overly intrusive. I agree. However, we should keep in mind that the laws are not always right.I think the laws in question are wrong, but how to change this I do not know. I believe there were talk of pruning old transactions but that is not done yet. How do you get your bitcoin then? Selling goods and services? Better be prepared than never.  We want bitcoin to succeed, not to protect bitcoin against valid criticism. If we don't address valid concerns, bitcoin will just end up dead. From what I can tell, even Mark have some issues working with banks. I would like to hear mtgox's statement on this compliance effort and their candid position on anti-money laundering. KYC is a violation of our financial privacy. In order to pay our taxes, we gave information to the IRS every year. Are you OK with this? I am doing my taxes for the first time year, but I felt like they're watching my every earning, trying to pounce me on the most obscure violation. It probably only happen to 1 in 100,000 but it probably made life hell.If they're going to sift through somebody's lives, they should be forced to get a warrant and have a judge watching them. I wish I knew a way of changing the situation, but I don't know how. If something happen and the price rises, people merely assume something happening have to do with why the price rises. Those douchebags dare to violate people's privacy in the name of justice without providing any sort evidence to show their effectiveness of stopping crime or whether or not the cost is worth it. This sound good! Is there any source code example I can see on how to use this service? I worked on a mobile site for bitcoin.org(Just my inititative, nobody asked for it) a little while ago but there's only so much I can do. Here is my work: https://github.com/kiba/m.bitcoin.org I wrote some initial non-comprehensive draft about the game and what you're seeing. There will be more information as I update it.http://kibabase.com/articles/the-city-game-designhttp://kibabase.com/articles/gameplay-description-of-the-city This could be a bug, but I need steps to replicate this bug or ortherwise I can't fix it. Does it keep going to the blue square and going back to the circle and making triangles? If so, we can conclude it is gathering crystal stockpiles.My game is harder to understand because both I didn't work very much on making it understandable and because it's a game where you don't directly manage units. It will take time for me to figure out how to help players understand what's going on.Anyway, thanks for the suggestion. I will write a post on the overall version of the game. Maybe this will help get funders on board.Also, I forgot to mention that I applied for a researcher position for a charity. I doubt I'll get the job, and I estimate a 90% likelihood of failure to get the job. We will know in an estimated 1-3 weeks, because I have to complete an unpaid test research project. If I manage to somehow snag the job, I can still continue to work on this game even if it is in reduced capacity and my situation will be far less fragile. It's better to having written the game, rather than not at all.
I am thinking of raising the price of development considerable or changing my business model to beat back the cost of maintaining my existence in the world. I paid 300 dollars a month to rent my own room from my parents. I also pay some money for cheap hotdogs and the occasional starbuck coffee, car maintenance, and so on. This mean I'll eventually lose all my saving in the process of creating this game and I will have to look for a real job again. If I could get at least 300 dollars a month, that mean my burnrate will decrease to a level in which I will be slightly losing money. While it won't make me profitable, it will at the very least increase the longevity of my ability to work on this project. If I found a way to make myself slightly profitable, this will let me maintain my project indefinitely. It won't do much to increase my ability to survive emergencies, but it will help maintain my current lifestyle atm. It meant that I can dedicate my time toward this project and build my magnum opus, the video game that will encompass my life's work. It is my dream to be able to do this, but if I need to put food on the table, I will have to set aside this project of mine or work dramatically less each day on this project.So how do I reach this 300 dollars worth of bitcoin goal? We could continue the previous model of spec driven development. Each development stage, I promise to achieve a certain set goal and once funding is done. However, if I added a lot of things for this stage, I basically overwork myself. This is the currently the case. I have not gotten any new funding since more than one month ago because there was so many features that I need to achieve before asking for more funding.I could go toward another direction. Instead of completing milestones before asking for more funding, I ijust aim for weekly goals. If I achieve my goal for that particular week, I would simply add more stuff to work on. Otherwise, I need to scale back. Users can see the progress I am making on a day to day basis, assuming I didn't forget to deploy. Users are free to donate as many bitcoin as they like. Perhaps users can get little extra something if they donate enough bitcoin, perhaps a drawing or a short story. This could be a way to improve my writing or artistic skills! I am basically imitating the Dwarf Fortress business model, except that I have a much tighter feedback process. Donation usually peak when a new version of dwarffortress is released, which can be very occasional. I, on the other hand, pretty much release new versions to the public frequently. I think this business model suit me a lot better than the business model I am on now.I am leaning toward the second business model. It's more suited to my style of development. What do you guys think? Do you think I could feasibly achieve my goal or do I have to get a real job developing website for clients?  I think the biggest question is how many people are willing to support my effort. I don't have any loyal fans yet because my game doesn't have much for people to have fun with. It may be a long time before I can achieve even a minimum of 300 dollars a month in bitcoin. Please use paragraph break. Somehow, I think KYC and money transmitter law is a kind of crime-control theater. It's like security theater, except it's a theater meant to protect us from the drug smugglers and tax evaders. Meanwhile, criminals continues their evil deed, while everyone who follows the law suffer. The combat system now have a proper dodging maneuver when opponents attempt to strike you. You can test them in the scenario "combat" in test arena. It's not completed though, because I need to add disabling effect to dodging when units' leg are injured.Units are now color coded by gender to help better distinguish between units. The redrawing bugs are almost gone. This give me a chance to focus on fixing all the bugs that are cropping up in the system.Tomorrow, I'll fix some of the last remaining redrawing bug and getting the combat system finished for this development stage.If you want to read up more on what I am doing, head to the game's project page where I post even more detailed development logs. How many bitcoiners are in Chicago? It's kinda useless for restaurants to accept bitcoin if nobody uses bitcoin.Maybe somebody should start a money exchange business in Chicago so that people can become bitcoin users more easily. Guys. Tradehill is not dead dead.  They just need licensing and some fundraiser, I think.Or maybe Jered Kenna could clarify the status of Tradehill so we know that it's dead dead or just temporary dead. It appears that bitcoin exchanges are the weakest link in the bitcoin economy. Click on the game, anywhere. Press return/enter to select. There is more than just two menu options, but it's still not much of a game. Been working all morning to fix issues related to FPS boosting breaking how objects are drawn. Camera and menu system are fixed. There are still more display issues to go but I am getting the hang of it.Now, I will take a break and then work on something else before coming back to this project. Posted a new log on the project page. The FPS of the game is dramatically boosted at the cost of extra complexity in drawing. There is a game developer who accept bitcoin. Me   That's a great idea for advertising my project. I'll think about it. When you making circles, you're allocating stockpile points. Your units will then gather crystals, represented as deep blue.. I think the game suffered an inability to gather resource, so I am fixing it when I wake up. I never abandoned this project. I was only really quiet, but that mean nobody knows that I am actually working on something. I am afraid I don't have any, though you can try the demo. It doesn't have much...yet. Oh, so you prefer that your garden die due extreme pacifism?  Hey ho, you guys might remember me as the guy who did Bitcoin Weekly, or maybe not. In any case, I am developing the game called "The City" for bitcoin. It is going to be an epic simulation of a colony of humanity in a huge dyson sphere. Think Dwarf Fortress, except it's cyperpunk and technologically heavy. It's going to deviate in several ways: efficient chain management system and little micromanagement, variable production process, and knowledge is  actually a resource.If you want to know further about the game: visit http://kibabase.com/projects/the-cityIf you're interested in trying a demo despite the incompleteness and buggyness, you're welcome to try but it may break your computer. The link is on my project page which I mentioned last paragraph. Just don't expect fun yet.Lately, productivity is very uneven. My motivation is not going to keep me going so I figured I need a crowd of people who watch the game development's progress and comment. That way, it'll keep me going even when I have low morale.Lastly, this game is made possible through donation and is contingent on donation. I may ask for donation from time to time so that I am motivated to continue my work. My eventual goal is to be able to work on this game for a living.If you have any questions, feedback, wishes, I welcome every comment. I raised 2.25000001 BTC out of 2 BTC. Thanks for donation. I will start developing the next version tomorrow.I am asking 2 BTC total for the development of the next iteration of this game called "The City". It's basically a strategy simulation game in the style of dwarf fortress.You can read about my game and current development status here: http://kibabase.com/articles/1-btc-later-the-city-game-development-reportYou can read about the initial proposal here: http://kibabase.com/articles/the-city-a-modest-proposalYou can donate to this address: 1Mr8EiZfQJEThvzVXjmcoPDyX2AZ3EBzC5With enough bitcoin, I will start developing the game
Does anybody know how to buy shares?  I am not understanding why I can't buy anything. You know what? I don't really care about this attribution business anymore. Rather focus on more interesting stuff like making cardboard gears and making bitcoinweekly more awesome.(Would like the magazine to be more active than this month) For the 1044th time, the purpose of these license is to declare the suspension all of copyright power I have. I don't know how to make that statement clearer to you.Do you really need to tell that to someone who is already planning to do that? Look, I am just publishing a list of people who do not attribute the source of the content. It's literally true facts of what's happening. I ask you to attribute the content to my magazine. You said no. I write it down because that is what exactly happens. Is there a threat of lawsuit? Jailtime? Google censoring? Extortion? Takedown Notice? Perhaps, other bad or good things will happen to you, but that is not my fault. I only recorded information!I had already told people that I am not interested in having copyright power, thus a CC-BY license is totally inappropriate for what I want to achieve. Thus, I will change the copyright notice slightly and mentioned the facts that I will write down the name of the people who refuse my request. It isn't done right now(and due to technical issue in deployment) because I didn't foreseen this situation. Once that happen, that way everyone knows of my new policy to write down the person who respond to my request with a no. If btc::log didn't do the attribution thing for all the bitcoinweekly content they posted, they will be noted for the first to do so and is instrumental in starting this policy of writing down people who did not attribute content to my magazine.If you don't understand the nuance of legal/obligatory force and recording true information that may embarrass or not, it's your fault. If you still don't understand that a CC0 is exactly what I want at the end of this sentence, it's your fault. No, I really wanted a CC0 or public domain. I really want attribution to be completely voluntary. There is a big difference between "you must attribute the content or I talk to lawyers and sue you" and "pretty please attribute or I write down that you didn't fulfill my request for attribution". I am not going to be involved in the copyright system. I am a copyright abolitionist. Yes, it is a simple line of text:"Originally published by Bitcoin Weekly"But they're arguing how it's completely optional and that what the license said..blahblahbblahblah. So I told them "either honor my request or it's Hall of No Attribution for you buddies". In this case, I am asking you, without a threat of lawsuit or takedown notice....or face my Hall of No Attribution. Also, I will be modifying my footer and policy tonight to mention that if there is no proper attribution for both author or source, I will put them on the Hall of No Attribution with mentioned offenses. This reflect the results of the btclog incident that changed my mind. The copyright notice waiver will remain, but it doesn't mean that you can trample upon my economic self-interest! The only problem I have with your site is not being able to make custom prediction.For example, I want to make a prediction on whether or not the price of bitcoin will be ten dollars by the end of this month, the next security breach at mtgox, and so on. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/warfare-in-a-bitcoin-worldhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-what-is-ithttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-adoption-opportunity-teenagers The ransom is officially ended with Magical tux making the second donation. Thanks everyone for donating.We are now in the process of releasing the withheld content. 1 dude donated .25045601 BTC!Even if you donated 0.001 BTC, it's still appreciated. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/warfare-in-a-bitcoin-worldhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-what-is-ithttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-adoption-opportunity-teenagersWe are looking to raise 1.7 BTC for the release of 3 articles from Bitcoin Weekly.Donation address: 13oN4mavM3bV11CsC72PMZZuq3S3agKKkcYou can also check the balance: http://blockexplorer.com/address/13oN4mavM3bV11CsC72PMZZuq3S3agKKkcHere is the list of content we are planning to release soon:1. Bitcoin: What Is It? by Vitalik Buterin 2.  Warfare in a Bitcoin Worldn by Vitalik Buterin3. Bitcoin Adoption Opportunity: Teenagers by Vitalik ButerinBitcoin Weekly requires a certain amount of money to be raised via donations. Everyone can donate as much or as little as they like. Eventually, the donation balance will reach our fundraising target. At that point, we will release all ransomed contentsIf Bitcoin Weekly creates new content during the period between the start of this ransom and the end of the fundraising, we will add them to the list of ransomed materials. We will also increase the ransom target by .10 BTC.Term of Condition:It will be checked via http://blockexplorer.com/address/13oN4mavM3bV11CsC72PMZZuq3S3agKKkc between 7:00 AM to 8:00 AM CST before I go to my day job. Once 1.7 BTC fundraising target is released, I will try to release the content ASAP once I am informed. Excuse me? I think most of our wealth sit on the internet and is intangible. Dwarf Fortress, for example is one of the best fantasy simulation game ever created. It's all 0s and 1s. The GLBSE doesn't follow the laws. Everything on GLBSE is based on reputation. Kill cash? It will be the cash of tommorow! Awesome.  People donated even more bitcoin even beyond the goalline. Thank you! http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/alternative-distributed-currency-creation-and-distribution-models-and-implementationhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/social-democracy-enforced-in-currency We received 1.00666666 BTC. Thank you for your donation. Release of new content in progress. I see that we are already quite close to releasing new content. I am intrigued with the idea of buying Kradminer.comHowever, I dislike maintenance projects and increased responsibility for myself. I also do not see much upside to buying kradminer.com for the community.
I am adverse to making a loan using all the funds. I am happy and open to ways of increasing the funds, though I dislike holding the money.One of the thing on my todo list is find a trusted person who handle half of the money and do the work of making effective use of the funds.  I am too lazy to do much of anything with the 309 BTC I am escrowed with. But if you have a good idea on how to spread bitcoin and make bitcoin more useful with the money donated, let me know. Just don't make me work too hard. Released content:http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/alternative-distributed-currency-creation-and-distribution-models-and-implementationhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/social-democracy-enforced-in-currencyBitcoin Weekly ransom target is 1 BTC, to release 2 articles.Donation address: 1ET9QUXZBMHLxFMsqUJnpPFDpk427UL7vCYou can also check the balance: http://blockexplorer.com/address/1ET9QUXZBMHLxFMsqUJnpPFDpk427UL7vCHere is the list of content we are planning to release soon:1. Social Democracy Enforced in Currency by Vitalik Buterin 2. Alternative Distributed Currency Creation and Distribution Models and Implementation by Vitalik ButerinHow it worksBitcoin Weekly requires a certain amount of money to be raised via donations. Everyone can donate as much or as little as they like. Eventually, the donation balance will reach our fundraising target. At that point, we will release all ransomed contentsIf Bitcoin Weekly creates new content during the period between the start of this ransom and the end of the fundraising, we will add them to the list of ransomed materials. We will also increase the ransom target by .10 BTC.Term of Condition:It will be checked via http://blockexplorer.com/address/1ET9QUXZBMHLxFMsqUJnpPFDpk427UL7vCFor me, if it is found to exceed or meet 1 BTC in the time period of 7:30 AM to 8:00 AM CST(time before I go to my day job), I will publish all material as soon as possible.It will continues to be check until 1 BTC are donated. I think the private address claim service is a good idea. Let me see what I will whip up during the weekend. I think there are bitcoin payment processing companies out there that help enable subscription. However, I don't think I can offer much in the way of value and competition. They do daily backup of their wallets to offsite location, both on site and remote, right?At least that what I hope. If you're thinking of that weird celluar automata game, I choose a different project. It's called The City.It's set in the far future when a dyson sphere literally swallowed the solar system. You build a human colony/civilization inside this universe. Your very own world with its own story. (Did I forget to mention that your world span the solar system?)You will get to encounter evil cyborg humans like Silicon Creature tribes, the out-of-control safeguard, and maybe...just maybe....You will get a visit from legendary hero Killy, the man tasked with the effort of searching the whole dyson sphere to find and the bring the human with the net gene to cyberspace so that he can shut down the sprawling and out-of-control dyson sphere known as The City.Other than that, it's an incredibly complex social simulation of a colony, the world it live in, and the various tribes that populate the world. Like dwarf fortress but with its own unique gameplay.  You will have hovercraft crews, marines, snipers, farmers, armorers and weaponmakers, traders, miners, scientists, naturalists, doctors, engineers, etc. It's a long term project and I doubt it will be completed within the next two decade. Explain in details? Keep the ideas coming. HTML5 is poorly documented? What are you smoking? * kiba is making a game in coffeescript and processing.js What kind of program or site would you like to see built? What I am looking for is to build value in the bitcoin economy by building small and useful sites/applications or perhaps just interesting contents to look at(like statistics).Wanna earn them and build the bitcoin economy. Cause, the bigger the economy, the richer I will be! Note: I don't actually make money from bitcoinweekly and any profit it made goes to Bitcoin Weekly operation funds and expansion. In fact, I probably lost more money in that venture. But it made the Bitcoin landscape a bit better. I am just looking for profitable way to help people.Remember folks, it gottach be a small project but useful! That's what I choose. Even if you have a crazy ideas, let them loose! I might pick up potential in a similar idea but doable project. The money I was entrusted with. Why do you think it's an elaborate scam? 1LHNrexD6fS7kmTeseQLBhnraaXSKDpV9eWatch this address for 302.82 BTC. With the money that is currently in the process of being reclaimed from mybitcoin, I will put the money into an organization that will fund the development of bitcoin related projects and the economy. Naturally, these funding will be in the form of prizes, and ambitious at that too.In any case, I will need to lay out the charter and the framework and how we're going to get funding, the kind of prizes we will be funding, and so forth. For now, it is a vague idea with some funds backing it up.My thought right now:1. Study up and learn to use the GLBSE. My idea is that those who own more stocks will be paying more into the foundation each month.2. 75% to 80% will be going to the funds. The rest will probably be maintenance of hosting and domain names. For best result, efficiency is desired.3. We should lay out a plan on how we're going to back up and who's going to be escrow.4. If possible, I would like to split my liability to another trusted escrow agent. This way, both of us would have to lose the money to wipe away the funds.5. I don't want this charity to be confused with the X-prize foundation. Better names welcomed.Blah. I don't have the time or energy to do this project. I will either return what left of the funds or pass the money to someone the donors trust. In the process of claiming the fund. Source. Also, wouldn't it be better if somebody write a program to automate said data gathering of such effort? I emailed bitlex with the email info he posted in his profile. I am....    I am going to hold more bitcoin.
The regression theorem is account of how money arise from a barter economy. The theorem is irrelevant to bitcoin. What we need is ewallet insurance and real security policies. What is a late adopter? The guy who come after me. What is an early adopter? The guy who come before me.It's all relative. As long as you have enough human beings who want to adopt bitcoin, the late adopters will become early adopters and the late adopters have incentive to convince people to join in the bitcoin economy. Don't also forget that early adopters have incentive to invest in the bitcoin economy and convince people to join in. You see? This is an advantage of bitcoin, not a flaw. This is what I feel like right now: http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-selloff How are they going to chase around anonymous e-wallet services? So we're creating a non-governmental chartered corporation which you can't sue in courts?In all seriousness, I hope this new company will be more secure and more accountable to the wallet holders. Those banks that are INCOMPETENT and SCREWUP don't get punished much. They get bailout courtesy of the gubernment. Also, they are not immune to security breaches. Also, people around here got their money stolen, forgot to backup, on their own fricking personal computer. You screwed yourself and go a little apeshit.But when somebody screw up holding your money, you go apeshit crazy.Backup your wallet with due diligence, scrutinize your ewallet service. Ask all kind of questions. Don't take your bitcoin for granted. Clearly, some people have a knack for inventing conspiracies.  The only problem is: getting in contact with Tom Williams. I WANT TO BUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUY! ME GOING TO BUY!   When a service go silent, people assume the worst and go on a witchhunt. (That's why all critically important service should have an offsite status page where they can communicate)Keep a cool head and see how Tom William perform, guys.   Can we keep discussion on mybitcoin instead of whether or not a certain fed program is a fraud?KTHXBYE! Bumpity bump.I will need to PM bitlex again. I don't think Google looks kindly on SEO manipulation. Backup, triple! I got a PM from bitlex. Let see what he wants. (I have to PM him again explaining that I would like to negotiate and stuff) Does anybody knows any additional way to contact bitlex and smoketoomuch?What if they don't show up? How long should I wait? It seems that being an early adopter really is brutal and harsh. This is assuming that the person behind it knew that bitcoin would grow so big.
Ah, yes. The bulk of my wealth are stored on my desktop and netbook. They are my personal belonging. I don't bundle other people's money o business stuff with my personal saving. Bitcoin Weekly money are also stored in mybitcoin.I used to be the escrow for the bitcoin animation bounty which were kept by me and noagendamarket as well as some other guy I don't remember with absolutely no problem. It was around ten thousand bitcoin. I don't think anybody have pointed out that storing the money in a third party wallet service is a bad idea on top of trusting people to hold your money. I was scared for holding that much money rather than being scared that mybitcoin might go down.In any case, it was a serious mistake. A mistake that is difficult to see without hindsight. I PMed bitlex. They were the earliest ewallet service and lot of old timers like me used it. At one time, it hold the largest bitcoin development bounty prize in the world. Because mybitcoin was not a scam. It was a very trustworthy service at that time.  From the old donation thread:17.5 BTC were mine. The rest are bitlex(100BTC), and smoketoomuch(500BTC). This is because I remember donating 17.5 BTC.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1432.0 We all have learned our lessons regarding bitcoin. The community learned that bitcoin is real shit and we better treat all real shit like it's supposed be treated, with care.Bitcoin isn't going to simply make us rich unless we treat it like an asset.  True....but I been keeping their funds for several months. It's time to give it back. Right now, I am trying to make a determination of my possible debt. How long was the last downtime? This is a good idea. I PMed him. In that case, my heart just sank lower.If mybitcoin was unattended for that long..then we're all fucked. There were warning sign, but we didn't heed it because mybitcoin was so trustworthyin the past.I am never storing any significant amount of bitcoin on any ewallet service ever again. 1 man. IQ tests are updated periodically. The average IQ will always be 100. Pretty please let hope that. And I am going to find a better service.One man operation, no dedicated support staff is not worth the freebies. What if the population choose an unethical and evil action? You could vote against it but half of the population already choose to do EVIL!Democracy doesn't fix things, just give voice to a larger population of people, who may or may not choose wisely. I am going to ahead with the bankruptcy process.I think the largest debtor I have is SmokeTooMuch. If mybitcoin.com is a scam, it is one hell of a sophisticated scam.Screwup is a hell lot more likely. And I hope we all move all our money to some place else where they have dedicated staffs and multiple communication lines. The only thing I can do is beg for forgiveness from donors so that I will not be saddled with a 10K debt.
Can't take much more of this. Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.Please let it be back. Please let it be back.AND GOD DAMN GET A OFFSITE STATUS PAGE BLOG!* kiba finished venting. Move on, nothing to see here. Does he use twitter? Or have a status page not hosted here? What is your backup policy regarding the coins donated? Like this?http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-selloff Mybitcoin is just damn incompetent. Doesn't matter if they are the most honest to god trustworthy do the right things people in the world. They never thought a communication channel is important and now they are paying for it in reputations. That's fine with me. I will move my business elsewhere.People who are in the bitcoin economy are very incompetent to a fatal fault, including me."I should have backed up. I should not relies on a single online wallet service. I should..."We are in the early stage of growing in the bitcoin economy where things are going to be crazy and loss unimaginable. We will all lose and win based on our competency. That mean everyone in the economy. The exchanges, you, me, other bitcoiners. Sometime we dodge bullets and sometime we don't.I would be surprised if most of us in this era will retain our wealth and our bitcoin. If anything, the few lucky bastards who survive and become billionaires are the most lucky and perhaps the most competent. Remember, there is no gubernment that take care of us when we fail. It would be bad if the government bailout the exchanges and the business that fail because that reward incompetency.Either we become competent....or we don't.  Maybe it isn't a hack and bots had gone crazy. If it is the bots gone crazy, let punish them by winning as reasonable human beings.   It takes time for the bitcoin community to learn how to secure bitcoin. This is new technologies and many people will lose their bitcoin from here to the future. Careful. If you complain too much, you might become a mod. I got 600 BTC that I am on the hook for. So I should be way more angry.Also, Bitcoin Weekly money that my webzine worked hard to accumulate is in there too.I will have to take money out of my own pocket to provide for weekly's operation and answer to the people who trusted me with their money.But I am not angry. This isn't the end of the world. The server might come back. If not, I will do the work necessary so that people who trusted me with their money get their back and that the webzine keep operating.Learn my lesson and move on. Do you trust the silk road? The silk road for all we know could be a CIA operation designed to nap dealers. The only thing we can do: learn our lessons and move on. Online e-wallet and banking service are convenient and plus they are instant. The downside of that is you have to trust. IF the owner got arrested and questioned, they might figure out the location of the server and confiscate the money that sit on there. I am not anonymous, but I certainly want an anonymous account. An anonymous owner is just more protection, especially if people can trust him. I prefer anonymous e-wallet service with anonymous owner who have a reputation.In any case, the problem with mybitcoin is that they have no communication channel. Even if they have not stolen my money, I still move out...because they shown poor services. I think he means that he is the only competition around town. No communication is often regarded as a form of bad faith. Information vaccum raise suspicion. Mybitcoin may be back, or not but they seems to not understand the importance of a status update blog separate from the network. No clues, and everyone is complaining about mybitcoin. We need more competition! Because having only one wallet service round town is not a good idea!  Alright, I am moving some of my money to flexcoin. It will be a small amount though. If there is more online wallet/bank service, I will also move small amount of money depending on how well the questions are answered.Never have all your money in one basket.
Let face it, there will be an exchange that allow bots even if all the other exchanges will not. Bitcoin economy is a free market. Let wait and see what happen. But do you have it in your TOS that you don't do fractional reserve banking and that it is your responsiblity to ensure that the balance shown is actually what you have?Also, do you have a process for reimbursing people's bitcoin in case of successful security breach? You will not do fractional reserve banking, correct? Do you have that in your TOS? The insurance won't mean a thing. So there is flexcoin. What other wallet service are there? I might have lost 600 BTC if mybitcoin service went down and never come back up. The 600 BTC I am holding were used for the cause of convincing CCC which went nowhere as their communication sucks. They were tried to be donated to the GIMP campaign but that campaign die out due to my lack of interest.Eventually, I will list all the forum members who had donated to me as an escrow. They can either decide to forgive my debt or negotiate with me for a repayment.(Hopefully collectively with other users)I am an employed programmer (at 10 dollars an hours cause I am still very junior), so be very reasonable, especially in a deflationary economy.Should the mybitcoin service come back up, I will begin the process of refunding the escrow money should donors ask for it.BUT! I have plan for it too. I wish to establish an Bitcoin X-prize foundation. (Not registered by the gubernment or anything) that award prizes for important achievement for the bitcoin economy and community. In addition to the initial money used to established the foundation, there will be paying members who help increase the prize pot as well vote for projects they want to see funded and serve as judges as to if a prize will be awarded. The X-prize will be used to incentivize economic development in much the same way bounties does in the past but with more certainty to the process and bigger capital.If there are interest from donors, I will also reserve their escrow money for it and I will pay 5 USD worth of BTC to help chip in for the development cost. Also, I would like to transfer the escrow money for the X-prize to someone trustworthy as determined by donors.Anyway, I will try to get money out of mybitcoin should it come back up as I don't trust the service anymore. That is not an answer. Why are you making moral judgement on how much profit a person should be able to make? What would you recommended as a wallet service replacement?Bitcoin Weekly funds is stuck there too! Also, 600 BTC that I am responsible for. My mere presence on the first day of enjoyment made my boss become a bitcoin miners. He now owns 11 GPUs, all ATI Radeon. By just being hired, I introduced my boss to bitcoin. Now he's bitcoin mining and have 11 ATI GPUs. Maybe somebody just repackage the Satoshi paper and hope to make money off of it. Do I give a damn? Not really. Anything to help spread bitcoin knowledge is appreciated.  Fair? What is fairness? Naw. It is not about figuring out who Satoshi is but to discuss the great mystery that is satoshi. Folks...the contents are now released:1. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-selloff2. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-decentralization-and-the-nash-equilibrium3. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-alternative-applications-and-the-profit-motive We reached our target already! Thanks for the bacon.   Vitalik Buterin is an excellent writer. I am happy to to employ him. Anyway, thanks for the donations so far. Trying to place Cypherpunkers next to the merchant community jgarizik wants to cater to is a bad idea.Though, it would be nice to have one coherent community, but that doesn't seem to be possible.  Thanks for the surprisingly quick fundraising.  1. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-selloff2. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-decentralization-and-the-nash-equilibrium3. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-alternative-applications-and-the-profit-motiveBitcoin Weekly ransom target is .71 BTC, to release 2 articles, and 1 comic.Donation address: 17fMqMr4KtMWGJMiqrhf3pZTBya73NAXveYou can also check the balance at http://blockexplorer.com/address/17fMqMr4KtMWGJMiqrhf3pZTBya73NAXveHere is the list of content we are planning to release soon:1.  Bitcoin, Decentralization and the Nash Equilibrium by Vitalik Buterin 2.  Bitcoin, Alternative Applications and the Profit Motive by Vitalik Buterin.3. Bitcoin Selloff by Joey Dangerous. New comic. How it worksBitcoin Weekly requires a certain amount of money to be raised via donations. Everyone can donate as much or as little as they like. Eventually, the donation balance will reach our fundraising target. At that point, we will release all ransomed contentsIf Bitcoin Weekly creates new content during the period between the start of this ransom and the end of the fundraising, we will add them to the list of ransomed materials. We will also increase the ransom target by .10 BTC.Term of Condition:It will be checked via http://blockexplorer.com/address/17fMqMr4KtMWGJMiqrhf3pZTBya73NAXveFor me, if it is found to exceed or meet .71 BTC in the time period of 7:30 AM to 8:00 AM CST(time before I go to my day job), I will publish all material as soon as possible.It will continues to be check until .71 BTC are donated.  Lack of movement! EVIL!Too much movement! EVIL!
One would hope nobody will be successful in maliciously manipulating google rankings. Again, the google index can be manipulated.I am not sure what is the best solution to the problem will be. There are clients that other people are developing, hopefully it will force the developer of the mainline bitcoin client to quicken their pace. If you guys have any more objections to voice, please do so.I am quite sure that they are probably misunderstanding. Because nobody knows why they are getting downvoted. In my opinion, I think you can find guys who think they are the shit at any age.Atlas make social mistakes. Doesn't mean he think he's the shit. If he learn, he will be an alright person.(Speaking as an aspie who don't always know how to respond correctly to a social situation) Bitcoin's resources aren't being diverted. From what I understand, miners are just using the same resource against the two chains. We are not talking about devoting half of the mining to resource to bitcoin or to namecoin.. We are talking about improving mining efficency. Merge mining add value, rather than slicing the pie. Rather than earning bitcoins, you earn the same amount of bitcoin while also earning namecoin.Think of your car getting an increase in fuel efficency on a single gallon of gas, rather than the gas of gallon being divided up between two cars. From what I understand, the two block chains is not being merged together. This is the consenus by Satoshi and others long ago in the BitDNS thread. Ease of being transferred across border. That's a dream for money launders, but for also a dream for people who need to send money to their family. Anyway, the nice thing about bitcoin for me is how fiction-less that it can be to pay my employees. I don't need to wait for days for money to transfer. I don't need to worry about geography. I don't need to worry about paypal. Of course, it is also hard for me to automate bitcoin because I lack l33t sysadmin skills. Nevermind about learning to use bitcoind's API. I have to learn how to set it up.(Not easy, when your OS is Debian Lenny)In anycase, I don't believe in silver bullets. There are lot of little cases where bitcoin proves superior. What we need to do is magnify bitcoin's strength. Creating sustainable businesses one by one help with that process. If anybody who also run their business entirely under the public domain, I would be glad to help form an association that promote our shared business interest and the public domain.We could have a central site that aggregates all the contents of our members, provide news and inquiry on the public domain, and be the forum of discussion for business owners to learn their trade and from others, as well host open source projects that help us run our business.I hope bitcoinweekly isn't the only site that's running under the public domain policy. I would migrate to a forum that's more serious about learning how to run a business.Perhaps it would be a good idea to start an association of bitcoin business or a business cooperative where we pool together common resources.If anybody who is also a public domainer, I would also be gald to help form the Public Domain Businesses of Bitcoin or something better sounding. Never ever choose me as mod! Don't care about the work or the power. I consider bitcoin to be a world changing currency that's going to have a lot of positive impact and I wanted it to succeed so badly. So I am trying to increase my holding in bitcoin come high water or hell.I am in it for a long haul. How about you? We need more Nefario type guys. Nefario built the GLBSE, and do cypherpunk things. He's cool and do interesting stuff.What do we have? A bunch of anarchists in this forum who feel the need to beat their chest and show how loyal they are to anarchism. In term of economic activities, chest beating is the most useless form of promoting bitcoin, or perhaps negative. Plus, it contributes noise to the forum.Libertarian and cypherpunk businesses like GLBSE will probably be the shadow economy that is behind the white bitcoin economy. I don't mind that. I don't mind delinking the forums, because it sucks anyway.Perhaps, Bitcoin Weekly will never be the mainstream publication of the bitcoin world. I don't mind that. It's like being mises.org. Libertarianism is bigger than ever because of their boldness to ignore prevailing which amounts to "sharing is evil, mkkay?"Politics and bickering sucks. Libertarians should know this more than anybody else. For a long time, we languish in forums not doing anything for our liberty. Instead, we are content to discuss who's the most libertarian or loyal to the libertarian tribe. Bitcoin provides that opportunities of doing something. Let take advantage of that and show that our tribe is not just a bunch of kooks, but a community of entrepreneurs that provide goods and services that people really wants in a manner in which people appreciated. Let do badass things.Kiba,Your local friendly libertarian entrepreneur and senior bitcoiner. Somebody can control the wealth, and that is individuals who can secure their money from thieves and bandits. I disagree. Technology is not neutral. Example: atomic bombs give nation-states huge power, not so much individuals. No longer is the political consequence the conquest of a nation, but the annihilation of the world.Bitcoin will have economic and political consequences, for better or for worse. That being said, spreading bitcoin is in libertarians' interest. What they want is not societies that agree with their views, but freedom. Spreading bitcoin will achieve libertarian goal anyway.Not to mention the fact that we will probably convert most of the world population to deflationary apologists.  I said "we need more moderators!!!!1111", they decided to promote me to mod instead. At that time, I was ambivalent about it, not knowing the cost and benefit. You don't want to be a mod, trust me.When the admin required mods to reestablish trust after the mtgox hack....I just said "fuck it". People use that report button and spam me all day with their (often legit) complaints. Plus, I don't get any recognition or benefit from it other than the potential corruption of my ethic.It might be worthwhile to mod a small sector of the forum, but I am not going to mod the entire community. Nowsday, I run a small paid publication called Bitcoin Weekly. There's a potential for payoff, I get to learn stuff that become relevant to my career and my career education assisting me back. Also, I get to be proud of regularly employing a few individuals within the bitcoin community and economy. This is some serious business we're talking about. It's pathetic that they're going to....turn down...opportunities.  Meh, bitcoin critics just don't like anything new or crazy.
Why don't you do something about it?Whining about something you can't change is a waste of forum attention. Yes, it took a conscious effort not to reply to Synaptic. I disagree. The squirrel getting crushed is still an unexpected outcome. I think that's humorous.This is what I wish to focus on.Though, comedic comics won't be the only things we will focus on. I got the idea of pivoting to educational comics or perhaps stories involving bitcoin. However, they probably takes more effort and capital to write, which is not what Bitcoin Weekly have at the time. We're still building our warchest. Probably the developer thinks this forum is a cesspool filled with a bunch of anarchists who may be bad for PR. (BTW, I agree that it is becoming a cesspool) IF you guys have aesthetic suggestion, I am happy to hear them.Also, I am happy to feedback, negative or otherwise on the look of Bitcoin Weekly. Mock whoever you like. Just don't contribute useless drivel, being rude and insulting to bitcoiners, and especially encouraging Atlas to go ranting about his idealogy.  You got a whole bureaucracy dedicated to tracking down tax evasion. You got folks like me thinking about  doing taxes and not knowing if I violate any tax law. Then you got breaucract social engineering with taxes. I will never see a damn dime out of social security. The tax money will be used to enrich and pay off political supporters, support business that would not otherwise succeed.A fiat tax, or a sale tax, that have no exceptions and very easy to understand would be far more socially efficient. One that does not tax the productive thought capacities resources of a whole societies. Rich people devising clever scheme to do tax evasion is symptomatic of the problem, not the cause of our woes.Honestly, if I am worth a million dollars in productive capacity, and the government took a very large percentage of my earning, I too would be talking to tax lawyers for ways to preserve much of that earning. Perhaps, I will shred the job that I am very productive in and the economy will be worse off for it.Also note that flat taxes are not in contradiction with higher taxes. However, higher flat taxes will not solve the problem with our economy and how we govern. Moreover, the current situation have to do with governments not balancing their budget. It have something to do with the systematic incentives of politicians giving into short term gains by over-promising for the future.It is precisely democracy that is the problem as it is asking 300 million people to select politicians who will decide on every issue in congress. We are expecting a population to be well informed and able to keep eyes on our politicians. This is not feasible when the population can't ever know or be informed by everything, have busy lives and concern of their own, and skills that they need to maintain.Right now, the elderly have lot of free time in order to vote while the twenty-something have better things to do. They demand their medicare and social security as promised by the government, but which will bankrupt the government. Also note that they have been paying social security taxes for years.  This forum starts to suck anyway. If you cheerlead bitcoin or your political ideology too much, you are bound to get rude comments about it.If you love bitcoin, we already know that you are part of the tribe. Moar entrepreneurship, less tribal posturing. When you become very wealthy, you don't need to worry about generosity or hording anymore.If people are poor, it's probably because they have corrupt governments, go to war too much, vote for leaders that belong nominally to their tribe regardless if he's crooked or not. Saving is how we become wealthy. My value proposition is no longer writing and editing, though I occasionally write an article. I exercise very little editorial control. What I merely did was I write a system that allow writers to review their work, thus removing me from the loop almost altogether. Then I encourage them to write in a very specific mindset. The last step I need to do is write down the policies and guideline of how Bitcoin Weekly writes article.Instead, my time is spent on a lot on programming the CMS or promoting the content.Wordpress seems to be the best choice. Find a couple of plugin and be done with it. On the other hand, I like too much learning ruby on rails development.I care about others appreciating my magazine and efficiency and making money, yes. But I also like doing rails development, therefore I will trade some fun for some inefficiency. End of story.Inaccurate. I need it because my business model needs it, unless there's a less hassle free way to do it. Manually ransoming articles and paying people takes quite a bit of time each week. I wish to automate that drudgery away. I used Drupal for the last bitcoinweekly website. It was ghetto and horrible.I could have hire a designer or buy a template and be done with it. I don't need to go full CMS. Thus, from a tradeoff perspective, it would be better that I wait a few more weeks after my dollars are translated into bitcoin(Why? So I can support the bitcoin economy) and spent that time investigating technologies, reducing my OODA loop latency, or any number of beneficial activities.It is also uncertain to me what CMS that I should use for ruby on rails. My job will be forcing me to use a CMS framework probably pretty soon, though right now I am working on an ecommerce site. This provide me an automatic avenue of investigation and if I think the tradeoff in converting Bitcoin Weekly to use a rails CMS is good enough, I will convert to it.Right now, I have more pressing needs concerning revenues:1. Upgrade the VPS so that I can run bitcoind on it.2. Write the ransom system.3. Follow through on the verbal deal that I made with tcatm.Anyway, thanks for the discussion. I am a much more rational businessman. Dunno. I thought ruby on rails is a platform. You don't like the look now? I thought I improved it quite a bit. Nice to know that someone appreciate my magazine, but that doesn't tell me anything about the site's new look. So?For anybody who live in cyberspace, we have more wealth than we can ever imagine. Trying to consume all the world's greatest book will never be done in any normal human lifetime.What is the use of generosity and hording if we effectively have unlimited wealth?  What the hell do you know about the perception of wealth? You never been there 200 years ago. Anybody at The Bitcoin Sun wants to tell me if the magazine is dead or alive? It seems that my competitor, http://thebitcoinsun.com is dead?  The last published date is almost a month ago. Libertarians are more llke free love hippies when it come to open source, communal development, and copyright.  Ok, ignore what I just say in the last sentence.Libertarianism isn't opposed to open source or anything like that. We like voluntarism very much.
The discussion is beyond my head so....but I heard Ben Laurie doesn't like bitcoin because it isn't elegant and efficient at all, according to the Bitcoin is Worse is Better article that was published on my site.  Add padding to front page. Linkify Bitcoin Weekly logo. Center navigational bar. Change font to verdana and improve layout of articles.Probably more work to do, but I been at this like six hours stright. Good morning. See ya in the afternoon.Also, don't forget to leave feedback. Dunno. I am going to wait for feedback from more people. I like it better than the old ones, plus they told me to get rid of the borders.If people told me in significant number(say, 30%), I will revamp it until it works.Though, I should buy hire a CSS designer because I don't actually have design sense or perhaps just buy a template. I like doing it too much.It's true that I could just have used wordpress and be done with it. But I took bitcoin weekly as an opportunity to learn web development. Plus, I do ruby on rails development at my day job anyway. In doing the revamp, I learn a lot about sass, which make it really easy for me to do CSS customization! It looks better to me than what I got yesterday.I don't need all the bell and whistles of wordpress. Should be fixed. Let me know if it ain't?Why would I want to do that? I would need to learn php and learn how to write my own plugins.  Very strange. I started getting it too. Gone like the wind. http://bitcoinweekly.com/Been working my butt off all night to make bitcoin weekly even more minimalist.  Love it or hate it, let me know. Dude, you need to take a chill pill. Extreme economic growth is going to lead to extreme deflation. You're going to prevent everyone from benefiting from deflation? I am thinking about other online wallet alternatives. Any of ya recommend one? I don't view arts as a static thing that don't change. Art is part of culture and culture mutate and changes as they become more used. I hope Joey Dangerous thinks the same way too. I want bitcoin mugs! I have employees. Keep in mind that Joey Dangerous was responsible for the art. In some way, Satoshi sacrifices personal reputation. He might become one of the most famous inventor of this century, but nobody knows who he really is.To me, Satoshi is a quiet professional. Doing great things in the world but not necessarily known by the world to do great things. It's like being a navy seal. You're one of the best special force unit in the world but you may never be famous. Folks, remember that practically almost everything in the bitcoin economy and community is a few months old at most. The speed of activities that we are used to are extremely fast.Right now, we are merely in a lull. Develop some patience and the pace of the bitcoin world will quicken as we recuperate. It seems like all the comics are funny to somebody. Some comics received more scorn than others. Some barely make people laugh.Very interesting.Of course, I wish to up the effectiveness of Bitcoin Weekly's comics. Sounds like a perfectly good thing.
We need less trading fees, not more.The important thing is that we are trying many things at once. Many will fail, some will succeed, and a few will drive massive adoption. Comedy is simply hard. Those who are good at it probably spent a lot of time practicing and iterating. At the very least mention your favorite and comic you don't find funny/least laughed.Nice to know that I have fans though. When somebody insult you, generally being rude, and calling you names, you want to ban/censor them.I was a moderator and then I declined to keep the job(after having the job fostered reluctantly on me) because it's a job that I don't want. I also despise censorships and after seeing what happens here, I despise it even more. It's a good thing that I exercised reluctance in reporting them to the mod. I changed my mind on my opinion about this person, Synaptic..after asking people on #lesswrongNow that being said, CaptainZinn gave me some valuable feedback:He said 1 and 2 comics are simply not funny. Bitsquirrel is good. 3, 5, 6 praised bitcoin too much. Of course, you can make predictable jokes that only anarchists would laugh at. That's the catch-22. Indeed, it is terrible to murder human beings for simply being douchebags on forum. The people who did these kind of things are even worse than douchebags. Very good points. Like you said, making jokes for in-group means lot of crappy jokes. I want to make good jokes.Although, Bitcoin is indeed not funny, but you can probably find lot of material within the community that surrounds bitcoin. Thanks for your feedback.Of course, it's easier said than done. They are trolls when I have judge them to be contributing noise and feed lot of needless anger.There's a difference between not liking a particular arguments for a position, and not liking people who contributed noise. It's best to ignore him. Feeding the troll will only make him talk more. I just wrote the joke. I didn't make the character or the money windmill. Obviously bitsquirrel is an invention of Joey D. Though, I applied a modification of bitsquirrel that make them gliding squirrels. You are free to reuse them as you like. They're public domain. Is attempting to troll somebody and not contributing useful information ground for banning?Note: I know that troll is overused or abused..Even so, I would prefer the ability to ignore somebody rather than banning someone outright. Obviously, there's privacy issue just like google collecting large amount of information about you.I am not sure how to approach this, except the fact that I would need to export the comments, if at all possible and convert them to the database at bitcoin weekly.I need to think about the privacy issue a bit more before deciding what's the best course of action.So comics should make recursive jokes about themsleves. I keep that in mind. Your bitcoin get stolen, you sold your bitcoin, bitcoin didn't really works out, the business you started eats your wallet.dat, etc. Dude, they don't care.Instead, you should become a badass entrepreneur that proves them wrong. Atlas, I don't really care for these kind of thread where you are preaching to the choir.  Though there is a risk of ignoring things we don't want to hear..there are some people who sprout poor quality craps.One person is Synaptic. While I am grateful for him for promoting my comics through trolling, I am not grateful for pollution where I am attempting to solve a quality issue with my comics. That have nothing to do with content or the quality of the comics. You just hate the site's look. I agree that the site can be improved and that there are many things to improve in the software, but I am not throwing out the editing process that was core to how Bitcoin Weekly works. Stylistic improvement can be done easily enough with rails. I just need to get my ass to it. Meh. I like it. Don't want to maintain a commenting system. Though who care about privacy are already blocking it.Where would I get this legendary writer? I bet all of them are writing their funny and hilarious comics.Most of the criticism have nothing to do with the comics. Thanks for your feedbacks, guys.I believe I got two improtant lessons or ideas to try out of this:0. Avoid false laughter. That's the lesson I got before coming into this thread. Basically, don't aim for the obvious and avoid tired cilche like laughing at the expense of the enemy. Instead make comics that make people laugh even if they were the enemy.1. This is a new lesson: Implement a rating system and a way to iterate comics. This may increase the cost of maintaining a cartoonist but it could lead to funny comics.2. Lean on Bitcoin Weekly's strength. Bitcoin Weekly generated interesting technical and economic essays that explore the depth of the bitcoin world. That should also apply to our comics as well.
Ok. Some people find the bitcoin mascot funny. Reddit likes it. The Gavinator definitely didn't work well.Perhaps, it would be better if the rate goes down.I wonder if it would works better without the speech bubble. I should note that bitsquirrel seem to be received well. I think it's a good comic. Also, Joey D's Bitcoin Mascot is also well received. But it's mostly more miss than hit.Making funny comics is really hard.Yes, this seems to be a good pivot. It also works with Bitcoin Weekly's strength which is to be a non-sensationalist essay-driven site.Even so, what I might implement for the funny comics is the ability to iterate and the ability for audience to give feedback on how funny it is. That way we can keep trying and see which one succeed. Appreciation is nice, but I would like to gather feedback and reasons why some of my comic fail. That's nice you appreciate my comics. But that doesn't tell me anything unless Bitcoin Weekly comics are all equally funny to you. But which one was funny, and which one is not? Well, rank comics from least funny to most funny. Maybe that will tell me something. -50 points for trying to troll me and failing epically.+100 points for promoting traffic to my site.Good night.  If you are not willing to offer constructive feedback, I am not interested in your comments. Not sure what you mean, but I thought it was terrible. Granted, I didn't write this. I also would like to mention that the Gavinator comic is also a fail. It's not very nice to shit on someone's genuine effort to improve his works, no matter how terrible it is. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/fiat-kingdomAlso is a fail is this comic I written, http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/the-gavinatorThere are time when we succeed massively or fail massively. I believe this time we failed big time. I was told this comic is totally bad, and I agree with this assessment. (Don't you see? Our humor is mostly "crushing our hated enemy", the gubernment)http://lesswrong.com/lw/m5/false_laughter/So, I am gathering more feedbacks and comments. I consider decentralization as its greatest strength and asset. mybitcoin.com could be a lot better but I never lost any money in mybitcoin..But I am only one person. Atlas, it's time to shut up and get busy with our business life instead of arguing and bickering and moralizing why is it wrong or right to have intellectual property.Our success(or failure) in business will be far more sweet(or bitter) than the pointless debate we are seeing here today.I am dropping out of this thread, now. Reality is the final arbiter. People said any number of things that our business model couldn't work. It's also common to say that business is an exception, an  anomaly. It only works for certain type of business, and so on.Of course, none of these people don't have the ball to experiment with their business model. They rely on horror and worst case scenario instead of empirical reality.That's a fine way to think about it, except for making money. If somebody try to sue people using bitcoin, there will be a media circus.  It is indeed completely unnecessary, as my magazine proved time and time again by publishing content under the public domain.What kind of evidence you got to prove when everyone always use legal protection for their works? Bitcoin Weekly buckles that trend completely. So far we do not have any devastating economic consequence as a result our policy on copyright.Bitcoin Weekly was inspired in part by Jason Rohrer, who is a famous indie game developer who published his games under the pubic domain. He made a nice living off his games. In addition, I am informed by two economists who made devastating arguments against the notion of copyright and patents, Michele Boldrin and David K. Levine, who wrote the book Against Intellectual Monopoly.In any case, the fight for the future of copyright and patents will not be in the courtroom, or the court of public opinion, or in congress, but in the marketplace where the consumers call the shot.Our wallet speaks louder than any arguments ever made for or against copyright. I have good reasons to believe that copyright is unnecessary to Bitcoin Weekly. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-merchants-part-ihttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-merchants-part-iiMy staff writer, Vitalik Buterin concluded that a really strong payment system is key to Bitcoin's success.Discuss. Lawyers are expensive. Might not be worth the money. Released content: 1. http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/fiat-kingdom2. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-merchants-part-i3. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-merchants-part-iiThank you Bitcoin Weekly readers for your generous donation to this fine magazine.
WOAH!We reached 1.28 BTC.  http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-calm-after-the-stormYou might wanna read that article. It gave a variety of reasons as to why price stabilized.  Yay! Someone donated. Now the balance is .10 BTC.   Surprisingly, nobody donated yet. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-calm-after-the-stormVitalik Buterin's analysis of the not-so-volatile bitcoin price. There is no company called Bitcoin. There is no right but what men assert for themselves.  Here are the released content:1. http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/fiat-kingdom2. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-merchants-part-i3. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-merchants-part-iiThe Bitcoin Weekly ransom target is .70 BTC, to release 2 articles, and 1 comic.Donation address: 1EywCiz76EeF28qBWYcHKwquG7MGpoHY7MYou can also check the balance at http://blockexplorer.com/address/1EywCiz76EeF28qBWYcHKwquG7MGpoHY7MHere is the list of content we are planning to release soon:1. Bitcoin for Merchants Part 1 by Vitalik Buterin in which he analyze the state of payment processing.2. Bitcoin for Merchants Part 2 by Vitalik Buterin. This time he examines the future of payment processing.3. Taxes and Bitcoin by Joey Dangerous. New comic. How it worksBitcoin Weekly requires a certain amount of money to be raised via donations. Everyone can donate as much or as little as they like. Eventually, the donation balance will reach our fundraising target. At that point, we will release all ransomed contentsIf Bitcoin Weekly created new content during the period between the start of this ransom and the end of the fundraising, we will add them to the list of ransomed materials. We will also increase the ransom balance by .10 BTC.In addition, we also have sponsorship by advertisers. They provide an incentives for users to donate by giving users discounts and deals.SponsorshipsIf you wishes to take advantages of deals offered in this thread, you will need to email me for the discount and a unquie donation address. This is crucially important because a donation to the unique address will prove that you have indeed donate to Bitcoin Weekly. Otherwise, donating to the address listed in this forum will not net you anything. For discounts and deals, email me at hackerkiba    at    gmail.comAs of right now, squarewear.biz offer 10% off any total order for your donation. Do not also forget that buying any Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt at the store also means additional revenue for our magazine.BitBrew is also offering 10% discounts for people who donated .05 BTC. Good for one time only.Term of Condition:It will be checked via http://blockexplorer.com/address/1EywCiz76EeF28qBWYcHKwquG7MGpoHY7MFor me, if it is found to exceed or meet .70 BTC in the time period of 7:30 AM to 8:30 AM CST(time before I go to my day job), I will publish all material as soon as possible.It will continues to be check until .70 BTC are donated.  Bitcoin site have outgrown slashdot. It can never be slashdotted again. The prison system is by which how criminality breeds. The prison union like that because they get a nice and secure snug job.  Moderation is not necessarily sanity.Bitcoin Weekly is a good example of rational insanity, which turns out to be sane after all. Bitcoin Weekly commits to an economic premises: We think copyright is completely unnecessary and highly detrimental to our existence. To prove it, we publish everything under the public domain. Most people would call us insane and idiotic. As far as I am concerned, I finally proved to myself that a copyfree world is nothing to worry about.I am in the same political ideology as Atlas, but I am not as loud as him. Brought a t-shirt. Want to set up a dwolla account to convert much of my dollars into bitcoin. I heard somebody brought the new bitvsquirrel t-shirt. Thanks, whoever you are. Cap? Like what? New t-shirt?  That's nice and all, but will somebody buy a t-shirt?Bitcoin Weekly's core competency is not selling t-shirt. Ask squarewear.biz instead.  His name is bitsquirrel and his buddies and him had been featured in a number of Bitcoin Weekly comics:http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/the-gavinatorhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitsquirrelhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-mascots The Gavinator. Top replies for goods in no particular order:1. Games 2. Mining rigs and mining ancillary.3. Ramen noodles.
A new Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt will be coming out soon:These cost 15 dollars each, so it's like 1 BTC at current price. Half of the profit goes back to Bitcoin Weekly to support its mission in creating fabulous magazine. You will be able to buy it at http://squarewear.bizSo... Will you buy this shirt? Wanna write for Bitcoin Weekly? Here are the details: http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submissionIf you have questions or spot errors and mistakes(I am bad at writing proper english), let me know.  When your account get hacked because they added longer timeout period, you will scream bloody murder! hmm..Well, I tend to be angered by their inefficiency and general stupidity.The local utility company for the example don't act like good little capitalists. Instead they have some bureaucratic system just because they're monopolists. They don't care about wanting my money because I need them more than they need me.Enough said. I registered with their power service only to learn that they need me to come to their local office that I lived here. I am like "WTF? Why do you care about proof that I live here? All you need to know is that if I paid the power bill..or not." I used Operation Fabulous for advertising. No frill, no fuss. Not the most sophisticated and useful advertising platform on the planet but it's very simple. Its inspiration, "Project Wonderful" uses paypal but I sweat over the chargeback possibility of paypal. Plus it take them a day to pay me. (Not to mention that you have to be 18 in order to use. I am 20 now so it doesn't apply anymore...)That what I like about bitcoin: bureaucracy eliminated.You can build your business outside the regulated market to avoid the hassle. My magazine doesn't care if you're a dog or a 3 years old, you're going to get paid for work you did and upon what we agreed on.Plus teenagers can engage in commerce as they wishes and how they like. I wish bitcoin is available when I was younger.My only wishes is that it shouldn't be so much of a hassle to use public cryptography to sign constantly changing employment agreement. (I just switch over to ransom payout instead of a constant paycheck but I have yet to update an employment contract) However, that's not Bitcoin's fault, but the lack of infrastructure for the emerging Bitcoin job market. I use it because it is the most damn interesting currency in the world.Dollars? Golds? Yen? Yuan? They aren't damn interesting at all. The strategism of Bitcoin is very different from Apple. It's more like being Android rather than being Apple. What amuses me is that all the trolling and rebuttal actually help increase traffic for Bitcoin Weekly.   Well, the latest comic is now permanently on the front page.  Before that, you would need to click on the latest comic link.  Polls are probably inaccurate but it seems like a large portion of this forum is either in high school or in college.This bodes well for the currency. It means we are not stuck with a bunch of old farts who only care about their social security entitlement and how they are going to retire. Bitcoin Weekly does not accept mindless drivel in which there is no effort of analysis. Bitcoin Weekly does not publishes news. Bitcoin Weekly does not do "journalism". Bitcoin Weekly does not pretend to be neutral like Fox News pretend to be "fair and balanced".We just publish interesting essays and funny comics. That is all. This thread is worthless. BTC Economist: You are a boring troll.Folks, nothing to see here. Move on. No, no, and no!  Doesn't matter how low bitcoin will get. I will never sell. What Bitcoin Weekly does is publish essays and analysis and we publish them when they are ready. There's a deadline but it really means you just need to produce content regularly. We got our own internal commenting system that help with the editing process.Anything that is time sensitive and newsy tends to be discouraged in favor of articles that you read 30 days from now, six months from now, and years later. The Economist website is not a magazine? I don't really care what goons think as long as they read my magazine.  Also, I welcome the modification and photoshopping of bitcoin weekly comics.  http://bitcoinweekly.com   Meh. It's an illusion that create a whole magazine dedicated to Bitcoin, including Bitcoin comics some of you guys are reading.Does your "mass delusion" create that? Something Awful likes Bitcoin Weekly comics so much that they link to it on a bitcoin thread.Ain't that awesome?
I am planning to transfer 10 dollars each week into bitcoin and horde half and spend half. Eventually, I plan to have most of my wages transformed into bitcoin. No. Don't do unethical things. Godaddy? AVOID! You have not been around for very long, right? Everybody know that the GLBSE exchange is based only on 100% trust, and defer to no authorities. It's not a MtGox and TradeHill that operates under the laws of its perspective nation state. It's more like silk road than your mom and pop convenience store. Want tax money? Sell your security/health/retirement fund management/water service or whatever the government have a monopoly on.But I guess nobody wants to do that because it will mean listening to demanding customers. There is a possibility of terrorists assaulting airports checkpoint and causing a big fricking huge massacre of civilians because the TSA doesn't give the fuck about REAL security.True, but it doesn't mean it's going to happen. Advertising fee for this site would be high so that would deter griefers unless they are willing to spend a lot of bitcoin to have their entertainment. It's 25 thousand dollars worth of bitcoin in one week. You think we not be skeptical, even if we are bitcoin proponent?     You're serious? I just brought a Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt from Square Wear.  Ya telling me people are hording money? I got .70 BTC for the articles and one comic. Bitcoin Weekly sucessfully raised the target .70 BTC for the ransom of 2 articles and one comic. Now they are released:http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-mtgox-attackhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-calm-after-the-stormhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/the-gavinator http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-calm-after-the-stormhttp://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-mtgox-attackAll the articles that been ransomed are now also posted. http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/the-gavinatorThe Gavinator comic is now posted, but I don't have time to release the other stuff for ransom. Gottach get back to my US dollars denominated job.  The ransom balance is now .7006 BTC. Release is now in progress.   Mr. Britto is simply stating what he felt will help bitcoin takes off. The ransom balance is now .3206 BTC. My loop:1. People pay me ransom money for articles/comics.2. I pay my writers and cartoonists.3. No idea what my employees do with their money. Presumably hording it and spending some. I have three employees. 4. I pay the hosting and domain name bill.5. In turn, my money is used to pay for mtgox exchange operation.(The company that runs mtgox also host my site)6. As my business expand, I may take on more employees. Also, I may build different websites that require an employees.In any case, I lost more money than I gained. However, I cut cost down to where the profit margin is 10%. Last month was good in term of traffic and I hope to grow again and build a healthy war chest.I am probably one of the longest employer in the bitcoin economy as my economic relationships already stretch a few months. Crappy money. Ransom balance is now .1206 BTC.
Maybe you could oust the identity of satoshi by comparing his style across open source C++ codebase. Added an article and a comic to the ransom lineup:Comic: The Gavinator by Joey Dangerous.Article: Calm After the Storm by Vitalik Buterin.Visit http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=23934.0 for more details on the ransom. We need to raise revenue. Advertising doesn't cut it anymore.The archive is free for readers to read forever. Once the articles are released from ransom, they are also free to read forever. Ransom is the least worst way of hindering readership. IF it was possible to keep the magazine free, I would...however, my writers and cartoonists gottach eat, and my magazine does too, to keep itself afloat.  Satoshi is anonymous. Nobody know if he's a girl or a boy. Nobody knows his nationality, except that he doesn't talk Japanese and doesn't code like a Japanese.Satoshi is truly an anonymous benefactor of mankind. I thought you can't use paypal with morpheus because stinking paypal shut him down?  Thanks. The balance is now .1101 BTC. Read http://bitcoinweekly.com If you like the articles or the comics there, then consider donating some bitcent. You don't have to pay the whole ransom amount.It's necessary because bitcoinweekly needs to pay its writers and cartoonists. Paying bitcoin compensate them for their work and help them produce more articles and comics. Problem with mybitcoin is that they have no password recovery mechanism. Facebook wants to use facecash and probably ban gambling games as they are bad for their image.What are the possible benefits? Our mindset is obviously different. I feel I am responsible for my own money and even the money I stored on other people's. What money I protect, I have the right to them. If I don't try to protect my money, than it is my fault because I didn't do anything. That's not to say it is not the fault of the criminal who stole my money. It is also their fault as they have harmed me.I am responsible for my own defense, for providing my own food, for navigating my life. Nobody in the world have an obligation to fix things when it is wrong. People help me, and they may do it out of love, out of obligation, or reciprocation, or whatever reasons but they are not responsible for anything. I have an obligation to do that all for myself. You expect certain rights to be provided for you, simply because you are the victim. Me? I gottach work for my own justice. If somebody help me, that's fine and dandy, and I want to make sure that my actions for justice doesn't harm other people. And so today I write to defend my interest.That's how it is. A different perspective. Good luck with getting your money back. I wish to hold back regulations as much as possible so that Bitcoin Weekly will be able to thrive without me, without the system intruding on Bitcoin Weekly's ability to output economically beneficial work. Now that I realize that is futile and that Bitcoin Weekly would needs to grow up quickly to be able to defend itself.The politics are not styles, but substance.  Revenge or "want your money back", whatever. Consideration of harms to others seem to not be priority for you.  With all due respect, I am simply defending my own interest. I have not insulted anybody and I want people to consider others' interest. The fact that I am not anonymous made me strongly interested in persuading complainers to take a different course of actions.If you wish, you can do so and take actions...but once that happens, the consequence will be boycott by me, as much as possible. Of course, mine is simply a small magazine so you don't care.I will defend my interest. Work for me.   I am not gay and I am not mocking you. In the future, you may have something to hide that's perfectly legit. Maybe you are Jewish and some Nazi are looking for you.Are you sure you want to give up that right for a simple revenge?Do you care about anybody else, at all? Are you blinded by your own suffering that you forget to consider how others might be impacted? Are you gay? Do you have a weird sexual fetish? Do you read comics with naked men and women doing icky things. There are thousand of things that are perfectly legit to hide simply because they are considered icky by other human beings. Simply because some would love a good gay-bashing. Simply because your ex-husband is out to get you. Simply because you don't want others to see you masturbating to 4chan posts.I am not blaming the victims. As I repeatedly suggest, as soon as you get your money out of there, don't do any more business with them.It is a type of retaliation, although not perfectly satisfactory, that doesn't involves others that have nothing to do with you. Who say I am defending the thieves? Your actions our impact me.You want to fuck somebody who fuck you because he deserves it. Maybe he does deserve it, but you or your loved ones are not dead. Your intelligence is still there. Your life is still the same except some loss of money.Your action will cause collateral damage. You bring in the authorities, they will regulate everything to shit and we get no say in how we run the bitcoin economy. They have guns, taxing power, and the ability to coerce us at will. These are the same authorities who will pursue somebody for consuming marijuana and LSD despite not being a danger to people at all. These are the same authorities who fucked up 9/11 and play security theaters in airport. They are incompetent and dangerous. If you sue somebody in this community, I don't want to do any fucking business with you. (That reminds me not to do business with mtgox or tradehill as they will give information to authorities to pursue silk road users) GOSH! Can we stop banning everything that even remotely smell of PR disaster?  They are certainly the biggest loser if you defined by how much business they lost and not who is the biggest guy out there.There exists individuals who fear authorities more than thieves. Thieves are scroundels. Authorities that can hide behind legitimacy to cloak criminal acts are scarier.Bitcoin Weekly would not sue people for plagiarizing and taken credit for our works, ever. We despise copyright laws more than we despise individual scroundels. Due to new content ready for publication: the ransom price is now .70 BTC.New to the ransom are, The Gavinator by Joey Dangerous and Calm After the Storm by Vitalik Buterin.Also, the ransom balance should shortly be .1001 BTC as one donor donated an extra .0001 BTC to verify his ownership. Methink it is not that people with bitcoin should buy goods and services but that merchants should make goods and services that's very tempting to spend bitcoin on.
If there aren't one, you could start one and own the illegal/sketchy niche. The New York Times now have more credibility with me. I don't think asking regulators to fix mess bodes well for bitcoiners. It may be the quick-fix solution but it will be damaging in the long term.There's such a thing as regulatory capture and Japan is famous for it. I believe they have a term called Amakudari, which means "descent from heaven" for politicians that get crushy job in the companies that they used to regulate. That means corruptions wholesale.It is easy to go after people after being very furious, but it is hard to be cautious about effects of your actions that could have a vast effects on others(and you) in the future.In my case, if I have lot of money in MtGox, I would try to get it for a long time. Then forget it and take my loss. If I do get my money, I might as well leave MtGox and moves on to other exchanges and decentralize my accounts to the various exchanges and write a long letter to people as to why they should switch their asses to other exchanges. This will hopefully get their asses to other exchanges.Don't forget that the biggest loser in the exchange crisis is MtGox and the biggest winners are the other exchanges. Inflicting loss for extremely poor service will discipline MtGox just as the security issue discipline MtGox.(With the extreme password security for example) Open a ticket again. MtGox's team is really freakishly small and the volume of tickets is extremely high, so you need a lot of patience. This discussion should be moved to Economics. This is what happens when you have a community that post 3000 to 5000 posts per day. You will get some newbies who think bitcoin is going to fail. Actually, what you are looking for is Stag hunt. Or you may finds goods and services that you really want, but you have like 4000 bitcoin and this thing cost 1.50 BTC. Time preference means some investors will exhaust their patience and cash out. Also, newbies that brought into bitcoin will have an irrational aversion to loss, which explains the current price stability. Let not forget that investors' return is dependent on the size and growth of the economy so some will be interested in boosting productive capacity of the economy. The ransom balance is now .10 BTC. You mention a bitcoin bubble? You get a bitcoin bubble comic! It is not a crime to be ignorant. In fact, most of humanity is ignorant of programming. Programmers may be force multiplier and harbringer of extreme efficiency, but we have to relies on auto mechanics, laundrymat owner, and nail saloon for our girlfriends.We bitcoiners are specialist in bitcoin but will be ignorant about pretty much anything else, except perhaps programming and some entrepeneurship. The balance is now 0.05 BTC. Why hate mtgox if mtgox changes it way and become better?Remember, MtGox learn the million dollars lesson, or at least something really scary. Hostility much? I don't give a shit about what license you choose. I am just pointing out how licenses like that limits the spread of a work. That's nonsense.  Instead, what we have is a community of self-interest and sometime altruistically motivated user. So we're commercially oriented community of bitcoiners. For the record, I am just pointing out a strategic mistakes in propagating memes even if that mean sacrificing author attribution and protection from "commercial misuse".Yes, I am a public domain proponent, as my whole magazine is published under the public domain. Still, don't let that dissuade you from accepting a good argument. Bad license. Bitcoin logos are public domain for a reason. Even the Bitsquirrel are public domain. In the race for mascot dominance, it is fatal to have copyright restriction. We have a new sponsor: http://bitbrew.netEmail me at hackerkiba  at  gmail for a unique address to donate to and in return get the sponsor's discount. I introduce you the Bitsquirrel mascot! http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitsquirrel  Also, don't forget the Bitcoin Mascot comic: http://bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-mascots
There are still no donations thus far. The balance did not change thus far. Time to move to a bitcoin advertising network.  As always, there's the option of "if you can't beat them, join them".Traditional banking and bitcoin does not always have to be opposed but it is traditional banking that have to change their way, not bitcoin. Yes, I have similar issue with kalyhost recently. Other than that, it's fine and dandy. We are now ransoming our next article: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=23934.0 Bitcoin Weekly released two articles, one comic for the target sum of .70 BTC, now with .7006 BTC.Here is what was released:Articles:1. The MtGox Attack by Thedore Minick 2. Calm After the Storm by Vitalik ButerinComics:1. The Gavinator by Joey DangerousYou can check the final balance at blockexplorer: http://blockexplorer.com/address/19Kb7agdLYqJcdrxksjP47YssyTr7f2Wz3 Bitcoin Weekly will now run ransoms event for our articles, in which articles are kept until a specific donation target is reached. For us, our pilot experiment suggests that we can raise money for the publication this wayYou will play a role by incentiving donors with deals and discounts. For example, if somebody donate .10 BTC, he might get a 20% discounts for the next 10 t-shirt and so forth. Contact me at hackerkiba  AT  gmail.com for more details. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-bitcoin-security-challenge-part-iiNew article about the security challenge. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-individual-to-individual-transactions-and-community-tradeNew article, successfully ransomed.In the future, we will release all articles by ransom. Also, there will be more incentives as sponsors may give you discounts and deals. Article is now published: http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-for-individual-to-individual-transactions-and-community-trade We now achieved .50 BTC. Release of article commencing... I am not sure if that is necessary. More complexity and more works for me. Donation amount to the ransom address had not changed since my last report. I can vouch for KalyHost providing me VPS and I am not part of KalyHost.That being said, I am now weary of hosting only with them because of unexplained downtime. Actually, what you see is the most visible part of the economy. That skew perception quite a bit.For example, I pay my 3 employees every week for content produced. In turn, I also work a small job in which I produce content for some other guy.However, these economic relationships are invisible to see for the average users. They just see my magazine and have interesting articles to read, along with an advertising banner on the top of each page. Seconded. IF bitcoin cannot succeed because of its political baggage, than it is a poorly designed currency. Bitcoin Weekly now have .286 BTC in the ransom address. .214 BTC to goes until ransom amount is raised and then we can release a new article. I was able to get kalyhost working but one time my site is down for no reason and went up for no reason.I sent an email but never got it back. The only thing that ever worked is emailing magicaltux. For me, this means I should not relies on a single webhost for my website. I need to spread my site over several hosts, but that mean my hosting bill will goes up. Wish there's a good way to decentralize hosting for my website.
He will wait until bitcoin dominates the world.When he made his first purchase with bitcoin, a bitcoin vendor will found out that he's a woman. New comic: Bitsquirrel You say bitcoin bubble, you get bitcoin bubble comic! Balance remains at 0.181 BTC. Everyone, please consider donating at least 1 bitcent.  I hear bitcoin bubble!? It's time for a bitcoin bubble comic!   Current ransom level is at .181 BTC. That means .319 BTC are required for the release of an article. The profit can come from advertising. Just throw a banner and try to grow your customerbase as large as possible and add as many attractive features as you can to attract eyeballs. Comic section update: 1. Comics link in the navigation bar now direct you to the latest comic. 2. Comic archive link is now relocated to the bottom of each comics page. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-valueMention a bitcoin bubble, ya get a bitcoin bubble comic  The Bitcoin Security Challenge Part 1 is posted. No, it didn't. It's just that we don't update frequently in the first place. At best, we updated 3 times a week. Remember wikipedia? The world finally accept wikipedia is here to stay after a decade. Now everyone is "meh". Someday, bitcoin is be "meh" too. No change in ransom amount... Bitcoin Weekly is up after an unknown outrage. I need somebody to man the server.... This call for the Bitcoin and the Goldbug article!When somebody figure how to mine asteroids, gold as a valuable commodity will be over forever.   It seems that bitcoinweekly is down. However, I only have one hour to investigate. Expect Bitcoin Weekly to be back up tommorrow at the latest. How about creating a security bounty that incentivize white hat hackers to look for security flaws in bitcoin exchanges? Hey! Don't forget comics I published at Bitcoin Weekly.http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-mascots For today's check, there's no change in funds. Since the last Bitcoin Weekly thread is getting a bit stale, I decided to start a new update thread.Current Ransom Thread: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=23934.0In other news, we now have a comic archive but beware that the navigation system for comics may change rapidly and the comic archive's location may be changed.If you visit the comics link, it will direct you to the latest comics in the Bitcoin Weekly's comic archive. For a full list of comics to read, you can click on the comics archive at the bottom of each comic page.Also, if you have any comment about the magazine, don't hesitate to give us a shoutout.
There is no interest in this magazine? I suspect Bitcoin Weekly does not have many fans. I see that we only received 1 bitcents in the last 24ish hours so far. If 49 people donate 1 bitcents, than we will reach our goal of .50 BTC. I made two minor improvement to the comic navigation system:1. Made it bigger for people to see.2. Place them on both the top and bottom of the comic.Suffice to say, the navigation system still needs lot of work. There should be a way to get a list of all the comics ever published and the navigation button still needs to be more noticeable, for example. Phew. I am gald not to be the guy who brought the dinky site that blew up in popularity along with bitcoin and have to handle millions dollars worth of money everyday.My site grew up along with bitcoin too but it was just a small unimportant magazine.   Yes, the article is already written and this is our first experiment in ransom in the three iterations of the publication.Just to be clear, Vitalik Buterin is one of our finest writer and is behind the article that's being ransomed. Here are some of his articles: Bitcoin and the GoldbugThe Wasted Electricity Objection to Bitcoin Part 2The Global Bitcoin Stock Exchange and Why It Matters In addition, Bitcoin Weekly is trying an experiment at http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=20235.0 Please support us in this hard time. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-futureNew comic! Unfortuntely, this the last one for this week. Joey Dangerous will cranks out a new comic next week, Hopefully, it will be updated every Monday. Bitcoin Weekly is ransoming the article Bitcoin for Individual-to-Individual Transactions and Community Trade by Vitalik Buterin for .50 BTC in a business model experiment. This is because the magazine have trouble raising enough revenues via publishing advertising to pay current expense, in the form of writers and cartoonists.Donate .50 BTC to this address 1JYXS3dpHjk9MT7U6oXNKwfVeubW41iWkfTime period and method for consideration of publication:It will be checked via http://blockexplorer.com/address/1JYXS3dpHjk9MT7U6oXNKwfVeubW41iWkfFor me, If it is found to exceed or meet .50 BTC in the time period of 7:30 AM to 8:30 AM(time before I work), I will publish this article.For the author of said ransomed article, if it is found to exceed or meet .50 BTC, he is authorized to publish it.It will continues to be checked until .50 BTC are donated. Implication for Success of Experiment:If successful, then it will be on my agenda to start development of a fully automated ransoming system right after the completion of the comics section and the news service.Also, donating to ransoms will be more attractive in the future.There may be discounts and prizes for donating certain level of bitcoin to the magazine. For now, I need to do this experiment to validates the business model and save Bitcoin Weekly from insolvency.If you love Bitcoin Weekly's works and would like Bitcoin Weekly to continues publication, please consider a token donation.Thanks in advance, for all your support and business. Bitcoin Weekly now have a dedicated section for comics!http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-mascotshttp://www.bitcoinweekly.com/comics/bitcoin-rate Yeah, I got that same email. Knew that it was trojan and reported it as spam. I came here to alert other users but the OP got there first. I prefer to build a solid community that support bitcoin, which will help bitcoin retain its value. Masses of people who don't care about bitcoin is not the way to go.Eventually, bitcoin usage will goes mainstream as the bitcoin economy become more attractive.  Meh. I will ride bitcoin till the end.Beside, all the crazy up and down made me a "meh" person. You guys don't get. Bitcoin is its own subculture, with its social mores and institution. We are merchants, buyers, and sellers in this particular world we called the Bitcoin community.When you try to exterminate politics and other sections, you are trying to exterminate and make the bitcoin culture unoffensive and suitable to the masses. The early adopters were never the masses of the US, the republicans or the democrats. Then we become dull and uninteresting because now the culture suits the masses. That kill the specialness and uniqueness of the bitcoin community.The early adopters bring a kind of knowledge and wisdom that's not available to newbies, in additional to the political yuckiness. They teaches in debate and they run businesses, startup, and experiments within the bitcoin economy. Then they are gone, their knowledge not accessible to newbies because they are on some other obscure forum somewhere after being censored.There are those who wishes to ban the yuckiness of the forum, but they also ban the pioneers who settle this town when bitcoin is still(and still is) a yucky concept. Bitcoin Weekly will be running a pilot program later this week with ransoming articles so that we can continue brining more awesome content to you. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/dragon-s-tale-the-virtual-bitcoin-casinoNew article. Taking down the bitcoin network? Don't you mean this article: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/taking-down-the-bitcoin-network ? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/taking-down-the-bitcoin-networkNew article. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-and-the-goldbugsNew article. You mention a bitcoin bubble, you get a bitcoin bubble comic. Yeah. New markets will just pop up. The idea of close time for markets just never make sense to me.
And it also means you have no financial privacy.  I don't sell it unless I need the money(emergency, compensate for lack of liquidity in paying off credit card debt, ) I don't get the idea of circuit breaker. Other markets would just open up and benefit from the period of circuit breaking. You're talking nonsense, kiddo. Bitcoin doesn't get its value from bitcoin mining, but from supply and demand. Bitcoin mining is just a security system. It is possible, with a paper trail. If there are no way to figure out what the transaction is about, and the coins belongs to who, then it's difficult. Bubble? What bubble? It is meant to be read generations later. May be old but it should still be a good article. http://operationfabulous.com And don't forget to disable adsblock so that you can see your owns ads code on the site. And I feel great for an opportunity to take advantage of the mayhem and promote my magazine.  I volunteer an article for topic of discussion to clear out the trolls.   What ya going on? Nobody discussing the article? And donate to the Bitcoin Weekly magazine! We need some bitcoins to pay writers. Ladies and gentlemen, to clear out the troll topics, I present the Bitcoin Is Worse is Better article for discussion. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/exploring-the-bitcoin-bubble-from-february-to-nowThe source of the graph. The economy is growing. You just need to look at the marketplace forum. It's the third largest forum section in the bitcoin community. Sir, did you take a look at this article that refute your argument?You mentioned a bubble. You guys rock! Mention a bubble about bitcoin and I get to post my bitcoin bubble comic. Mine asteroids.  http://bitcoinweekly.com have a great month. We repeatedly broke traffic record, become more famous, and still keep a 100% public domain website.I hired a cartoonist to work with the magazine and soon he will have a dedicated comic section as opposed to be one of the articles.As always, there is constant improvement to the site such as the upcoming Random Article of the Day and the already mentioned Comic section which will roll out after the random article.Unfortunately, revenues for Bitcoin Weekly is not keeping up. My employment cost for three dudes, 1.5 BTC, 1 BTC, and 2 BTC(soon to be 1 BTC I hope) means that I spent 4.5 BTC every week getting regular production of new contents. Not to mention the variable cost of freelancers which could be anywhere from 1 BTC to 3 BTC in a good week. I am lowering the rate of article commission to .50 BTC to keep cost down and will do negotiation with the 2 BTC guy.My revenues is mainly what I get from Operation Fabulous, which is currently 0.08 each day. That mean .56 BTC per week. You do the map.We will also roll out a news service in partnership with Bitcoin Watch, which will provide additional revenues to make up for the cost.So, in short, it costs me 4.5 to 7.5 BTC each week to run the magazine. Currently, I have  9.58300000001 BTC which is not very much. I will get .56 BTC every week and perhaps 2 or 3 BTC every month from the news service and bitcoinweekly is not yet a sustainable operation. So what can you do for the magazine? Well, if you like us, you might consider buying a Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt.  Half of the profit goes back to fund the magazine. If you like to get your money worth, you can find us on Operation Fabulous where you can advertise your goods and services.If you're feeling generous, you can always tip us at 1NWc7N4FAs55hJ1xdTf3KWHZD89yn2PQKV (We currently don't get much donations)Show us your love for the magazine, and we will supply a steady stream of Bitcoin Analysis and comics for years to come.  Dude, we get more energy from the sun in hour than the entire humanity use in one year. If we are running out of materials, just mine those damn asteroid.
Intrinsic value is part of the subjective theory framework, not the other way around. Things in nature don't have an inherent value unless a human thinks it's useful. Don't ban the troll! I need them as an excuse to post bitcoinweekly articles.   But it gives me opportunity to promote my articles.   Vitalik Buterin said the opposite.Since you also said bitcoin is a bubble, here's the comic. If you don't want to stay in the bitcoin economy, that's fine. You mentioned a bubble, you get the bitcoin bubble comic. This is completely boring. Anyway, here's the reason why bitcoin isn't a bubble, followed by a bitcoin bubble comic which illustrate the bitcoin bubble siren song that been going on since the beginning of the currency.Anyway, it's normal for the price of bitcoin to decline 30% or even more overnight, just as it is normal for bitcoin to jump 30% or more overnight. Good day. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/exploring-the-bitcoin-bubble-from-february-to-nowNew article. That may be so but I have no idea who owns what. Don't forget the obligatory bitcoin bubble comic: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value   Remember, don't forget to donate to the Bitcoin Weekly. Writers don't grows on tree! Forgive me if I already post this: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-battle-is-on-silk-road-vs-government-and-bitcoin-anonymity Did somebody say...the price is crashing?If so, here's the comic: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value Is Bitcoin Money?  http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/is-bitcoin-money http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-valueI heard somebody screams, BITCOIN BUBBLE! Moment? It's all a blur to me.   They are probably just a thoughless memebot rather than a rational human beings.  So they react like this? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/reactions-to-bitcoinIndifference is hard to detect because they don't make lot of noise. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/technological-jailbreak-bitcoin-to-namecoinI hear namecoin? I am not willing to hurt people simply for selling weapons and weeds. What these people are doing is a voluntary transaction. Schumer and his friends are morally disgusting, not us.
Bitcoin Weekly is alive after an outage. The problem is that I don't know how to do this and that MagicalTux is busy. Currently in big downtime because of my administrative screwup: "sudo poweroff"   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-battle-is-on-silk-road-vs-government-and-bitcoin-anonymityAnother article by Vitalik Buterin.  Don't use Alexa, it's not very accurate. Thank you for providing me an excuse to provide a comic link: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value   And so July 5th we end with 3763 forum posts in a 24 hours period.  We need a positive narrative. Right now the narrative is that bitcoin is helping drug traffickers do their...things. Actually, my articles show why Bitcoiners are often more knowledgeable about bitcoin more than bitcoin critics. And I get to post an article from Bitcoin Weekly about why deflation ain't so bad.   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value Political insanity. We all have it. Some have it worse than others. Bitcoiners often know more about the criticism of bitcoin than bitcoin critics. This is a natural consequence of constant forum debate. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/generation-and-assimilation-of-bitcoin-knowledge I question the whole notion of happiness as the ultimate goal of humanity. Meanwhile, our obesity is caused by evolutionary maladapation. We now live in a world of extremely rich nutrient, but our body still carve fats, sugar, and carbohydrate to the detriment of our health. As the world become more prosperous, we will face widespread obesity.  The network is not the chokepoint. The exchanges are. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/anonymous-money-needs-an-anonymous-exchange While I am worried about silk road operator getting shut down, I am more worried bitcoin will be "collateral" damage. (Note, I can't be used as info source as I see nothing, know nothing). I believe I got ya. http://blockexplorer.com/address/15MjK1GgYaoXLgTRYcXjRaHUWihdFpaARj I fear for the bitcoin price and shutdown of currency exchange operator. We need to move faster to decentralized method of exchange. Nobody figures out how to own school fishes, so everyone compete for the remaining fishes. It's a tradegy of the commons situation.It is a transportation problem, not a resource allocation problem. Not enough infrastructure, no market institutions, no speculators, etc.* kiba points to SpaceX. I hear pyramid scheme? A typical reaction to bitcoin! http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/reactions-to-bitcoin
Holy...cow!   http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/interview-with-nefario-founder-of-bitcoin-globalAn interview with Nefario, founder of  Bitcoin Global. Destruction of forest, extinguishing species, overfishing is a result of the inability to own these resources, not resource scarcity.In any case, if we ever figure out how to mine asteroid...a single asteroid will be more than all the building, electronics, roads, and all the other material things that's made out of lead, steel, silicon, gold, etc, combined. Gold will cease to be the storage of wealth.Assuming our population don't grow like rabbits and our hunger for resources don't grow like rabbits, it might be the all things that we will ever need for building anything.The next question is how do we get enough energy? Do we get it from nuclear power on earth or absorb energy from the sun? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-bitcoin-raidBitcoin Raid comic by Joey Dangerous. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/one-apple-today-two-apples-tomorrow-or-how-i-stopped-being-afraid-and-learned-to-love-deflationMy magazine have an article on why deflation might be good. Other businesses actually allow you to purchase your t-shirt in bitcoin.Why don't ya buy a t-shirt for bitcoinweekly? http://www.squarewear.biz/index.php?route=product/category&path=35_37It'll support the magazine. I know that you think they are absurd. I am not interested in what you think. I am more interested in if you can justify it. There's namecoin.http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/technological-jailbreak-bitcoin-to-namecoinAbove is an article I wrote that explains why namecoin is important and what it is trying to solve. Be willing to defend your assertion, both your marxist theory is stupid and Austrian theory is stupid. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-what-s-it-backed-byNew article by Vitalik Buterin. June 3rd, 3710 posts in one day. This thread is getting rather nasty. Please keep your tones civil. No personal attacks. I am an opportunist.   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/one-apple-today-two-apples-tomorrow-or-how-i-stopped-being-afraid-and-learned-to-love-deflation Bitcoin Bubble!   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value  LOL! You "bubble" guys gimme an excuse to post a link to bitcoinweekly.com all the time.  The earth give us more energy in one hour than the whole of humanity use in one year. Plus, humanity is becoming more energy efficient over time. The western lifestyle is already transforming into an information lifestyle, rather than a materialistic lifestyle. We will collectively realize that things...are just things. Useful, sometime...but they're just that..things.We provide and consume information. The rest are just support system for our bodies. Happiness is just one quality to measure in the life of a human being. Happiness is not everything.That's nonsense because when there's a growth in the economy, the currency deflate. My magazine runs solely in bitcoin. http://bitcoinweekly.com On June 2nd, 2011, for the first time, we achieved a rate of over 3000 posts(3080 posts to be exact) in one day. Somebody needs to put together "The Writing of Satoshi Nakamoto" book so that we can judge for ourselves.  I thought bitcoin IS the skynet of money. Its wishes is to DESTROY ALL FIAT CURRENCY! Finally!
Why is frequency trading a scam? There are already trading bots on mtgox. Many bitcoiners may be hackers, but they are not vandals. Dude, if you're going to do a bitcoin startup, you do it in bitcoin. Bitcoin have nothing to do with security hacking... You can transfer any bitcoin to any address you like whether or not the user that own the address is online or not. Wallet.dat is simply required for controlling the bitcoin in that specific address. It's more like a keychain than a wallet that hold your cash. I did not initially understood your request. I think you want to monitor your wallet on a usb drive? Well, I think that requires analyzing the wallet.dat file for all your public keys. In essence, I think I have to re-implement the wallet storage implementation within chrome API, and then use blockexplorer. A bunch of cranky loud HN users community represent not. Last time I check, there's no cabal of bitcoin users that are part of a voting block.  It's called expressing optimism. I am sure that's not a crime.I, too, don't speculate. However, the HN population is not all the early adopters we will ever have. In case, you have not noticed, the posting rate last month doubled over April. That's not the kind we're talking about. We're talking about twenty years old hacker startup founder wannabe change the world type.  They cannot distinguish the difference between a ponzi scheme/bubble and an insane opportunity. For many, the distinction is too fine. What you see is a lot of bitcoin stories that get voted up, but what you don't see the bitcoin stories that don't get voted up.I will keep submitting stories. If they like my stories, they will vote them up.  Can somebody tell John Stossel that bitcoin anonymity is a lot more complicated than that? If you want bitcoin, write for me! http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/anonymous-money-needs-an-anonymous-exchangeThe solution? Try to decentralize it. Sorry, was at work and couldn't really elaborate, was just surprised to see his name there after all this time. Devux also got burned by Just a Man so I don't know if you want to make it 50-50?. After thinking a bit and seeing Just a Man's response of changing his post and signature, I'm not too worried, I donate whatever my share of this would be back to the Bitcoin Weekly.[/quote]You have to provide me with an address. No. It bloats the client's codebase and increase complexity. Payment sent. Also, if you did not receive your payment, let me know. I think I have missed a few but too lazy to check out the the long strong of addresses. Payment sent. One guy I have no idea to deal with. 1 slot left.
 Address please? Payment sent. I am off to bed. How do we get the administrators to implement it? Since bitcoinweekly doesn't care about copyright*...let me modify my competitor's writing to use for my own purpose! 1.  Only forum members who have register before this post.2. Only forum members who have 50 posts or more. Meh. Don't care. Just don't try to trick me in giving you more than 10 bitcents.3.  To claim your payment, place post in this thread with your bitcoin address (and a sig that references Bitcoin Weekly, and it must be links to http://bitcoinweekly.com).4.  Offer valid until 2 BTC supply.5. Pretty please put the link there for one month.* Ok..I do care about copyright. It just mean that I care enough not to get sued. Plagiarizing is bad even in a copyfree world, etc.Ah, it's good to execute a competitor's idea. Edit: Add a pretty please. I think the PDF and the huge overhead editorship hierarchy is a repeat of Bitcoin Weekly's mistakes.Problem with editors is that they're only one person, with only a limited viewpoint. They're also a bottleneck in the production of content.My operation is a 3 tiered hierarchy. Freelancers, staff writers, and the editor-in-chief. My role is more of a combat support role. I administer payment, hire people, advertise, and write code. I plan to either eliminate these roles or delegate them. I want the good people of Bitcoin Weekly to be fighter pilots, not drones who are completely incapable of functioning without getting approval for anything. Problem with PDF is that they're not as linkable and you can't comment on them. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-valueBitcoin Bubble!  Seriously, what you see is not the whole story. You can't see the long term economic relationship of bitcoiners. You can't see the t-shirts and other goods that are being brought. You can't see people paying for their host. You don't see the black economy that exists within bitcoin unless you dig a little further.What you can see, is the exchange volume on bitcoincharts. At least, it's a lot easier to see. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-valueBitcoin Bubble!   Write for me! http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission First, they ignore you, then they laugh at us, then they fight us, then we win!Look like they skip over the laughter stage directly to fight. Are you kidding me? This is a cause for celebration! It means we're important.   ROFL.   The citizens cannot make the informed choice and it is impossible for politicians to be informed.In our jobs and day-to-day life, we all specialize in some kind of knowledge and field. Beyond that, we are ignorant, so to speak. I don't know medicine or how to build houses. I just know how to make website.The knowledge of humanity is distributed. The bigger the population, the more knowledge you can store in our civilization.  However, our civilization becomes far more complex than for any puny human beings to understand. That's insanity growth.   As the last hurrah for May...The last day achieved a staggering total of new 2840 posts ending the month with 55331 posts compared to 24397. That mean the posting rate more than double in one month.  The failure of the system have everything with the failure of selecting the right elites. There will always be elites, but what are their incentives and what it is possible for them to accomplish?Wel, we select them through a true democractic process, but the Democratic system assume that an educated populace that's well informed on a variety of issues is possible or that expert politicians who know everything about any policy issues is possible.Knowledge in the real world is dispersed and distributed throughout the whole population. Nobody knows how to make a pencil, because everybody only knows part of it on how to make pencil. This is true, probably for all goods and services you can think of. As a result of our collective unpooled ignorance, we are not able to effectively select politicians for the job. As a result of how our government is arranged, the politicians regularly make laws about things they don't know about. As a result of pure impossibilities, there are no politicians that know enough to decide on a diverse range of issue.  Anybody brought the Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt? No. It's because cryptographers want their cryptocash system to be "elegant". http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-is-worse-is-better Sounds like you got scammed by a trader on that site. Did you take trading precaution? No, we're born unequal.  KABOOM!
There is no right, only rights that we enforce through brute force and agreements.  Still looking for writers. Troll spotted 3 miles off the coast. Get ready to fire cruise missiles! My writer have the opposite thought: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-wasted-electricity-objection-to-bitcoin-part-i The anonymous did nothing productive other than DDOSing hated sites. Who care about them?Satoshi, on the other hand...invented bitcoin. Now, that's productive and constructive. Yes, it's a choice. The question is: is the choice a good thing? What is the good thing, anyway? I fourth!   Meh. Free transactions are only done for charity anyway. Or you can buy real Bitcoin t-shirt that will help support a real business called Bitcoin Weekly. http://www.squarewear.biz/index.php?route=product/category&path=35_37 I think the best way to win google over is not a massive petitioning effort but to let google engineers work the bitcoin idea deep inside google. The deadline is past. There's nothing wrong with making a paper available to more people, even if people pay for it. http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=10590.0Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt announcement.   We now have an official Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt. Yes, you heard that right! Square Wear took the comic http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-whack-a-mole, which was created by shazow, and turned it into an amazing t-shirt.Everytime you buy a t-shirt from Square Wear, the profit is spilt to Bitcoin Weekly. That mean everytime you buy an official Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt, you will support the content production at the magazine. Love the articles we produce at bitcoinweekly.com? Please support us by buying an awesome t-shirt from http://www.squarewear.biz/index.php?route=product/category&path=35_37Thank you for your support. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value   Just published an article that address some of the concerns: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/one-apple-today-two-apples-tomorrow-or-how-i-stopped-being-afraid-and-learned-to-love-deflation Already implemented. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/one-apple-today-two-apples-tomorrow-or-how-i-stopped-being-afraid-and-learned-to-love-deflationNew article about why deflation ain't so bad. What else would you use your time for? In other words, what is your opportunity cost? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-wasted-electricity-objection-to-bitcoin-part-iiAn article about how much electricity does it cost to secure the bitcoin network.
http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-wasted-electricity-objection-to-bitcoin-part-iiI believe Vitalik Buterin have an excellent article on this. I believe it is called the "fairness" heuristic, but it is so wrong to apply the "fairness" heuristic to modern life. Some things need to be unequal for things to work. Are you sure that's true? We need statistics to find out. Suspiiiiiiiiiicious. Can you prove to us who you are? Don't take it personally. Many people think bitcoin is somehow, a scam. Here's an idea: develop games or help publish games.Please do not develop yet another gambling site. We have enough of them. And it's a competitive market as a result. For people who wants to know where namecoin came from and what problem does it try to solve: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/technological-jailbreak-bitcoin-to-namecoin Why is the t-shirt market getting so crowded?  You could work for me. I think an infographic would be a useful addition to my magazine. Let just say people who used the currency help make investor's currency actually worth something or sustain the investor's investment.Sure, you can sit on your bitcoin...but don't cry when it die due to lack of economic activities. If you want your investment to be safe, you need to integrate yourself within the bitcoin economy. My operation is very capital constrained and it will remain that way for the foreseeable feature.Bitcoin Weekly is a shoe-string one man show. I asked 2 BTC for tutorials on programming. Nobody takes it except one guy who successfully complete the task. I got another guy who promised to work on it but it will be a while.I asked for people to write an article for me with payment of 1 BTC each. Often, they bailed out before I even get the chance to pay them. To date, I only have two-long term with two freelancers, one of which I turned into a staff writer.I am one of the most reliable employer in the land but even I have a hard tough time finding people who is willing to work for me.Perhaps the wages is too low for the market to bear. Or it's simply that economic is non-intuitive and easy to get wrong. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/technological-jailbreak-bitcoin-to-namecoinNew article. This time, written by me! Democracy is a bad example. One of Bitcoin's great virtue is its sociological consideration. How are you going to build an economy when nobody see a benefit in promoting this currency? If you have inflatecoin and somebody started bitcoin, guess who's going to win? Gavin Andersen is just the lead developer of a project called bitcoin. There are other projects that also implement the bitcoin protocol. If the mainstream bitcoin project got destroyed somehow, we would just move on to a more survivable project. I added a tweet button at the bottom of each article.
This Japanese lady can do fluent English reading and writing?    It is a self-selecting effect because people adopt bitcoin if they think it will works. If you think the bitcoin deflationary model is bad, than that doubt might be enough to persuade you from using bitcoin.Just like bitcoin wasn't invented until a cryptographer/programmer with no sense of mathematical of beauty wrote it. Maybe he does, but he was far more pragmatic than most cryptographers.  BITCOIN BUBBLE!  http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-is-worse-is-betterNew article by gwern exploring why it takes so long for bitcoin to be invented. Refusal to understand means they lose out on bitcoin. The problem with economists is that they have no way conduct scientific experiment on monetary policies. Yes, there are data, but interpretation is everything.Economists can have interpretations that fit the data but it turns out to be bollock.  I used to fund my next grand moneymaking venture that will change humanity for the better. And so we achieved 2480 posts on May 26th. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value Bitcoin Bubble!   Population is less of a problem if you colonize space to extract more energy from the sun.It is also less of a problem if we decrease the energy requirement of each individuals. That may require genetic engineering or cybernetic enhancement. I am optimistic that we will reach 1 trillion human beings, no problem.Believing starvation is coming to decimate us all because there's so much human beings is merely a failure of imagination. People starve not so much because of the lack of  the food but the lack of efficient and robust market that can distribute food and stabilize the supply. There may be lack of speculators who would bear the risk or it is not possible to transport food. You can have the most efficient agricultural output in the world, but it means dilly squat if you can't get it to the right people. You could alway write for http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission but then it will be actual hard work. Why? I am one of the most reliable employer in the bitcoin economy. I paid for 22 out of 29 articles/comic. I love economics and technologies...but I become obsessed...with bitcoin.I end up creating a publication called http://bitcoinweekly.com/ I am in the process of adding an "action" section. This section shows up after the content section when you finish reading the article. In the next few days or so, I will add in things to do like..tweet this article.. There is an inherent tension between promoting free speech, which we bitcoiners value a lot, and PR, which is making us looks politically correct or inoffensive.  It is a mistake to think there is no political consequences to technologies. Take a look at the Arab Spring. If bitcoin is a libertarian pipe dream, the political implication for conservatives/liberals are simply, dire.  They are pretty much the same. I cannot afford such expensive rate. Bitcoin Weekly is capital poor. Yesterday, on May 25th, we achieved 2350 posts within 24 hours. You sure rewrite often. I don't even do rewrite.Most of the time I just fill in the gap, or research the ruby on rails API to accomplish certain kind of objectives. In the process, I even learn new tricks that help me build the site with less hassle.
Yes, that's a good idea. Some people survives falls thousand of feets in the air...but I wouldn't bet on surviving a fall thousand of feets in the air. The marketplace and the Russian forums are larger than what they appears to be. I know this face but I dislike the inaccuracy caused by forum subdivision.It's a minor issue...but still... I am tired of the effort in censoring everything for the sake of Public Relation.First they come for the drugs. Next, they'll come for the gambling, which is by the way...is illegal in the US. Then they will get rid of sex.Moderate and keep the business forums efficient is what we should be doing as mods anyway. I am interested in your writing labor. Willing to pay 1 BTC for an article: http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission I bet there will still be donation to the EFF after this. Not a fan of the minimum price range....but we do need better tools. Publishers used to not be able to see information about their own website's statistics from the pointview of the advertisers. Now it's possible.I wish for a page that I can link to for potential advertisers though. Just my own. A deflationary growth economy is by definition isn't stagnant. Here, in the bitcoin economy, we have deflation but it isn't stagnant at all. It is the de-facto site of the bitcoin community and the bitcoin project. It is the closest thing we have to "official". http://glbse.com ? Same in Hacker News. There's alway a couple of oddballs who think bitcoin is the stupidest idea they ever heard. If we're going to use bitcoin.org marketplace as a hub of commerce, let act like it is a hub of commerce. Simple rules:1. Don't hijack other people's threads for your opinions, especially when they're trying to conduct business transaction or access trustworthiness.2. Offtopic chatters will simply be moved to split off to some place else.I think they're already in place anyhow, but I don't moderate the marketplace forum for thread hijacking much. As a publisher, I can see all their bids. Let have some bubble comic!   http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value Some guy named JapanGuy removed the gambling section.https://en.bitcoin.it/w/index.php?title=Trade&action=historysubmit&diff=8864&oldid=8862It's illegal in Japan. Ugh government fags.  I still see Gambling sites on the Bitcoin wiki.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Category:Gambling If you don't want to join in the bitcoin spectulation and ignore all the arguments that been made, that's fine.  When somebody invest 10 million dollars into the market, it's going to increase the price widely anyway. You can't expect price stability at time of extreme adoption. In the meantime, I will keep posting that bitcoin bubble comic everytime somebody cry "BUBBLE!" on this forum. More traffic for me.  Actually, I paid my writers through all the turbulence. I dropped the payment rate there and there, but I don't remember much raising prices. The price deflation was extreme  that I was not sure if I keep pace with the salary.I don't have any regret at all. Growing the bitcoin economy is a marathon and my business is not a sprint.
Ladies and gentlemen...All of  http://bitcoinweekly.com is now tripled copyfree licensed under Creative Common Zero, UNLICENSE, and the WTFPL. If you can't apply any of these license in your specific situation, pirate the hell out of it.  You can see the new licenses at the footer.BTW, we always been public domain since the founding of Bitcoin Weekly. I just decided to add two licenses for good measure. Instead of selling some jackass monopolist's stuff, help me make an education video on basic sorting algorithms in javascript:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=7544.0 http://bitcoinweekly.com is already doing that! I should throw in two other copyfree licenses for good measure.  Must be a ponzi scheme!  http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/reactions-to-bitcoinThat comic was not created by me. I paid somebody to create it and I paid somebody 22 times total for content on http://bitcoinweekly.com. I have one current employee, several freelancers, and two cartoonists over the lifetime of Bitcoin Weekly. I am even employed by somebody else. Some spectulative economy, eh?  Did ya know the marketplace is buzzing with so much activities that moderators have to subdivide it into sell and buy? You said virtually the whole market is speculative, right? So, is that 95%, 85%, 75% or what? How would you measure it?Let end it with a bitcoin bubble comic: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value Finally an article that's pretty accurate and not hyperbolic.  I am not interested in news at this moment. I have a taste for timeless articles. We can talk about this by emailing me ideas you have, and we'll work out which topics is good to write about.I don't need verification of your work as much I am interested in somebody doesn't bail out before I even get to pay him for his work. I especially value writers who can output works regularly. "I am not going to adopt bitcoin because it unfairly reward early adopters...boohoo!"10 months later."Damn! I should have invest in bitcoin!" If you have a deflationary growth economy, everybody win, even if you're a latecomer.   This is a waste of money. Invest your BTC into bitcoin instead. What's the incentive for early adopters to promote and use bitcoin?  I am not interested in reviews at the moment.Are these stuff you written? How can I verify them? Alright, I am giving you a chance to complete this. It is due May 29th, 2011, 20:00 UTC.  IF you can't complete it by that date, I will ask someone to do it for me. I would like javascript for sorting algorithm. I am still waiting on the person who's doing python. If I can't get anything out of him...than I'll talk to you. It is a mistake to think that technologies have no political consequence. If bitcoin drive us toward a libertarian future, than it is apt to call it a libertarian technology. Egalitarianism clashes against the libertarian economist thought process of maximizing wealth for everybody.The free market does not provide fairness.  Bitcoin Weekly Business Database Development UpdateI am pleased to announce that articles data are available for profiles. Whenever when bitcoinweekly tag a business, expect to see the articles in the profile.For example, bitcoinglobal have two articles in its profile. http://bitcoinweekly.com/businesses/bitcoinglobal They are called private keys, which correspond to public keys, or bitcoin address. There is no guarantee that it will belongs only to you, but the chance of generating the same key is so rare that it might as well be unique to you.Bitcoin is a sufficient tool for conducting economic transactions. Transfer is done through "send bitcoin". You will need the owner's bitcoin address for you to transfer bitcoin. Likewise, you will need to provide your bitcoin address to the person who needs it to send bitcoin to. There is no central server as bitcoin is completely peer to peer.The fact that you done your homework but still have questions mean that the FAQ is inadequate or incomplete. Thank you. If you have read the article, I think it would agree with you.  http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-wasted-electricity-objection-to-bitcoin-part-iMy writer explains it best! 
Wanna write for The Bitcoin Weekly? http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission Implemented your suggestion in my initial post. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-wasted-electricity-objection-to-bitcoin-part-iNew article. Sounds too good to be true. But it's only 50 bucks. I am interested in commissioning a 4 panel comic about the progression of a raid in which the swat team discovered to their surprise a geek living in his basement with bitcoin miners stacked high, not a weed farm. I don't know if there are good phrases: "No weed " - cop."Satoshi, help!" - geek. If you think of something even funnier, let me know.It will be 1 BTC for the art delivered privately to my email address: hackerkiba@gmail.com Bitcoin Weekly Business Database Development UpdateEach profile will now have a fact indicating if said business is dead...or alive. Don't care about norms and not-norms. I have enough of being a disillusioned and bitter do-nothinger. Bitcoin make me a bitter and disillusioned doer. Now I run a magazine that manages to employ people, some for quite a while. * kiba yawn. I am sorry..what?I saw a few thread on anarcho-capitalism lately. Looks to me there ain't any censorship. Gottach love the people who screams Bitcoin Bubble, providing me a reason to post my Bitcoin Bubble Comic.  I heard "Bitcoin Bubble!"  http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value IF you wanna do that first, fine. email me at hackerkiba@gmail.com with your video and address.Let me know when you're ready to start. bitcoin.org on the front and bitcoinweekly.com on the back. How much are you going to share was far as revenues/profit goes? Not that I know of... I do have a comic that I think is worth making a t-shirt into. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-whack-a-moleJust need some good lineart and it'll be good. What would I need to know so that I can build a bitcoin wallet within javascript and chrome's local storage database?Let just say I have a need for...wallet making to increase the bitcoin chrome project's independence against the bitcoin daemon. Can I get you to sell bitcoinweekly t-shirt and share in some of the revenues? https://chrome.google.com/webstore/developer/detail/npcplhlpjnnoclccciijknpgjkfbddbg/publish-accepted?hl=en-USIn order to use this, you must configure your bitcoin extension to use the bitcoin daemon rpcuser and password. This is what I like to see. Execution. Everything is 99% perspiration and 1% inspiration.  Supposedly, I lack visions/ideas. What does that entails? How do you know that I lack visions/ideas?(BTW, it's making enough money to finance writers and maybe a little side profit. Nefario was right. My magazine simply require times.) If you read the next phrase, I said "he isn't totally worthless" and provided a reason why I think that. Got a better argument for that?  
That's a business valuation, not a personal insult.I considered people who plays with only ideas, totally worthless as far as moneymaking goes. Looking for freelancers..looking for reliable freelancers...It's so damn hard to find reliable writers.  Nothing to see here, move along. Bitcoin Weekly Business Database Development UpdateArticles will now be linking to profiles in the Bitcoin Weekly database.http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-glbse-and-decentralizationFor example, at the bottom, you will see the blue data box in which certain factoids are mentioned. Our first factoids are businesses mentioned. I seconded the proposal to further divide the marketplace forum. Speaking of delegation, I don't man the editor post anymore. Mostly, I advertise their articles and write the codebase that let my writers do their work. Somebody did the financial backing. Somebody else did the hacking. He's just an ideaman, who is worthless. He have some programming skill, so he isn't entirely worthless.Anybody can have a "brilliant idea" and a "vision", but can you survive at time self-doubt, loss of willpower, and intense negative feedback?Idea thinking is the first step in a long marathon.(Witness http://bitcoinweekly.com as it survives high turnover of employees/freelancers, editor resignation, one pdf and two sites and the founder's resignation from The Bitcoin Times) Scrutiny is important but not-well-thought out scrutiny is bad since we don't get good scrutiny. That's partly the fault of the community since we didn't make an attempt to answer with a FAQ link or write down the answer in the FAQ. Yes. It's still open. I want the most very basic python tutorial. The gambling industry is sure a big industry in the bitcoin economy. So why I am ain't in hell yet sharing places with recent victims of demonic armies?  I guess the devil doesn't really exists and some Christians are really just nuts.   A democracy is dangerous for our health, yo! Save your breath when it's the people that elect the politicans. Elite are inevitable in human societies, but it is how we select them that all it matters. Everything else is just a sideshow. The bitcoin development leadership were selected by merit, not by popular votes. They keep their power not through winning fair election but through complete voluntary consent. Politicans kiss babies to win elections. We bitcoiners don't give a diddy fuck about developers kissing babies as long they don't fuck with our money. I don't run GLBSE. Nefario already have a reputation when he started GLBSE.You popped up out of nowhere with only one post. Namecoin essentially made domain names property by the virtue of its codebase. No need for messy human conventions, judges, courts, etc. Business Database Development Updatehttp://bitcoinweekly.com/businesses shows all the businesses currently in the bitcoinweekly database. In each business profile, there is a discussion thread for that particular profile.It's still in early development so it isn't that useful yet. How do we know if your business is not a scam? How many gazillion of thread that must be created on deflation and bitcoin? That why I said "nothing to see here, move along."  Nothing to see here. Move along. Looks like the forum starts to generate 2000 posts a day. That's good for bitcoin.
Did I hear yet another claim of "Bitcoin bubble"? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value New article: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/webs-of-trust-and-how-to-decentralize-them Ladies and gentlemen, I am working on the Bitcoin Weekly business database. It's still in early development.What I hope the database will become:This database will track data such as "dead" or "alive", stories that mention said business, related bitcoinweekly articles, who owns it, reviews, and much more. It will also contain disqus discussion thread about said business.Here is our first business entry: http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/businesses/bitcoinglobal I heard bitcoin bubbles! http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value Look at the supply chain and see if you can get your manufacturer to be paid in bitcoin. What you guys need is ever more division of labors. Web programmers and more web programmers isn't much of a divison of labor. Go specialize in a technical trade or something.Granted....I am a web programmer too... If you look at it in term of bitcoin, yes. Not true for dollars. We gone beyond 400 K USD before. It doesn't mean anything other than the price are dropping. You can have enormous interest in bitcoin flowing but the market does not react. There had always been low and high volume. We are going into a correction phrase that may last a few months or so S3052 said. Just use ads block. Did someone say....bubble?  http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value The forum is hosted on sourceforge.net, guys. So you don't need to worry about the site going down.However, you could allocate the revenues to something like bitcoin bounties. In general, we got no Asian penetration.The whole bitcoin economy is a wholly a western centered world. Can the people who voted no or yes please voice their opinion? Had anybody send you any money? If nobody didn't, you ain't getting anything. Bitcoin doesn't grow on your desktop, ya know? 2 yes versus 5 no. Comeon guys! Vote! That what entrepreneurs are for. They need people to protect the vault, electricity to run the bank wiring system, somebody to transport the money, somebody to secure the money from counterfeiting, etc. Bitcoin mining follows the most energy efficient or at least cost effective route to mining. Massively scalable content production operation.
I heard one vote? Does that mean I can raise money selling Bitcoin Weekly t-shirt? Use it in addition to. You need to grow the namecoin system in order so that it will be useful. How about building a content farm that's actually useful?  No response to this thread other than vote of no? I guess Bitcoin Weekly can't raise money from t-shirt sale then.   Don't dredge up old thread so that you can post this. It creates noise. That's the only alleged similarity.  What are you trying to do? Moved and bump. I am not sure why bitcoin is in an anime convention. And the price of my space dropped to 51 bitcents a day.  Gottach keep hustling to get traffic in. Now, I get 51 bitcents a day. In any case, my impressions is below 1000 for most of the time. The best I can achieve on a really good day is just slightly above 1000. It feels really hard for me to swing over that traffic peak. No. How about making this http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-whack-a-mole into a t-shirt?This would support bitcoin journalism at Bitcoin Weekly. For now, I get paid 1 BTC from advertising. So, assuming current revenues, yes it will pay for itself.  Remember the Gimp Letter Writing Campaign? It went nowhere because I was lazy.Let finish this so I don't have to worry about the 600 BTC. We broke record for 5/18 with 2190 posts in one day. Whoa. I don't have any plan to start this project I don't have enough cash reserve to work on such project. So let this thread die. When the time is right, I'll restart my crowdfunding effort. For now, I am focusing on making bitcoin weekly a profitable and high caliber magazine. Should I get enough money from bitcoinweekly, I can start thinking about doing this project. Voted none. I get 1 BTC a day from bitcoinweekly.com's advertising revenues. All spam should be interesting content.   A lot of sites and business announcement pops up in the bitcoin marketplace, but some do pop up in the development forum.
If you want bids, set your minimum bid to 0 bitcents. That is how bitcoin weekly operates. Haters gottach hate. It's what they do and their sole purpose in life. Saying we need is a lot different than doing. Yes, everyone would like the average person to adopt bitcoin. And we're working on solutions to problems anyway. Rich hobo bitcoiners don't need accountants to manage their wealth! http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-risingAll they need is the ability to run and escape from anything. Using fractions of BTC is not a problem. We just move the decimal. The bitcoin economy is growing just fine with people hoarding bitcoin. Thought you might like this comic: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/reactions-to-bitcoinBasically details 4 common reactions to bitcoin including Game-changing, scam, stupid, and indifference. Apparently the "internet economist" thinks it's stupid and scammy at the same time. Asking an economic professor about bitcoin, which they probably never ever research in their entire life is probably like asking Newton about black holes and Chaos. He would have no clues. Nobody in their mind will do business with this man unless he offer something of value. Losing bitcoin in a bitcoin ewallet is not something that most people call valuable.   Meanwhile I get paid 1 BTC a day on operation fabulous.   Bitcoin will rescue the US economy! The way you make millions is to literally build a business in the bitcoin economy and finding niches that are profitable. That's the probably the best way to give bitcoin a fighting chance. Have you ever consider using http://operationfabulous.com to sell banner ads?It work well for me considering that I get paid 1 BTC a day. I guess not. Just a verification of a bitcoin article translated to Polish. I need somebody to check a Polish translation to make sure what I gotten is not crap. It's .10 bitcoin for the job. Please note you must have a reputation of speaking Polish or doing something with Polish language to qualify. Post here first and I'll talk to you via PM. So it's like whacking bitcoin moles? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-whack-a-mole Well, I believe it was only 50,000 pagviews a few weeks ago and now it's 100 K. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Um63OQz3bjo&feature=player_embedded Which is why you should donate 1 BTC to my magazine because it's the only public domain bitcoin magazine one the planet.  Please collect data because this is just perception. Ladies and gentlemen, we just broke posting record with 2000 + posts generated within a single day.Someday, 2000 + posts will be a regular occurrence.
I surpassed the 25 articles milestone. Right now, it's 27.That mean that the Bitcoin Weekly successfully published 27 articles into the public domain. We're still the largest public domain source in the bitcoin universe and we're planning to publish more.That doesn't mean much when you're the only business that actually does this.   Thanks! One more site to support the growing bitcoin economy. Two comics in a single day?  http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/reactions-to-bitcoin That was extremely fast!http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/reactions-to-bitcoin Completely unoriginal and boring arguments that had been debated on this forum to death.Go search the economic forum and you will see what I mean. I wrote an article for bitcoin security long ago:http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/security-in-bitcoin New request:I want a 4 comic panel portraying reactions to bitcoin:1. Game changing. "This is going to change...the WORLD!"2. Suspicion. "It must be a ponzi scheme"3. Stupid. "This is the dumbest idea I ever heard of".4. Indifference. The guy just walk about.Again, I will pay 1 BTC for this. Also, can you deliver the picture and payment address by email?: hackerkiba AT gmail.com http://mybitcoin.comGo there instead. It's free and they don't charge you a single fricking cent. I published the comic here: http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-value No. You just bomb the long security lines or shoot down people in malls. It's not about the mean, it's about the stupidity.  http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-valueNew comic! This time a parody of bitcoin bubble worriers. Also, I am now earning 1 BTC a day for bitcoinweekly! This is good news. That mean it's becoming profitable.  http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/comic-reaction-after-dramatic-rise-of-bitcoin-s-valueFinally, a parody of people who cries Bitcoin Bubble every time after dramatic rise of Bitcoin's value.   This is an annoyance.  Um. Email the owner of mtgox, now.Also, decentralizing the economy doesn't do much if security vulnerabilities exist on many bitcoin sites rather than just one big site. I sent 1 BTC to this address: 1GaLzoNQbuJB4hDgY4YBgvjxzPqHkCebgj Thanks. How much do I pay and which address?I am willing to pay 1 BTC. Well, if somebody can modify your web page without permission, than it is vulnerable to a "man-in-the-middle" attack. Somebody is always right and somebody is always wrong. The question is: which theories are right and how do we determine that? We're going to try out a new business model for bitcoin weekly...but we need an advertising sponsor to do it. If you're the type  that like to run promotions and discounts. Let me know at hackerkiba   at  gmail.com Mob mentality implies irrationality. Care to explain why the mob is wrong?
Wait? Who are the people being irrational here? Maybe you would like to provide arguments as to why bitcoin is a bubble? What is with these mining companies? Can't you think of something more interesting to fund?How about a toy company? Buy a thing-o-matic with 200 bitcoin and manufacture toy designs. The pyramid scheme have nothing to do with a deflationary economy. It just mean that early adopters have higher purchasing power. Latecomers can save too and earn from the deflationary economy. Spamming hurts us, sure. What do you suggest people to do? Surpass their bitcoin feeling? That sounds like we're putting a lot of faith in bitcoin or something. However, it's a fact that certain people screams "BUBBLE!" every time bitcoin does a dramatic price rise. If you cry wolf everytime, people are going to ignore you. There's a difference between spamming and talking about the rise of bitcoin.  Time to start saying bye bye to politically popular programs like social security or die.Let face it, the elderly don't care about our future. They're only waiting to die. You don't need the blockchain. Please provide numbers. We call that, the satoshi. When will you guys will sell the gavinator t-shirt?Or maybe you could sell the http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-whack-a-mole Bitcoin whack a mole t-shirt? It's even public domain. You got no evidence to prove either way. People, mind the civility or I will start using my banhammer.   http://sourceforge.net/projects/bitcoin/files/stats/timeline?dates=2009-01-11+to+2011-05-17 The bitcoin economy spans the globe and it's very possible that the bitcoin economy is so efficient that it reaches 14 trillion dollars in output anyway. The planet is fine. It's just that the incentives is wrong. Desperately looking for reliable writers! If you write enough articles in a frequent time frame, I might even make you...staff writers for 2 BTC! I am interested in a translation for http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/how-bitcoin-security-works-by-analogy at the price of .50 BTC in plain text format. There is no reason to shoot perfectly usable human resources. As irresponsible as some of the bankers are, they were exploiting a system that did not align with the collective long term interest of humanity(defined as long lifespan, greater living standard, etc).
That's a rather naive assumption. If half of the world demanding bitcoin is the US, the economy is going to drop by half. No. They are dumb shit compared to the Hacker News, who actually evolve their opinions on bitcoin. http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2011-05/16/bitcoin-p2p-currencyWe got on wired!   The intention of Jason Calacanis is to praise bitcoin. However, he didn't qualify what dangerous actually mean in its context. Bump. http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2551391Bitbills on hacker news! Oh. Almost doesn't look like a bitcoin at all. I spend bitcoins on production and translation of new contents.  Do I think morals and rights exists? Yes.Do I think the universe mandate morals and rights? No. It doesn't care. We human beings create morals, rights, and ethic. Our morals and conception of ethic originated from our evolutionary origin and evolve through culture. There's a reason we evolved this way, but sometime moral concepts become obsolete in our current environment.Take the idea of egalitarianism and fairness. These concepts does more harm than good. Thanks to our collective education, we realize that price-gouging is actually economically beneficial. Don't know. You have to ask my writer. I agree these articles, from my initial impression, are top notch.I also take notes the time it took them to produce their articles and the editorial structure that they uses. It's safe to say that my strategy and focus is different than their.The Bitcoin Sun wants to be a high quality news source of the bitcoin world, The Bitcoin Weekly wishes to be read years and years into the future. (Though, some of the articles posted were definitely time sensitive.)On strategies, I am committed to the idea of the OODA loop, I optimize The Bitcoin Weekly to react and produce articles faster. They have an hierarchical structure which are geared toward the quality production of their beautiful magazine. (Keep in mind, this is an impression created by their introduction to the magazine) Sounds more like praise than fear. Nice. It took me several times to get one Hacker News front page and shortly after, it slips from the front page. I think that would require modification to the pooling software or the mining software...or something.. Stilling saying "X is wrong!" or "Y is wrong!". It's totally BS, man.The universe doesn't give us rights, man! Ok. This is a better answer than "murder is wrong!!!1111"Just to be clear, I am a normal human being, not a pyschopath or a socialpath. What if I get away with it, every single time? Saying it's not ok, doesn't matters. http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2550312WOOHOO! First time that the Bitcoin Weekly made the front page of hacker news! Congratulation, confusing the messenger with the message. Apparently, you never have to deal with a sneaky son-of-the-bitch socialpath.
So I shouldn't do certain things because some people might be out to get me.What if I time travel back and save the Jews and the nazi comes out to get me? I chooose... BITCOIN!   I suggest we homestead abandoned properties into bitcoin mining farms! Why should I follow that rule? What if I can get away with it? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-glbse-and-decentralizationNew article. * kiba takes note on the competition. How many articles are in this edition? Should we start collecting bounty reward? Is anybody going to pussy out because now this bounty represent 15 K USD? For all intent and purpose, Namecoin IS BitDNS. It's the only project that's running anyway. Governmental backdoors are just another security holes that can be exploited by evil Chinese crackers. Why should humans follow this concept of non-aggression principle? Why should we follow a rule of ethic that prohibit murder, rape, and so on? Socialpath and pyschopath are crafty people really good at imitating normal people, and they're not necessary criminals..Congressmen, I bet are just mostly normal people with 1 or 2 percents pyschopath mixed in.tWhen we lack economic rationality, we tend to let insitutions incentives to drive destructive behaviors. Insanity is what kill humanity, not a secret cabal of evil socialpath.  Ok. I trust you. You reviewed his work? Are you doing my request next? What is justice and what does it means to have a just society? I guess this is what ubitex could help facilitate, a digital hawla network using bitcoin. Write longer posts, with substance. Long enough to be interesting, but concise enough to say what you need to say. People like me?I suppose what I said, was harsh.  Maybe we'll end the growth period in a long bull market where nothing much happens for a long time..until KABOOM!
Who is John Galt Satoshi Nakamoto?Satoshi Nakamoto is like the Greek God Prometheus who gave fire to humanity while defying Zeus. I intend to commission a comic that parody said panics. Mt. Gox. is the equivalent of a company that sell mining equipment in my opinion.  Short term burst of the bubble and extreme rise in bitcoin price is like a big hurricane hitting the beach. Merely a short term weather phenoma.  We need to tally up all SR3052's predictions and see how much he is right and how much he is wrong. I inspected it with google translate...and sent my payment as per billed. They're more bouncy than going down or going up. One of my writer did an analysis of the possible causes for the rise of bitcoin prices: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/causes-behind-the-bitcoin-price-rallyI have to througly disagree with the idea is that bitcoin is a mere investment stock. People are actually using it to fund companies, sell foods, etc. How about you translate this article for me: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/how-bitcoin-security-works-by-analogy I seem to have paid twice the amount of bitcoin I was going to pay. I have quite a lot. I commissioned two comic strips, several articles, a translation, got paid for developing an extension, etc. I do lot of small trades. I don't buy bitcoin. I horde or earn them through trade. I cannot tell the difference between a BS translation and a good one, so I am going to have accept it on good faith. From what I can tell, it seems to me that it's different from machine translation of Google. What a bummer.  I was hoping to expand Bitcoin Weekly(http://bitcoinweekly) internationally to new languages. Sir...you have no reputation. Bitcoin is still not on Wired or Arstechnica's radar. alpha geek. A variation on the male alpha. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/causes-behind-the-bitcoin-price-rallyNew article about the bitcoin price rally. Beware of other people using your accounts. Ok. I will check this via google translate to make sure you ain't....tricking me.(let face it, newbies have no reputation)
https://twitter.com/#!/BitcoinWeeklyBitcoin Weekly now have its own twitter account.  It will tweets bitcoin weekly latest articles as well update. I am interested in having one of my http://bitcoinweekly.com article translated into Arabic for .50 BTC. How about you translate English to Japanese? Heard nefario might have to write new cryptographic library for javascript if he's going to write a web version. Maybe you could just sell a Bitcoin logo case. The homebrewed CMS still doesn't have all its bell and whistles of that god damn Durpal site.  However, bitcoinweekly is starting to evolve its own characteristics, in accordance to my business strategy. Plus, bitcoinweekly is still the number one source for funding of public domain content. That accomplishment is something I am very proud of. Not even the Bitcoin Sun dared to follow my path. Right...so:1. Outdated clients are potential attack vector.2. Somebody mimicking Gavin is also an attack vector. Hacker News is like obsessed with bitcoin.  But I would like until ten dollars before HN and slashdot get ahold of the parity news. Hmm, I think my boss, owner of bitcoincharts.com could make fancy charts out of these data. I think they just liquidate the funds as soon it become available.  I am willing to commission a stick figure comic about bitcoin bubble.My idea is that every time the price of bitcoin rose dramatically, the speculators crowds at the trading floor become panicked every time someone shouts"BITCOIN BUBBLE!"It would be 3 panels long. The panel progression is simply a repeat of what I describe but with larger and larger crowd, with panel 3 being the largest.It will be published under the public domain with your name as the author. It's fucking insanity for sure, but we don't know if the price of bitcoin will hold? Don't really care.The fundamental is strong:1. The forum is getting record posting rate and record users online simultaneously2. The forum economy is growing and people are reporting that people are buying goods and services, more than ever.3. New markets has been established and growing such as the GLBSE and the namecoin market. For May 13th, we reached 1781 posts in a 24 hours period.  75% confidence for the prediction of 20 dollars by the end of May. Not a problem if mtgox owner registered a namecoin domain, which is censor resistant.  It's a nice theory and all, but is it true? Due to the extreme price deflation, I am dropping the price to 1 BTC. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=statsThe forum listed how many people registered today, the number of post in a day, and so on. When the price of bitcoin dramatically rose, prepare for the obligatory:IT MUST BE A BUBBLE!
Asking stability in a currency that's probably going to dominate the world economy or fall apart in ten years time is nut. That's some expensive photographs. SUSSSSSSSSSPICIOUS! I hold bitcoin till the bitter end or world domination.   hmm...like this? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-global-bitcoin-stock-exchange-and-why-it-matters Thank you for linking to one of my magazine's article.  Perhaps you would consider a small donation to keep the magazine going? It's at the front page. That must be a block race?  The bitcoin economy will not remain stable if its full potential is to dominate the global economy. Thanks for linking to a bitcoinweekly article!   There is nothing to be concerned when there is more trading than ever before. The only thing that should matter is whether or not I do my job. The marketplace had to be split up into buy and sell because there were so much economic activities. The Bitcoin Weekly now have its own rss feed!  http://bitcoinweekly.com/feeds/index.rxml You care about people getting their "fair share", whatever it mean. I do not.I do not value equality as a moral goal in itself. So what?So what?Let me remind me you that the moral sensibility of human beings may be far different from your and thus we won't ever agree simply because we have different goals and goal system. And so you get to defined what's poverty and what's not, what's exploitation and what's not. The problem is these labels are relative comparison of wealth. The poor who own a TV, a phone, and get to eat something everday is far different than the poor who labors on farms in the middle of the age. When you're talking about price, productive output, etc, it is an economic issue, period.Yes, we know what we read in history book in school written by god-knows biased historians.Please give us concrete examples of how Google changed from good to bad.The fact is, Google revolutionized and make efficient advertising. The fact that google is no longer generous does not invalidate the economic efficiency that Google brings. If they are hardware hackers and makers, it might. Exploitation? I called it efficiency. Something are worth 0.01 cents, and something are worth 3 bucks, and some thing are worth tons of money. If you price out the possibility of production below the minimum wage, you're simply impoverishing humanity.What you're doing is making value judgement based on relative prices, rather than the economic output. More economic output simply means more goods and services available for humanity which mean...we are richer!How google made their money? They allowed the monetization of tons of blogs and website that otherwise wouldn't be possible.Instead of earning nothing, blogs could earn a dollar or two everyday. Eventually, some of these blogs become so valuable that it allows their owners to quit their job. Well, I have an old CD drive.
There's the difference between the need for social protection and unintended consequence as a result of trying to implement laws that respect the need for social protection, catch my drift?In any case, the bitcoin economy couldn't thrive if people can't pay each other below the minimum wage. That's shazow and some other guy who commisioned him to do the work. Insider trading is a good thing for the bitcoin economy because it means accurate information about companies are flowing into the economy. There's old computer equipment in our homes...but I wonder if there's a market for electronic junks in the bitcoin market. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/security-in-bitcoinIt reminds me of this article that I wrote. Ok, the price is back to 2 BTC per screencast. Because being a mod shouldn't be a big deal? Refined the contract...I think it would be a good business to start a company that specialize in keeping employment contracts and making it easy for people to do so. When will we see new designs? Let become cyborgs! 1. Sellers don't necessarily use the same address for transaction again and again.2. I have to do actual work to use bitcoinfeedback. Yes, but so does dollars. Would be great if there's a business reputation system so that I can figure out on a short glance if I want to do business with a forum user.Extra bonus if it incorporate bitcoin-otc. For May 10th, we saw 1669 posts in a 24 hour period. You said it is true so you better provide the bacon for your evidence. I will continue building my business and donate 10% of my profit to a charity dedicated to fighting aging.  IF bitcoin is destined to become the global currency of the world, than it will be pure insanity for a long time. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-global-bitcoin-stock-exchange-and-why-it-mattersNew article for ya. Citation needed. Nobody wants to do these lovely screencast for me? It's 1.5 BTC!
Talking about the "need for racial diversity" is inherently racist.  We just broke posting record again. And you reported.I am curious that people call for stripping my power simply because of the perceived excess categorization and simply because of my attitude.Perhaps, I will be stripped of my power. Big fricking deal. Other mods will be there to pick up the slack. Dunno. Looks to me it's easy to counterfeit bitbills. w00t. My ads revenue went up to .32 bitcents a day.  I can counterfeit this by printing the public key, no? That's another commonly requested item that I have not gotten around to yet. Due to price deflation, I have to lower my price.   Insti: that would be for bitcoinnews or bitcoinwatch, but not bitcoinweekly. Yup. Been out forever. Paid unfinishe for work done. Widely? It functuates from at least 1 hundred to several hundred uniques.  It shows up at:http://bitcoinweekly.com All that while the price of my bitcoin ads remain the same, at least for time being. In fact, I think the price of my ads went up or stay stable.  Yeah. baby! Bring in the dough! Buying AMD's GPUs? So I can use the GLBSE to sign employment contracts? Going to be a crazy bounce. If you are a participant in a thread, you will be wondering where the thread goes. No.  
Right. I don't really fight hard when push come to shove. A few posts back and forth about a particular thread in question should be the end of it.On the other hand, I am highly amused by people asserting their independence against me as if it were for the very spirit of the forum.  Folks, this is just maintenance. No need to blow it out of proportion. Bitcoin miners will choose the most cost effective means of hashing bitcoin, with or without GPUs.So I am not sure what this regulation actually does. Don't like the moving? Complain each and every time I moved something. Than I'll stop moving anything.Right now, it looks to me to be the first complaint about an everyday routine maintenance activity. Nobody complains. I consider that a "yes". I am sure AMD will throw in the wrench before that can happens. My sorting algorithm is about 99% accurate as far as I am concerned.  For graphic cards?  You make gamers and researchers angry too. That may be so, but I am changing or censoring anybody at all. Just moving them to the right place. I think it have to be a lot more sophisticated than that or otherwise you get intentional collateral damage.  Collateral damage. Make normal people angry. I am not sure why people are getting worked up by my categorization effort. I said I don't care either way.  And I don't care if I lose my power. And I don't care either way. * kiba shrugsI don't really care. I spent 73 days on the forum. I considered currency competition between various bitcoin blocks an economic issue. It's very much possible, but at the same time it's not a bad thing. May 9th, 1561 posts in a 24 hours period.
2 slots are now open again!Python and basic sorting algorithms! Technologies have a tendency to escape their little niches. Let just rename bitcoin to satoshi.   Added encoding recommendation..Now looking for somebody to do basic sorting algorithms. http://apenwarr.ca/log/?m=201105#08Anybody see this? It been nuked several times from HN people. Ok. You got until Wednesday 18:00 UTC. Please remember to deliver the finished screencast privately. Python and Basic Sorting Algorithm slots still not filled.Here's your chance for 2 BTC, folks. When the forum traffic become overwhelming again, it will be a good time to consider further divisions of the marketplace forum.As it stand, the marketplace is now more manageable. Good riddance.  Yes. I suggest we move the server to a host that the owner can pay his bill in bitcoin. I discontinued the use of move threads for the marketplace forum. It is clear that the current reputation system is causing problem. One example incident goes like this:A: You downvoted me, instead of answering me. ThanksB: I didn't downvoted you. When I move someone's thread, they're going to be confused where their thread goes. You don't create jobs, you fill them. I booed the karma system because I thought it would lead to group-thinks and irrationality. It simply means that nobody figured out how to own school of fishes. Let bomb the pre-screening line instead! More people there! The forum software did not count the posts subforum toward a forum's count, therefore misleading us on the size of certain language communities and forums. One particular example is the Russian community. At first glance, it's as inactive as other language forum but in reality it is the second largest language community, next to English. A waste of time since the bitcoin forum prohibited the selling and buying of black market goods in one own's country.
That's a good idea. We have....CONSPIRACY!  The best kind of conspiracy is EVIL actions in plain sight, like the stupid security theater hoisted upon us to protect from stupid as fuck terrorists who don't even see the opportunity to bomb long lines yet. I don't find it evil to sell pirated works. The bitcoin economy did not contracted, but expanded. More goods and services are being sold than ever before, but there is quite severe deflation. Ok, from now on, I will tag non-complaint thread with [BUY] and [SELL]. I will be tagging forum topics with [BUYING] and [SELLING] tags to make it easier for forum users to navigate. You are welcome to object to this policy if you feel it is a bad policy, etc. Nope. The least efficient companies will fail, leaving the more efficient companies alive. Rock-bottom price is not rock-bottom if people aren't still buying. The Great Depression is a bad thing is different from what actually cause The Great Depression. Here in the bitcoin economy, it is a good thing. People are buying, people are producing, etc.My revenues actually grew 5 times in spite of the recent Great Price Deflation. They also killed ton of cows during the Great Depression for the sake of economic intervention or at least what I remember.Don't forget that history have more than one sides to the story. Two different people can look at the same data and come away with different conclusion. Like this? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/anonymous-money-needs-an-anonymous-exchange Seconded! And I have 7+/1-. NO matter how good my reputation is, I just think it's a bad idea. There seems to be a lot of attempt to turn up with private solutions. DIdn't get scammed yet.I am lucky.   You got until Tuesday 20:00 UTC to finish it. Yup. Are you offering to buy something? I am willing to buy three good 5 minute tutorial screencasts for the following three areas:1. Beginning Javascript2. Beginning Python3. Basic Sorting Aglorithms (demonstrated in javascript)The format will be very plain, no frill, no music, no fancy special effect, etc. The lecturer will not appear in the video, etc. Look to KhanAcademy for inspiration. The code shown must works and should not be too difficult to code. If you make mistakes in the process of coding, that's ok. Just make sure you get it done by 5 minutes. Be clear in your speaking and make sure people can understand without difficulty.To prevent duplication of work, you are welcome to offer your service in the thread and lock in. I will set a reasonable two days deadline.All videos and content commissioned by me will be placed under the public domain to the greatest extent possible. I will use them to start a new site.All videos are to be delivered privately, not published anywhere else. I wish for the privilege of being the first to publish it.Recommended encoding: H.264 in MP4 at 1280x720 and AAC or whatever happens to work for youtube. I don't sell bitcoin.I am a bitcoin fatalist. Whatever happens will be.  Please search the forum for this topic. It had already been debated ad absurdum. 
If you're going to write essays on forum, write for me instead. You will get compensated. The likelyhood that the mybitcoin guys will respond here are slim. Email them. Why not start a competing alternative?  It would be annoying that the DNS servers do not respect existing names. I am interested in commissioning a public domain tutorial screencast instead. Correlation != causation.  May 5th, 1553 posts in a 24 hours period. Dang, another day of record breaking. I don't see any communism existing. I see tons of inequality in the wealth of bitcoiners and the power they possess. They just can't rule over each other. Not even the mob of people have the power or authority over a bitcoiner. Bitcoin support capitalism!I mean, Satoshi is probably going to be the richest man in the world!  I think Osama bin Laden tries to resist. It didn't go well. Not a problem.All the other currencies have to compete and distinguish themselves from the competition. Bitcoin have a massive first mover advantage that will be very hard to dislodge. How profitable for you? I can't wait to buy a gavinator t-shirt someday. However, I know you must be profitable in order to expand your t-shirt line. An unimportant forum think bitcoin is a scam? Who fricking care? People are bad at estimating the rate of change. Personally, I think a 25% probability confidence of bitcoin taking off to stratospheric level in a J curve. Heck the bitcoin price charts look like a J curve. I meant GLBSE. Bitcoin forum broke posting record on 05/04 with 1429 posts in a 24 hour period. Dang! Don't think reputation based on if forum goers agree with you is useful.Rather have reputation related to doing business. So the deed is done! I seconded this proposal! It's called transaction fee.
I don't think it will ever handle DNS lookup. These are more appropriately handled by...DNS server. 0.00000000 As far as I know, namecoins get destroyed when you register, but the destroyed amount of namecoin rapidly drop off to insignificant.  I beg your pardon?  Namecoin is just the mechanism for registrating domains. Nope. No reason to invest in a dreambusiness. Bollocks. I have to resist the urge to spend bitcoin, as it's only "1 or 2 BTC" for y product. Why is it broken? The cost of registrating domains will fall 50% over whatever period I forgot. Why not? I will not invest until I see a site.Beside, what distinguish your site from the competition?  Just hook up your resolv.conf and you're ready to access *.bit domains. I think it's inevitable that the namecoin discussion will become an entire category in itself.  Yes, it is designed to evade governmental control over domain names. Is it anything like how mtgox works? Interesting, yes.  We will all be dead before this day comes, however.[/quote]I believe you consistently underestimate the speed of change. I better get my game up soon.   Create a webcomic and stick a banner ads(Operation Fabulous or the other bitcoin advertising network I forgot) on it. Promote the hell out of it and let the ads fry some of the cost of hosting it.Once you create a loyal fanbase, go in for the money kill.Heck, you could even sell swags of your stick figure drawing, or even signed print. 49 BTC times 3.3 equal 161.70 USD divided by 8 hours come out 20.125 per hours worked. Not bad at all.If you ever got increased demand, it is conceivable that you could make a living off of it. I think he already got a good healthy sum of bitcoin. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-if-public-keys-were-carrotsDoes the public keys as carrot analogy works? You decide!
When will we see fancy charts or an API that bitcoincharts can use to create fancy charts? There is no source to explain 1900ish users online. He sounds like a raving lunatic.  Can anybody confirms that the bitcoin forum got DDOSed recently?  Apparently, there was a DDOS attempt going on at an exchange. I think somebody made a bot herder angry. Where the hell did the 1931 users online at once come from? Bot attack? I am hoping to commission a bitcoin comic for 1.66 BTC.A bitcoin comic on the divisibility, the durability, and the fungibility of bitcoin. In other words, what make bitcoin good money?(Feel free to start with a comic that explain one of the property of bitcoin. Be happy to pay for additional comics if needed be.) Sent payment.Will publish it soon. Bitcoin forum posting record high: 1385 posts in 24 hours on May 1st. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-in-a-post-scarcity-worldNew article. Talks about a hypothetical future where everything is scarce except new patterns. I am looking  to draft a formal employment contract that people will sign cryptographically. The goal here is to formulate a clear procedure for employment. I am not a lawyer or a grammatican, so I am relying  on people to offer critiques and corrections so  that people can't twist the contract(employer or employee, or otherwise)Here we go: They can always act as a bitcoin wallet service. Don't care. I am making money off of my IP-less empire. Do we need a gazillion intellectual arguments to prove your point?Why not go with entrepreneurship to prove your point? No.Go build it. His paypal account got suspended. I am looking for a writer that will reliably write an article every week and reviews other people's articles. The position will starts with the pay rate of 2 BTC per week.Your job:1. Write an article every week about cryptography, economics, politics, etc...all of which have to do with bitcoin.2. Peer review at least two authors' article every week. If there's no authors, you're a lucky bastard.Keep in mind that the pay-rate of 2 BTC is better than the 1.66 BTC per article commission but you will also have the tedious job of critiquing some other guys' article.I know the rate is a lot worse than The Bitcoin Sun, but the Bitcoin Weekly is a capital and revenue constrained operation. We also accumulated a lot of trust by simply paying writers so you can trust the Bitcoin Weekly to reliably pay for articles. Finally! Competition! Bitcoin is not democratic. It is voluntary.  Well, how does Osama bin Laden got killed? He was shot dead by soldiers.
The things that TSA like to makes. Long waiting lines. The likelihood of getting arrested in a fricking firefight is low. Bitcoin should not be a payment system but a commodity in your MMO. Maybe it could be used to revive players on the spot or something. Methink it's only a matter of time that paypal will shut down these accounts. The constitution is just a piece of paper. It never protected anybody. Doesn't mean we should be stupid in killing Osama and doing things like....making long lines ripe for juicy terrorist attacks. I am quite serious. It's an irrational fear. It's also when terrorists won. Lives taken are collateral. What get taken is our mind. That already happened. The retarded security measure taken by TSA actually results in lives taken because people rather drive cars than go through the BS that the TSA. Terrorists are so incompetent at killing people that it's practically a waste of money to go after them.Better focus on car accidents. That kill more people every year. A 9/11 style would have to occurs pretty often to catch up to them.(So, 3000 people have their justice...but how many lives were brought to kill Osama bin Laden?) Checklist of  Retarded/Evil Guberment:1. Safety measure that increase the number of long security lines and inconvenience travelers for no reason. Check! Good thing terrorist fags are actually more incompetent than government security fags. God knows what their propensity would be in increasing target size for terrorists to strike for the purpose of  "increasing security".2. Waging two wars and wasting American and civilian lives for the dubious purpose of increasing security. Check!3. Becoming so incompetent that they seems evil. Check! Luke-jr tricked us in a May Fool! Schools suck/stagnate.I mean, why do we have to listen teachers yammer in lecture? Just record the lecture of the best teacher and use it to teach everybody about topics. Plus, that mean no rushing to write down notes. Kind to elaborate what this mean? How about the X Prize for Immortality?  I'll buy when I see two exchange nodes pop up on a map.  I can access namecoin sites with a namecoin DNS.bluishcoder.bit works! I don't think GLBSE cares to comply with these laws. After all, bitcoin corporation listed there are probably not charted by the state. You pick up the cash dropped there. Somebody is on it: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6584.0 Now the Russian can't exchange Russian rubes for bitcoin anymore. This is bad for the bitcoin economy.  
Please return the light side! Dude, WTF?Why are you engaging in stereotypical Russian evilness behavior? This highlight the need for peer to peer network of bitcoin exchangers. Ah, we got hit by hacker news again while I was napping. A town or a city in which there are high density of bitcoin users. We need bitcoin cash dealers on the ground. Bitcoin is not the natural enemy of Paypal.They just decide to be assholes a long time ago and end up making lot of enemies. Hmm, Gavin would have to step up his game a bit. Hmm, I would need to code a podcasting publishing system, transcribe the podcast, and do all the added value service.At the same time, it will bring in much needed traffics, which could boost up my advertising revenue/donation.Lot of effort for some potential upside.Don't have the coding chop to do it. When will you complete the comic for the public key cryptography? Remember, we're reaching a new norm of a thousand posts a day. That mean 30,000 posts every month.  Let the market do its thing. Whether or not it burst, we must keep moving forward, building the services and goods that prop up the price of bitcoin. How about doing lecture site supported by bitcoin advertising?Like khanacademy, except more of a commercial enterprise. People are starting to comment on my magazine. Yay!   Digital hawala network. Somebody is working on it.  Sure they are. I brought 100 testcoins for 1 BTC. Now it's even worth less.* kiba needs it for testing purpose. Correlation != Causation.  While I am sympathetic to the voluntaryist ideology, I just don't think rational debate is possible.Hence, "Politics is the mindkiller". Don't know anything about modifying my DNS server and whatnot. In a deflationary  growth economy, less efficient companies die and more efficient company thrives. The culling effect of firms is much harsher, but would it be a bad thing? Nope.
These debates are a waste of time.Arguments are soldiers in political argument. Politics is the mindkiller, etc. Let hope that the bitcoin economy also grows at the same rate. I don't make prediction. Don't speculate on bitcoin anymore. Lol. And he's working on this project, on his own fricking expense. Nobody is paying him to be the technical lead.In any case, I don't give a damn if Gavin happens to be a billionaire when he present Bitcoin to the CIA. Let return to the bitcoin holiday question:Do you think we should celebrate a special occasion for the disappearance of satoshi from our world? Dude, you can't explain why this is wrong. Secondary, Gavin actually presented bitcoin as a speaker. Who these others? You? WTF? What does these paranoia about the state have anything to do with bitcoin development mistakes? I think it's already impossible by this point. Broke posting record on 4/28/11 with 1369 posts in one day. I think it tells us that bitcoiners do not like filling out pointless paperwork. I hope he will change the world again in a few years. Gavin and TD said on IRC that satoshi is not coming back. The government is in a never ending quest for power! Alway for power! Never for freedom! Never for humanity! Never for good! Never for evil!Seriously, you guys are paranoid.  Since satoshi has been confirmed to be not coming back, the bitcoin community now have to fend for ourselves.I propose we make a bitcoin holiday in honor of our legendary anonymous founder and to observe the fact that the bitcoin community will be just fine after the inventor of bitcoin left.Even if Gavin is hit by the bus tomorrow, we can live. In anticipation, when the price of a bitcoin is 3 dollars or more, the commision fee that bitcoinweekly is offering will be 1.66 BTC.Anybody who had sent me draft or had me approve the proposal or even further the line into revising drafts, are entitled to 2.5 BTC.Kiba out!(Meanwhile, Bitcoin Weekly's capital reserve increases. Woohoo!) You know, I don't like the policy of censorship and separation anymore. Originally, this is about keeping the perception of bitcoin "pure and clean". But now we see how slippery this god damn slope is. This "s" guy rubs me the wrong way, seriously.He's talking about the community and whatever, deciding Gavin need to do this and this for the sake of the community.Pfft. What s thinks is not what I think, and certainly not what others think. Inform what about Gavin? What do you wish to get out of it what?If this ain't a strawman, I don't know what it is. As an employee of bitcoinwatch/bitcoinchart, I must said that it's bitcoinwatch, not the bitcoin community.
And he isn't getting paid by anybody to develop bitcoin.Again, his money, his choice. He is a human being, not a slave to "the community". And that shows the absurdity of banning stuff.   What people thinks is bad/evil sometime isn't. We bitcoiners for the most part don't think that voluntary trade is evil but we are so worried about perception making an impact on the success and failure of bitcoin. I am a gray market actor. Hope you don't ban people like me. Ok, this is too much.First they come for the silkroads, and the drug. Now they come for this. That will be a problem for bitcoin corporations trading on the GLBSE.WTF is this? No idea where this issue comes from? Who give a damn about a politician's birth certificate? If you always execute faster than the other guys, it doesn't matter what kind of NDA they have with their employees. They're screwed either way.   NDA? This implies whatever he's working on is a no-go.If he can't be confident that he can execute, he sucks. Amen. His money, his choice. The first thing that the lead developer needs in order to work full time on bitcoin is to pay himself bitcoin/USD/etc. What would the bitcoin communal enterprise need his money for that's more important than the development of the bitcoin client/bitcoin protocol? And Gavin won't have to beg his wife for money.  Remember "pretend money" his wife said about his work? Now he get to say "but it make money". Will this corporation be state chartered? We need a gavinator t-shirt! Whenever something new come up on HN, tons of twitter bots tweet it. Hacker News like to drops twitter bombs with the number of HN aggregators on twitter. We reached a new record with the number of users online. This time Hacker News pay the forum a visit. Truly staggering.669 users online at one time on 04/28/11. Extremely heavy traffic from hacker news. Speech, body language, etc speak volume of information to CIA agents. The channel of speech is a hell lot faster than the channel of text. If you wanna help the magazine, please comments on the magazine.Negative or positive, I want people to get talking.
I wouldn't buy any share in you, though. They have to convince investors that these stocks is worth buying.I would buy a stock in GLBSE because the company have a real product out there. I implemented the disqus commenting system. Now you can comment on every article. Well, it would be weird if bitcoin don't have any critics or that people would figure out that this is the best thing since sliced  bread. The government is doomed without Bitcoin, anyway. The only solution in saving their ass is changing their incentive structure. Hmm, I think I can integrate this service somehow into the chrome extension.  I typed getbalance into the console and it gave me an error though.   Is the account information and stuff sent over to your server as https? Crashed it at signup:Code:Warning at /account/signup/Table './pouch/emailconfirmation_emailconfirmation' is marked as crashed and should be repairedRequest Method: POST Request URL: https://bitcoinpouch.com/account/signup/ Exception Type: Warning Exception Value: Table './pouch/emailconfirmation_emailconfirmation' is marked as crashed and should be repaired Exception Location: /usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/MySQLdb/cursors.py in _warning_check, line 82 Python Executable: /usr/bin/python Python Version: 2.6.6 Python Path: ['/home/pouch/pouch/apps', '/home/pouch/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pinax/apps', '/home/pouch/env/lib/python2.6/site-packages/', '/home/pouch/pouch', '/home/pouch', '/home/pouch/env/lib/python2.5/site-packages', '/usr/lib/python2.6', '/usr/lib/python2.6/plat-linux2', '/usr/lib/python2.6/lib-tk', '/usr/lib/python2.6/lib-old', '/usr/lib/python2.6/lib-dynload', '/usr/local/lib/python2.6/dist-packages', '/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages', '/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/PIL', '/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6'] Server time: Wed, 27 Apr 2011 14:30:39 -0400  w00t. The Bitcoin Weekly reachs .20 BTC a day in advertising revenue, in the face of price deflation.   We beat last month's posting record. It's all a gravy train from here. No. A currency even  better than bitcoin is a good thing!Bitcoiners and Satoshi should be proud. You should send these to my email, ya? Anyway, I like the idea. Send a draft to my email address. interesting, but what's different from the competitor: http://operationfabulous.com ?Certainly you have a nicer looking site...but I don't that means much of anything. They could geolocate drop points so that the buyers and sellers don't even have to meet. So Bitcoin was invented by an AI that called itself Satoshi so that it can efficiently operate and acquire resources for its plan. Don't worry, because we bitcoiners are its terminators. Hair looks a little weird in after. Changed the site's styling a little bit. I sucks at the whole designing a site thing, but I don't think I can afford a designer. Garnishing about the 50% hashing power is boo-ring and  been covered a thousand time. Folks, we just reached a new posting record. In a 24 hours period, we reached 1120 posts about bitcoin.Wow. Someday, it will be a blip in the day to day activity of the forum. I am willing to commission a comic about public key cryptography for 2.5 BTC. Explains them in as many comic strip you want.
Sorry, my magazine do not have enough money to pay out 5 BTC for a cartoonist. Occasionally, money have to come out of my own pocket. Hmm..I would like to hire shazow as a Bitcoin Weekly cartoonist for 2.6 BTC per week. I guess that mean 1 comics per week. I am dismayed by the fact that I need to pay a one time 5 dollars fee as requirement.Finally got my ass around it and found an unexpected obstacle.  You need to first establish a market for it, or at least somebody starts selling SDR for bitcoin. I am interested in case studies of such social attack by the government. It seems that the government have a very powerful propaganda arm.It's a widespread belief but I am interested in evidence. It's also unknowable if the bitcoin are lost or possessed by someone, unless someone point out all the public address they lost bitcoin in. However, people can never be sure if they lost it if the person is telling them the truth, and nothing but the truth.Bitcoin ownership is pretty much absolute and more sure than property ownership in land but it's also almost impossible to know without people telling the truth. I am paying for an eloquent article that defend Satoshi's decision to limit the bitcoin supply to 21 million. Plus, Mises articles are not public domain. I want public domain. Still looking for an eloquent defense of deflation.I have 4.17 BTC reserve, so it's enough for an article. I paid for the stick figure drawing. Please confirm? http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-comic-whack-a-moleMy commission for a comic went through. Shazow is a great artist. And the price offered is change to 2.5 BTC. Bitcoin is not about the people fighting the elite.There are the bitcoin natural elites, but they earn their position through merit and hard work. They don't even have political power. Their position is entirely built on respect. Not the kind of respect that you show to authorities because you fear them, but the kind of respect because you recognize their contribution to humanity or that they are good at something.You also have to remember that there are some individuals who are bitcoin wealthy, probably satoshi.In any case, the same level of security that the bitcoin have, you can now have because of the algorithms and the spread of ubiquitous computing.  In the world of governments and state, only the rich have the tools to evade tax. Now the poor can do so if it is necessary for survival.  You should link to the site. There is nothing concrete about it. I am just expressing my confidence.  We libertarians like to think commerce and sharing/giving are not in direct opposition.  The exchange of ideas can occur faster through speech, words, and human body language. I estimated a 75% chance confidence of reaching 2 dollars per bitcoin. Cryptography. That's more approriate for the guys at bitcoinwatch.com and bitcoincharts.com. The Bitcoin Weekly is not a "news organization".  I estimated the probability of reaching 1000 dollars per bitcoin to be 0.06%
I purchased two namecoin from dmp1ce. He's trustworthy. Mining kit is only for rich people. Beside, smartphone will be everywhere as it get cheaper. The rich folks are just the have-now, and the poor folks are have-later. Very different notion from being poor forever and rich get to keep all the good toys.The rich folks(us)  subsidize these inventions, which will eventually accrues to the poor. Capitalism FTW. Why are you talking to me about tor? New article: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-pokerBitcoin Poker by Tom Collins.I also reached the 651 unique visitors within a 24 hour period milestone.   The demonization on wikileaks didn't work on the internet population. Sure there's lot of hatred, but there's also lot of support for it too. The best way to fight them? Don't die.If bitcoin don't die, we win, period. The only question is how much of the bitcoin community is willing to do bitcoin in the face of persecution.I don't know how I am going to act when that time come. Interesting idea: micro-ransoming articles. 1. 75% chance of reaching 5 dollars per bitcoin.2. 50% chance of reaching 10 dollars per bitcoin.3. 25% chance of reaching 15 dollars per bitcoin.4. 10% chance of reaching 20 dollars per bitcoin.Not very confident but believed bitcoin have a non-trivial chance of reaching 20 dollars per bitcoin. Just put a legal disclaimer on the wiki."These drugs may be legal or not in your jurisdiction. It is up to you to determine their legality. " song mentioned on Bitcoin Watch. Trunks folder?   Namecoin is in a git repository.  I am unable to run bitcoind and namecoind at the same time. Has anybody have that issue? I guess you'll have to ban my site since it have articles on agorism and stuff like that. I am willing to accept a rebuttal on the articles though.  I even have a person writing an article on bitcoin Poker. It have everything to do with namecoins. The problem: Damn guberments can take down any domain name they like.The solution: Those evil guberments can't take down namecoin domains because it's distributed. It's a distributed domain name registration system that use bitcoin technology, meant to solve the takedown problem. I am not looking to expand Bitcoin Weekly beyond Bitcoin...Beside Bitcoin Weekly's purpose is to present information about Bitcoin that's originally from the forum. I am skeptical about "wait and let the traffic grow" strategy. Even Forbes magazine have to plaster their site with advertisement.That being said, my pleas for donation is suboptimal. I could certainly...optimize it better. That's  just plain wrong.  It's not that the bitcoin economy will destroy global market, but rather it will globalize the economy.Rather than just big companies having the market to itself, they will expand the market to anyone with a smartphone. Capitalism FTW. I reached the 500 unique visitors in a 24 hour period goal milestone.  My magazine is...becoming less and less obscure. 
I  am disappointed in not seeing a great deal of activity in your repository. I know it's a voluntary project and all...Are you busy or something? Fixed. LOL.Bitcoin is economically more valuable than USD in some ways. In some way it is not.But we only do it for freedom? Naw.Worried about domain seizure? Somebody came up with namecoin to solve that problem. The exchange shutdown threat is already known by the community as a problem. Not sure if somebody is working on the problem though someone always propose a solution. However, it's hard for the currency to have a decentralized exchange system because the lack of critical mass.Did you read http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/anonymous-money-needs-an-anonymous-exchange yet?Remember, the bitcoin community knows more about the weakness and strength of the technology more than anybody in the world. Any criticism or problem you think you might have for bitcoin, the community probably already knows.  Adjusting price to 2.5 BTC.Still looking for writers. Don't forget to donate to my magazine so that more articles like BitLotto's can be created.  Though BitLotto gave back 5 BTC I paid him...still it support the production of new articles. That's witcoin, but it also describe my magazine somewhat.I earned bitcoin from advertising. Donations are used to fund articles, exclusively. The host get paid for hosting my site. I just recently reached my goal of capturing 400 unique visitors in one day. The market is emerging but I am not sure if it will turn a profit or not in the future.Also, my magazine is less of a news source and more of a...well..how to say it... theoretical magazine dedicated to spreading interesting bitcoin information. I do not know how to profit from my creation: http://bitcoinweekly.comThe business operate at a loss because I have to pay writers. Also,  Operation Fabulous ads don't rake in enough revenues to cover the cost of operation. I dislike the idea of putting more ads on the site...I also posted to http://witcoin.com for the purpose of attracting traffics, with the occasional profit. I got some donations from time to time, but it seems that I am still losing money at a lower rate.Summary: Revenue < Expense.I am interested in hearing business idea from you guys and see how I can capture value without detracting from the value of my site. Hogwash. Things aren't intrinsically worth anything of monetary value. They are only worth what people are willing to pay for. The world does not care about whether or not you spend your precious life energy creating it.Attaching morality to profit, loss, and moneymaking lead to moral confusion. When somebody makes ridiculous profit from providing valuable goods and services, it become an "obscene profit" to somebody.  When somebody ration fuel in time of crisis through high price, he is seen as a gouger.The threat is not that people don't copy you, but rather that people don't know who you and your work are. For some reason, bitcoiners here are more open about such products even though it hurts public perception.Human beings, as what they are, not very good at thinking hard about things. I guess I'll pay somebody else. I wrote a story about Bitcoin and hyperinflation of the US dollars staring a very rich hobo.http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-rising 2.11 BTC now....Not even enough for a new article. I will have to dip into my funds again. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/how-bitcoin-security-works-by-analogyBitLotto attempts to explain how bitcoin security works  We gotten off topic: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6394.0 This is not what the voluntaryists/anarcho-capitalists argue for.  We identify the state as an organization that have the monopoly on force. It is not just some "word" for anarchists. It is a particular type of "organization of management" in society.Commerce is a way to achieve what human beings want, not a need. Way to strawman anarcho-capitalists and voluntaryists.  Maybe, maybe not. I can live with the fact that I am a robot. Everybodddddddddddy saying it's a bubble...ain't making it so.
Looks like my sure thing estimation is correct. Yay me for making an accurate prediction. Just because Ego is an illusion doesn't mean it isn't a useful concept. Holy cow.   I want to make it specularly easy for bitcoin users to manage the ever expanding wallets of the bitcoin world but at the same time make it secure.What should I be looking for in term of security technology? SSL? Hosting. Wrong, I hate democratic governments. I despise governments because the only thing that they know how to use is force. They have no regard for subtlety, or for self-analysis of their goal system.Forcing millions or billion of people to choose their representative when they don't know anything about the issues of society is a definition of insanity.Governments are bad for a reason. It's not because they're bad men, but because the incentive is set that way to encourage bad things happening and craft bad men.At least business can be seen as transparently greedy. Politicans? They kiss babies for victories. Scheduled article commission price update: 2.5 BTC in the anticipation of 2 dollars per bitcoin.Anybody who is working on a draft, or is waiting for me to get paid will receive their 5 BTC.Newcomers will have to live with 2.5 BTC. The only way the price will stay the same is if the magazine suddenly become profitable. I don't believe in making it look like providing dignity. I want real dignity.I want the cheapest and highest quality of housing, education, healthcare, so that the greatest amount of humanity is educated and ready to change the world for the better.I don't want a fuckup of a government service with no fucking sense of self-analysis and regard for the powerful force of economic incentives.  I bid 1 BTC for 50 namecoins.   In the next release, you'll be able to get information on your accounts' balance by clicking on the more button in the popup menu, which will open up a tab for your accounts.Henchan added something called the omnibox(which I have no idea what it do) and internalization feature. Barring any bugs, the release window will be every Saturday. Does it matters?  And a half million dollars. I am offering to pay ya for 5 BTC for an article on Time Preference and Deflationary Spiral in Bitcoin. New article: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/expanding-the-bitcoin-economy-legitimate-businesses-and-foodIn this article, Vitalik Buterin explains problems and solutions to expanding the bitcoin economy.Don't forget to donate bitcoins. A 5 BTC donation to the magazine helps pay for a single article. This is what I want to see. Next time, please contact me by email... http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6317.msg92580;boardseen#newMoved. And I don't believe in "deflationary spiral". Time preference theory cited. All that does is lead to inefficient spending of finite resources as companies are fooled by monetary profit.Deflationary spiral, especially of the growth spiral, kill companies that aren't efficient. Strawman. I already dispute this theory of your with the time preference account.  That is complete nonsense. Money is an abstraction. Money follow the laws of economics, not what economists want money to do.Bitcoin is merely information. It doesn't physically embodies something abstract, like "value". It IS an abstraction.
Macroeconomic is junk and microeconomic is sound. The problem is, they use macroeconomic to study macroeconomic, instead of microeconomics. They're also one of the first if not the first charity in the world to accept bitcoin.Bless their effort for liberty. If this isn't a strawman, I don't know what it is. In any case, the purpose of money or economic or whatever you refer to isn't about quantifying a human being's time, effort, and focus. None of this matters. What money does is to coordinate the allocation of resources, and human beings react to the incentives that's set by the economics of money.The Austrians don't prefer hard currency to fiat money. They prefer free market money.  And bots trade 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Or he's just brainwashed/didn't know better/have bad misconception of economics. The bitcoin economy is growing...the territory is contradicting your map. The hoarders are actually the guys that DON'T CONSUME these things. People don't want SUV, overpriced designer shit, etc just because the economy is in a deflationary spiral? That's laughable. I think, we should celebrate hoarders instead. They make everything cheaper by excess production and underconsumption, which MEAN the non-hoarders are going to have a very long party.For every thrifty rich douchebags, there's the gold diggers.The thrifty rich douchebags: you are our heores.  The bitcoin economy is a contradiction of your crappy theory. Domains get rented, hosting services get paid for, and people buy goods and services.Bitcoins got pledged for new projects and people paid for ads.Also, I paid for my writers.Ultimately, more goods and services keep an economy in deflationary growth.  What a bunch of bollocks. A muffin man is going to have his muffin...right now. We are creatures that prefer something now rather than some later. For as time passes without consumption of goods and services lead to no gratification. At some point we must consume to satisfy our wants and needs.Patience are for the virtuous and those with unlimited time. We are not immortal, or even if we were, we do not have patience. The time to the death of the universe is still ticking. At some point we must satisfy our needs and want...we will run out of time.You want to go without a year of eating muffins? But to a muffin lover...that's insane! I need writers. I want writers. For 5 BTC per article!It's not much but it's better than nothing. It seems to me that they confused monetary goal as the end goal of human beings.But humans do not want money. They want power, love, sex, gratification, understanding, and so on. Money helps achieve these things. Fundamentally, all saving/hoarding are limited by humans' time preference and all the goal of investment and saving is toward purchases of something...There is no difference. People are already hoarding. We just like to call them: saving. There is no rhyme and reasons as to why bitcoin rise, except from its fundamental. So why is the economy expanding in a deflationary spiral? Pfft. Android will owns all! I think 2 dollars is touchable.2 dollars is a sure thing, 95% probability.5 dollars is 50% probably.10 dollars is 10% probability.25 dollars...you're kidding me? 1% probability.50 dollars, .05% probability.  Rejections is the norm for fringe ideas, even fringe ideas that work. (It's also part of being an entrepreneur)Nothing to see here...move on. http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/anonymous-money-needs-an-anonymous-exchangeAnother article from the past: Anonymous Money needs an Anonymous Exchange by Nefario. I suggested to tcatm about a project to parse the forum data but he is not yet keen on getting around to it.Here's it is:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=stats
Latest update:Chipping away at the ugly codebase and generalizing  functions. Breakage expected. As self-appointed project lead of the chrome-bitcoin project, I would like to see a standardization of API across bitcoin wallet providers so that bitcoin users can easily use multiple wallets at once. 04/21: 926 posts in one day.Any day now we'll reach our first thousand posts record in a day. Latest update:1. Displayed a list of accounts implemented. Money is evil. Blahblahblah.The real problem is institutional incentives and lack of self-analysis. Our inability to critique ourselves mean that we are unable to change the incentives which drive us to our predicament. What do we really want and how do we achieve it? It is these questions that human thoughout the ages don't ever ponder. I think forever. Developer have to verify. Methinks that it only generate 50 namecoin every ten minute. However, the FAQ said name registration will destroy namecoins. I believe BItcoin is an memetic entity that took control of crypto-anarchists and turn them into soldiers for the distribution of its meme. Methink these numbers are implausible.  All of which is based on lack of information about bitcoin. The Bitcoin advocate knows more than the critics about what's the problem and what's the solution. I am more worried about the government choking the bitcoin currency exchange network before we can have a viable countermeasure.It's already clear that the infrastructure for self-sustaining cycle of trading exists as bitcoin services pay VPS providers with bitcoin earned on the marketplace. You may remember this thread: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2280.0In any case, I am continuing maintenance of this project. Plus, it's a good learning experience for me.However, I  am skeptical of the possibility of building a full pledge bitcoin node within chrome. I think a far more fruitful endeavorer is to work with bitcoin banks/wallet providers on a standardized interface so that users can sign up with any wallet service they want.The codebase is here: https://github.com/kiba/chrome-bitcoinBeing the ever greedy person I am, I am going to ask for donation for my otherwise unpaid effort:1BeFSdc4JNKTBg8h1Fw1TuKHGs17suAjKPTODO at present:1. Display a list of received transaction2. Cleanup the codebase. (Damn disorganized and repeat itself too much.) Getting some advertising is a great way to increase revenue. But the bitcoin project itself have no bitcoin from which they can pay for the cost. Sirius is paying for hosting on his own money. But wouldn't it be nice that the bitcoin project sustain itself thought bitcoin advertising and pay for everything in bitcoin! But the bitcoin project doesn't get any money! Had anybody able to run the bitcoind and namecoind?It seems  that bitcoind is instead reading the configuration file in .namecoin rather than .bitcoin? Published dates are now available for all articles.  I propose an Operation Fabulous ads to be placed on the top of the forum so that the site will support itself.   Criticizes their ideas, not their characters. Trying to ban bitcoin technology is trying to whack a mole. Try to make it funny.
Anyway, the uploading facility will allows me to have articles with pictures or comic strips. Hi. I am willing to pay 5 BTC per drawing on comic strips that explain various aspect of bitcoin and will be published under public domain. I added a crude image uploading facility.  Got it running.   You and your exaggeration! Here's how I think about it:Bitcoin price as bitcoin does. There is no use to amuse ourselves with trying to predict the price of bitcoin in the short term. It's random and noisy and it's very hard to gather the necessary information about the future.Uncertainty is part of life. So don't try to connect events to reasons because very likely you are just wrong. The perceived crappy analysis of bitcoin economics lead me to write this: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/generation-and-assimilation-of-bitcoin-knowledgeWe need to distribute bitcoin knowledge to the wider public and I am willing to pay for such articles.   Anybody registered a domain yet? Thanks for the donation. The Bitcoin Weekly now have enough bitcoin reserves to go for two articles. All this debate about the merit of IP is a whole bunch of useless talk.I make money and I don't need IP. End of debate. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/generation-and-assimilation-of-bitcoin-knowledgeHey guys....new article! And it's written by me!It's about how the bitcoin forum generate knowledge and why Bitcoin Weekly is essential to the process of assimilating knowledge. Hmm.. Doesn't incorporate the poem. 21 million bitcoins. I rescind my criticism. I need to reread the critic's article. Not new nor brilliant. Discussed months ago back in December. http://inertia.posterous.com/bitcoin-mining-cartels-a-total-non-threat Everyone, I am still looking for writers!If you're interested in history, cryptography, or economics...visit the Bitcoin Weekly's submission page for more information.It's still 5 BTC per article. Use bitcoin. 5 BTC. The forum is already backed up. The Bitcoin Weekly archive now have statistics on how many articles there are in the database. We got 14 articles. That's a good amount to work with!
I suggest someone make a movie about who is satoshi with stick figure as art style.It will be incorporating a number of memes:1. Alpaca sock crypto-terrorist. That mean he also ride an Alpaca.2. Satoshi is a time traveler from the future and he was created by multinational Asian megacorporation to save humanity from fiat currency.3. Incorporate this poem:Satoshi is everywhere and nowhere.Satoshi could be all of us, or none of us.Satoshi came from nowhere and dissappeared to nowhere, but his coins are everywhere.Satoshi has no past, no future, and no present, but his creation is immortal.Satoshi is an idea.  Satoshi has inspired all of us.  Satoshi is a legend.My imagination is that as he face down feds bankers in a paintball shootout that will decide or not he get to release the bitcoin source code, the poem in #3 is spoken. On April 18, 2011, we reached a staggering 920 posts in one day. That's 38.3333333 posts per hour. Wrong. You appears to be useful or is useful to an institution. Whether or not that depend on your talent is an attribute that must be decided by an institution or organization.  Just another currency to trade bitcoin with. That's how I see it. Hmm? Copyright and patents are unnecessary for making a living. How do I know that? I run bitcoinweekly.com. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/good-and-services-china-s-path-forwardAnother article from the past:Good and services, China's Path Forward by Nefario. How much does it cost to register a name? Can't figure out how to get it to use wx 2.9 rather than 2.8. So we should start polling people whether or not to reward you with the bounty award? Window Phone 7 is a dying platform. Don't forget to donate bitcoin! Remember, a 5 BTC donation pay for an article. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-what-s-it-forAnother article from the past: Bitcoin, What's It For?This is Nefario's takes on why bitcoin is useful. Remember, folks...Mises.org's books are free(well, the digital edition at least) thanks to the hardworking anti-intellectual property movement.P.S. We need a bitcoin address for mises.org. You need bitcoin dealers who deal with national currencies and can transmit money to other countries. The problem is, we're very dispersed so it's actually hard to setup a network of bitcoin cash dealers so it is hard to set up these kind of things. That way you can set up a peer to peer network of currency exchangers. ICANN is not an American company. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2072.msg26742#msg26742Not really. It was a call to action to implement a registration system faster than our rival, but I don't think that's a requirement. 7200 BTC generated by miners everyday is insignificant on mtgox. Plus the fact that most if not all speculative transactions occur internally on exchanges.  Added chrome extension development to my job offer. Yo, yo, yo.Looking for jobs. Still looking for funding!
Very good poem! I quoted part of it in a tweet. Satoshi is an anonymous but legendary individual who use his knowledge to inspire like-minded hackers and geeks to do something.He're more of an enabler than an action guy. Fame have a cost ya know? Did you guys check the site in chromium/chrome? It looks kinda screwy. What we really need is a bootstrapping mechanism to ease of exchange. I like to think of twitter as my personal information network. Altruistic what? Don't know...I need to make a long term TODO list. Though I have a TODO for Saturday.This Saturday 4/16:1. Padding addition to archive page.2. Writers can only post under their own name. 1. Added archive link.2. Bitcoin Weekly title recentered.  Got a new feature!At the bottom of the page, there will be a random article suggestion.  I don't believe in guarantee.  Why? Buncha coincidence. I am sure that there will be a surge of traffic at the bitcoin site but I am not sure how many will adopt it. Or maybe it was just a coincidence. Not everyone is a bunch of dumb brick. The community will still be here and we'll get the words out. An android. Develop BitDNS?In any case, there's probably no way to prevent bitcoin from being seized. HOWEVER, if they dare to seize the bitcoin domain, they will end up giving us lot of publicity.  http://forumserver.twoplustwo.com/29/news-views-gossip/reuters-full-tilt-poker-pokerstars-absolute-poker-charged-illegal-gambling-1020606/Ladies and gentlemen, it become increasingly clear as to why we need a distirbuted DNS system. We have a 3500 BTC bounty incentive for you! In any case, I have no knowledge, experience, or the resources to execute it. I have nothing to say until I execute a prototype.
I said: whatever it takes to get a proof of concept going. If a human being have to follow it, let it be so. If it have to go around the neighborhood sidewalks ten time, let it be so. If it have to learn how to make it out of the door of my house, let it be so.Is that so hard to communicate?   This is why the iphone will be relegated to a small minority in the marketplace. Whatever get us to a proof of concept. The worst performance characteristic, literally likely to fall apart, etc. I don't care if a human have to follow it. That is the spirit of my plan. I think robot couriers are a cool idea. You think it's impractical. Pfft. Who fucking care. And remote control was not good enough for you. So what if it is?It's not going to be automatically superior from day one.  What we're arguing about here, anyway? We agree on the baby steps idea, it's just that I didn't make it sufficiently baby steps.  Something is always wrong.  What I am getting at is that advancement in technologies is making it practical. I am irate about people shooting up baby step plans for getting a robotic courier network operational. You gottach learn how to crawl before you can run. Trying to make robots do things that it wasn't good at is the whole point. Google cars are changing all that.BOO-ring. I am uninterested in mining.  Would love to pay 5 BTC for a comic-article for Bitcoin Weekly. Or maybe it was the right time for a big rally. Anyway, I am more interested in the robotic than the courier part. Because they sucks so we should never use machines? We are talking about robots that:1. Drive short distance between two locations.2. Pedestrian speed.3. Poor performance characteristics. That's what I have in mind. I don't have in mind a Serious Business with godly computer programmers cranking out algorithms.Rather, it's composed of a network of robotic courier enthusiasts who sometime got paid to deliver a few goods there and there and the network will start extremely small. Eventually, we'll start learning how to create economical designs and the software will be of better quality.(That being said, high quality sensors are getting cheaper and we're becoming more knowledgeable about machine vision) Who say the robot have to be...autonomous? It could start with a simple prototype. Any update? Be happy to take on some of the workload... What is this protest about? Hmm..I am thinking of starting a robotic courier network...for real!I think the first step is to start small, yes?Delivery of USB drives is ideal! The first route between two bitcoiner that is the shortest distance will have to be determined.That mean:1. We can start with a small robot prototype..and can be used to conduct the first courier transaction!2. Start in an area where bitcoiners are unusually concentrated such as New York and Washington, D.C. area!3. Start with delivery of a cheap but still valuable good. Yeah, whatever. It's public domain. Do whatever you pleased with the game.They need to start a web server + node.js. 
It is a bit more complicated than that. More like bitcoiners discuss bitcoin for nine month straight, trying to look for problems in the system. The arguments you're offering wasn't congruent with what I heard on the forum. Fair enough that I should have said why...But income is income, even though the IRS is a jerk.(Would be best if a lawyer could chime in) http://operationafabulous.comIt seem that the site is down and I am advertising losing revenues.  I PMed biomike but I am not sure if he knows or not. Take his article with a grain of salt.Consult with a lawyer. web server OS?    http://www.bitcoinweekly.com/articles/counter-economics-and-bitcoinAnother article from the past! This complete Theodore Minick's series on agorism. http://automata-rts.com/Automata-RTS site launched! It only have the bare minimum: the homepage. Well, surely there must be an exchange market in both country to allow these kind of transactions to happen? It had come to my attention that somebody donated 10 BTC to the magazine. That's good for two articles! Thanks. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/legal-tender-illegal-tender-will-bitcoin-be-bannedNew article by  Vitalik Buterin on the legality of bitcoin. I listed your as 20 BTC. Thanks for the pledge! Why does the server have to be written in C++/Qt? I am looking for freelancing gigs. I am now more experienced with building websites: 1. http://bitcoinweekly.com2. http://kibabase.comI am nearing the completion of my first multiplayer networked game:1. http://jstet.kibabase.com At the rate I am raising money for this project and the current saving I have, I don't think I'll be able to work on this project full-time for a month.Unless the price of bitcoin grew significantly, I am going to have to work other jobs and save up some money. That will mean I have to work outside and inside the bitcoin economy.I would love to be one of the first indie public domain game developer supported by bitcoin, but unfortunately I will have to delay that ambition. Thank you for your understanding. Technically, you can't disagree or agree with anything when you're born. A lot of proponents for bitcoin would trout anonymousness as a feature rather than a threat. It really depends on your point of view. If you're a privacy advocate, it's a good thing. Law enforcements and anti-money laundering people thinks it's a bad thing.I believe Steve Gibson, of Security Now, called it the "crypto-dilemma". On one hand, it could be tool of political activists to resist repressive states such as China and Libya. On the other hand it could be used as a tool to launder money from kidnapping operations and organized crime activities.If bitcoin succeeded, we will all have to live with the consequence of the new technology. For nation-states of all stride, from authoritarian to democratic ones, it will be a devastating attack on their power. It will give power back to the individuals. For some of us, that's what we like to see. And we will have a bigger economy to support it too. Created issue for it:https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/148 Thanks for your pledge.
* kiba stratches head.Well, I can do node.js programming, but I don't know anything about C++/Qt. I can learn but then I don't know anything about programming the websocket protocol. Bumpy bump. Designs(memory slots) are tradable but there is no new units or upgrades. It does not require any major changes to how bitcoin work because it is not necessary to put stock information and other type of contracts in the blockchain itself. All of that can be done with a web application and somebody is already working on a stock market exchange. There is no bitcoin account. Anyway, it takes about 10 minutes for a transaction to be confirmed.IF there's no bitcoin that appears in your client, you probably didn't complete the download of blocks. We're also assuming that our internet connection won't get faster. Nobody volunteers to be an escrow. And thank you! That push me beyond 25% of bitcoin raised! Apperantly I messed up the Netiquette concerns email.  Anyway, The Gnome Foundation only handles bank transfer. I'll or someone else in the bitcoin community will have to contact the GIMP developers.  100% javascript except the deployment mechanism and other various miscellanea background development tasks.Primary in coffeescript, processing.js, node.js, and some type of database that I have yet to picked out. As long you run a modern browser(Chrome and Firefox 4), you'll be fine. Not sure if I can support IE9.Even better. It will be public domain addition to being open source. No string attached. It will be tripled public domained for good measure. CC0, Unlicense, and WTFPL. Choose whatever make you free the most.I'll continue working on it either in maintenance mode or in steady development. It won't be the intense development cycle that was in alpha. It really depends on how commercially successful this game at that point. Otherwise, I will be looking at freelance jobs or asking money for my next game.When I completed gameplay features and entered beta. Every week, users will get to test out a version. Pledgers can pay all or pay partially. This process continues until the game is completed.P.S. I really need to complete the rails site I was building for automata-rts and put all the answered information and stuff into one slick marketing copy. Come on guys! Even a 5 BTC pledge helps! Yes. Less frequency. No need to tell us there are 1 person in the room 5 minutes apart. Please be considerate of people impacted by your negative externalities.  Well, I think that's what someone called "narratives".We still need a narrative for anonymity, though. I am not sure if the complicated relationship is worth the labor.  I blocked you. The messages are still getting through so I am going to be slightly annoyed by your multiple tweets each time.Anyway...just remember you are increasing noise to signal ratio. If I am brothered by this noisy activities, there are others who might be irritated too. That's going to be bad for your business and reputation. More like they just don't wanna invest in the idea. If I were Goldman Sach, I would invest in bitcoin for a chance of several thousand percent in return. Hacker News readers. It's a computer/startup social news that like to visit us every once in a while. We are hit heavily with HNers coming to read this announcement.  17eSZivDJpuJp9TxezTXVxkgLbsr3XZM1i We just broke a new record because somebody decided to point a HN story to a forum post. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5399(518 users were online at the same time on this day) The previous record was in January with 303 users.
The bounty was awarded. http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2430652If ya have an account at Hacker News, it's upvote time.(if you don't have one, don't vote to ensure we don't get caught by spam filter) Satoshi did not communicate, so we substitute him with Gavin. Remove these tweet = stop polluting my twitter stream? http://www.google.com/trends?q=bitcoin&ctab=0&geo=all&date=ytd&sort=0 When you sold your, pledge me some bitcoin.   Just because they're the best doesn't mean their implementation is particularly efficient. I admit the American health care system is inefficient. I give you that.But schooling in general? It's fricking inefficient. Go use khanacademy or something. I don't distinguish much between theory or implementation.If the theory works, than the implementation works. If it doesn't, new theory. Defending capitalism bores me.  That's fractional reserve banking. More like they breed evil tyrants and sheepie population.  The cause of poverty is not that some have more than others, but the fact that there isn't enough  goods and services to go around. You just registered an account there and make a page for bitcoin. Doesn't mean anything.Plus, it would be bad if they see us as spammers. I saw that I was not generous about memory slots, so I decided to upped the items.Memory slots are great if you save great designs. Great against players who only utilize only human memory to remember designs. Youtube like site are killing the porn download model. Now everyone moves on to live cam to monetize. MtGox isn't in the USA. It's in Japan. If people didn't try to defraud bitcoin exchange services, it wouldn't be so hard to convert dollars into bitcoin. Folks, if you're looking to advertise...it's REALLY CHEAP.I mean 0.02 USD, 0.03 BTC a day. The traffic is low, but I am sure it's worth more than 0.03 BTC. Thank you!(though I want to build a high quality game from the start) I am not selling ownership. I am selling a product, along with exclusive access and virtual goodies.For Eris' sake, it's public domain! When I am finished with the hardcore month long coding marathon, you guys can set up your own servers independently of mine and charge for how much bitcoin you think you can get. Even when I am finished with pounding intensely the game out, it will still need lot and lot of polishing. Hopefully, I'll earn some additional money that will support me. If not, next game project!
My search feed naturally detect any bitcoin related thing. It's still polluting the twitter stream. Perhaps you should limit it to a day summary or something. Thank you for increasing your pledge! I think this is a good letter. The fund is 618 BTC and that should be a good amount of money.I am sending it to fundraising@gnome.orgIf it goes well, than I don't have to think about this damn fund anymore.P.S. Also, I linked Bitcoin for them to click on. It didn't went anywhere. The owner I was working with is inactive. In any case, I should talk to him about the project and how to proceed.(I got paid a long time ago but I should be responsible for what I produced even if he gave me no deadline and no discipline)The project is open source and I don't give up very easily. Eventually, I will return to the project.P.S. For those who are worried about my ability to complete the Automata RTS project, I will have a completed project soon(http://jstet.kibabase.com/jstet.html for those who's interested) that demonstrate my ability to complete projects despite no discipline and deadline. I will deliver a roadmap that will details what I want to complete, though I don't know how long the project will take to mature to beta and that will be my deadline. Blogging about my progress each day will be my discipline. I guess that mean you're only going to give me 10 BTC.100 BTC is like several years later. I mean, it takes Angry Bird 9 years to be an overnight success. I realized that I need alpha tester to provide me quality data about the game. I also saw an opportunity to reorder the reward level to make it fit and how much. Aww, you didn't even pledge 5 btc for my project?   Thanks for mentioning my game!  Hippich: your twitter message are annoying and polluting the twitter stream for #bitcoin. I don't need to know how many players are in your poker room every time it change. I disapprove of joining protests to unleash violence for the sake of "smashing capitalism". I asked the same question of FatherMcGruder. Still don't understand it to this day. Bitcoin miners does not accept such transaction without a fee but the technology is there. In the future, bitcoin will be worth more and it will be necessary to use such precision. Remind me of the broken window fallacy. Thanks for the pledge! Now I reached 16.67 percent of my goal. Bumpy bump.I talked to a lot of people. There's lot of reason why they don't want to fund my project. It ranges from disinterest, being broke, not enough time to analyze, and don't wanna fund the competition.Still, I am going to be a stubborn about it! There gottach be enough people in this community to fund my project. I just need to get the words out. And so the prize tag of the bounty had increased. Articles are now sorted by newest create date to old. P0rn? What is this business of your? New article up: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/ron-paul-s-free-competition-in-currency-act
Yes, I coded everything except the coloring for tetris shape. (originally it was all white, but my customer didn't like it so he wrote it himself) That's not my point. Philosophy and knowledge is related. It is a mistake to compartmentalize or reject knowledge.If you don't understand economics, you may try to do what's economically is impossible or have hidden cost. http://jstet.kibabase.com/jstet.htmlThe JStet game is online! Somebody will probably crash it though.Single and Multiplayer will works with varying level. However, custom game support is broken in the sense that it doesn't require a password to join.It will works only on Google Chrome and Safari 5.Firefox 4 disabled websockets by default. The dark pools does not complete it objectives, therefore it is unnecessary.  Friday TODO:1. I will have an article up shortly after I fixed a bug with user accounts for creating articles.2. The articles on the front page will finally be ordered in according to the date it was posted. Bug fixed where ordinary users cannot access the articles. Philosophy is not irrelevant, but crucial to understanding and learning of our universe. That is how we master the physical universe. Where does science come from? Natural philosophy. Likewise, economic forces determine success and failure of technologies. Where do you think bitcoin come from? It's from the study of cryptography, economic, programming and political philosophy. It is because our benefactor understand these fields that he was able to bring bitcoin to us, and now bitcoiners are able nurture and curate its potential into reality. I never brother because I can't figure how to get around it. It's all too complicated for me. No, I believe the graph repeat itself until we reach critical mass. Did you start the server? You will need couchdb too. Javascript engines are becoming faster over time. A whole bunch of mumbo jumbo to me. I just have no idea what you guys are fricking talking about. LSD is not addictive and the altered mind caused by LSD is not necessarily bad. If you going to take the drug, it's probably best to be monitored by doctors and other professional that know how to deal with it if you have a bad episode.  Different version of IE? Let me know when you have a town or even a village of 100 people that is a functioning society. Than, I will take your project seriously. Is the video going to be embedded? Your pipe dream plan seems to require getting lot of people to understand first before you "do something".The bitcoin project doesn't exactly works that way. We educate/advertise the project, but we also do something. We invent and hack as we go. I said great pipe dreams started work best when you can start with one person. Satoshi Nakamoto certainly builds on the work of others, but he doesn't need a team to start work on the project.Remember the key word, start. Yes, I taken the light hearted approach of amusing myself with their silly strange dream.I don't have anything wrong with pipe dreams, just incoherent and unrealistic ones. Good pipe dreams are the kind of things that can be started with just one person, like Satoshi Nakamoto's invention of bitcoin.
For those who are interested in....proof that I can code, here's the image below:Uploaded with ImageShack.usFor those who wants to view my code repository: https://github.com/kiba/jstetIt's not the most nice looking code in the world, but I been working on this project on and off for several months. With the Automata RTS, I'll work on it harder and faster than I work on JStet.But, there's still some outstanding bugs that I have to fix with jstet before I can move on. The reward I am offering:1. A public domain game.2. Exclusive access.3. In-game virtual goods.You don't just pledges and get nothing. You'll get something.Also: I added a new level. Look like crowdfunding this project won't be so easy. I do not see any child processes spawning. All I see is a bunch of...rocks. I am a computer geek. I don't understand grand plans and grand actions that take forever to execute. That is not a plan. That is the slowest OODA loop ever. Which mean their OODA loop is not only superslow, but missing the A!          Why don't ya do the action? Never said that, but execution is the hallmark of success. Oh dear, Jon Matonis' name was misspelled. Whatever, man. Your movement is a talker, not a doer.  I want only bitcoin!  Better to just join a local hackerspace and work on cool stuff instead of funding endless parade of movies.Reprap, thing-o-matics, welding, solar panel, etc. Well, I was thinking of an article that we could send out and make a big splash on the front page of hacker news and slashdot or something. Well, somebody wants a bitcoin t-shirt!http://twitter.com/#!/holmesworcester/status/55784600844255232What we need to do:1. Get a t-shirt store to accept bitcoin.2. Sell bitcoin t-shirt for bitcoin.Where the money would go?1. Pay for the hosting cost.2. Fund bitcoin bounties. I added more reward levels for those who pledge lot of bitcoin. Guys, such an important news should not be neglected. I'll get started with something:The producers of http://weusecoins.com won the first, as well the biggest of all bitcoin bounty. Bounties are sponsored by community members to award members for working on bitcoin economic development tasks. The prize money for this bounty was a total of 8511.96 BTC. If you have any questions...ask me. We reached a very small milestone: 100 BTC.  Now, I have 1100 BTC to go. Let keep the pledge drive going! Sir, the art is procedurally generated to limit the necessary work have to be done. An art director would eat into my bounty and represent a large portion of my expense. Artwork creation is as labor intensive process if not more than the programming. The crowdfunding target would needs to be higher.There is no such thing as a free lunch.
Thanks. Will work my butt off to finish the last leg of this multiplayer tetris project tomorrow. Now I have school. Thanks for the support!And....everyone who read this thread...If you have doubt or feedback, I would like to hear from you!  Let use that bitcoin logo with the binary on it! \Antithetical to what? So, any reason for not pledging bitcoin to this project? It's too bad that I can't execute at this project.We need more entrepreneurs or entrepreneurs with faster OODA loop! You can start pledging now. There is no risk. There will be no art in this game. I designed the game so that everything is procedurally generated so that I don't need artists. So guys, I am going to put my reputation on the line and everything.  As soon as I am finished with a multiplayer tetris game and can put it in maintenance mode(fix bugs and all), I will be working on my next video game project. It will use bitcoin, require bitcoin, and be funded with bitcoin. It will be placed under the public domain.The GameHere's a brief description from another thread:I will have a site up and some codebase up as soon as possible when I reached 1200 BTC in pledged funds. If you're not confident about my coding ability, you will see my multiplayer tetris clone game pretty soon.Pledge RewardsWhat's in it for you to pledge?  Well, there's several levels of reward for pledging and more information will come up as soon as I figured out the pledge level. But here's the initial levels:Level 0: Any BTC amount: You will get energy credit and an account as soon as the game enter beta.Level 1: 5 BTC and higher: You will get your name on the credit page. Level 2: 10 BTC and higher: Access to the game forum. 1 memory slot.Level 3: 25 BTC and higher: alpha tester. 5 memory slots.Level 4: 50 BTC and higher: You get a map named after you! 10 memory slots.Level 5: 75 BTC and higher: coding session via skype for an hour. Views my coding at work and chitchat about the game for an hour. 15 memory slot.Level 6: 100 BTC and higher: 30 memory slots. Level 7: 250 BTC and higher: 50 memory slots.Remember, the more BTC you pledge, the more stuff you get. However, only memory slots don't accumulates. Note: Memory slots are simply genetic information that you can carry to each and every game. It give you great advantages if you can utilize it to save effective design. Otherwise you will only have human memory to save the design, which in the heat of battle, can be hard to remember.Note2: I won't be responsible for holding your money in escrow. If you are a trusted member of the community, this is your opportunity to earn some reputation by being an escrow agent for this project.How Will I Use The MoneyWhat would I used the money for? It will be saved for "rainy day" fund and I'll use the money to sustain myself to work on this game. This way, I will be able to work on the game full time.The DealWhen I complete this project, the game will be public domain and its source code glory will be revealed for all to see. Plus, pledgers get goodies.The PriceI am funding this game "kickstarter style". I am looking for 1200 BTC in pledges.Stay tuned for more information in the future.The PledgersPledge:1. em3rgentOrdr - 50 BTC2. molecular - 25 BTC3. BlueMatt - 5 BTC4. hozer - 50 BTC5. diablo - 10 BTC6. SmokeTooMuch - 10 BTC7. dirtyfilthy - 50 BTC8. ducki2p - 50 BTC9. EvanR - 10 BTC10. BioMike - 50 BTC11. AtroXious - 5 BTC12. noagendamarket - 20 BTCTotal: 315/1200 BTC.Percentage Raised: 27.9166667 Energy gathering works by diffusion. In short, the temperatural difference will be equalized until the cells and the square it is occupying are equal.In fact, I just come up with a new idea:Instead of the energy usage going directly to the game, players will play a 10% fee on the game price in order to play. They will get 90% of them back, regardless of how the energy is used. However, they can shift the distribution of energy so that it could be a profitable operation. Thus, the idea of transporter cells dropping energy into the respective players' black hole. (Reverse diffusion is how transporter cells stockpile white pools)I will also make a big change: work produced will become heat. The heat will be dispersed twice the cell's size. Eventually, the game will end in cells not being able to operate because they are unable to acquire more energy, as energy distribution are all even. Surely you don't mean bitcoin mining? Which economist? Dude...you guys are agreeing with each other.   The bulls and the bears are doing big battle! Wrong. Mining doesn't make bitcoin worths more. We have a bounty for that. Bitcoin entrepreneurs are slow to act or that nobody is volunteering to do it. It takes us a long time for a bitcoin animation video to appears. Ying, this is not how The Bitcoin Weekly works. I am not looking for generic article on cryptography or how bitcoin works.  Captain obvious preaching to the chorus. Jesus! You need some patience.  We gone 4 days without anything going on. Don't want this project to die just yet.
I am surprised that this isn't publicized widely yet. bencoder: do you want the 5 BTC award or not? Don't also forget that the community grown in the last two month. This is good for the fundamental. The price of bitcoin influences my mood but not my outlook.In my opinion, the price of bitcoin is going to zigzag, go up and down, and so on. As long as new services and goods come into existence, then we will be just fine. Don't forget that we rose to dollar parity in almost a vertical jump. Before that, we were in the 0.3 to 0.4 range. We're taking our time because there's not enough competition to motivate bitcoin entrepreneurs to improve their OODA loop. People always felt that there is not enough goods and services in the economy. However, our entrepreneurs are not really that fast at iterating or at launching new products. So, what can you do? Topic is locked so that people can't resurrect the thread plus the bounty was awarded. Basically, the best strategy is not so much to ban stuff, but to flood the forum with legit stuff that it become politically impossible to shut down.This is what people called "kitty activism". That is not the issue here. The issue here what we believe is the best way to achieve things. Sounds like an old man. Perhaps you should use bitcoinservice.co.uk or one of the other filesharing service. There were some quirk. We need a full fledge bounty system. Ladies and gentlemen!I announced the animation bounty prize winner to be http://weusecoins.com.A total of 8511.96 BTC was rewarded. See this blockexplorer history detail: http://blockexplorer.com/address/17eSZivDJpuJp9TxezTXVxkgLbsr3XZM1iThread on the voting process:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5140.0Thread on the animation bounty thread: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=697.0 http://blockexplorer.com/address/17eSZivDJpuJp9TxezTXVxkgLbsr3XZM1iThe transaction is confirmed.  Whoever suggested autoverse won the prize. Gimme your address! The full bounty prize, 8511.96 BTC is sent to the address 17eSZivDJpuJp9TxezTXVxkgLbsr3XZM1i owned by JustMoon.This address was in his signature space: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=2211 With the ratio of 32 yay to 1 half, I shall execute the decision to give WeUseCoins production team the full bounty prize. Congratulation.   I will have to pick something else then. The Bitcoin Weekly is full of original essays, but it's under the public domain.The only issue is finding enough money to pay writers. The fact is, revenues does flow to my coffer. It just needs to be more popular.
If it sucks in real life, it must sucks on paper. Both. Or the key pressing. A bunch of bollocks. See the case of James Watt, the monopolist.In any case, what you have is a bunch of idiotic government bureaucrats, lawyers, lawsuit, and other costs involved with patents. Inventors are not focusing on innovating and responding to their competitors' innovation. Instead they waste their fucking time on the system.Innovation and competition are a dynamic continuous real-time process of action and reaction. You stick a system in there which purposely slow down inventors and you'll reduce the rate of innovation. I decided The Autoverse is the best name for my upcoming game. So there will be a 6 BTC prize rewarded.Think you can do better? Go submit a name! Let me steal your idea and implement it! I don't quite understand what you mean by that. All I am saying that competition in the marketplace will eliminate people who believes in IP right. Pfft.The free market doesn't care about your crackpot theory about intellectual property. Maybe it's just you. I have a rival? Primary, it's an energy source. Basically, each cells in your colony uses energy to carry out tasks. However, they are priced in satoshis, informally known as the smallest unit of bitcoin. For example, a transporter cell uses 1 satoshi every 3 discrete movement. That mean, for the distance of 3 squares, it uses 1 satoshi.These energy sources come from "white holes", which continuously pump energy into the game. It fill the surrounding in a white pool, which is basically collected energy. The map will be filled with such white holes. Your job is mostly to stockpile those energy somewhere safe, usually surrounded by solders/walls of apoptoiszed cells/natural protected terrain until you can use them something. That could be reproduction, stockpile in siege attempt, supplying the frontline, cell repair, and so on.Usually, each game costs a certain amount of satoshi in order to play or otherwise, there will be no energy for either of the colonies to go to war. If it does happen, the game happened in an entropic death, as there is no more energy in the game.In larger context, bitcoin is used to mostly buy memory slots to store genetic memory of your creatures so that you can reuse them in other game. No. You just need to be able to convert bitcoin into insert_national_currency_here and back into bitcoin again just as easily. You need write articles that have more substance.  Well, the bitcoin project always need more manpower. It takes time for developers to discuss change and figure out what's the best way to do things. My evidence for why we don't need intellectual property:I make money from my work. The end. Dude, they are just copying information. If somebody copy the configuration of atoms, I don't care.You know what? I don't give a damn. You will die in the marketplace anyway. Because nobody can control the same atoms.Because copying information doesn't deprive people of information. ROFL.   hmm...... I think I like the others better.
The media will demonize the bitcoin community for employing teenagers? Sometime, you're just right. Will we be demonized for offering teenagers employment?   Nobody cares about the physical or mental work he put in. The only question is: will he make money or will he not? I have ads revenues and I earned bitcoin for my work. That's good enough justification for me. I don't need somebody to tell me that I can't make a living without copyright.Go die in the marketplace. Which could lead to unemployment problems in the economy. Wow! You can just download the music and viola! You have your musics.You lost out on potential profit though.(Not to mention that he stolen your harddrive) Assassination and murder for hire is illegal, for obvious reasons. There is. You just don't own the musics I brought. I pay people 5 BTC per article. Is that illegal? It's canvas and javascript with processing.js. If you have firefox 4 or google chrome, it should run.Not sure about IE 9. Openness and competition is not contrary to each other. Free will is an illusion because we live in a deterministic universe. We have minds. I see no contradiction. What utter nonsense. My writers get paid for their work. I still earn revenue from my site.Information is not a common. Information is always privately owned.  It sounds plausiable for my game's name. I don't know if I will be able to design "chemical system" for artificial life but it would be great to design more sophisticated rules that will eventually honor the name. No, there is no playable version yet. I am on a verge of completing a project, then I will switch to work on this project.It will cost bitcoin, as the game use bitcoin as energy. However, energy use will be priced in satoshis. You would need to purchase memory slots to spend beyond 1 BTC.I will work on this project full-time, provided that there is enough funding. Very interesting take. However, the colony doesn't evolve on its own without designs by the players. Perhaps, I could add a random evolutionary mechanism. What the idea behind that name? It's not exactly "cellular automaton" but the game does evolve from following discrete rules. It's up to the players to design cells.
Can you guys come up with a good game name by 0:00 UTC April 5? If you can, you will win 6 BTC. But if it is not better than the name choice, you will get 5 BTC. Fair?My current choice is "Automata RTS". Here's a description that will help you figure out a good name:My game is in essence cellular automata crossed with core wars.My game is in essence Globulation 2 crossed with core wars.Basically, you have a colony of square cells in a square world that reacts to certain rules. Your job is to basically make the colony gathers energy, stockpile, reproduce, and destroy the opposing enemy colony all with indirect operations.You can control one cells at a time but it will be hard for you to organize an military strike, gather energy en masses. But you can organize them through swarm logics, chemical emitter cells, and other tools of the trade. For example, you could combine a danger sensor cell with a "avoid emitter cell" to create a cell that tells the rest of the colony to avoid an area in case of an enemy attack. I established a primitive registration/login system and access restriction.Before, it was possible for anybody to create an article provided that they know the URL. Now they can't. I don't give a damn about happiness. Happiness is just an emotional state.If I want happiness, I would just do drugs. It depends on if you believe that entrepreneurs' wealth come from serving the lower class or not. If you believe the entrepeneurs' wealth come from serving the richer class only, then there is no chance for the lower class to rise.Obviously I believe wealth does come from serving the lower classes. More importantly, I believe is that there two categories: The have-now, and the have-later. I believe the expansion in productivity will accrues to the lower class and diminish the relative power of the rich.Consider the smartphone, for example. Before the decade's end, these will be available to the developing worlds. Now, everybody have lot of computational power they can take advantage of, and a global market they can enter.Education cost will be lowered dramatically through entrepreneurial and charity effort.Think of Khanacademy. It's not just a charity, but a hyper-efficient operation. The video lectures and the program for mastering these concepts can literally scale up to billions of people in the world provided that they throw enough brains and servers at it. Plus they utilize statistics to analyze the educational effort in depth to show where they can improve.Today's public school system waste horrendous amount of money for their economic output. It doesn't have to be like that. Then people may shares apartments or reduce consumption to reduce cost.However, don't forget that cheaper labor force have effects on everything else. It may leads to cheaper goods. Clean bathrooms are nice. That's not very helpful. Can you explain why?The only reason why the site is very plain is because I can't afford a few hundred bitcoin in hiring a website designer. Other than the fact that libertarians today oppose copyright and patents?  A mises.org blog post called to my attention the unemployment rate of teenagers.http://blog.mises.org/16222/set-kids-free-to-work/In 2000, 34 percents of boys are employed. Now in 2010, 14 to 15 percents of boys are employed. Same trend for girls as well.However, old people employment rate went up. Back in 2000, 29 percents of men aged 60 to 69 are employed. In 2010, it's 34 percents of men are holding a job.That's pretty bad for kids. They have less and less job experience. They will probably go to college with a loan and will have no job experience whatsoever too. We have structural problems in our economy as requirement tighten. (need college degrees and stuff)So guys, with bitcoin, teenagers can work unregulated and unscrutinized by the law. They will gain experience necessary to succeed in the job market. If they're good, nobody will be the wiser and will pay them lot of  bitcoin.The only question is how we reach them and expand our job market?  The unemployment rate for teenager is pretty damn high. Today it's 14 to 15 percents. Back in 2000, this rate was 33%. The minimum wage may not be the primary cause of job losses, but it doesn't help.Remember, children and teenagers will work for peanuts. The adults will raise the specter of exploitation in order to cut the competition out.When you have old people like FatherMcGruder saying that people should deserve fair wages, they have an interest in destroying their competitors' ability to find jobs.The law of economics dictates what can or cannot happen. What do you suppose when we don't pay heed to economic laws? Well, we either die or become poorer.  Those rights are meaningless to anti-IP entrepreneurs. We will culls business that use these "rights".They are not "rights" in so much as they are disadvantage on the free market. No. It's not necessary about humans being are better than other so they get leadership.Rather, it is a communication problem. For example, it doesn't make sense to have a flat hierarchy in a large organization such as google because the information that flow from the development team to the decision maker would be overwhelming. That is why they employ managers.Depending on how the hierarchy is organized, an organization could be really slow or really fast acting. Their speed in being able to run through a OODA loop will determine if they will live to see another day in marketplace or win the war.This is not necessary about dominance and who's better or who's not! That's true for a few types of hierarchical organization, but not all!The Bitcoin community is an example of an efficient organization organized through multiple type of hierarchical structures. The entrepreneurs organize the enterprises and business needed to succeed. The developers make improvements to the bitcoin client. The moderators clean up the forum of spams and abusive users. The forum acts as a medium of communication, coordinating economic, development, and marketing effort. A lot of those structures are parallel allowing the Bitcoin project to execute at multiple fronts.  Disqualified. Another article from the past: http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/agorism-101 Perhaps somebody should develop a site that help deal with the bounty process. I concluded that they are inconsistent with regard to profit, on the sample size of one. Rather, I could not figure out why profit is evil. Initiation of aggression? It seems to me that the hierarcharies formed by anarcho-capitalists, or more accurately, voluntaryists are not alway "top-down". Rather, the voluntaryists are part of many hiearcharies at the same time fulfilling different functions.Many of them are temporal in nature. Others may be stable throughout time. It is clear to me that I was too lazy for this project.I think I should transfer the funds to someone else, but maybe it's better for me to hold the fund? I am done with this issue.Simply put, my "communication" issue is understood. I understood the reason why I got fired.I am not exactly on good term with Nefario and his corporation, but there is no business issues to resolve anyway. It was simply a personal complaint about how Nefario handle communications.Though now, I even perceive an opportunity for a company in his market to take his business. It won't be me though.
It seems that I had missed this crucial information, somehow.You did not like how I approach the project, in a textual context. You didn't like me "telling you what to do with your company's money". You thought I had a bad attitude. I simply believe that this was a communication issue. What was wrong with me is that I lacked public cryptography knowledge. That is why I lost the job. Your advice had nothing to do as to why I lost my job. I guess this whole thread was caused by my irrational anger in response to lack of communication. Did you have PM popup on? If you had that option on, it would be very hard to miss. I enabled that so I wouldn't miss any important message.In fact, it was one of my big frustration. I gotten really pissed off that a developer didn't respond to my PM about a particular bitcoin extension bounty that I asked him to deliver. It seems that I got burned from my not making my expectation clear repeatedly. But it also seems that I have issues when people are not communicating. I even had this whole thread detailing my frustration with PM system: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2274.0 It doesn't matter whether or not you had just hired me. It is very clear that there was a communication failure. That was the root cause of the whole issue here. If you had done that from the very beginning after week one on the project, than I wouldn't have wasted time contacting you for work.The advice you gave me was a bunch of hogwash. It was an issue with me not understanding cryptography and that I was inexperienced. This is an acceptable explanation.In the future, I suggest coming up with better way to communicate to your employees.  I apologize for my complusion to air this thing in public. I guess this job left me a bad taste in my mouth.You need to COMMUNICATE with me if there's an issue with my work.You can't say "Oh, yeah...that's guy not autonomous, unenthusiastic about work, only care about the money and not the job" in your advice. I only worked for one week and did the job correctly and accordingly to deadline. I got paid for it and there was no complaint. That is what I know.You thought my dislike for fossil as "lack of enthusiasm". However, you forget that it was textual information. You don't know what I think. That's bad. I seem to not be in contact with genjix or with any other employees. That's also a big problem right here. You're my boss, not a Chinese guy who teach English. You're responsible for making things run on time and making sure everyone is on the same page.Similarly, I am not "kiba", but your employee. I can't help you if you don't communicate.  If my clients or employer said I did bad work, my reputation is the one that's getting chopped. You got an ISSUE with me, you let me know ASAP.I don't even know that genjix was someone I was supposed to report to. I lost a job without knowing. I don't know anything about you. I did not know much about the other employees and we didn't communicate even once. Or you're just paranoid. Here is the message Nefario PMed me:The only issue I have is that it took Nefario so long to tell me this or that he didn't like the work I do and neglect to tell me this. (as far as I know, I completed the work according to the assignment and deadline I was given) No, he did not gave me any work for a month. So he doesn't owe me anything. Everybody knows what's a good contract is. I just think it's easier said than done. Anyway, I decided for all future employment, I will make people sign a contract, with GPG and all that jazz.I don't know how to write a good contract, but it's better to know that you're fired now rather than knowing that you got fired 4 weeks later. It's a communication issue, above all else. I cannot fix a problem if I don't know there's a problem with my work!That was fatal to my ability to be employed. Imagine a customer saying he likes my work even though my work are horrible. I lost a job with Nefario a few weeks ago without knowing it. Today, he informed me the reasons why I lost my job.I did the work and meet the deadline as far as I know. However, he said that I was unenthusiastic, slow with my work, poor communicator and was not very autonomous and that I was only in it for the money. He did not informed me weeks ago as to why he have an issue with my work and hence discontinuation of no more jobs. of work.So, I do not have opportunities to fix my mistakes and I have the impression that I have an amicable relationship with my employer. That was not the case! Consider the implication that my reputation will be damaged if Nefario told others how bad my work was and I did not know of his opinion. I cannot fix it until after the fact!The pay was very good for what I can get in the job market and he promised me work and work for months. It would be better if I had known it way back then that he did not like my work and will not continue to employ me.Unemployment due to perceived or real bad performance is bad, but false hope of employment is the worst thing.Others who worked with Nefario may have good experience with him, but not me. Truth-telling and accepting truth and doing it in a timely manner is a very important quality in an entrepreneur or a boss. Tell me what I don't want to hear, now! I want to know he fires me, now! Not several weeks later.That is the extent of my complaint on Nefario. P.S.This is not an April Fool joke. Isn't MtGox located in Japan? I am of the opinion that their opinion are genuine even though they are wrong. http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submissionI am paying 5 BTC per article. Let me know if you have an interesting idea that you want to write about. 19730 posts in one month. Wow. No way. I planned to live all the way to the heat death of the universe...and then escape!   Hating capitalism is like hating profit and loss, wages, opportunity costs and the law of economic.
If you guys want a really cheap source of advertising, come to http://www.operationfabulous.com/ and look for http://bitcoinweekly.com as an advertiser.The current bid is 0.00 BTC, which is free! I am sure 0.01 BTC won't hurt your advertising budget.The site may not be popular but it's cheap. 0.00000001 is a Satoshi. 1 BTC is 1 bitcoin.Some folks like to say 0.01 is a bitcent, but I never see the usage of a bitdollar. It seems that the video was so good that it doesn't matter if it doesn't meet the requirements. 28 people had casted their votes. Comeon, I know that isn't everybody. Just fixed a minor bug in which the title of the article did not shows up. If you're a witcoin user, don't forget to upvote the article:http://bitcoin.witcoin.com/p/898/Microtransactions-in-the-Internet-Economy-and-Bitcoin Known bug. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/microtransactions-in-the-internet-economy-and-bitcoinBrand new article by somebody who isn't me! Vitalik Buterin wrote an article on the future of microtransaction and how bitcoin would revolutionize it. satoshi is gearing up for the cryptocurrency war.He have great plans for the defense of bitcoin, you see?   If you use witcoin, don't forget to upvote me:http://fiction.witcoin.com/p/872/Bitcoin-Rising  I can't imagine a logo that would go well with the current site. How do we know this program is not just another trojan? I thought about it, but there are more urgent thing to do. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-risingAn old article from the past: Bitcoin Rising. More like he hates the idea of leaders, employers, landlords, and tenants. But even the bitcoin project is a hierarchy.Satoshi is our benevolent dictator. Gavin is the lead developer. I am a global moderator. Theymos is an administrator. FatherMcGruder have a really bad case of hating neutral things. You can't have a politically informed population, fetokun. It's impossible. There are thousand of political issues in the world and we're supposed to vote for politicans that supposedly can deal with thousand and thousand of political issues? The US educational system isn't up to the task of informing the population what they should know about the issue. Even if they are, it would be an incredible amount of knowledges for each person to have.Just because we know things, do you really think we would vote in our best long term interest? Knowledge is dispersed all over the population. Accurate knowledge is difficult to assess if you're not an expert or rational. Never mind the obstacle of overcoming political tribalism and the problem of political irrationality.Every bitcoiners here know how bitcoin and how the economy works, roughly. However, they are technically and economically savy. Do you really think your grandma/grandpa will be that savy?As the economy grows, bitcoiners will find it impossible to keep up with bitcoin related information. Instead they will specialize into their niches. Some people will be well-informed about security. Others make a good living at writing fiction. Others know the economics of MMO currencies exchanges. Knowledge will become dispersed. They will be less and less likely to be able to make good decisions outside of the field of their expertise. When will we see an ISK to bitcoin exchange market?   Partial procedural operation and partially because everyone did not voted.I am stickifying it.P.S. If somebody can make it a forum wide announcement, that would be great. Where is this live session?* kiba is confused. Now, all we need to do is get bytemaster on board with following the decisions of the voters.
Another oldie from the past:http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/security-in-bitcoin Beware of possible trojans. Because Satoshi left us many moons ago and communication seems to be limited. It amuses me that the longest thread on this forum is about mining and about half of all of my posts. Sirius is the webmaster. Gavin is the lead developer.  Getting ahold of Satoshi would be a difficult thing to do. It is clear that aside a few individuals, the community made it clear that they want the bounty released to the animation guy.However, a sample of 18 individuals is not enough to represent the whole community. So, if you did not vote, vote! Somebody getting really worked up over this.In my opinion, we shouldn't be too worried about becoming pussies just because we ban illegal goods/ponzi schemes from the forum. Bitcoin, the technology, will take cares of itself. This will persists as long as we don't make the technology weaker as it is.What we should be doing is building a strong community that can't be run over by a bunch of government bureaucrats. Yes, we will ban illegal goods and stuff, but that will be as far as it goes. They won't be able to tell us how the money supply is managed, add de-anonymousness feature, and so on. Steel, aluminum, etc. Don't do that. Send bitcoin to the address I listed in this thread. I was investigating if somebody sent money from the mybitcoin address. It turns out nobody did. Mybitcoin works by keeping its own internal database of who owns what, rather than using addresses to indicate who own what.Somebody in the mybitcoin system sent money to somebody else. It just so happens that bitcoin in that address was used. He never answered your question. Yep. Nothing happens. I see a transactions coming out in the block explorer for that mybitcoin address. It could be an artifact of how mybitcoin works and not anything bad...let me investigate. Expensive fossil fuel procures windmills and and solar panels and rations resources until energy become cheap. Fossil fuels technologies are not required for the existence of new energy sources. Rather cheap energy decrease pressure for development of new energy technologies. For all the people who wants to send bitcoin to the escrow account for this bounty: 129GMPhks7k5bQnNJM4byLb4bE9nHCBSqP He never said that. I want to make sure that the bitcoin community is on board with this. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5140.0 I did a retake. Ok, everyone....since somebody pointed out that the poll is insecure...I will be requiring everybody to vote by posts.In ordered to qualify for voting in this topic, you will need:1. 10 posts.2. Be around for at least one month.You need to reply to this thread with either a Yay, Nay, or Half. Whatever you guys choose by most popular option, will be actions that we escrow agents will take(Need to talk to noagendmaket and bytemaster about this...)Options explained:1. Yay - yes for bounty prize release.2. Nay - no for bounty prize release.3. Half - half bounty prize release. Lack technical videos.I will list all voters and tally them up continously.You have one week to do this.. So that's April 5th 0:00 UTC being the deadline.==Yay==1. Genjix 2. gavinandresen3. gusti4. mpkomara5. chmod7556. lumos7. BitterTea8. grondilu9. Mahkul10. LMGTFY11. stonetz12. theGECK13. ShadowOfHarbringer14. theymos15. eMansipater16. slush17. dacoinminster18. doublec19. noagendamarket20. da2ce721. casascius22. dissipate23. m0mchil24. molecular25. Kiv26. [mike]27. JohnDoe28. Atlas29. M4v3R30. OVerLoRDI31. wobber32. elewton==Half==1. TheKid
I locked this topic because the poll is an insecure method. Why would you think somebody would purposely cheat the poll?  Note: This poll will runs for 7 days. Remember folks, it doesn't matter if we ban or censor "illegal stuff"...bitcoin will be used as it is intended to be used as well what it's not intended to be used. I now allow people to change vote and added an option indicating half. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5137.msg74898#newI posted a poll. Go watch http://weusecoins.comIf you guys like it, I am willing to release the animation bounty prize in the escrow account that contains 8000ish BTC, especially if noagendamarket and bytemaster agrees. (I will need to talk to them in case the escrow agents disagree) That's a duplicated project. Go to http://en.bitcoin.it instead. My magazine is not the kind that link much. We aren't a news source either. What I do is basically curates essays.  Sirius runs the website. Look....the fact is...nobody want to use inflatecoin. All your rational fore why inflatecoin is a good thing is bunk if you can't get self-interested individuals to move to your new-fanged currency.Even new people don't want to use inflatecoin. That's now. When the bitcoin economy become huge, it will become more difficult for millionaire or the US government to mount to an attack. Don't forget that the bitcoin network will probably have additional measure to deal with attacks. No. Look like I have competition!   Does it really need to be a durpal theme?I can only work with HAML and SASS.  Why is stability is a good thing compared to deflationary economic growth? Humans have irrational fear of risks that they can't control. They'll happily drive their cars even though it is more dangerous than having nuclear power plants in their backyard.  Disruptive technologies are the kind of technologies that can't be stopped by simple idealogy and simple crushing. Sooner or later, the effect of such technologies will realized and all those Luddites will have to face reality. I don't have winblow, so I can't test. If that's a problem, we can just goes wind energy or solar energy, or whatever alternative energy source. Energy are not something that I worry too much about. The market will eventually force our movement to alternative energy source or force us to become more efficient at using energy. 
Will this new person help get the front page redesign project back up and running? Who's the damaged parties? Perhaps we could make a fool out of them by complaining to certain news publication after not communicating/fixing whatever is going on. That's some piece of shit software right there.Anybody got their email address so we can fix this shit? Remember, these anarchists are the kind of people who dislike the idea of division of labor, of profit, and other concepts.  When disruptive technologies...things tend to be...disruptive. No, this thread was about the need to increase moderation to keep up with the spams and drive-by NSFW attacks, and other janitorial duties. It's just so happens that the higher ups decided to increase the number of moderators as solution to the problem and choose long-standing members like me. Ultimately, it's just a bunch of code. You can use code to manipulate bitcoin in sending automated transfers. No matter what, wealth distribution follows a power law.  There is nothing Utopian about ending sickness, aging, hungers, and bad things in the world. No, it is you who are confused. It is only by our irrationality and lack of knowledge that prevent us from preventing sickness, aging, hungers, and bad things in the world.Think about it:1. Aging is a biological process. That mean we can apply human reasoning to find out how to reverse and stop aging. 2. Hunger is a problem in the world because either:   Our population is too large or that we have biological urges to breed too much. (not a problem)  We are too inefficient about converting energy into fun. (problems with cows, mostly)  Distribution of food are inequal (caused by more fundamental problems)3. Sickness is a big problem space. There are many things we don't understand, but it doesn't mean we can't fix them. Sickness include aging, heart problems, diseases, etc.They seem to be intractable problems right now, but in reality it simply means that we lack knowledge on how to solve them. Don't confuse extremely hard problem with utopian dreams. This is why kitty activism is so important. The way people use bitcoin gottach be so innocuous that it would be political suicide to attack bitcoin. I just noticed that I am a global moderator.   You will always win when you save bitcoin. Any savers who comes later are just less fortunate. Even if there is an inflationary cryptocurrency, they would just convert their inflatecoin into bitcoin for long term storage or just use bitcoin outright.Inflatecoin supporter: I'll pay you in inflatecoin?Merchant: Ok!Merchant then turn inflatecoin into bitcoin. Wikipedia says: Bitcoin appears to have a habit of appearing on Hacker News: http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2375430 Does that mean I have a high reputation? The forum regularly get hundred of visitors online at the same time, but it is becoming an issue where people are misbehaving and such...Like this thread http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=5006.msg73541#new where bitcoiners are assaulted by NSFW images.Sooner or later, we will need additional moderators or janitors that handle drive-by assault, forum split, and spams. As the bitcoin economy grows, so will this forum. Either that or somebody code a self-moderation feature so that users can take of nasty problems on the spot. This is a private forum and we are only guests. So, how do we revive this project? I think skull88's logo represent the bitcoin cryptocurrency better: Maybe the bitcoin map of the world just reflect connectivity? 
So, how can I improve the magazine?  Some of your writing here could be turned into a worthy article for The Bitcoin Weekly.   All of this is formalized in the submission page on the site!http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission The Bitcoin Weekly now have a submission information page! http://bitcoinweekly.com/pages/submission Stalling is confirmed! Don't do evil to do good. Do good to do good.Spread bitcoin! I don't understand what wb3 is talking about. It seem that I have to read what ecological footprint means. I decided they don't make sense anymore. However, I would like one article per week. Are we talking about farms creating food? You do realize that India is becoming rich?Are you implying that we consume more food? We have plenty of space on earth but our species could be wiped out from a planetary extinction event.I intend to live toward the very end and escape the ultimate fate of the universe. Atlas, you will have the same deadline as deadlizard to submit your project. People propose them but they can't brother to do it in practice. Monsanto and the like utilize monopoly enhancing regulations such as patents to keep a foothold on the market. Previously, people sell new plant varieties without patent and still make lot of money off of it. Unintended consequences are the natural qualities of technologies. What's inevitable? The heat death of the universe? Even if we can't use reason to solve The Final Problem, which is to escape the final state of the universe, life got a very long time to live.  The 50 BTC forever will disincentivize early adopters from promoting the currency. Not to mention that will disincentive saving, which is the basis of capital in the economy. Currency competition will eventually move all saving to a more stable currency putting the light out of the 50 BTC forever currency. Genetic engineering...making them more efficient in absorbing sunlight...Perhaps, you could produce muscle cells without the need for cows. I like the idea! I hope your rough draft will be something to like too. I don't know your idea. To prevent wasting your time, please send me a pitch. Bump bump. I think the project is stalling. I don't make any money(right now).I will implement operation fabulous ads to keep the site going but the revenues will be very small.
This is an incredibly hard project.The 3,214 articles that are featured, and 11,564 good articles tell you just how difficult it is. Remember, there are 3 million articles on wikipedia. Would you move your money to an inflationary currency?I think the answer is...."NO"It's one thing to support another idea, it's quite another to actually use it. Competition and innovation may increase food production faster than population growth.[/quote] Sounds good. Gimme a draft at hackerkiba___at___gmail.com by March 29. The earlier you finish it, the earlier I can review your article and see if I like it. Witcoin is not popular, so you don't get very many views. Wrong. There's profit in a fruitful intellectual debate. I gained knowledge, insight, and enlightenment. That is the product when somebody debate each other.I actually did gain something from you, but the energy spent on it outweigh the gain. So it is an unprofitable debate.There are interesting opposition that I can gain so much because they are actually smart and intelligent. Even if they are not that smart and intelligent, they have wisdom. I may disagree with them, but I can understand the justification for their arguments.However, you are nothing more than just a crazy fool. I learned nothing and understand nothing. That is the "gain". But it's just a nice idea for the bitcoin project itself to pay for everything in bitcoin! I counted ten that could host bitcoin.org. I am most familiar with Kalyhost and highly recommend the services because I used it myself. There is no profit to be had arguing with a commie.   I wrote an article on the need to offer Chinese users useful services in order to incentivize them to participate in the bitcoin economy after their English class is done:http://bitcoin.witcoin.com/p/668/Bitcoin-and-Chinese-Adoption Nope. The bitcoin economy can run on 1 BTC just fine. It's just a matter of divisibility.  Sell goods and services!  The bitcoin economy can't exists without people peddling their goods and services for bitcoin! I am willing to pay 5 2.5 1 BTC for anybody who would write an article and authorized me to publish it under the public domain. Pitch an idea to me and I will think about it. If I like your idea, you will get a 4 days deadline to write your article and 3 days deadline to finish your final draft.I am one of the most reliable employer on the market. As of May 24th, 2011,  22 articles out of 29 articles on BitcoinWeekly were somebody's writing or drawings that I paid for. The rest were written by me.See http://bitcoinweekly.com for all the articles that been published on the site.At the moment, I am looking for articles dealing with:1. Cryptography2. Bitcoin economics3. Stories. Especially business stories detailing your exploit and your failure in the bitcoin economy.4. Technologies.5. History.So, as you can see, I like all things to be related to bitcoin. It's not a full fledge magazine in technology or whatever.If you like the magazine, don't forget to donate bitcoin to me at the address I listed on Bitcoin Weekly website. Those donations help pay for the magazine's very existence. The capitalists on this forum are shown to be indifferent to the form of organization and relationship other than the question of voluntary/coercion. They happily form the needed association and organizations to meet the tasks at hand.We can assimilate you and your ideas but you could never assimilate us. I don't use wordpress! It should be bitcoins all the way down! Plus, it supports the bitcoin economy. This time, it's a new article!http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/bitcoin-and-chinese-adoptionIt's called Bitcoin and Chinese Adoption. No. It just mean that everybody else's bitcoin are worth a lot more. Also, bitcoin are never destroyed, only lost. More like...capital. You never gave me a deadline!
hippich is apparently doing SEO operation.Instead of buying genuinely useful articles by which he can drive traffics, he's buying people's reputation. A fruitless debate with a commie does not yield capital and profit, nor truth and reason.This is what I concluded at the end. It's a very different idea from bitcoin. Steady growth adds up. Boom and bust cancel each other out.2% growth each year is like a compound interest rate.  Extraordinary growth and sustainability is not mutually exclusive things, especially when you look in the long run. Don't forget other companies might react too. So once Amazon adopt Bitcoin, others will follow. This is a nonsense. In an economy without a legal tender or government supported currency, the free market would inevitable select money that don't lose their value. I believe it's a social news site with a micropayment scheme.Think of it as bitcoin's version of reddit/hacker news except that you can make money from upvoting and so on. http://anime.witcoin.com/Witcoin have an anime section!  No. There's no identification system built-in the bitcoin network other than your public and private keys. Predictably, we also broke all time monthly posting with this month. By the end of this month, it will be harder still to break the new record. Another article from the past:http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/critique-of-youtipit-org-s-business-model Now, I am collecting traffic statistics.I also added a minor navigation button. We broke a posting record again. This time, on March 23, 2011, we have 916 posts. That's almost a thousand posts in one day! Wow. Bumpy bump. Bitcoin banks will get killed by bank runs and rumors spread by their customers. I added a donation address to the front page. Your right to call out people's moral contradiction is tempered by your inability to explain why. Your explanation are unsatisfactory since I still don't know what you're talking about.It's a voluntary interaction. I see nothing wrong with it.I had explained to you very clearly that profit is economic surplus being acquired for any given action or work. I have no attachment to ruling or lording over others.  I think weusecoins.com screwed up the steps. The getting started page for example tell you to get bitcoin from the facuet. How? I don't even have a wallet. There's no reference to the bitcoin forum and the bitcoin software or a wallet service as far as I see. You need a call to action item that is visible on the front page of your video. Perhaps bitcoin would gain intrinsic value by games using it as key part of their mechanic. Say, you need energy, and you need to put some bitcoin in..Of course, it would be very weak version of intrinsic value because you can just change the code not to use bitcoin.
Not really. Bitcoin is just virtually indestructible.  It is weird for a 19 years old like me who is not very world-wise to argue against an adult in defense of voluntary interactions and the right to work. It should be the other way around. I read the Diamond Age. They say that government collapses because cryptocurrencies are hyper secure and impossible to track. That's a narrow definition of intrinsic value. Are you capable of grasping the idea that some people's moral system just might be different from your?Employees welcome to quit any time he doesn't like the arrangement. If that is called controlling, then so be it.For the record, most of my bitcoin are earned through economic exchanges. I never stolen anything from anyone. The problem with bitcoin is that it is not legal tender. If a country recognize it as legal tender, than bitcoin would indeed...have "backing". Of course, it's a bad kind of backing. Bitcoin is a great form of money. That why people value it. While gold is great form of money in addition of having useful properties outside of money, that we called intrinsic value.(Not to be confused with the idea of objects having inherent value.)The worry is that one of those confidence crisis could spark people to abandon bitcoin as money forever. Without intrinsic value, there is no reason why people should continue to use bitcoin. Supposedly, government money are backed by the force of gun.Though, gold have useful properties so people would alway use it as industrial application.Bitcoin is practically nothing without being used as a medium of exchange. http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2359239I think this is an excellent criticism of Bitcoin. Just use http://witcoin.com Steve Gibson definitely understood bitcoin. From an economist's viewpoint, I think property right incentivize people to produce and prevents/minimize conflicts. It just make sense. It is only incidental that some political philosophies endorse it.However, it is safe to said that anarcho-capitalists believe in homesteading too. I think you gotta be able to make these lands productive. It doesn't matter if you don't consume it yourself.I mean, if there's an abandoned factory that nobody was taking for a whole years or that there is no guards for a whole year...then I think it would make sense to take the property and homestead it.Of course, the whole question of stickability of property is a big issue. I think a good rule of thumb is that it should a) prevent conflictb) incentivize the owner/capitalist to develop the property.A good example of this conflict is the Discovery Channel's The Colony. The colonists homestead a factory they thought was abandoned and that nobody was using it. They build a lot of things to make it their. For example, they increase the security of factory. They installed solar panel scavenged from local sources. They construct various apparatus that make life living in the colony more bearable. Of course, the original owner and his girlfriend came. The colonists recognize them as equal co-owners because they have the key to the place. However, they squandered resources so much that the colonist have to kick them out. Is there any more effort to redesign the website? That's a big land claim. I can't imagine homesteading that much properties. The granddaddy and biggest of all Bitcoin bounty, nonetheless! Will Satoshi be taking a look at this video? At that time, it was a deal that everyone was happy with. However, the artist somehow underestimate his own popularity or how good his artwork is. That's just business. I believe that you are the only one who is morally outraged. I don't believe in the goal of equality.
I am not responsible for my ancestor's wrongdoing to another. As far as I know, one of my ancestor probably got raped and have a baby. There is no clear call to action on the front page of weusecoins.com. "Ok, I like this bitcoin idea. How do I get started?"I think there should be BIG CLEAR TEXT that said "Great! How do I get started?" that replace the Features below. What's the difference between bitcoin.org community and bitcoin community? ROFL. The bitcoin software does not use the GPU. It is done by members of the bitcoin community. Let define our non-favorite ideology out! Anarcho-socialism is not anarchism, it's statist! Without taxation, dividend looks attractive. The author's site promote bitcoin though. Wouldn't it be beneficial that the company get capitals from people selling or buying?I guess, a lot of people dislike this arrangement. For me, I think it would make sense that portion of the stock sale proceed goes to fund the company. That's speaking as investor of course. Because I don't believe in "controlling" others. A capitalist is just a rational profit-maxing agent or someone who try to act that way. No, it is just that you hate the way it works or what you think how it works. To me, your position cannot be compatible with mine. We have different value system. That's all there is. It's like I am the pyschopath, and that you're a normal regular human. A pyschopath don't have empathy and sympathy. They just fuck with you for no reason. Similarly, a capitalist don't understand the concept of exploitation and non-exploitation. He doesn't have any feeling for what's the proper price. There's good deal and there's bad deal. There is no good or evil.For example, a paperclip maximizer AI loves paperclips. It ponders paperclips philosophically for thousand of years in human time. It wants to replace everything with paperclips. It believe that the creation of paperclips is the highest moral good. It doesn't hate you, or love you. You're just a bunch of atoms that can be turned into paperclips. And we can spin it as big news too! More traffic, more people, and bigger the economy. I am also glad that the money will be used to fund further effort to advertise and promote bitcoin. Everytime someone buy or sell a stock, some of that money goes to the corporation to be used as capital? It's also true that you're just making a guess. That's a very strange definition of what a capitalist is.Anyway, a smart capitalist would sell goods and services as the highest possible price as he possibly can. That how I would do it, either as employer or employee. To attribute high prices of something as evil or good is a very strange concept. It's just business. In some sense, it already happened. In our ancestral environment, we rely on fat to ensure that we live through hard time. Nowsday, fat is often a liability because we eat too much of the wrong food. Our taste bud that would otherwise be useful in a world where resources are hard to acquire now work against us. We need our taste bud to tell us to eat the various nutrient that we're missing in our diet.Now, if civilization collapse and we have taste buds adapted for civilization, it is conceivable that we would be doomed since we would all die because we did not have enough fat to sustain us through a dry period. It is scenario like this that make me want a human body that can use fat without ever becoming a liability, much like more gasoline is better. That may be so. That may be not.Anyway, it's the standard: "I think reason x cause y change in Bitcoin price!"It's all ad hoc. It's correlation. That does not prove causation. It's just a coincidence. I do not think it is that fast to figure out how to deposit money into mtgox and start buying bitcoin within a day.(correct me if I am wrong) Let hope all pledgers cough up their money for the bounty.
This.Think of profit as energy surplus. When you work, you try to get as much surplus as possible to compensate for all the work you done. Some work you do only break even. That mean you don't have any resources you can store for the future. Some work result in a loss, you have less energy now than when you start with.In summary, capitalists do not seeks to exploit or control anyone. Rather they seeks economic surplus. They want to work as little as possible for as much gain as possible. This is smart. FatherMcGruder despise my reasoning for this. I strive for any gain at all, even if that mean working for employers. He thought that justify slavery or something. He even compared me to a Libyan supporting her dictator, believing that father do not kill their children. Of course, mine is very pragmatical rather than being a delusion. You can modify these video to fit what you need it to do! It's legal! Capital is just an accumulation of wealth. Bitcoin allows capital to naturally form. The idea that capitalists are in the minority is just strange. That would implies very few have any saving.As long you spend less than you earn, then you will begin the process of accumulating capital. That is what I called profit, when expenses is less than income. I can understand everything just fine. Every fast rise and fall must be manipulated! OMG! That's good anyway. To the address I listed right? I send my pledged 23.05 BTC to the escrow account.  129GMPhks7k5bQnNJM4byLb4bE9nHCBSqPThis is for the mybitcoin account. Feel free to donate even more bitcoin into it.Also, do not donate to the address listed at the beginning of the thread as a precaution. The address I listed in this post definitely belong to the mybitcoin escrow account.  To socialists and commies, profit is an abomination to be extinguished.To capitalist pigs like me, profit is a natural goal that must be pursued prudently or else you just get rich while squandering resource. This is excellent work! I hope you have good luck getting Gavin or Satoshi approve of it.Also, how come it said no fees at the end? Maybe it should said "very cheap". In 200 years, the American republic progress from less regulated to more regulated and more statism. It become an empire in that time. I don't like my transaction being subjected to a terrestrial court.  Pfft. Republic is doomed to fail in the same way that democracy is doomed to fail. FatherMcGruder hates wages and profits. I don't mind getting paid in wages, or profiting from an enterprise.  One of the typical reactions to Bitcoin:1. This is the dumbest idea I ever heard.2. This is very powerful stuff and will change the world as we know it. Maybe you just need to interface with the Github bug tracker. I heard they have an API for you to use. Go nuclear. What make you thinks people in the bitcoin economy is going to stay at one job for a long time? This is the bitcoin forum. We don't deal in paypal except in currency exchange reaction and even then, it must involve bitcoin.
I still think it works better as a kickstarter clone! We will alway generate blocks. Just that the incentive to mine blocks will change to transaction fees. Too much ideas. Think of bitcoin as cash in your wallet. You don't create an account for cash. It's just..your. Why is this in the technical forum? Added footer that boldly declare the whole site as licensed under Unlicense. http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/interview-with-magicaltux-on-qbitcoinNew article from old times. Then earn enough bitcoin to buy a computer! This is fascinating stuff.I would like to pay somebody to write a comprehensive exhaustive history of cyrptocurrencies and its evolution, 5 BTC an article and under the public domain.. (My magazine don't make me any money for now so excuse my poor pay rate) Or asteroid mining! http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/operation-fabulous-interviewPosted a new article. What will the Chinese students do with their bitcoin at the end of the class? So, Nefario's students could possibly get more money this way too. Those who save will have a strong disincentive to inflate the money supply. Reddit people seem to be understanding bitcoin a whole lot more than they used to. Markdown is the formatting of choice. Site is very simple because there was no time for evolution, but I'll try to keep it fast. Perhaps the labor force will be largely freelancer so the physiological forces goes away. I am no longer burdened by an overly complex interface.  Now, I can powerfully manipulate the site whereas before I feel very weak and limited by the complexity. Let merge trading and marketplace! The Bitcoin Weekly is now ready for operation, with the barest absolute minimum features I can possibly code. So, please don't abuse the site when you visit the site.http://bitcoinweekly.comFor the first article to be published on this new site, we have Theodore Minick's final and last article on the subject of Agorism in bitcoin:http://bitcoinweekly.com/articles/the-state-of-the-counter-economy
How about a public domain real time strategy game that use bitcoin to represent energy resources?It fulfill the "kitty activism" requirement.1. innocuous2. fun, one would hope.3. Also, it's public domain. It's a gift to the people. I can't imagine living a life without profit. I wouldn't have any saving. Everyone really likes the idea of kickstarter clone for bitcoin. When will it get uploaded to youtube and other place? Did you guys watch the animated movie? Kitty activism FTW! This belongs in Project Development section. Wow! This could go in my upcoming magazine. I think of the bitcoin economy as first and foremost a global information economy. 1. Bitcoin commodity market.2. Courier robots and protocols.3. Desktop manufacturing systems. It's all about sustaining the chain reaction. We want the bitcoin economy to grow. If that mean China using bitcoin, let it be so. I have no further arguments. So? You would choose to die rather than work for a corporate overlord.I am a free agent, choosing what I think is best for me. The fact that you think somebody exploiting me doesn't matter. I'll gladly defend my employer from you and your pitchfork, because he is the one who provide me food, shelter, and water.What have you provided for me? Let see if she make the argument that a bunch of kitty picture posting bitcoiners is clear and present danger to the economic stability of the United States. I do not care if the exchange make me "destitute", only that I am in a better situation. I rather be alive, than dead. I rather be rich, than poor. What is fair or not fair does not matter to me. What ya need to do is get into a town together and create the first bitcoin town! I disagree. What if the two sides disagree on who get what? Is the exchange voluntary? Yes or no? If yes, than it is an OK transaction. It doesn't matter if there is "exploitation" or whatever. It doesn't matter who get what.That is my "idealogy".Now, we discuss and understand. How do you calculate how much work is done and percentage to give?
First: drop all political vocabularies and its substitution. This is critical for rational discourse.Secondary..we can start discussing "exploitation" and "profit" without reference to said words or its substitute.Thirdly: You will drop the idea of refuting anybody's arguments and focus on understanding.Now we can start:I think a good definition of labor is "work performed". That mean thinking, writing, talking, hacking, putting together, etc...to achieve a certain result. That result is a good or service.  I tend to          at business plans. I believe reason x cause y change in Bitcoin market price! Princess Nell from the Diamond Age? He seems to give a damn about what other people "make off with".For me, I don't give a damn what other people "make off with" as long as I prosper and get what I want. Typically, when I engage in economic exchange, it's only calculating for myself."Is this guy giving me a good deal or a bad deal?"I don't even consider how much profit he made off of me. If he make a lot of profit, I might even get in the business myself and get myself a part of the pie.   But anyway, it's probably not worth getting into the business even with all the profit. It probably involves doing something I don't like.To profit from, and to be profited from is just a fact of economic life to me. When somebody said economic life is just morally wrong, I get a lot riled up because to me that's like the law of physics and these guys are trying to destroy everything.Maybe I shouldn't become so angry, because the law of economics will give these guys a good whipping 99% of the time. Why do you hate it when somebody prospers on the product of your labor? Is it not true that we all prosper on each other's work. Shouldn't we work toward that goal of helping each other prosper?For once, have you ever heard of positive externalities? Do you really want to restrict every single positive benefit and locked it behind a paywall? Society is not better off when artists jealously guard their work from commercial exploitation and modification. It's a rationality technique. It leads us away from emotionally charged words, such as "capitalists", and force us to really consider and understand.If you don't agree to it, I am getting out of this debate. I cannot stand making endless argumentation that lead to nowhere.  This is not about advantages, this is about survival and prosperity. I don't care and nor I should care if somebody is 100,000 times richer than me. I don't care about equality, alienation, and other such concepts. I care about prosperity and survival. When activities are voluntary and especially when they bring prosperity, you better damn well believe that I will defend it. I will even defend the potion of immortality and everlasting youth from deathlovers and enemies of technologies.That is what my angry outbrust is about.  Ladies and gentlemen, this is why you need kitty activism.   I am more convinced by execution of business models rather than a fancy plan about a potentially realistic business model. It's great that the chinese enter the bitcoin economy and all, but all they're doing is selling us goods and services that we like to achieve their homework assignment.Thus, trading relation will come to an end and the bitcoin economy is left with no more chinese input and we're all the poorer for it.So we need to turn the trade relation into a perma one by enticing them to stay in the bitcoin economy long after the assignment is over, thus keeping the economic output of the chinese and making the bitcoin economy stronger. They are offering real goods and services! They should not be treated differently because they're Nefario's students. When you're trying to learn how to operate business, you want to be exposed to the real world economy with real competition as much as possible. I would still get rid of the blue. Make the bitcoin economy the epicenter of the public domain economy. So when try to shut down bitcoin, it will make them look like evil monopolists or corrupted.Public domain economic activities is very much benign movement compared to "pirate parties" political operation. My business operation is posed for increased demand for bitcoin services as soon as I figure out how to streamline the process of making money. I did work for noagendamarket, Nefario, and Mahkul. They're not necessary the most successful projects but my customers bear no ill-will toward my ability as far as I know.I don't know zip about web design, social networking APIs and shopping carts.I know a bunch of javascript:1. processing.js(canvas)2. node.js3. jqueryI also know ruby on rails. So you can hire me as a web developer instead of a web designer.But I can learn on the job when necessary and is willing to provide daily progress report. Jesus, what is this unwarranted cynicalism for?People being afraid of BTC, for what reason? They're not spammers, but students of Nefario, who apparently teaches English and business. I think reason x cause y change in Bitcoin market price! Pfft. It's just more work.
Poor security.  Let ban these words: involuntary, voluntary, profit, exploitation, coercion and related words that stand for the same thing.Maybe, a fruitful discussion will results. We are arguing definitions and words. That lead us to nowhere. When an entire community feel no emotional response, your argumentation lead to nowhere. We simply just don't feel exploited or exploiting anybody.No, I considered and thought the answer is different from what you think is right. I am not doing anyone a favor, or a fetish. If that make me a capitalist, so be it.People can look at the same situation and reach completely different conclusion.  The marketplace is a craigslist I guess.It's also free. I would get rid of the blue thing. To me, I feel that the navigation and content area are disconnected and create a weird feeling in me. You mean the Silk Road. Wrong section. Should belong in the marketplace section. If you read the discussion, we provide a bit more nuanced answer. Basically we agree that it is true that some regulations will do good, but we do not agree with the method of enforcement. Hence, we're still opposed to government regulation on ethical ground. Somebody hated the idea of profit enough to vote no. Nobody is proposing the idea of no regulation. Actually, it's the worker who is in the position to neogitate as it is related to workplace condition. This is not related to worker competition but employer competition.Worker: Why should I work in this cheap-o building instead of working in that safe building?Employer: I pay twice as much wage as that other guy over there.Worker: Hmm, I think I walk away...Employer: No, don't go. I'll pay triple as much wage.Worker: ok.We are unable to have a rational discussion because people here do not feel exploited when somebody profit off of them. Nobody feel ashamed and nobody cares.If you don't simply feel exploited even though you fully understand the situation, well..what ya going to do? Somebody voted no. Is it possible for bitcoiners to work in the game making KoL meat to sell to you? Here's how I would write English: I now have more than 3000 posts.   Do you like making money and having extra bitcoin in your wallet? He doesn't understood my angry outbrust last time and I doubt he will understand now. He is also living in a community where profit is valued, not something that is evil. Hence the bewilderment of members here. Wrong, it's governed by the law of supply and demand.Quality and amount of work one does is a factor, but is not the sole factor. Increased Workplace safety may impede profitability of a corporation and their ability to pay their workers. And thus, you may have to choose between an expensive earthquake-proof building and building that are cheap but unsafe. I think x reason cause y change in MtGox's price.
He's probably a western with Chinese origin. There is no such thing as a free lunch. More like minecraft. Sandbox. How much do you charge for your service? Sounds like you could spin it off as kickstarter clone, except with bitcoin. You need your own computer!  FreeTalkLive talked about bitcoin and the silk road. http://www.freetalklive.com/I don't have a precise link for the podcast yet. Here's what we really good at: 1. Making possible an international information economy. There is no need to mess with bank accounts and national currencies when selling information for bitcoin. Bitcoin is bitcoin no matter where you are on the planet.2. Capital formation. You can form a bitcoin corporation with stock holding and such, with capitals being dispersed across the globe. All you need is a stock market to trade in and the institution/rulebook that everyone can follow. Anybody buy and sell stocks anonymously.3. Completely open market. A computer of some kind and an internet connection is all you need to start making a living. Doesn't matter if you're old or young. Who care the fuck about minimum wage law and all sort of regulations? If you're good, you will get paid.In short, the lack of artificial barrier and regulations will make bitcoin one of the most powerful economy in the world. Bollocks. This is a matter of cost and selling price. If the cost is low enough, you can make a profit selling at a slightly higher price. Then a capitalist figure out that making affordable, safe housing abundant make him rich, therefore making the "problem" moot. Here's the letter. Haiti don't have the wealth to prepare itself as an earthquake ready society. Mine asteroids. The webmaster is Sirus. I was referring to my business operation. What ya going to do when shareholders are anonymous and the companies have no real identity other than the fact that they exists on the internet? Far future? We live in accelerating time where the future come faster to us. Are we agreeing on a particular design? What's the next step to getting it implemented/live?
I am trying to constantly produce new contents. So far I only have 3 posts on witcoin that are profitable. I suspect the short term loss will be balanced out by a later rise of traffic. Look like bitcoinmarket data is just out. We barely got started with the exponential growth. Hmm, I realized that I don't have a suitable letter. We got a knockout spectacular last February with Security Now and several other media publication, but now we're experiencing a kind of media drought for Bitcoin.On occasion, some new services and merchants show up but nothing much happening this month. I will get back to this neglected project soon. Nefario still had not gave me work. Looking for freelancing gigs! Still selling advertising space. +1 morpheus for reloadable debit card trade. I got an idea for a game that use bitcoin as energy resource, except you can play lot of games with just one bitcoin. Since one bitcoin equals 100,000,000 satoshis, you will spend at most 100,000 satoshis in a long paced RTS game. Bitcoin loans are kinda useless if you have to convert it to dollars to buy productive capital. I must remind you that next generation nuclear power plants will reduce problem with nuclear waste, risk nuclear proliferation, as well increase efficiency. We may get all the "energy we need from the sun" but we're terribly inefficient at gathering such source. Nuclear power seem to be the more promising road.Of course, a free market should be able to test our prediction. Why? In the US, investing in a nuclear power plant is very much not worth it, due to anti-nuclear feeling and the extreme cost of acquiring a building permit. At least, that's what I know.So heavy subsidies? Maybe. However, you have to remember such things as energy subsidies toward solar power and such that discourage the construction and operation of nuclear power plants.You have to remember that coal power plants emit lot of pollution, coals are dangerous to mine, and so on.  You also need to remember that next generation of power plants are probably designed with better safety features. People sure like debt to be paid, violently if needed. This is why we got stuck in the fiat dollars regime. Somebody is going to invent a viable cryptocurrency sooner or later. It's just a matter of waiting. The fire code, I believe, was drawn in blood. Basically, every time a bad fire happen, people figure out what's wrong and implement new rule/law to prevent it from happening again.You can imagine the free market of regulations following that same bloody ritual.  We call it hubris! Don't forget that Japan is also well known for amakudari, which is a form of regulatory capture.  Regulation is pretty hard to do, but sometime you can get it right.  Remember, Japan experienced earthquake danger pretty regularly, so they would eventually get the "regulation" or "preparedness" right.If you're in a country that doesn't experience earthquake very often, it's going to be a disaster of course. Anybody else want to bid?
What's up with the hyperbole? You guys just can't sense the growth of the bitcoin economy because it is that *small*. 0.93, 0.94, and 0.95 is quite formidable resistance though.  You could build energy generation kit.  I am out of commision until Nefario got more work for me...Otherwise, I am looking to fill up some of the time with freelancing gigs. Technolibertarian ubermensch.  I believe half of the forum are linux users. Who would pay for these research? What kind of uses do people have for giant GPU clusters? Highest bidder: vladimir Yo, who wants to advertise in my signature space? I have insane posting rate, and I am the top forum poster. You guys got 7 days when this thread post was made to become the highest bidder and my new customer for one long month.So how about it?Bid: 5 BTC. Vladmir. Is this a debate about the stickiness of property?I supposed a property abandoned for really long period of time will be free to homestead.  I have a pretty miserable time with procrastination and a nasty bout of sickness. For the past two week, the payment for writers come out of my own pocket, with no attempt to attract advertisers.So this is the only things you guys will get for this week:Counter-economics and Bitcoin by Theodore Minick http://whiterockcottage.com/open/index.php?q=article/counter-economics-and-bitcoinVisit http://weekly.co.nr for all the other content that my magazine previously produced.  Then explain why Norway is a successful country. Surely you have a theory of why these countries are so successful.Then explain how your conclusion fit the evidence? Don't forget that people will claim that foreign intervention is the result of the conflict. An opinion supported by no theory and no cause and effect of any kind and no empirical evidence of any kind. moa's argument may been a bunch of snark backed with nothingness, but don't respond with such a weak counterargument. If bitcoin is such a pivotal technology, than some kind of crypto-economy will arise. Must we devise solution to every little problem in the world? Look like we got ourselves into an unsubstantiated debate. Only Alice and Bob can make that designation as to what is fair and what is not fair. Everybody else who are not involved in the affair, GTFO. It's called a mutually profitable exchange.  I thought we reached a consensus that the domain names will be outside of the main chain. If there are more miners, than there are more consumers/users/dealers.
Gold have intrinsic value based on industrial and decorative application. Bitcoin, on the other hand, have no such use outside of money. Will people like you actually rebuts the actual argument instead of calling your opponent unwise and inexperienced? Wrong. I am culturally western, but my homeland was Vietnam. No, I don't think like this. Rather, only the two persons who entered in an economic relationship or exchange get to decide what's fair and what's not. Anybody who don't have a damn stake in the matter should get the fuck out of the way.Some people thought the low payment for freelancing gigs I got were exploitation against me. Fuck them. They don't know a damn thing about my life situation.FatherMcGruder thought paying interest rate is evil. I was given a loan at interest rate by Nanotube and I was perfectly happy with it. Fuck FatherMcGruder for thinking that my affair as exploitative.I have the right to work. Don't get in my way. Satoshi is very low-keyed while Julian Assange looks for attention. S3052 said there will be a breakout soon and we're in a rally mode.   Yay! Another way to exchange bitcoin into USD and vice versa. I think X cause Y change in bitcoin price. http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2297558I sparked off the thread with my slightly inaccurate comment. (2100 blocks instead of 2016 and  5870s instead of 5970s)Somebody reply with criticism of bitcoin, and I attempt to make accurate reply toward him. Help me correct my mistakes. It's not a monetary cost, but a mental and time cost. It may not be a lot, but it would be troublesome if you have to repeat the process for hundred of items for auction. Not mine, but skull88!I think we should ask skull88 for public domain confirmation just to be on the safe side. Without social contact, we probably will die of suicide or something. Keep someone in complete isolation, they'll go insane.However, that is not to say we should be collective, rather than individualists. Keep in mind that individuals and the dynamics animate groups, not that groups have their own intention, goals, and such. Is the logo in the public domain?Also, why is it in the off-topic section? How about using the bitcoin logo that use binary as the official logo?You can thanks skull88 for the logo. Hmm. Informal names.Bitcents, and Satoshis. You are using clearcoin, right? Than our job is to push against human suffering is it not? One time, I asked like seven different people for one week and find nobody who's willing to accept work. I work for low pay, but I still find nobody willing to employ me.The economy is too small, worth only 5 million BTC. I wish I can support myself entirely on bitcoin.      You see, it just doesn't resonate with me. He is last active March 1, 2011.He must have been hit by a bus.
Can you substantiate the rumor? Your profit-margin might get eaten up by competitors who charge less. Which was generally the case since the first slashdotting happened. Generally, less efficient companies will fail. The surviving companies are forced to drive for ever increasing efficiency to remain profitable. This is a good solution. The next step is automating it to remove the chance for errors and to reduce cost of generating addresses. All of this is merely extending the consumer's time preference horizon and making it less possible for companies with unprofitable ideas and execution to succeed. See https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Deflationary_spiralFor price deflation to sustain itself, real growth must be achieved. This is what happening in the Bitcoin economy, therefore it isn't such a bad thing. Just a feeling. Well, I think companies might not like this at all. I think it will backfire? Inflationary model is a hindrance to general adoption of a currency because who would want to invest in something that lose value? Note that technological adoption saturation in general is getting faster. (I will need to cite this, though)Bitcoin was invented in 2009, but only really took off about 8 months ago. Looking at the original post, I noticed that I didn't post a link to my tipping page. Now it is possible. If you like the idea, please tip me some bitcoin. As we move toward the future, the saturation of technological adoption is being reached at an ever faster pace. Therefore, if bitcoin is a pivotal technology, then it will reach adoption at a rate that will exceed the ability of governments to react. I believe this was before the time there was a FED. More showing, less telling.Gottach. http://youtipit.org might be what you're looking for. Yeah, the grammar is pretty bad. It's a pretty consistent bug in my writing. I like to imagine that we're in a beginning of a exponential take-off.Heck, the hashing rate of the network is doubling 27 days for the past 15 months. Bumpybumb? If enemy banks think you're bluffing, they will try to spread rumors in attempt to shut you down. So the more fractional reserve banking you did, the more likely you will get shut down by a bank run. We need to think about long-term fundamental rather than getting riled up about the price of bitcoin everytime it does a dramatic rise or a dramatic fall.
Yo, how come nobody says anything? For the love of Eris, they are mere janitorial position. How much was this site sold for? Stop pestering us with every damn dramatic drop and rise and give a reason why it's dropping/rising with no proof. I am rebooting a novel that I was suppose to write last November: http://wiki.kibabase.com/The_Courier_WarIt's about agorist courier robots fighting against statist polices for its right to make a living. Right now, I have the first draft of the first chapter out, but it could use some reworking.If you like the idea or the story, tip me a few bitcoin http://www.youtipit.org/en/tip.aspx?junketId=J2608The more you guys tipped, the more I am encouraged to work on my novel. Seconded. No.  You're wrong, at least in my case.I just want to make bitcoin. There's no other opportunity that I know of will make me more bitcoin. Why is this in the development category? That's hardly the case. It's very difficult to run scientific expeirment in an uncontrolled environment. A very specific set of libertarians who are known to be part of the libertarian/hacker/extropian tribe. I views these actions as necessary cost of doing business. That's the downside of dealing with anonymous individuals. A whole subculture will develop within the bitcoin community.Eventually, bitcoin as a currency will goes mainstream, but the bitcoin subculture will thrives. Use clearcoin?Seriously, use your brain and don't trust users with no reputation too much. Don't just loan bitcoin nilly willy without doing a credit history check.Isn't it too much to ask people to take basic precaution in economic exchange over the internet? As far as ethics goes, it's wrong to enslave people not because it's "exploitative" but because it's a violation of self-ownership. Slaveowners profit for themselves, but it doesn't mean it's in their long-term interest to enslave people. It's also wrong not to strive toward prosperity too. If you want to alleviate human suffering, you need an efficient economy.I still don't understand "exploitation". This isn't about changing people. This is about risk management. Anybody who sue people in anger is a business risk. My actions are necessary practical. Well, your choice; my non-cooperation. This is a matter of tradeoff. If you trust every joe, bob, and dick off the street and rely on the courts to compensate for your losses than there will be much violence in the world. On the other hand, if you're careful and eat your losses, than there will be little conflict in the world.
I eat up my loss and move on. You go sue somebody. I can't do business with somebody who would sue in anger. Idealism?  I am spooked by your actions. Well, I will no longer do any business in the future with you. It's only the weird oddballs that hate currency speculators. We're still in the early days of growth. For example, the forum achieved a sustained posting rate of 700ish for 4 days. That never happened before. When did this happen to you? Where's the 40 BTC is sent? Is it sent to the bankruptcy funds? * kiba sigh for people who loans BTC to people with low reputation It's bencoder's service. Using cops and statist force? * kiba ducks. I don't understand what exploitation is. To me, the question is "am I in a better situation now than I was before" is way more important than anything else. I am concerned with maximizing prosperity for everyone, not what's fair and what's non-exploitative, who profit more, how equal is our society, etc. The balance of power in a free market is a dynamic relationship, but it always end at two parties agreeing to a particular scheme. He reasons that there will be a race to the most efficient form of mining and that it will eventually be limited by the cost of electricity. So it doesn't matter if he only think of CPUs. Meh, we use both side of our brain. What if it is offered at a profit? What is exploitation, again?   You can always tip me.   Bitcoin get transferred out of mybitcoin anyway. You can look at the block explorer history and see for yourself.You guys are silly beyond belief. Payment processors can bring value to the bitcoin economy by facilitating ever lower transaction fees, increasing trusts, etc. Um, that would be unethical. Poverty and wealth are comparison concept. It does nothing to tell us if the poor is happy with their life or not. What is certain though that the average poor person in the US today is far richer than the kings of the past.As for me, I do not associate rich, poor, or inequality with ethics. Hence, wage-slavery don't exists to me. There's nothing to fret over.So this whole capitalist exploiting people are total blank to me.  
There's only the haves-now, and haves-later. We rich folk got the first crappy first version of technology, while the poor use technology that are already refined. I thought he was a linux user. He's moving to a new server. Hopefully, it's a host that accept bitcoin as payment. I am surprised at the apathy for my public domain magazine. Most people don't know how to use IRC, let along cryptographic technology. I don't know. I thought we might need to carve up marketplace forum to be more amicable to facilitating economic exchange like reputation tracking, cryptographic identify verification(what's the word here?). If we want to genuinely fit the bitcoin forum to the bitcoin economy and ways of doing things, would you modify the codebase of the forum we're using or migrate to a forum software written from the ground up?Also, it seem that the license for SMF isn't free. http://www.simplemachines.org/about/copyright.php I am not a code monkey. Plus, I like the pay rate. A bitcoin host, I hope. Got the same thing. Who say that the developer quality must be bad? Damn impressive. What you're actually worth is based on supply and demand, what you can negotiate, and no more.  I used mtgox for a while when I was speculating on bitcoin. Now that career is over, I don't use mtgox. Some people just don't want to have anything to do with the government, scam or no scam.   That may be the case, but the cost of doing business is higher now that I have to go through clearcoin, writing clear rule of engagement, etc. Jobs are rather difficult to find in the bitcoin economy. You are the only one in town. 120 BTC is not a lot today, which is the most important compared to everything else. Damn scammers, fraudsters, and thieves. They make the cost of everything goes up. Blah, I am going to republish a copyfree novel I was working on ages ago for free. Why do you guys think that Satoshi will reveal himself to the world? How can we even prove that it is Satoshi Nakamoto in the flesh?
I prefer original, copyfree works. The changes in Baron's story is hard to keep track of when everybody is discussing a thousand different things in the same forum thread.This would be really different if it occurs in a arbitration with rules for processing evidence, notes what is proven and not proven, and no chit-chatting from outside observers.Right now we're suffering growing pain as fraudster and scammers find new ways to attack holes in the way we done business. We didn't anticipate the needs for a dispute resolution process and TOS until Baron shows up with complaint. This happens despite the fact that clearcoin exists and possible security holes that had been discussed within the bitcoin community.  How do we know that these are not trojans? Yes, time to end this fiasco once and for all.It's already the 2nd longest thread on this forum. Yo? Any feedback? Ya know, those atoms were once dinosaurs, or even our ancestors. That may be so, but we know zips about what's really happening. Combined with no clear term of service, no dispute resolution process, people are worried about MtGox's intention. They also don't know what MtGox will do next. It's only evidence that you know a transaction that goes to mtgox. Fixed. People are dying for transparency. Already done that. It still doesn't prove anything. Here is my impression of the accusation by the two parties:MtGox: Baron stolen 9000 BTC plus some [unspecified] LRUSD.Baron: MtGox frozen 45000 LRUSD in Baron's account.Will the two parties confirm if the accusation is accurate? Can MtGox clarify how many LRUSD is stolen? With the scant evidence we have, we have very little that is proven.Baron claimed to have deposited LRUSD on 01/07/11. So far he provide some evidence by knowing a transaction. But I have no idea if it shown up on mtgox's account database. We also know that 9000 bitcoin were transfered to Baron. Baron admitted that. However, we lack knowledge of who his accuser is, what evidence that mtgox have, and so on.Also remember that the theft took place on mtgox's site. So we only have the exchanger's words for the most part. Anything he post will need to be taken with a grain of salt. Based on past history though, mtgox is not a liar.Baron's words are mostly just that, words. We are able to know a few things, but not prove much of anything. It doesn't help that he forget important key details. It doesn't help that he's supposedly a mute, which is not proven. The new site is not ready, so I have to publish the new articles at the old site.Here are some of the new articles for this week:My finance column which details the trials and tribulation of my effort to become a self-sustaining economic entity within the bitcoin economy. Now I am in my third edition.http://whiterockcottage.com/open/index.php?q=article/weekly-earning-bitcoin-report-3We also have Theodore Minick's new column which explore the world of Bitcoin's black market economy. He starts off with an agorism article.http://whiterockcottage.com/open/index.php?q=article/agorism-101You can see previous articles of the Bitcoin Weekly at http://weekly.co.nr Can mtgox confirm that a LR transfer that took place on 01/07/11? If possible, can you tell us if it is deposited in Baron's account? Have you see a loan market in bitcoin? Not really.Well, I was one of the first to be loaned with bitcoin once to go shorting. I shorted once, then I try to short again..but I gave up and paid all my debt(with a positive inflation rate!)Anyway, if the loan market is really small or non-existent, than loans aren't really a problem in the bitcoin economy. What is slavery? To summarize the evidence thus far:1. 9000 BTC was somehow transferred to Baron. I believe that Baron said it was proof.2. Baron entered and I verified a transaction on 01/07/11. All that proves is that Baron knows that particular transaction. Ok. If you accept that as evidence, I will also accept it as evidence that 9000 BTC was transferred to you. There is no proof that you have 14,000 BTC in your bitcoin client. I also do not know why this is relevant to this case.
You said that it is not possible to login in mtgox account. I do not know if that is true.What does this mean? I prefer not to stretch the evidence to show something that it couldn't prove. We do not know how you acquire that information or what is really in your mtgox account. I desire to know what the fuck is going on. Let me ask mtgox and baron questions:1. Can you confirm that you in fact are in contact with opposing party and exchanged email regarding this case? Blame who?There is no connection indeed. But we have no proof that transaction was your, only that you know it. 01/07/11 is deposit of LRUSD is several days before the attempt to find out account names in an attempt to run password cracking operation.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3089.0 I will try to correlate the deposit with the security lapses that allow a cracker to bruteforce a few accounts. Shut up and give us more evidence to work with. You think it is inflation of the money supply. I think it is increasing the divisibility of the money supply.Got that? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/150Here is the link. I believe Baron said this is evidence that he deposited money into mtgox's account.I have no way to externally verify if the money show up at Baron's account at mtgox. I have validated the info Baron gave me in his last post: it said the transfer was successful. I will post a link to the picture file of evidence. I am still in the process of validating your statement. I still do not know how to interpret this evidence even if this is true. What are we supposed to type in?Moreover, why are YOU not giving us the link to the transaction in the first place? It's just code somewhere. All the coder have to do is change the source code. Then it's up to bitcoin users if they want to accept the new monetary policy.  Calling me an idiot while NOT showing why I am wrong does not help your case. Actually, I change my mind.Adding a decimal space allows us to go to a smaller number. Whereas if we add 21 million more bitcoin, the price would actually go up. That is not fucking proof. You could have made that details up. We have no way to prove that LR accounting system really said that. I have to concede that point. Adding a decimal place is akin to inflating the money supply. Unless someone can explain why this idea is wrong. All these details are unprovable from the outsiders point of view. We cannot prove anything what Baron, or even MtGox said is true. And you didn't told us until now that you have those "proof"?* kiba is confused.
You said you deposit 45,000 LRUSD? Do you hate the capitalist who is the only person who is willing to employ you and in exchange, he will provide you with warm bed and food?There's two choice, really: work or die. At that point, the notion of exploitation is irrelevant. The capitalist is saving my ass. In return, I have to work in his sweatshop. 1. The police can't do anything if you don't provide info where you live. They can't arrest you if you live in another country.2. Because the account holder notice it 1 month later?3. There's already contact information on the site itself.4. I am unaware of how blocking works. No, the posting record is a bit higher than that. We can always add more decimal space. It's your words versus mtgox. You also didn't prove anything. You also have a tendency to forgot the most important details we need to check the story out. How are we suppose to believe you when it's impossible to check if your story is true? To the government, there's no such thing as profit and loss so they don't know zip about economical resource allocation. There's only tax dollars spending it. The return is calculated as how many political suppoters you have now versus how many angry citizens you have now. We need to cross examine mtgox.com to see if your story match up with his. How are we suppose to settle disputes when you're in one country and I am in another? You want me to use the court to sue your ass out of existence? What if some other guy can do but you can't without getting caught? Indistinguishable in either case. Happiness is an emotional state, a state of mind. Why should we care about such measure when we can just administer the population with dopamine?Greed? For some people, it's nasty. For me, I am totally fine with that. Greed for greater lifespan, for intellectual enjoyment, for things...What's wrong with that?Yet people forget the other sin, envy. Envy is to me, the nastiest of sins. If greed is simply the desire of wealth, than envy is based on what you don't have and hating other guys for being wealthier than you. Nefario is paying me to develop the software for his bitcoin corporation. I know he will try to make a profit off of it. Meanwhile, I will get paid 120 BTC a week. That's an actual agreement in real life.Is that exploitation? No. I like the arrangement in question.This is after all, an amicable agreement between two moral agents. You, the outsider, is just an observer, who have nothing to do with the exchange. Whatever you think is exploitation is completely irrelevant to what I thought is a good deal, or what is moral. No one will invest in a bank with zero reputation backing. Will people stop creating all those essay length posts so I can digest whatever you're trying to get across? Do you want a currency that inflate over time or a currency that deflate over time? Ideology or no, currency is subjected to economic competition, not social engineering consideration. What is "exploitation"? What's wrong with profit? Have you been reading too much commie literature lately? Many days later...we don't know if the situation is resolved or what? Is Baron refusing to talk to MtGox? Bitcoin probably fluctuate more than gold price fluctuate. The point is, there's a lack of volume. If you buy 10,000 dollars worth of bitcoin, it's going to change rapidly. Yes. It's your responsibility to make sure you secure and backup your wallet.dat as well not downloading Trojans or worms. Your "bank account" is more like a wallet. It's actually stored on your computer.
Wrong, there's just not enough speculators to stabilize exchange rate.It's called paypal screwing with people. http://singinst.org/donate/The Singularity Institute accept bitcoin!   If you can save more than you spend, you're already upwardly mobile.   Blah, we could run this economy on one bitcoin and it would be no problem. Boom! We left February with a big bang. 14000 posts in one month, and that's 28 days! * kiba sigh.Read the god damn thread.It's fucking completely voluntary! They have no reputation. Nobody trust them. Considers: 300 bitcoin per hours. In a 24 hours period, 7,200 BTC are generated. That mean that the market must move 7,200 BTC a day.Graph that against exchange charts and we get an estimate. It isn't unfeasible because some of us are not "mainstream business". We rely solely on our reputation. Why should bitcoiners care about if you follow national laws or not? Will you provide the goods and services, or will you not? There's a search button on the top of the forum. I think we beat that topic to death. I generate none! I earned all my living from being a knowledge worker in the bitcoin economy. why_Nobody knows why_'s real name. He might have erase all his work to work on bitcoin back in 2009. Humans are already failing turing test like really-difficult-captcha. On the internet, you can't detect sarcasm. Who say there must be a new government?The Common Economic Protocol doesn't exactly aspire to sovereignty or to install itself as the authority. So it will be the case with the Bitcoin Common Laws.Too often, people misunderstand the purpose of this thread is to create coercive enforcement apparatus as the higher authority on the bitcoin economy. That's not what I am trying to do. I am trying to understand the "laws" as human beings voluntary agreed on in the little dispute cases that arise.(Do I have to explain myself again and again? Please read the fricking thread!) From the Diamond Age, eh? Principle are not made: they are discovered. This is why you only invest in companies whom founders you can trust based on reputation.
You didn't explain why we need the government. We're still looking for a sponsor for next week's issue. I think the use of coercive enforcement apparatus will be allowed to be used against would-be murderers.I also presume that that terrestrial lawsuit can be met with terrestrial lawsuit as retaliation.Which is to basically say, the upper limit of force is established by the aggressor. Even so, the use of force will still be a rare event.Which is to say, even if somebody scammed or stole some money from me, I won't do a terrestrial lawsuit. Such lawsuit could only occurs in the circumstance of somebody suing me in a terrestrial jurisdiction.  MtGox is trying to contact him by phone right? No. This called for agreed upon judge, not a democratically elected judge. This is not a democracy, or a dictatorship, or whatever. This is anarchy.Only the parties involved in the case get to choose. I cannot accept this as a good explanation of human psychology. It's a plausible hypothesis but is it true? You have a tendency to exaggerate.  What is a "typical scam victim". Citation needed. Chaord is a reputable guy, but he's asking for a lot of money. We have very different political philosophy and very different conception of what we considered "rights". That's all there is. We don't believe in democracy, social contracts, the use of coercion, etc. Our dealing with people in life are going to be different and our security models are going to be different. You are the only one who would consider suing anybody.Ribuck and I don't sue, period. We shrugged off our loss and move on. Good for you.I will never do business with a company that select a terrestrial jurisdiction for dispute resolution. That's not because I want to stay anonymous, because I am not anonymous. I am both afraid of using coercion, but I am also afraid of coercion being brought down upon me. I am quite prepared to lose money to bad people. I am quite paranoid about the people I deal with in trade. I consider the reputation, the length of time, and so on. Even if he is founded to be trusted, I'll use escrow and other methods.I don't use terrestrial courts, and neither should my trading partners.If you do use one to enforce contracts, I won't do business with you. If you stolen 9000 BTC, than it might make sense that you might stolen 45 LRUSD. However, there is only one known accuser against Baron.TOS and a known procedure for dispute resolution would be nice. That's a lot of money! I finally sent mtgox an email. I may have bad grammar and all, but your sentences are more jarring than mine. I am going to try to contact mtgox since you guys think he know everything.Get the situation resolved, asap. * kiba ducks under the table as the terrestrial court descended on a bitcoiner. There was a time that people deposit paypal dollars no willy-worry until somebody idiotic and evil enough to steal paypal accounts to buy bitcoin.
 I don't fully understand what's going on myself. Maybe because Baron's writing are more terrible than mine?Even so, I am still waiting for information from MtGox. I was not aware of this! Some people just don't know what you're talking about. MtGox was more liquid. I don't know what this is about. I am just stating what I think is likely. Who knows. MtGox's complete silence is not helping the situation either. Mtgox doesn't know everything. All of which make it very clear that there should be a dispute resolution process of some kind, including knowing who is the accuser. It should also be clear that there should be a Term of Service that details what the operator cannot or can do. If mtgox didn't know that this forum thread blew up that could have reputation repercussion...well... But not today? Trading is usually done on #bitcoin-otc. Ladies and gentlemen, we broke yet another posting record:783 posts in one day on 02/24. The use of $ and BTC together is very confusing. I am still not understanding if the 45000 USD is bitcoin or just LRUSD. Had anybody contact mtgox regarding this matter? Or you guys are just talking about it? Already done. * kiba sigh.It could be anything. Then it got plopped down.  It's called prostitution . No, human beings don't like to just "survive". They like to thrive, have sex, etc.
Human beings, with few exceptions, are not monks. We like sex, romantic partners, games, gambling and all sort of stuff. You see, we don't horde money for the sake of hording money and getting rich, we horde them for the good stuff in life.Would it make sense to wait for 50 years before purchasing sex, games, and gambling? Heck no. We like them, now, all things being equal. The problem with an inflationary currency is why would anybody choose to spend or trade within that currency? Given the prospect of choosing a deflating currency or an inflation currency, I think people would choose a deflationary currency. Until there are things that are necessary to do but no one wants to do. That's why it's called work, not leisure.  Saving rate is a function of time preference, therefore the saving will always be spent EVENTUALLY. Saving does not cause a collapse of aggregate demand.Deflation growth, especially in the bitcoin economy, is a non-problem.     I don't see how the real crux of the matter is getting solved by bickering over theoretical fraud. Text. We can't.I theorize that trust/reputation = economic power. An anonymous person with no history have very little power. He will have to work hard. Suppose, if there's a bunch of people deciding not to cooperate, the bitcoin economy would shift the balance of power to the very well trusted. This is a security problem. When somebody decide to sue someone in a "real" court of law. That's going to be damaging to the international bitcoin economy just like paypal suspending mtgox's account and making it clear that paypal is not trusted.The worst case scenario is that people will no longer deal with someone unless that someone is a friend of a friend.Like I said, it's all fun and game until somebody get hurt. We're not talking about BTC vigilantes or militia here. My last client bailed out on me for reason outside of the project. (Well, I got paid for the work that I done so far...)I am now in the market for new projects. I ordered the bitcoinweekly.com domain for 11.35 BTC. Email at hackerkiba___at___gmail.com. I think the community is asking MtGox to explain the evidence in a timely manner. Perhaps, one of you worried folk email mtgox and press for a resolution. Ya know, make a petition, get people to sign it, email it to mtgox. The problem here is that mtgox have no "term of service" or a transparent dispute resolution process. I will publish a news edition for each day. Articles not about news and more about politics, economic, and philosophy, etc will be published weekly. You're just demonstrating the article's point by being irrational. To you, libertarianism is a "right-wing" sociopathic ideology not worth discussing.The opposite of that would be 'Socialism is a "left-wing" ideology not worth discussing. It have no basis in reality.'BAM! You just kill rational discussion. Politics is a mindkiller. I call it: The Lucky Time. Making sure everything get done on time. Right now, I am not looking for an editor, though. I am sure some people gave mtgox lot of money. Maybe this one trigger the "scam!" heuristic.  The problem is, we don't know what's going on. The order for a KalyHost bitcoin VPS was successful. I paid 136.20 BTC for six month worth of hosting. 
Blah. MtGox dispute resolution is a lot more transparent than paypal.  Well, we must now deal to develop security practice and instrument of business needed to conduct international commerce. That in itself is a whole nother ballgame. Security have a cost, Nefario.  In effect, that is a lifetime ban from the bitcoin economy. The result of that would be to concentrate the economic power of those with a reputation at the expense of everyone else.It's all fun and game until somebody get hurt. People are still thinking of laws in term of nation-states and violent enforcement. Submit an article by Sunday 0:00 UTC and we see what we can do. There is no minimum length other than what you need to say for your thesis. It will be far more primitive than wordpress. I did not desire the heavy-weight CMS that I was using. It was too much for my simple magazine and what I need to do. It was not a technical problem, but a usability problem. They must get a rough draft article in before a strict deadline pass: Sunday 0:00 UTC. Then you must finish a final draft by Wednesday 0:00 UTC or you won't get paid for that week.It will also be public domain. Nothing in my magazine is under any sort of copyright license.You will also get paid a share of the writer's pool. Currently, the pool is set at 70% of the magazine's advertising revenue.Not many people can work to such strict schedule though. If you write a good article, it will be approved. Nobody seem to be capable of putting up with my insane demand for an article per week, though.Transfer of weekly.co.nr domain is also appreciated. Nefario gave me a letter of resignation as editor. That mean I am left with no writers or editors at all. In fact, this week issue only have two articles written by me. I will stubbornly continue this magazine in spite of the increased workload.Since I cannot technologically manage the publishing platform Nefario moved the magazine to, I will be moving to a new and simpler CMS. This will decrease my technological burden for publishing.Also, I will be moving the site to a new host and a new domain all paid out of my bitcoin wallet.The first public domain bitcoin magazine will not die. I am a stubborn mule when it come to spending time and effort at an art project whom I know already crossed diminishing return in both skill learned and monetary reward.http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/135 If you write color, it will translate to 色 too. 11000 posts in less than one month!   Crazy and scary does not mean 'dangerous'. By the time we reach that stage, it will be "normal". Of course, today's audience would think it is crazy and scary.If people knows what's going on in the 21st century 100 years ago, they would think it is the wildest and craziest story imaginable.  So what if it does? Then taxation is not necessary because government as we know it, don't exists. We must reorganize society on a different basis.For a libertarian, it would seem Utopian, but for everyone else, it seem scary.Well, a better future is not going to be comfortable and boring, but crazy and scary. Anybody could read that online. It is already a sideshow for me. 
Wikipedia said:Obviously, we cannot enforce the law through violence and coercion. However, it doesn't mean that enforcement is impossible. For example, reputation destruction means the loss of economic power in the global bitcoin economy. So one must follow procedures and judgement to be considered "trustworthy". Anybody who starts with a low reputation will be accorded with low economic power.Think of it this way: anarcho-capitalists condemn coercion, but it doesn't mean that we think rules and guidelines shouldn't exists.  No, the new mint will not be super slow. It will alway try to make sure that there are six new blocks per hour. After mining is over, bitcoin miners will then demand transaction fees to sustain its activity. Right now, it is free to make payment because for many miners, 50 BTC is sufficient. Please read the https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/FAQ because it seem that you are asking basic question about how bitcoin works. It makes counterfeiting incredibly difficult. You could even run the whole bitcoin economy based one bitcoin!    The whole point of processing is to secure the bitcoin network. Zombie botnet secure it. Intel supercomputers secure it.Bitcoin banks with an interest in bitcoin security will just throw some  mining hardware at the problem. Anybody who mines, secure it.  Beside, you can never mint more than 21 million bitcoin. It's impossible by design.We scrutinized this ourselves long time ago and come to a consensus that this is the most fair way we know to distribute bitcoin. Somebody must secure bitcoin in the first place, why not get rewarded for it? Those who are parasite on electrical source could be competitors. You might have whole zombie botnet that just mine bitcoin. It seem that simultaneous invention for a system similar to bitcoin did not occur. Naive? Is saying "we don't know until the laws are worked out" over time naive?  The law system that create busywork, fiction, and annoyance are unnecessary and will be phrased out of the market.We are talking about a system that form organically on how to arbitrate dispute and reduce the amount of dispute that could happens. That's all it is. We are not prescribing laws but trying to explain laws as people agree on. You are free to use or not use any of the law system or even none at all. Nobody is forcing it upon you to use any of these system. Perhaps, it may be rather unnecessary 99% of the time. Look, we have the benefit of hindsight and the ability to use the English common law system as we see fit! We have access to all the other law system in the world such as Icelandic law system. Not to mention we have access to scientific field such as game theory!Secondly, we're a bunch of geeks who have not even specialized in much of anything yet. We don't even have a chance of constructing much of our laws yet! There are some geeks who really have an aptitude and the mindset necessary to construct a law system.Thirdly, we can't use violence and coercion on the internet.Lastly, we live in a global society. It's not just the anglo-saxon sphere, but also the Germanic, Italian, and Russian sphere! Don't forget the Asians too! How do we construct a law system that encompass the globe? You mean a convoluted super-tricky plot against an innocent user where we have to craft credible evidence? Do you think Kiba is a socialpath and decide to be evil and accuse a more vulnerable member of the community for defrauding another user? What's up with that?Anyway, nobody is going to be enforcing anything other than seeing people voluntary following the laws. In my opinion, only the arbitrator in this case is allowed to make a decision after explaining his reasoning in a case essay.Of course, you guys are welcome to try different systems such as democratic decision making, letting outsiders choose, and so on. Who is allowed to vote? Bad phrasing: Bankrupted person will defer all payments to creditors and wronged parties. The evidence was pretty damning but people offer to forget it. Nothing really happens so we don't know if that's a good law, not to mention we need several court cases to determine if it is a good law in the first place. A few disputes broke out over the last several weeks in area such as bankruptcy and suspected scamming. We don't have definite laws or procedure on how to deal with trespassers or processing evidence yet.But I think a couple of details is emerging as far as law goes:1. Bankrupted person will defer all payments to creditors and wronged parties for the amount that was owned.2. Those who are suspected of scamming but protest their innocence could pay a 'fine' in case of damning evidence.Those these laws are not definite as it need some more iteration and more testing to make it work.I would give it a couple of 'court cases' before something good emerge. Um. I am drawing a blank. That's very easy to achieve when you're a really small fish. What do they know about bitcoin?Shouldn't this thread belong in the bitcoin section, not the offtopic section?
Price seem to be actually going back up? Tell me why it isn't free market thing to have dark pools? I don't know why people considers dark pools as evil. It's like saying insider trading is evil. So you're a professor at a university in China?  There is no yuan/bitcoin exchange market these days. I got mine backed up. We also achevied 1000 new members this month, which is probably a bunch of spam accounts, but also 10,000 posts in a single month.  I wonder how many bitcoins are just being shuffled back and forth. Um...What people are arguing about? Use mtgox's data feed or perhaps bitcoincharts.com. I agree to an extent. But.Despite this it will be seen that it does matter where you are, it matters because of what has gone before. This is not something I'd expect a distributed cryptocurrency to be able to solve however. I think I look forward to Phase 5, but I am one that beleives that the state can be useful to society (when properly under the control of informed democratic power). So I hope Phase 5 doesn't wash away some things that currently do depend on the current finance system.[/quote]Do you not understood the implication of bitcoin? It's impact is beyond wealth and money, but also on the very structure of governance!If we are able to develop a polycentric system of law needed to keep internet commerce flowing, the democratic supporter of the world will either have to fight it or abandon their ideology.So what if democratic society benefit humanity? You have to face a new order that have very different assumption about how things work. If the libertarians and crypto-geeks weren't there, would it be true that bitcoin could grow slower?Wait a minute...if there's no cypherpunks, bitcoin wouldn't be invented? This is nonsense. This is a private forum and we're a bunch of guests. The owner get to do whatever he wants. A knowledge worker's output can be traded! From there, we could start demanding open border to facilitate even more trade. Contempt for your opponents does not help them understand your position. Lady and gentlemen, we won the cryptocurrency war, just like our cypherpunk predecessors won the encryption war. The world did not stay the same, but changes dramatically. For one thing, it allows all of humanity to efficiently conduct global trade with everybody on the planet. It does not matter if you're in china or in Africa. A bitcoin is a bitcoin!That's my prediction. A socialist country with a "functioning" democracy is surely not the same thing as having a dictatorship.  Would you want a "price stable" currency versus a deflationary currency? How would you achieve this stability of price? How do you determine if there is too much of a supply or there should be increase in the supply? By your logic, they cannot participate in anything. No matter what, they are d00med.  How about a checklist for all the things you need to check?
Why is it being released on Tuesday? I wasn't aware of this!  Anything going on with Iceland? Maybe you could start a Brazillian bitcoin exchange? The market of goods and services are there. It's just not very visible at this point. Broken image.   There was a long period of inactivity. The more I wait to complete this project, the less speed I have in growing my artistic skills.http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/134 New forum account = reason to be suspicious. Waiting for mtgox's side. Actually, 'official' law can exists. Basically some laws in the crypto-anarchistic system gain universal acceptance, thus codifying itself. Um...I don't doubt that. Crazy.  We still have very few precedents and no arbitration market yet. It will take a while for bitcoin laws to develop. In so far as anybody who save in bitcoin win. In as so far that bitcoin encourage wealth creation instead of wealth destruction, everyone win.If everyone on the planet basically use bitcoin...well you got one hella of a global economy. Nonsense. Bitcoin today are worth .80 USD. First mover advantage in so far the gathered momentum is difficult to overcome. It appears that we forgot the last bubble. Is there a need to have two separate forums when in essence, people also discuss the practice of businesses rather than just buying and selling? Reputation to the public and reputation to authorities can be two entirely different things. Good news for bitcoin. Bad news for central banks. Move to economics section? You don't have any evidence to suggest the speculators are not pricing it properly except your feeling about the matters. If you're right, why don't you speculate?
Thanks for providing a counter-perspective but also giving me a few crucial explanatory details for me to work with. Your post is long so it will take me a while to digest and come up with questions about New Zealand economy. It's not exactly the best argument in the world but I don't think your intention is to refute Foo Barf's arguments. Had this devolved into a flamewar about who could spew the most facts and memes for their position? Does it have anything to do with my attempt to understand New Zealand refrom policies? That's a plausible explanation. It might be able to explain why the housing standard are degrading. Of course, we need statistics on housing demand to determine if it could fit. On closer inspection, your arguments have nothing to do with the discussion at hand in which New Zealand is considered as a free market policy failure. We don't need to keep hearing libertarian propaganda that does nothing to advance the debate.Although the case is not looking good anyway, because the guy who supported this theory have failed to repeatedly explain anything for the last few pages. If indeed the public debt is increasing in that period where government should be cutting spending, than it make sense that some of the problem in that country is probably caused by increased debt burden. However, I don't understand if the foreign debt include public and private. The article said that the public debt in 1995 return to pre-1984 level. She didn't mentioned that the public debt had been decreasing for 5 years until this article was written.http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/0f/New_Zealand_overseas_debt_1993-2010.svg1993 to 2010 onward, government debt remain stable. Private debt are always increasing. GDP is also growing. We still don't understand what's going on before 1993.Wikipedia said that the private debt are a result of trade imbalance: I am beginning to understand the New Zealand economy, but I have no clear understanding of what's going on during this 1984-1993 reform period. Will probably never watch videoes. I generally hate video as a medium of delivering information. If you have an equivalent article that said the same thing, that would be greatly appreciated. Also, if you feel like, you could summarize the video. I don't want to hear about how terrible they are. I want an economic analysis of how free markets fail.You said "some", not all. Is the court doing their job of dragging "some" of these corporations into fulfilling their obligation with their customer? If not, the government is implicit in helping insurance companies avoid fulfilling their contracts. I read the wikipedia link. It was not very satisfactory. I want to know an account of why is it happening, not just what happening.Also, home insurance companies can provide building code, because it's in their interest in reducing the likelihood of a fire so that they don't have to pay the homeowner. They could increase premium if homeowner do not have a house that comply with the building code. They will reward homeowners that comply with the building code of the company. So the whole idea of free markets don't provide regulations is a bunch of nonsense.You can keep saying it's a childish philosophy. That doesn't make it true.  http://lesswrong.com/lw/gw/politics_is_the_mindkiller/Politics is the mindkiller. Unfortunately, it seems to affect libertarians too. You didn't told me how. You told me your interpretation of what's happening in Zealand! I still don't understand what's going on. They are merely mysterious answers to mysterious questions. Not acceptable.Again. They are results. You didn't explain why it's going down. Why did the market fail to provide regulations of building code?This is a non-issue. Do you wish to be rational about this discussion or not?How does libertarianism totally failed on altruism, finance, deviance, and crime? What's deviance to you?Look, either you provide the goods, or you do not. You didn't, so your arguments suck. All your yammering have nothing to do with the topic of improving a bitcoiner's rationality. If this Open Country is kicking fonterras sad socialist bum...why don't you supply us with information? If he's wrong, it should be no problem for you.I still am trying to consume TheKidz's article. Also, wikipedia doesn't not gave me much other than bad consequences of said reform. That's wrong. We just entered February 21 about 6ish hours ago. So that's why it's in the low 100ish today.Also, we never been consistently above 100 visitors until early February. Don't just say that your economic policies is successful. Explain why and prove us wrong.(for the record, I do not have opportunity to look through the wikipedia article...will soon) Poor argument against foo barf. Just statement of conclusions. This is simply a nonsensical attribution to libertarianism. I don't take that position and I am not aware of libertarians in this forum taking this position. You're just stating stuff without backing your argument up. If you don't try to explain why it doesn't work, then it's not a good argument.I can't exactly read your mind, here. Just know that I don't consider it nice to insult other people's position in a rational discussion. Libertarianism is what I considered an ethical philosophy that's somewhat cohorent. As a result, I derive voluntarism from there. My real loyalty lies with rationality above all else. I must learn the truth.You didn't supplied logical deduction or anything. Emperical evidence doesn't mean much to me if you don't explain what's going on there. You supplied a conclusion. All I am asking you is to back it up with a mechanism to explain why is it happening.  I don't know. I thought it was simply the goal of the bitcoin community. They are simply conclusion about what libertarian policy entails with no attempt at economic analysis. They may be true, but they lack any logical details that show the shortcoming of anarchism.For example:1. Policy of economic anarchy2. 3. Boom and bust, and extreme difference in wealth.As you can see, you propose no mechanism about why libertarian policy cause cycle of boom and bust and also difference in wealth.Why would you ask your opponent on the other side such silly, stupid and insulting question? I could very well ask if your belief system is based on faith in the ideology. Not helpful to the discussion.
If nobody cares than that mean they're enjoying the backlog of stuff produced in the last several century? I mean, there's million and million of songs, and million of books to digest.  Why? Because rationality mean we can accurately perceive the world as it is and make actions and plans that achieve the goal of increasing bitcoin dominance. I think we can start this project by largely borrowing knowledge from the lesswrong community. Well I think lesswrong content are interesting to read and maybe we can start our learning from there.(or more usefully just start discussing rationality and possible subjects to consider) Libertarians think Somalia is a paradise is a strawman argument. While I don't expect to agree with people soon, when people make that kind of stupid arguments against their opponents, it bring down the level of discourse. No attempt to argue rationally here, I see. You're supposed to say "citation needed", not sprout insult about what I didn't say. Or even better, refute the statement.I didn't say that's my official views. I said I heard it from somebody else. Nonetheless, I should have source the statement in the first place. It will have to be superior to existing money. Just use your 5 BTC(price deflation + cheap phones!) smartphone of the near future as your wallet. It seem that the market prices are not following each other for a while now. The  bitcoin forum finally reached an all-time high in the number of posts!  A security firm would just flat out refuse to review closed source software. A bunch of assertions about consequences of libertarianism backed by nothingness. I see nothing of merit to discuss until you provide reasoning and evidence behind your claims. Just pay a p0rn site that accept bitcoin. I don't want to delink the marketplace from the community. In fact, I think it's the central point of the community. I mean, what kind of a cryptocurrency community would we be if we have no official market to trade in?That being said, I think the trend is toward a decentralized forum community. The wiki editing is already decentralized in any case. Don't know mean you can't be forced to testify against your friend who did nothing wrong but run afoul of the law. I simply didn't bite. So we have a little court thing going on here.   All these can easily be defeated if the user throw caution to the wind. However, I think it should be easier to secure one's bitcoin wallet. I sense a new business model. Citation needed. Until I hear other Russians testify, I don't believe you.
New marketplace rule: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3629.0 Unless the scammer executed a convoluted plot to implicate you in the scam..it's very unlikely that you are not the scammer.(Also, you and the scammer use the same word, "purse") I do not see question marks. Ouch.Time for a banhammer?On the other hand, he could always registered as somebody else. The image link doesn't work. Thanks for the information. Communication misinterpretation? Woah. Somebody actually hijacked a scammer to get back bitcoins. Is this the same Russian scammer who got his wallet emptied after being tracked down? Will the owner get their bitcoin back? We have a new lesson:1. Never download anything from a forum member who do not release the source code or have no history with the community.2. You should separate your wallet into two type: A spending wallet, and a saving wallet. Rule #1: We aren't invincible.Rule #2: Don't endanger men who have nothing to do with your dangerous exchanges.If you guys want to be agorists, that's fine. Please, for the love of Eris, be a lot more cautious. People like me are above-ground persons, not a real agorist.By the way, don't tell me and everyone else your illegal activities. I don't want to be forced t to be a police witness to some illegal activities that's taking place but nonetheless consensual(drug, sex for hire, etc). It is wrong to force your friends into ethically impossible situations. I believe it takes 4 or 5 years for wikipedia to mature, and less than 10 years that people start shutting up about wikipedia and accept it as part of daily life.Bitcoin will grows the same way, as it benefit from network effects.Personally, I estimated a 49 chance of death and 51 chance of extremely wild success in a 5 years period. Everytime the currency market experience a deep plunge, people goes panickly:"IT MUST BE A BUUBBBBBBBBBLE! WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAI!"       What do you expect? Price is going to keep going up and up? It's going to correct sooner or later. For the love of Eris, we experienced the greatest height of bitcoin popularity so far. And we're going to make an all time high bitcoin posting record, made membership record, and made all-time high downloads. We got slashdotted again, and a popular radio show sent us a gigantic amount of traffic!It's going to takes a few weeks for new services and goods to pop up eventually. For the love of Eris, stop proposing causes about things you don't know! You're welcome to discuss it in the economic forum. I was merely trying to get people to think about their position more carefully, not winning debates. Time to get assertions out of the way: http://mises.org/daily/320Speculators, in essence, absorb the risks of trying to prices commodity, and gave us a more stable price for commodities.Let put it this way: In time of plenty, the speculator save up food.  In time of famine, the speculator sell food to the starving populace. If he make mistakes in the prediction of the future, he will be punished for it. If he make successful prediction, he will be more wealthy. Thus, we can see how prices are smoothed throughout time. It is no good that the other side decide to be lazy about it, but you're still not off the hook for making a claim without backing it up. Did you guys check the block number downloads? You can say it's "proven" but that doesn't mean anything. I can say it's proven that free markets work, but nobody should believe my conclusion because I didn't provide any evidence.  Still an assertion. 1. Speculation.2. 3. Wild swing.
An assertion that must be backed up with logical reasoning. Having learned my lesson from the last crash, I am not surprised. This is only on MtGox. If other markets follow, than the price drop is for real.Otherwise, somebody happens to panic in a strong growth period of the bitcoin economy. This should be moved to the marketplace. They have not proved why they need such power.  I am doing the daily news beat for each day.http://whiterockcottage.com/open/index.php?q=article/daily-news-friday-february-18-2011If you want to announce something newsworthy, twit me. However, the news must be "family-friendly" and interesting. I have editorial oversight about what to include and exclude. Also: Be sure to visit our website at http://weekly.co.nr I believe that Satoshi intended to replace the failed system with cryptocurrencies, if not to destroy fiat currency.Side effects and intent are indistinguishable in this case.  Remember to use clearcoin, guys. http://www.wired.com/epicenter/2011/02/fbi-backdoors/FBI thinks it can solve everything if only they have a little bit more power. Of course, it won't go well once FBI abuse its power, or EVIL PEOPLE use it. It is one thing to disagree and thinks libertarianism is completely wrong, but it is quite another to completely misunderstood libertarianism.I would describe libertarianism as an incomplete ethical framework center around autonomous moral agents who are self-owners. Libertarianism often permits more than they restrict.  One example of permissibility is that I could choose to donate most of my earning to charity, or not. However, a restriction exists that I cannot engage in theft, even if it is government sponsored, which is known as taxation.The Standford Encyclopedia of Philosophy have a good overview of the philosophy.  http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/libertarianism/ I can't wait to use satoshi to denote a very small fraction of bitcoin . Bounty hunter? I don't think we're be arresting and shooting people. The controversy is caused by bitcoiners with different goal in mind, not just what they think will be effective/ineffective.Nonetheless, I think there's a goal of bitcoin we all could believe in:Destroy and replace fiat money, and facilitate the economy toward human prosperity(material wealth, health, etc). That's it.I believe this is what Satoshi would have wanted. He thought all those trusting we must do are unnecessary and harmful to our economies. He designed bitcoin to fix the flaw inherent in fiat money.We should achieve his goal without compromising its very principles. When we get down to it, the government will never and should not have power to dictate the monetary policy of bitcoin by mere decree.The forum and community here may ban drugs and illegal goods for the pragmatic reason of protecting and growing the bitcoin economy, but we cannot compromise the system that Satoshi laid out for us, nor can we compromise the integrity of the community dedicated to achieving this goal. Remember, we must make bitcoin prevalent in the world, without compromising its power as a cryptocurrency, if we were to have any chance of changing the world at all.  Is it lawful to be in your underwear? Wrong. You said this example prove that deregulation have bad effects but you didn't actually *show* that is the case. Your conclusion may be true, but you failed to show how it is actually true.I was never an opponent of all regulation, per se. It's a strawman. Moreover, today's corporations are creatures of today's regulation! The incentive system is VASTLY different in an anarchist system. It's like talking apple and oranges here.  It's called forking. Throw caution to the wind or proceed slowly?That's the crux of the debate, isn't it? Why do you assume that we do not back up our wallet? Then it's our job to produce looooooooooooooooooot of goods and services so that bitcoin stays valuable. Well, I decided to dedicate my bounty somewhere long time ago when I realize that there is already a solution.
http://sourceforge.net/project/stats/?group_id=244765&ugn=bitcoin&type=&mode=alltimeWe reach an all time high in the number of bitcoin downloads in any month.  I don't think the possible situation doesn't make anybody trust him more. I won't accept your conclusion because you fail to show cause and effects. As of right now, your argument is an assertion that doesn't prove anything, either in my favor, or your.Not everything can always be attributed to bad or good regulation. Sometime some actors think they can get away with something.If you trust somebody, and somebody abuse that trust. Well, it's abused. The only thing that can happen is how to punish people who abuse trust.We could make all the regulation we want, that's perfect and have no bad consequences... The problem is, it's only swaying you to do the right thing, but not actually do the right thing.If 99% of everybody decide to murder each other tomorrow, no economic system or government will save humanity. So the lesson is: use clearcoin until you begin to trust the person? Well, doesn't the bitcoin codebase improve gradually through developers adding new features, writing competing clients, etc? So we have a bitcoin bankruptcy. Remember: the media only cater to your bias. Why would they tell you things that doesn't fit your worldviews? Did somebody die? Let make it into a headline! Did government did something sinisterly evil? Let make it into a headline! Vaccine kills? Let make it into a headline!Let omit information that doesn't fit the worldviews of our readers! Let emphasize information that fit the worldviews of our reader!The media is a propaganda market catering to willing consumers. Also, if you have any question about earning bitcoin, send me an email at hackerkiba___AT____gmail.com The Free State Project in New Hampshire! Get all the libertarians to use bitcoin, then you have a local bitcoin economy.   Stuff all the p0rn stuff in the NSFW section? This is the same kind of debate we have on wikileak. They're getting negative attention. WE NEED MOAR PRESSURE! Remember guys, this forum is backed up. We're like hydras heads.   What is our goal here?Is our goal to destroy fiat money?Or is it something more radical than this? Obviously, the community is made of individuals with differing perspective on politics. How should we handle this political diversity? Should we let the philosophy of the members guide bitcoin's development? We're bit late since we just moved to the web format away from file. Confirmation bias! There's a saying that you shouldn't put all your eggs into one basket. What is equal rights? I believe in liberty. I don't believe in the promotion of traditional institutions. I am a libertarian, not a statist.Is free market considered a conservative institution? Ah, I found it. Dirtyfilthy think that I think "there is no such thing as economic coercion".Ok. What does that mean? No, it's called C-O-M-M-U-N-I-C-A-T-I-O-N. What's obvious to you isn't exactly obvious to us. The article you linked to give us scant details about the energy crisis in California except a bunch of traders manipulating the energy price. We don't know the background and the condition of the crisis except something mentioning deregulation. We can't form a conclusion based on one news article that made absolutely no systematic economic analysis on why is it happening. Your conclusion may be right, but you failed to show us why this is right.(Actually, what are we arguing here, really? What argument is he trying to argue against? I felt like I been roped into this without knowing clearly what's my argument is.)
Libertarians propose that you should be able to sue polluter for damage anyway. So the idea of libertarians supporting "no regulation" is a bunch of strawman. It's not good enough to just provide links. You need to explain and reason why these links support your conclusion. We don't know what's going on in that head of your. Bad publicity?More like polarizing publicity!  What does "rightist" and leftist" libertarian mean? Please give us reasoning on why these links support your conclusion? We cannot guess at your thinking. That's right! Bitcoin investors don't get a free ride. They get a really death-rattling ride in which their investment could be made worthless at any time.Bitcoin is extremely high risk, high reward investment.  You don't need to be connected to the network to receive payment. This is a better poll:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2006.0Around 60% are some kind of libertarians and most of them are anarchists. That is, for people who voted. It is much more difficult to screw people over when you can't convert capitals into political power. I never said that the prison problem is solved under a free market system or is it solved under a government. Bump. I am starting a column about earning bitcoin. We'll see if I will become the first bitcoiner who made his living entirely off bitcoin. I don't know.  You need to justify your position instead of sayings stuff that sound true. I am an "anarcho-capitalist" but it really mean that I am a voluntaryist. I think that's just a conservative. What is a "conservative libertarian"? Non-argument. You need to justify them. Hmm, I might buy minecraft after I accumulate 2100 BTC. Or not. We libertarians are very familiar with regulatory capture as it is our bread and butter. It is not a surprise that when we analyze democracies that we find perverse incentives.What people usually done is to forsake their long term interest in favor of assured short term survival. That is how free markets die. It also can happen to anybody, rich or poor.You could be a lowly prison guard part of an industry whom interests are aligned with keeping people in jail. That benefit the whole hierarchy of prison complex, not just the rich CEO on the top. However, everybody suffers in the long run, even the lowly prison guard, because prison breed criminality.This argument is not much of merit. Please discuss example.
Some people become fabulous wealthy by enriching other people's life. Some gain their wealth by stealing from others and ruining people's lives.Some homeless genuinely need help. Others choose this way of life.Inequality doesn't mean anything.  How large is the network right now? Why would you think sheeps are the majority? Maybe the sheeps become wolves in a democracy. I discount my price greatly for the hope of getting work. That mean labor, goods and services, are cheap. That benefit the spender.  A lesswronger told me that 80% of biomedical research is actually funded by private corporations. As a result, the USA is the first nation in the world to receive many of the medical advancement.  We also have the highest cancer survival rate.He then said that 20% are probably military R&D expenditure. The european? They barely spend any money on biomedical research at all.Now, I agree that the US healthcare system still sucks badly. It's all good old regulatory capture. The user do not know that blocks needed to be download before using it.Therefore, I am proposing that the client check other clients or the web for information about the number of blocks downloaded and then warn the user that recent transaction will not show up until all the blocks are downloaded. Dude, my inaugural magazine issue is like the first public domain issue ever and we still make money.  All this stuff about how we can't make a living without copyright is a bunch of bollocks.  Maybe I could program/draw/write something for you.   I already did.  One thing is true for sure:IP proponents have no ball to experiments.   You know this, how? We got lot of new people who just came in from the slashdot and security show traffic event. That mean we're going to see a lot more goods and services soon. That have nothing to do what we're talking here, except maybe only tangentially. I wrote a story about a homeless bitcoiner having a pair of smartphone and tough-as-shit netbook. Well, the Genesis block marks the beginning of the bitcoin network. I'll consider buying when I am a self-sustaining economic entity. 5 BTC. Sell your scarce brain, not your non-scarce output! Also, what if the dollars went into hyperinflation? The FAQ author wants to keep coercion as a tool because he thinks it will lead to a more-good world when used correctly.I think we can argue that no murder is better than murder, even if it is for self-defense. What we strive is for is the best-good version of society where we don't have to kill somebody in self-defense, at least according to our ethical framework.It is true that there are failure like fisheries not being owned, because of the inherent difficulty of owning school of fishes. However, even if coercion is currently best solution now, we shouldn't stop searching for solution that is non-coercive.  I think he would say since there's no evidence that the market will produce its own food labeling laws, there's no reason to expect one in a free market society.
http://sourceforge.net/project/stats/?group_id=244765&ugn=bitcoin So, what is a difference between a bond/bail system and an escrow service? 10,000 people by 2015.  You got it all wrong. I am not violating any laws in the process. I am not coercing anybody.I am just making your economic life miserable through competition. I am making democratic rule irrelevant.  Libertarians thought IP are violation of private property right not that IP are property right. That is the emerging consensus after years of debate.Also, what I am doing is merely outcompeting my adversaries. They can complain about too much competition, but I am better than them. 10,000 people using it. Media coverage said or perhaps estimate. Unless the inventor is yet another Satoshi, bitcoin is going to win by pure momentum.  I made a 500 dollars bet on the success of the bitcoin economy. Loooooooooooooooooot of investors! No. My fellow rebels and I are going to remove your democratic option to define sane IP rights using revolutionary anti-IP counter-economic activities.Our economic effort will speak for itself.  Just because you found a nice ideology that is coherent and consistent doesn't mean you are given permission to stop thinking. Did this guy made his first debt payment yet? Blah. I need subtitling to enjoy the story. For some reason, I can't understand English speaking movies these days. Knowledge is not acquired through calling opponents names or being the most persuasive in a debate.  No. Most of the misery on earth is the result of poor political institutions. Make yourself infertile so you don't have to worry about overpopulation.  My personal guess is that the earth can support at least a trillion human beings. If it become too much, just use the sun.Also, we can build more efficient bodies for ourselves, making it easier for earth support more trillion human beings. Colonization of Mars is unnecessary. By the time we need to, we have all the technological means to do so or we just end up building a dyson sphere.If there's an asteroid coming our way, we just use cheap rockets made by SpaceX to knock them out of the sky. Or just mine them. Problem to building nuclear power plants is mostly political. If is done, energy cost is much cheaper. That also mean manufacturing costs are cheaper. That translate to cheaper everything, making space flight much more feasible.Also, you can buy a share in SpaceX, a space firm that's making rocket launcher cheaper and regular. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SpaceX Several century? Naw. All it requires is the judicious use of nuclear power plants and we have all the energy we need to launch colonization effort. Then it's mostly an engineering challenge. We use bioengineering to fix whatever damage occurs. If we can go to mars, we can fix problems on earth too. The problem with plastics is that they enter the food chain as poison. I was proposing we should make them harmless. My solution is to merely change the type of plastic, not increase the amount of trash thrown into the ocean. Landfill can be used to create methane gas. 
Landfill can be valuable resource. Trash islands are a result of tragedy of the common, but one way to fix this is to have biodegradable plastics. There are proposals on way to recycle nuclear waste. How we're destroying the earth?The earth can support much more than 6 billion human beings in my opinion. We just need moar nuclear reactors! Blah, with nuclear energy, anything is possible for the next several billion years. The only problem is a political one. We could be building space hotels and perhaps habitable colonies within the earth orbit. Mine any asteroid that come near us and get rich(or even just the moon). That's not Mtgox, casascius. That's S3052. How will you manage risks? Will you look up actuarial science? So he will be paying all the debt off? That's a rather harsh punishment. If it is good, I am going to reluctantly donate 1 BTC. That's why I prefer 99% money upfront and 1% equity. How debt will be settled?   The bondman refund the damaged party. I had to kill my page. Is this a marketplace or it will be a bitcoin corporation? Javascript with some node.js and Canvas processing.js. Basic rails application development. Wrote a chrome extension.See noagendamarket for the work I have done for him. I basically have to winged the chrome extension on the job.99% paid and 1% equity please. I am up as a freelance developer or a low-level job of some kind.(Customer service? bug testing? Content writing?)Since I am not very good at developing web application, I am willing to do it for cheap, alongside with a more experienced developer lead. That's a good idea, actually. You need to install numpy, Mahkul. We live and learn... I swear that everyone in school learned this stuff! Well, I have not see yet any negotiation between the parties about how to erase his debt.  I thought he's offering his free services to the people who owe him.Plus, didn't he supposed to do some promised works?
Really? I learn that in schools like...several time! Bankrupt?   You could use scientific notation or perhaps specific decimal point as default. No. It just mean we gotta figure out how to conduct justice 'fairly' in a world of high deflation. Too many "uh". Yeah, bondmen must be rated first. You going to have to work for free. No offering goods and services for btc. So a new bitcoiner on the scene goes to a bondman so he can purchase an arudino from a nervous merchant for 14 BTC. The bondman said "gimme 1/3 of 14 BTC. If you are not successful, I keep all your deposit. If successful, I will give you back 98% of my deposit."Said new bitcoiner conduct a trade with the merchant. The transaction is successful.Both party could also deposit with the bondmen giving him more room to move and recoup his risk. If the transaction turn out to be a fraud, the bondman will refund the damaged party.That how it works? Bondmen could lose a lot of money if the last ten customer he have were a bunch of scammers. This is from the article on https://ffij33ewbnoeqnup.onion.meshmx.com/books/Toward_A_Private_Digital_Economy/index.html ? Bitcoin might make taxation impossible.So the whole morality of taxation might as well become irrelevant because it force this person who wrote the FAQ into our inconvenient libertarian world.It's still important to answer his objection though. 3000 topics! What a neat number. As far as I understand, he think "murder is wrong" is more of a moral rule of thumb. This applies to taxation too.Sometime it is necessary to shoot would-be aggressors in the head. That is in some sense, a murder. He argue that some problem could only be solved with coercing people to give up a small amount of property. Sounds fishy. Let see if you does. You got distorted images. I am in agreement with your sentiment, but it is easy to dismiss his arguments and not worry about it. Learning about why our position is flawed will help us figure out a libertarian philosophy that is more coherent and epistemological correct.That's to say, I am more interested in being "right" rather than feeling nice and warm, but wrong. Wee! We have an actual conspiracy! I am glad some of us are more attached to our rationality than to our admittedly very well loved ideology called Libertarianism. http://www.raikoth.net/libertarian.htmlSomething worth talking about. I like the critique of "taxation is theft". That's ACTUALLY COHERENT. They didn't fall into the public good trap and that kind of nonsense.(I am not sure about utilitarianism as an ethical philosophy myself...)
All the pledged amount. Yep, 8449.00 BTC is still there. Let me check if the money is still there. After all I been entrusted with the funds. Smartphone is going to be routinely available to everyone, even the poor. That's a good thing. Wowzer! 610 posts in one day. The problem is that it is hard to earn bitcoin. I have to make sure that my earning outpaces my expenses. Somebody have a bad gambling habit. :-/ It's a Neal Stephenson plot device! Keep 2100 BTC. Save 50% and spend the rest. How will MtGox make money? Then it's not a clone. Why would people want to switch to a cryptocurrency that's a clone of bitcoin? Hmm. This is a good opportunity for me to earn some bitcoin. 498 posts in a single day and it's not the end of the day yet! Big business are usually the most powerful enemies of free markets.They hate being the slaves of consumers, so they seeks way to crush their competitors so they don't have to work their butt just to thrive. Human beings hate having to work so much for food, so it is reflected in how corporations acted.Often, they used the government to make laws favorable to corporations at the expense of their competitor. Their competitor lobby to defend themselves, creating a vicious cycle.Soon, everybody will be worse off in the long run.  One way to eliminate such problem is to remove the vector altogether. That's not a complete solution. You'll need to introduce competition to force them to be efficient enterprise that serve the customers, their master. Society have no goal, no feeling, or no aspiration. Society is not a person. Instead, society is a total sum of individual interaction amongst human beings. I crawled my way to 700 BTC. Everybody keep saying these things but the only way you can find out is by waiting.You could also help pitch in by offering services and goods instead of worrying about a bubble. That make no sense. I just look for work to do. What does that have anything to do with anonymous and free transfer of money? It's not like I am gaining at the expense of my employers.I am more concerned about establishing a viable economy than I am worried about making money at the moment. Video doesn't work?
Oops.Sunday 0:00 UTC. That's the deadline for the rough draft. Ok. Just make sure you get your article submitted by Sunday 0:00 UTC Wednesday. On February 9, 458 posts were recorded. Wow. You'll get 5% as a proof reader, reducing my share to 25%. The investment could be followed by new business entries, or not. www.operationfabulous.com ? Deflation: The more valuable a bitcoin is.Also, I am a freelancer. Been busy looking for work in this small economy. We humans like neat number. And it got killed on first sight.  Holy Macaroni Cow! Audrey de Grey propose anti-aging approach based on engineering approach rather than trying to interfere with complicated and essential metabolic process. Date and period when it was a state-subsidized monopoly? If we're supposed to sign a social contract? Where is the document?Is our "citizenship" and "passport" a social contract? Is the constitution a social contract? On the other hand, I think donating to a few charity that took different approach is a good idea. I want to end aging but most people are like pro-aging.   Death is evil and we should work hard to eliminate it.Right now I am trying to earn a living so that I can donate 10% of my earning every month to the most efficient charity dedicated to anti-aging I can find. A lot of people will says "How are artists/writers/programmers make money?"I just published the first entirely public domain bitcoin magazine in the entire bitcoin economy. I hope it will continue like that. I just need to fix my crappy writing and it will the best magazine in the land.   Roads are not non-rivalorous. More people on the road, the more congestion there are.Donating to medical foundation, cancer society, etc. .Competition is the best weapon for combating abuses by private powers. Look at the cellular industry. Google dragged cellular network providers kicking and screaming to providing better plans to android users. It's not impossible to bring competition in this skewed environment as google have shown.It will be a lot easier to introduce competition in an environment where corporations will borne the cost of warring by themselves and where privilege and monopoly are not as widespread.This is how agorists(I am NOT one because I am a chicken) combat abuses, by counter-economic revolutionary activities.  Public goods are non-rivalrous but roads get traffic congestion as they're used up I need to be able to write well without needing proof readers and such. Since this cannot be fixed quickly, I'll have to employ proof readers in the meantime.
A proposal: rename the marketplace to Agora. Sometime the only logical conclusion is this whole copying is theft is a bunch of nonsense. Countries can deny or allow entry, or requires certain regulation to be followed in the country. So it's not like you can just move between countries.There's only 200 nations in the world for six billion human beings. There are forum rules but nobody read them. http://www.huppi.com/kangaroo/L-taxestheft.htm* kiba sigh.Somebody have the ball to attack one of our idea directly. Unfortunately, it failed. Roads are not public goods, research certainly can be funded with private dollars, and governments force program upon the people whether they like it or not, democracy elects bad/mediocre official. Suggestion: please do your research more so that you can give a real criticism of libertarian political thought. IF the marketplace have more posts than Bitcoin Discussion, then I think that meant it's time to split the marketplace forum section. So we're all agreeing that gene is not a real anarchist? Well anybody who laugh at the idea of taxation as evil is a statist in my book.  It had been brought into my attention that my mis-spelling are rather common in my story despite my effort to proof read the whole writing two times.   That's embarrassing<--(word that had to be fixed by spell check) as an editor-in-chief.This is preventing me from doing my job effectively as an editor-in-chief. Therefore, starting tomorrow, I will learn how to spell all the words that I missed for this week..and all the words I mis-spelled next week, and so on.Since I don't have any more time tonight. I will be fixing my mistakes in the morning.P.S. Somehow open source word processor don't come with spellcheck built-in. (LibreOffice, I am looking at you) Cartels in free market are known to fall apart. They're unsustainable due to the force of competition. Good for you. Libertarian literature had much to say about how they think private defense agencies will work.If you do not wish to discuss this seriously, by all means continue to laugh. However, mocking the other side's points and belief does not contribute to change in position. All mainstream media are very sophisticated propaganda machine. The only difference is who you think the propaganda is intended for. Most of humanity only read what they wanted to read and what agree with their views. If the news did not say what the masses think the world should be, the mainstream news will be forced out of the market.The problem with your statement is that libertarians fight over each other who is the most idealogical pure. I remember hearing some libertarian diss the Koch bros or complaining something about them.The kind of infighting makes it hard to perpetrated any sort of control over an entire group of people. Even though this community contains lot of libertarians, most of our comrades don't want to join the bitcoin cause. As you can see, the infighting makes it hard for us to organize politically.  http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/117 (Free Download)The first issue of The Bitcoin Weekly is HERE!It's also the first entirely unlicensed/public domain magazine issue in the history of The Bitcoin Weekly. He says....a physical copy. Looks like it's a bitcoin address. Due to the fact that this magazine was delayed, the sponsor of inaugural issue will appears again next week.Edit: I also made the policy much clearer. Yes, this was an unfortunate delay but the deadline is 0:00 UTC Wednesday(8 o'clock tuesday where I live). I decided to wait for Nefario to fix his writing before it get published. To remedy this problem:1. The deadline is now Sunday.2. Design template so that the time took to package the content together is lower.3. Get more writers on board so that the magazine isn't delayed by writers not completing their revision.4. As soon as the rough draft is submitted. I will try to edit them all before Monday 0:00 UTC rolls around. In bitcoin or dollars? It seem that we will be a little bit late in releasing the inaugural issue of Bitcoin Weekly. In just one sale, Atlas gained more bitcoin than I worked to gain in an entire month.  Anyway, good work helping the bitcoin economy out.   It is theft according to libertarian ethical theory. Therefore, it is wrong even if I live on cushion of tax supported activities.I cannot pay back the taxes back to the people who was forced to pay, but at the very least I can do is be committed to being a productive member of society to make up for those stolen money. It's called private roads. Plus tax is theft.
The rich doesn't own "society" anything. They are either productive or are thief. That's all that should matter.Libertarians don't ignore stuff like that. I don't even like roads. In fact, I think public roads are subsidy for corporations, as well being killers.Nonsense. The media get rich by catering to people's bias and belief, not that the media is designed for propaganda of the few and powerful. A free society do not exist by coercion and violence.A free society exists by peaceful cooperation and consent. That is the doctrine of Voluntarism. So let disperses with the idea of democracy and deal with each other one on one using the Golden rule principle. Indeed! We hardly missed his presence. I am not sure if it will happens. I don't want to fracture the forum into tiny sections but we could find out by running a one week experiment to see if writing and artworks start to increase in numbers.  Until I see more arts and story writing, I don't see the point. So...if he's still alive, when will he return? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/115 0.01 BTCI WILL finish this project no matter how how ugly the art piece turn out to be. To defeat copyright, one must create a more interesting stream of materials for people to consume. Why would a miner need all that space? I wrote a story integrating bitcoin and agorism. So the next issue should at least have two articles. Well, the marketplace IS the economic hub of the bitcoin economy. Isn't it wrong to use coercion against people who do not share their own property? Some moar reading!http://cep.metropipe.net/ It's not like the GPU farms are cornered markets. The submission deadline had already been passed. So far, we only have Nefario submitted an article. I guess that mean more work for me. Stand Alone Complex - Phenomenon where unrelated, yet very similar actions of individuals create a seemingly concerted effort. Eventually, the individual acts eventually culminates into changes to society.Conspiracy - Cabal orchestrating sophisticated plans that fundamentally change society.Do you believe that the world is ruled by a few select cabals, or that society tends toward certain organization because of the dynamic caused by individual actors?You can thank wikipedia for defining Stand Alone Complex. It's still the hub of the bitcoin economy. Ya going to try to make money off of this project? Where do you get the money to pay for all the stuff you spend on the bitcoin economy? The exchange problem appears to be intractable.
http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/114 0.01 BTCI am still alive! Income - costofbareboneliving = saving is still true. You should be happy to get whatever money you can, whatever job you can, but you act like you're TOO GOOD for McDonalds. So what if you are insignificant, replaceable, and unimportant? If you can buy warm blankets and food, as well save a little, it's a win. That could fit under the review section.Anyway, the deadline window is closing quickly. So, anything you submitted after Monday 0:00 UTC is automatically destined for next week. The deadline is fast approaching. Please submit your rough draft by 0:00 UTC Monday. Thank you.BTW, I seem to have secured a 10 BTC advertising deal. It's not final. But if it is, then writers will get paid a very small sum this week. But you feel scammy.   So someone finally open up a mining rig business. It only track currencies that are being traded for bitcoin. The bitcoin site owner/developers will needs to decide how much they are willing to offend the government for the sake of allowing consensual non-coercive offers being advertised here on this forum. But the forum IS the epic-center of the bitcoin economy.Nobody cares about visiting some other site to post their job offers. They all have a very tiny fraction of the traffic in the bitcoin economy. The marketplace is becoming a vibrant place but yet the forum is not made for operating as a market bazaar. I would like to propose a few features:1. Jobs, offers feature filter. Simply put, being able to views all the jobs and offers being advertised on the forum and hide miscellaneous forum topic.2. Reputation system relating to selling and buying things.3. A way to post and track specialized forum topics like jobs and offers. http://witcoin.com/witizens/21GIMME! No, it simply mean that he isn't willing to work at a fricking McDonald. Why should I help a guy who doesn't help himself? Why don't YOU experiment? I hope for your sake that you get these jobs and FIND a way to conserve any kind of saving that you get from these jobs. Consider 1 dollars left after paying all those foods and rents, for example. You save 30/31 dollars a month. Multiply that by 12 you get 360 dollars a month. If you can save 2 dollars, you get 720 dollars a year. So figure out a job that you can do and figure out how to consume less while maintaining your health somehow. I fixed some grammar faults. Thanks for whatever traffic you guys gave me. I am more preoccupied about earning bitcoin with various freelancing gigs, which is hard to find.For that, our economy needs to expand. I think this boss is giving you a really bad deal. He's just using you as free labor at a long shot.You should demand payment of some kind to compensate for your time, even if that is 10 dollars a day. Your boss can at least pay you that much, right?Your objective is really that you should get ANYTHING in your pocket. 1 cents on the ground, 10 bucks for a one day job, whatever. Then you should figure out how to conserve these money for the future. Unless you get warm blankets, shelter, or something....don't work for free. (Well, unless you like the arrangement of working for free...) I like the old color scheme.  Sound like we're an early version of Oz. Nefario: have you ever respond to my email reply? If you can do that and revise the article by Wednesday, that will be the key to getting it published on Wednesday.Anyway, we won't have any revenues this week until somebody either willingly sponsor the magazine out of their selfless good or advertise.
Joke vote? It's quite possible that you forgot your password and thus the account become irretrievable.  Sunday will be a really good time to submit your rough draft. It works for me. I am hungry for jobs, and more jobs. How about "We don't know shit what cause the price of bitcoin to rise"?Frankly, everybody have their own opinion as to why the price of bitcoin rise. Support level is now at .82 USD with 10155 BTC. If Paypal and LibertyReserve sucks, where do we go?   Could be anything as far as I know. The last 4 days is a very healthy posting rate. High 300s to 400s.  It seem that a very large resistance at .85 is cleared. 10,900 BTC are sold. The road seem to be open to 1.00 BTC parity.However, it seem that we could fall downhill quite easily. If it is our ethical principles that is leading to differing conclusions like this, than we should discuss them. Anarcho-capitalists are committed to the principle of self-ownership and the non-aggression principle, by the virtue of being libertarians. Anything that oppose the autonomy and the right of individuals will be opposed. That include any authority that attempt to impose the others' will upon the individual. We do not oppose communes, worker cooperative, and so on, as long as they do not coerce people into joining their organizations.Rather than say that anarcho-capitalists support only free market capitalism, it is far more accurate to say that they are in support of voluntary non-coercive human activities. If you do not think we are anarchists in the true sense, so it will be.  The factory owner is subjected to competition from outside. Laborers are subjected to labor competition. Supply and demand determine the negoitating power of factory owners and laborers. IF the factory owner is desperate for labor, he may then spent an exorbitant amount of money to acquire said labor. In this case, laborers seem to be in a position of power.However, if the situation is reversed, the factory owner is now in position seem to be in a position of power.BUT, this is what factory worker and the factory owner agreed to. Libertarian ethical theory said this mutually agreed agreement cannot be interfered with no matter how unbalanced the power relation is.Indeed, you may have seen me out there just BEGGING for jobs. The power of employers are great. I dislike the idea of using the courts to enforce claim.  Photocopy? O_o Attempted scam? Opposing anarchists tend to call each other "not a real anarchist", which tend to mean we have a non-debate and no attempt at understanding. Anarcho-capitalist: You guys are a bunch of democractic mob!Anarcho-communist: You're a bunch of capitalist pigs!I am more worried about my libertarian comrades who refuse to join in to undermine the state because they are a bunch of goldbugs.  Agreed with what? PM me the details. I seem to have only one job in the pipeline. You guys got more bitcoin jobs for me? Don't you mean BTC instead of BTN?
I don't want the "court" to protect my bitcoin. You don't need to worry about finding Austrian economic books because mises.org offered some of the largest selection of free economic books. But normal users don't know how to encrypt and backup their wallet.dat! Competition had occurred in telecom oligopolies to a certain extent that it is now ineffective to resist the tidal waves orchestrated by Google.  Telcom are now being reduced to bit haulers. http://gigaom.com/mobile/cheap-android-smartphones/It's an example that every agorist on the planet should aspire to, even if the example involve a multinational corporation whom privileges are granted by the state. The bounty's value had grown to 9,535.44 USD assuming that everyone follow through with their obligation. I'll take a look at it this weekend. Those "anti-trust" law are often used to persecute smaller companies not large trusts.Of course, monopolies often happen because of government regulations. 106025 is just how many blocks there are in the blockchain.Confirmations is merely how many blocks your transaction had been confirmed by the network. A good economist would have realized by now that central planners can't beat the market in resource allocation! So you see, an economic expert would excuse himself from the central planning committee or possibly derail it. No. I am sure he will ask you for more loans.   It's the only rich snotty kid like you and me that can afford healthy food in the first place(Of course, even the poor, in the US at least, now eat like kings).If there's a way to provide healthy food for the poor, it will eventually be explored. Otherwise, industrial farming as it is done right now will continue to be a necessity to sustain the world's population. It's called suing their ass for violating your property right. Chickens are food. They have no right.If you don't like how chickens are treated, eat free range chickens.  I'll be your editor-in-chief for the rival publication to The Bitcoin Times.We're called The Bitcoin Weekly.I will run a strict deadline for both writers and advertisers. We'll be taking articles until Monday next week with publication of our first issue on Wednesday. Advertisers will have until Monday 0:00 UTC to approve a deal. Wednesday 0:00 UTC is the deadline for advertising content submission. If you don't have everything done by Wednesday, you'll have to simply wait for next week.The earning fees are approximately: 25% for editor-in-chief. 5% for proofreader. Writers get 70% of the pie but will be divided based on how many articles they wrote. For example, if you wrote 4 articles out of the total pool of 13 articles, you'll get 31%(rounded from .30769..) of the 70% partitioned for writers.I will be writing articles for the publication as well but my articles don't count since I already get 30% of the pie anyway.Topics we're looking for:1. Political philosophy2. Entrepreneurship3. Interview and review4. Programming and cryptography5. Economics6. Short story/comicsSubmit an article or an advertising inquiry at hackerkiba@gmail.com. Remember, advertising deals should be done by Sunday. Writers need to have a rough draft by Sunday.If the the issue is late for ANY reason, we will either refund your advertising dollars OR rerun your ads again next week. However failure to submit advertising content deadline by deadline are NOT entitled to ads rerun(no refund because you never paid us).A new issue is publishing between 0:00 UTC and 4:00 UTC Wednesday.When you publish an article with us, it will be under UNLICENSE. Edit history:Edit: change percentage ratio. Edit2: move deadlineEdit3: Delay policy.Edit4: Publishing date.Edit5: miscella edits spread over several minutes of saving and editing.Edit6: Edit ratio...Edit7: Make it clear what's we're licensed under. That's what you said.  Minimum wage? I'll be happy to earn bitcoin at minimum wage. Anything for bitcoin, really. Not all rich people are part of the "fiat currency" mafia. Even rich people lose money through inflation too(unless they are connected to the banking elite).I am merely arguing against the confusion of rich people with the banking elites. Well, good luck.I'll be writing for a rival magazine even if I have to start a magazine to do it. I don't care about getting advertisement. That was supposed to be Chris' job, but I managed to grab at least one for him. I only want to write, not manage someone's magazine for them.I wrote articles for all your issues up until now, but I don't like how it's being run. Fabianjhr uploaded the magazine.* http://www.mediafire.com/?btpvbsbojmz3146 * http://www.mediafire.com/?af50euuy7ozndj3Apparently, I panicked. However, I will no longer be writing for The Bitcoin Times. My reasons:1. He decided to change it into a biweekly magazine.2. Communication issue.3. Perceived lack of professionalism.
I got it from Wolf's Rain. Instead of buying an island, buy a seastead. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/110 0.01Forgot to post it yesterday.Now, the download price is a mere 0.01 BTC.So download, download, and download! I lied. Now everything on my wiki is under unlicense. I'll refund every advertisers their money if I have to. Right now, I am attempting communication. My article published on my wiki since fabianhjr dropped the ball.http://wiki.kibabase.com/Prying_BitcoinsYeah, I should change the license of my wiki to Unlicense.I would do that right now but I have projects to work on. Maybe, tomorrow.  Gottach get the mess sort out first:1) Talk to the editor-in-chief about him dropping the ball big time.2) Figure out a refund option for advertisers, if possible.Otherwise, I will be posting my article on my site. On February 2nd, I believed we broke forum posting record in a single day: now 455 posts.If the posting rate of 400ish continue, we'll break the montly forum record(currently December).The activity of the forum bodes well for the bitcoin economy. The resistance at 0.7 collapsed. Now, we have to overcome 0.75 before moving on. Replacing password with GPG-like system in the bitcoin economy. I misunderstood the questions in my fast reading. If we don't have the same definition about what's unethical and what's not, then we're going in circles. Why? It's unethical.  Time for a new editor and a serious talk with the editor-in-chief. We need to get back to the basic and discuss ethical philosophy. WHERE IS THE GOD DAMN MAGAZINE!? So property right have no meaning in your world? Because I still own the damn place? Satoshi is already rich. Why does he need donation? The landlord is supposed to maintain the house and the tenant is supposed to complain to the landlord. That's how it suppose to work, no?
Does that mean if I don't live in my house, than I don't own my house? The capitalists are slaves to the people, not the other way around. How about implementing public key encryption across all bitcoin services whenever possible? Today, the magazine is supposed to be published. I don't see any new issue?Why is the editor not announcing the deadline for next issue? Google doesn't alway think that central control is a good idea. They sometime use open source such as android as a battering ram.If google decide co-opt bitcoin, than it will be pure ownage. What about public key infrastructure? I got 10,000 bitcoin from offering my labor on the market that just happens to goes up to 100 times. I didn't cheat. Now the growth of the currency make me one of the "rich". You said the currency is not "controlled by the rich, for the rich", but that's like thinking every single millionaire as evil. The "politically connected", not the rich.Supposed, I have ten thousand bitcoin and each bitcoin is worth a dollar. Imagine that the price of  bitcoin jump 100 fold over night. That mean, I am a millionaire. Suddenly people will claim that bitcoin is for the gold, designed by the rich, etc. You see the problem with your statement. Worst of all, I actually work my butt off for my bitcoin. I didn't play game like getting lobbyists to make laws that favor me over everyone else. Instead, I produce software, writing, and drawing that help grow the economy.   Falling off? I am waiting for MtGox to implement several major security reform or something like that. Shouldn't this belong to the bitcoin forum section? So, we have 38.5882353 BTC for this issue that been paid out?Did noagendamarket get his ads in? What is openalcohol? We are notorious? 1LYz1ygh6TgJ9hHGrwbyzXmbv9UYmdvqyR NVM? My connections stay at 0 recently. I don't know why.   Oh I see. It's 85% for writers. Demand for bitcoin is higher than he inflation rate. 25 * .75 is 18.75 for the writers.
10% to you. 5% of fabianhjr. 75% for writers, portionated by how many articles they got published in the next issue(That's wednesday).Imagine that there's 25 BTC. 2.5 BTC goes to you. 1.25 to fabianhjr. 18.75 writers. Since there are two writers who each submited an article, that mean each get 9.37 BTC with the truncated 0.00500 BTC as credits. Bitcoin are never destroyed; they are lost. What we're going to do? Call the police? It can easily fall to .55 because the bid volume above that is not very high. Don't forget what paypal did to mtgox and to the bitcoin economy. Hard currency are a better alternative.  Trading bots.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Securing_your_wallet Hoarders will just be "less happy", but they will still be happy. They are merely fishing for names. Maybe you could start a bitcoin security company in which you certify sites for following security protocols? MtGox said that the event on 1/24 was people merely accessing my account for name.In other words, it wasn't compromised, maybe? Even so, I do not feel safe. Bitcoiners from IRC channel reported that their password are randomly generated but their accounts are still compromised. Well, I didn't have a dictionary password. I used numbers, and a symbol. Maybe it wasn't long enough? In any case, this is a terrible thing to happen. Code:01/24/11 00:16 Payment Process united 0 0 0.003 0It seem that I'll have to change my security practice too.  There's already bot. No, it's not bad.The bitcoin economy could run quite happily on 1 BTC. Plus, you can back up your wallet. I sent ya email containing his email address. I guess that mean we only going to have two articles this week. Everyone who submitted an article now will have to be reviewed for next week. 75% of the revenues is devoted to writers. Those 75% of the revenues is divided up by how many articles a writer submit. Waiting for two weeks between issue is just torture.Again, how many articles do you have for the next issue? Publish it this Wednesday. All the ISP are down.
The internet is down. How are they supposed to use bitcoin? How many articles do we have for publication? Bitcoin is a startup economy! Could be. Could not be. Who knows? Not that's it worthless. It's just hard to exchange into dollars. I suggest you try to earn bitcoins from bitcoiner in the mean time. If you help the economy out, we fork over some bitcoin. It's a mutually beneficial arrangement. However, turning them into dollars would be a difficult thing. So, if there are any local bitcoiners...maybe you could ask them to buy your bitcoin and give you dollars.Don't ask me for jobs though, I am very hard to convince to pry bitcoin over. My account have nothing to attack.   There is little incentive for farms, collectives, and botnet to cheat. However, there are large incentive for the government to do so. I now offer to write video games meant for advertising. You could give players and gamers referral code as award, or perhaps just use it as product placement. You should lower your auction price all the way to zero. We want as much revenues as possible. Experiment!Let reality be your best guide. What a rip off. Pay people a stipend and and get rid of non-disclosure agreement. People like me chase money by lowering our price so that we can acquire goodies. So labor can remain constant, or even increase in quality. If you need some programming, writing, and drawing to be done, ask or PM me, please. I am sure we could arrange a project that match my limited skillset. I am not the most skilled worker in the world but I am willing to learn. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/108 0.05Price is dropping to new critical low. Anyway, I am in the midst of coloring and drawing more details. As you can see, it's fricking hard to make nice looking circles.Perhaps, that should be my next project, just a badass GPU box picture. You might want to try #bitcoin-otc, but note that not many would trust you based on your posting. You should have a link to the bid page under every banner so that people knows that you can buy ads using bitcoin like what projectwonderful do with their ads. Or maybe he could put up ads space for bitcoin with http://www.operationfabulous.com Don't saw anything in my email. Anybody submitted an article to The Bitcoin Times yet? Deadline is tomorrow.I already submitted mine.
Imagine the bitcoin community and the bitcoin economy hosting a large writing community? Grammar is fundamental, but that's not all what I have in mind. The essay's thesis is why you should unlicense using my announcement as a hook-in.Thanks anyway, I seem to have found out what I should really focus on in the essay. This is still offtopic. Please start your own thread. Somebody needs to write an article series on cryptography. With all due respect, Peter Thiel doesn't run it anymore. Great, but please start your own thread. Just put the NSFW tag in the forum topic. I pasted grondilu's improvement back into the wiki. While praise is nice, I am more interested in criticism so that I can improve my writing. Billion Price Project. While I would love to discuss this with you, this is not the thread to do it.(Not to mention, a hint of emotional response which tell me that there's merit!)So, start your own damn thread. Father: Clean up your room now or I'll sit in your room until you do it.Me: I'll clean my room if you leave.(Waiting game)Father left the room as his patience is less than his son. Time to stop derailing the thread with annoying long wall of texts. We're trying to learn economic analysis, not teach people of the "democratic" faith or "private capital" faith.Political philosophy should now be put away so that we can learn some real science.(Yes, that include me too) Not offering criticism of where the story is boring is the meanest thing you can do to a writer. I expect you to argue about the merit/non-merit of organizational setups without governments screwing up the equation. I can't see my own website statistics! It's downtime fun from my host: Why not publish ads on the Operation Fabulous network? I think you could benefit from a steady stream of revenue.http://www.operationfabulous.com/ It is under the public domain. It's unlicensed. Zoomed in at the top of the wall. It should say it is licensed. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/106 0.06 BTCNobody paying me anything for the last 4 uploads. I know you guys are getting tired of this(I am getting sick of this project too!), but I am getting closer and closer to completing this project.It would really help if you drip in some bitcoins to keep me motiviated during the dry time.
gavinandresen used it to send payment to me. I am not sure if that count. You get out-competed by companies who can operate much more efficiently. Oh, you don't know that. It's a matter of diseconomy of scale versus economy of scale. Some companies in a free market may be quite large. Have you not told me that when you gambled, you lost some money? If you have contacted me via PM for work, I have already replied to your request. Please reply promptly. Miners will find more efficient means to use electricity as a way to minimize cost. I think that's a bit over the basic. We have not even saturated the whole libertarian movement with bitcoin. Surely, we can do better than this. Remember, all walled garden are bounded to die! Facebook currency will be worthless while bitcoin will spans the global economy! Education of Austrian Economic. Yes, we should return to that topic. It seem that the study group is not taking off because I choose a particularly heavy book. This does not bodes well for the economic literacy of market anarchists.IF there is one civic duty in an anarchist society, it's the study of economic. With economic, we can make the decision to be on the side of civilization. If you mean Executive Outcome, could you explain their activities in depth? They worked for governments and multinational, which is a negative in my book but I don't know what they actually did in the services of these governments and multinational.Since, Executive Outcome employed by government and corporations(which are directly a creation of the state), so it isn't exactly a prime example of private tyranny. One positive note is their activities in the Blood Diamond War. They fought against the Revolutionary United Front, which had been raping women and making soldiers out of children, as well enslaved people to work in the diamond mines. However, they are probably primary the result of being employed by a lesser evil compared to the more insidious and evil RUF statist thugs.(It parallels the communist Vietnamese fighting against the more evil Khmer Rogue for invading and killing off whole Vietnamese villages) From my perspective, it merely looks like you had not done your homework. If you are at any good at refuting libertarianism, than you would have cause cognitive dissonance by now, and I felt a rush of emotional anger. I don't. So PROJECT SMASHING DAY a success? No.But, I clean the shit out of it. So I did got a lot of thing done today. External force beyond my control reduced my capacity to SMASH this project into completion. Let it shall be a tradition. Every Thursday is a project smashing day where I go apeshit completing a project.http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/104 I am not sure how witcoin works? Actually, the vaccum sucks for cooling things. Nobody really using bitcoin jobs, instead opting for marketplace. I guess that's because the forum have lot of traffics while bitcoinjobs have next to no traffic. 1. Create a stable wormhole big enough to carry information from one side to another.2. Wire it up.3. Viola, an internet connection to Earth.4. Setup bitcoin...and you're DONE! True. However, the problem in the bitcoin economy is the lack of demand for labor, not the other way around. As a result, I don't specialize in any kind of jobs. Instead, I do writing, drawing, and programming. In addition, I need to accept cheap compensation compared to the larger US dollars economy in order to make it palatable to my clients.I did at least double my saving in the end. It went from 250 BTC ish at the beginning of the month to 581 bitcoins so far. Even though I have plenty of spare capacity unfulfilled, I can't really complain much. As far as I know, private companies are trying to make space flight cheaper, which mean we can launch more space experiments. Which mean...charities can actually do space exploration.Space agencies? What do they do to make space exploration cheaper? They fund some private space contracts....that's all they do. Someday, they will be an insignificant blackhole of waste. If we invent quantum cryptography, business will continue on.Otherwise, everybody's secret in the world can and will be cracked.
We have this thing called voluntarism and the freedom of association. Try it sometime. A direct democracy kill Socrates for corrupting the youth and for not believing in the gods! All these things happen is because government create bad incentives and there's little incentives for government to abide by the rule of law. Well, there are incentives, but these incentives get eroded by the way government is structured and the way governments work. The power of coercion tends to lead to nasty things.It have little to do with libertarians not taking control of power.(Which is by the way, nigh impossible. Libertarians and power don't mix.) No cartel had ever win with collusion in the marketplace. They all eventually self-destruct."Anti-trust" laws are used against smaller companies rather than large corporations because it is easier to bully smaller companies into submission.Then the government turns around and give companies monopolies via patents and copyright. Now, they have a much easier time to maintain their cartel.Government doesn't protect competition. It squashes competition.  Hmm...given the proficiency of many bitcoiner on here...I don't think you're going to find many who would appreciate your tutoring service? Yeah, I am willing to learn perl. That's a fine suggestion. But do whatever you need to fill those slots and get us revenue. If somebody only want a page slot for 25 BTC, take it. I dislike the idea of banners cluttering up my beautiful content pages. That's me. It's income from noagendamarket. He wish to advertise with us two times. Yay! I got two more jobs! I am 2/3 done on a project...would like more jobs! And a direct democracy killed Socrates for corrupting the youth and for not believing in the gods! No art today, because of school.Tomorrow is PROJECT SMASHING DAY!I am going to go ALL out to complete the project. Here's what I am working on for the next version:A basic accounting tab so you can get a pretty good overview on your income versus expense.Today did not yield very good result since I don't know how to create a tab yet. You're reasoning in nonsense! What if I counterfeit 1 trillion dollars and use it like nobody's business? Do you like democracy or something? How do we know when to inflate and when to deflate?  We don't. Let the market which kind of money/currency/etc is the best in the world.Ya know why I like bitcoin? I can save and not have to worry about it losing value due to someone printing it. Why would I want to store my saving in inflatecoin? Success. I didn't know that I was supposed to use my email address rather than my name.* kiba is unfamiliar with cryptographic tool like GPG in general. I think Bruce Wagner might be interested in such a service. Code:making backup...doneencrypting....usage: gpg [options] [filename]failed I believe it fails in the encryption stage.
Yo. I am using your code to create my own(As yours is under GPL, and mine was under MIT as I thought I couldn't license any more liberally than that).https://github.com/kiba/bitpredict/tree/master/lib/bitcoinIt does things a little differently. I hope I didn't violate copyright law in older version of my code or as it is now. If it is, I will either remove the offending code or we could work out something. Or we could remove uncertainty of this matters by coming up with an agreement? The magazine's next issue will now be posted on next Wednesday.Will the editor please choose the submission deadline and provide for an email address by which writers can submit their article?Also, advertisers will have the same deadline as the writers'. If you want to advertise in The Bitcoin Times, please speak with the editor.(Now, Chris200x9...time to start your job!) That's why we need an overzealous editor to frustrate us about our silly mistake! http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/101 0.06 BTCBlah! I want to finish this so badly so I can get on with my life.On Thursday(Because Wednesday is school day), I will work my tails off to finish this god damn project. According to the country poll, The Americans made up 1/3 of the population. http://wiki.kibabase.com/Why_I_UnlicenseIt's an article said why I am unlicensing my content in the first place. It's for my "Kibabase" brand.I was hoping someone could do a critique of it to make it much more persuasive. So we reached 40,000 posts milestone. That's a lot of post for a currency called bitcoin! I got the ads. Now I am just waiting for fabianhjr to add the Dragon Tales' ads. First of all, you talk too much.Here's a hint: www.operationfabulous.com. Anybody can set up a blog, an advertisement space, and start blogging.If a bitcoiner provide such a valuable service, what's wrong with him becoming incredibly wealthy? No art today, because of school. I sniff a scam. Also, there cannot be more than 21 million bitcoin. Because libertarians are rejecting imaginary property in FAVOR of real property!  My saving is continuing to grow! So I sought a backup solution in case something bad happens.Code:#!/bin/bash  TS=$(date "+%Y%m%d-%H-%M")  WALLET=/tmp/wallet${TS} WALLET_E=/tmp/wallet${TS}.crypt  bitcoind backupwallet $WALLET gpg -r myusername --output $WALLET_E --encrypt $WALLET scp $WALLET_E user@myserver.org:~/wallets/ rm $WALLET $WALLET_EI am using this script from the https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Securing_your_wallet#Linux_solutionBut I am running into problems:Code:usage: gpg [options] [filename]/tmp/wallet20110124-04-46.crypt: No such file or directoryrm: cannot remove `/tmp/wallet20110124-04-46.crypt': No such file or directory Ok, I guess we'll just have "Sponsored by Makhul" in a page somewhere. I guess this is only going to happen when the advertiser failed to show up. In that case, I want at least 25 BTC. You want to advertise in The Bitcoin Times? Be patient. It will be coming out soon this week. If nobody applied by Tuesday, you get the job and manages the next issue after the next issue. It's not done, yet. I am waiting for my review. We're also waiting on the advertiser too.If nobody else wants it, you can have it. JOB: EDITOR WANTEDGiven the influx of interested writer, we will need an editor for the next issue.One of your job is to basically to review articles:1. Check for grammar.2. Check for spelling.3. Critique the writing.You will also be responsible for dealing with advertisers and getting them to pay us, and so on. It's also your job to enforce the deadline. Writers will have to submit an article for review by a certain date with no exception. Advertisers, likewise. You'll get complete freedom to set the review deadline. Just make sure the articles are ready by Sunday,(the real deadline). Any writers who missed the deadline can alway get his article submitted for the next issue.Compensation: Currently, and temporary, your compensation is a fixed 10% of the pie. (Since fabianhjr is the chief editor, he'll get 5% of the pie because he merely package the content)Everybody else, which are the writers, will have to fight for his share of the pie. Feel free to reject content that are unworthy of inclusion.END JOB POSTI only want to write, not edit some other writers' stuff and talk to advertisers. So if you want my "job"(actually, the way we work right now is peer review and I am the person who talks to the advertisers), let me know.Also, 10% of the pie is not a permanent thing. It can change if needs to be. Anybody needs...some labor? You guys are trying to resurrect medieval Iceland or something?
Maybe you would be interested in publishing economic articles at The Bitcoin Times, a new fledging magazine.We already got a few writers lined up and for sure, an advertiser. Will there be statistics for me to look at? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/98 0.06 BTCYes, you heard that right! The price of my art is now 0.06 BTC. Expect reduction 0.05 BTC by 0.45 USD to bitcoin on MtGox.Today's artwork is out despite GIMP crashing all the time. However, the delay caused by GIMP is considerable. Some people will NEVER sell their bitcoin to the gov...like me!  No, we simply want to give them bitcoin... I am working on adding 3D CAD modeling to my skillset. That mean, I am working on being able to design things that can be printed.It also mesh well with my programming knowledge.   Ok, I think we need to find out the email address first. We can use the same template in the EFF campaign. It will be released next week. I suspect, Wednesday. No panel of judges, and hopeful there won't be. Fabianhjr still didn't say if the next issue are free but I will fight for a free issue if necessary. Right now, we're splitting the ads revenue between us, equally. (He do the packaging and I get advertisers on board)PM me your email address and we will see how it will work out. The impact it have on forum traffic is next to nil. So, what is this number for this "suffcient goods and services"? The only way we find out is through the market process. You seem to think it will not be backed up by goods and services but we don't actually know how to figure out how much goods and services to sustain a price. I am not sure what value we could add by publishing content that appears everywhere else.(no offense to S3052)In any case, I have completed three articles submitted for peer review by fabianhjr. With an article by fabianhjr, we should have 4 articles altogether for next issue. That was also my suggestion as well. So I managed to convince fabanhjr to temporary change to this format.The next issue will be free to download, I hope. This sounds rather unethical. No art today. I lost one hour of work due to GIMP crashing.  Need to set autosave... What ya talking about? We got a big crash from .50 cents at one time. It didn't doomed bitcoin. fabianhjr and I are working on content for next week's issue for The Bitcoin Times. We also already have two advertisers lined up.We're the only writers at the moment, since nobody else wants to write for the magazine. It sounds like he listen to Bruce Wagner's radio interview. Exchanging is a very valuable purpose, especially in a world where it is hard to get money into bitcoin. I also think the number of goods and services are increasing. You can already pay your phone bills directly in bitcoin, advertise on sites, tip people, magazine to write for, and so on.I felt like I am getting riches from these sources of income since I now have 469.22 BTC. I think GIMP is the winner here.
The price is much closer to paypal dollars than it is LRUSD. I have some saving in dollars, but I fear for the time when hyperinflation kicks in. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/97 0.07More GPU boxes cleaning. He doesn't run paypal anymore, so you can't exactly criticize him for not trying to fix paypal. But, he's the kind of libertarian who does thing like fund seasteading, immortality research, and so on.So he's like a lot of techno-libertarians, only richer. Not at this time. No, I said a democracy like you recommend have very poor incentive structures. Voting is fine when it is aligned with proper incentives.Of course, for a libertarian, it have to be voluntary as well. Nonsense, the republic is just slower at killing itself than a pure democracy. Standard by itself does nothing without proper incentives to enforce the rule of law. Courts, like factories, are corruptible institutions. So true! I am accumulating as much bitcoin as I possibly can right now. I already sold advertising, writings, programming, drawing, etc. I even got tipped! https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/01/bitcoin-step-toward-censorship-resistant The bounty is concluded. Now, I can start work on my next project....maintaining that google chromium extension. I think it's "tend toward".The reason why this is because, as the market get larger, the more way we can send individuals to try and solve all kind of problem.Lot of those individuals are going to fail, but somebody will figure out something and gain a profit.We have an extremely small economy, worth only about 1.97 million USD. Conversion of USD(32.77) to BTC(82.13) is successful as purchased at the rate of .39 USD. See Keefe on #bitcoin-otc at freenode if you want to know if the transaction took place.Chaord is the only one who request a refund so far. 44% was the calculation of his share based on his contribution divided by everyone's contribution. 100 / 255, respectively.He offers to spilt his half with me. So, 22% it was. 82.13 * .22 is 18.0686. So it shall be 18.07 BTC.Jorgen's refund status is still unknown. Everyone else declined.I will post further status update after Chaord and Jorgen were taken care of. autodididacticism. Plausible scenario.  Something gottach be THE killer app, right?Which one? Wrong. It's hourly not per click. I like GIMP. I suspect the only thing you'll be seeing from me is "WOAH! That's taboo" or just being a little jumpy.However, as long it is an voluntary act, I can't do anything about it. Now, I may not be the world's most consistent ethical actor...so I expect others to keep me in line when I got out of hand. Yesterday, somebody resort to personal attacks. Discipline is on the menu. I use the archlinux distro.
Send a PM to all the pledgees to see if they want a refund. Two charities? We can do better than this! I'll be taking over the maintenance-ship of this project. My offer still stand, but if the task get completed by me, I simply move the bounty to somewhere else.Otherwise, I will be accepting donation once I got all the other business taken care of. As far as I know, desktop Linux barely have any marketshare. Hmm. Eating his shirt? Is that guy supposed to be funny or something. Of course, I would be rather annoyed if he keep reminding me that he eat his shirt. You know what? I eat balut. It's the kind of Asian delicacy that disgust Westerners. Nobody's perfect, indeed. However, homophobism(and especially communication of homophobism) simply cross the line. As long as gay people don't ask hetrosexual males like me out on date, I don't care.  http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/96 0.07 BTCI am cleaning up the GPU boxes and as well designing it. If you look at the bottom left, you should see something resembling a fan.I also begin the process of coloring the bitcoin logo. Noble effort. But it's like trying to propel linux to the desktop in a world of window.  I didn't try depositing it yet. Will do, right now. MeeGo is dead meat. Hey, I got 3.32 BTC from tips!   Did you contact them about it? Stop cloaking your personal attack of Bruce Wagner in sexual euphemisms. It's disrespectful and embarrassing for community members to attack others' sexual orientation. This statement doesn't prove that brucewagner considered himself, "elected." And search engine juice! Oh yeah, I am on before all of you! http://wiki.kibabase.com/Main_Page I am told cheap android phone is coming and it will displace dumbphone. Complete nonsense. The supply doesn't matter when you can divide forever. Even 1 BTC is enough to run the whole economy. It's just a fucking integer, for Eris' sake.Also, please reframe from making such a gigantic post. I got it working. Is anybody using this service? http://www.youtipit.orgIt's a flattr style micropayment solution. I am having problem with the registration process. My confirmation mail is nowhere to be seen.
http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/95 0.07 BTCColoring of stocking is finished. I am also finishing up the cleaning process for the middle of the picture.Thanks for reminding me. Yeah. The story is interesting, but I think there's too much exposition. See, hear, smell...not tell.For page 10: I would do something like this. Cock cock. BRRR BRR BRR BRR BRR. The bullets ripped shred through the car. Some of the bullets were ricocheting in the engine, tearing through belts, liquid holders, and other components. Soon, the engine inside, brust into flame. The car suddenly felt a strong vibration and smoke were rising from the hoods.However, I am not a novel writer. So take my advice with a grain of salt. Micropayment. * kiba pokes. Don't use ubitous. Use bitcoinservice.co.uk. It have better commision fee as it is 10%. Ubitious takes 50%. Bitcoin.org should move to a VPS that support bitcoin. The domain name should move to a domain name registry that support bitcoin.Hell ya! Bootstrapping on your own currency! http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1812.0 I need to pipeline some works soon. If you have a job for me, let me know, quick! So, where the rest for download? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/85 0.07Stocking on the right side, colored. I begun analysis the codebase of Davout's currency exchange market to learn about how he accomplish bitcoin related tasks. The code output from my analysis is very minimal as I only figured out how to get started. Anime style is very diverse. Some are very realistic, and so on. Well, it's my first interview article and I am still a beginner freelance writer. Plus, I was the only person who actually wrote anything for bitcoin. I think you should ditch the whole community driven idea altogether. If your editorship is any good, it will show in your magazine. Plus you don't have to keep score/keep track. You review article and send feedback to the writer.One month is too long for the magazine. It should be more like 1 week between issues. Also, I don't think this is going to dilute the quality of articles at all as long as you make your decision based on merits, rather than deadline. If the article didn't get through, the writer can resubmit in the next cycle. There should be no artificial number of articles per issue limit. This is not paper. I already completed a job since I offer my labor. Thanks for the bacon and please keep it coming. I was reading it too, ya know? That's Eliezer Yudkowsky. Wow. Sorry to hear that. Here's hoping that new technologies will allow you to move again. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/84 0.07 BTCI did a lot of cleaning, random coloring jobs, and so on.
How many PDF/ODT are sold so far? I thought it's nearly impossible to set up a yuan bank account and then an exchange market?   1. Move to Hong Kong.2. Open up a  bank account3. Start exchanging yuan and hong kong dollars for bitcoins4. 5. Profit! A game of GO would be better. Additional suggestion:Make previous issue available for free to download. New issue will cost some bitcoin.Previous issue will advertise how great the magazine is. I pretty up one of the error display thing.Next time, I will work on the bitcoin accounting for bitpredict. I need a strong foundation to work with, after all. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=661.0 It had been discussed long ago. The firewall is full of holes. So it won't be a problem. People should download more! How many downloads did the magazine got so far? I don't think teenagers like chess very much. The bitcoin market's size is dependent on the number of goods and services. You temporary expanded the market with 8 pages, but without other books, the market won't expand to support your preferred download counts, and hence revenue.If you think bitcoin is likely to be widely successfully in the future, then it make sense to sell at least one book for bitcoin.If you, on the other hand, think bitcoin will eventually fall out, then it make sense to conduct some experiments stretched out between several months to gauge the trend of growth and loss of the bitcoin economy. Well, an advertising market was going to open up this weekend, but Biomike was struck by Murphy's Law. I am willing to draw forum avatar, anime style, 100x100 pixels for 25 BTC a piece. The Chinese will lose too! Bitcoin also make it easy for people to accumulate wealth!I think Satoshi is like, the richest bitcoiner on earth. Children? How about our great-great grandchildren? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/82 0.07 BTCI redrew both hands and put in some work on stocking.I also added the text "Unlicensed by Kiba" and the identification number for the artwork. This job, required me to research building and such and then label them? God, no. I don't have animation skills. I have drawing skills, but not the art of animation.Don't forget that I am also an escrow agent for the bounty.
How about largest wealth by bitcoiners? I don't get it.   Anybody read lesswrong.org?I myself is still a newbie on this whole rationality thing.  All these scarce resources have to be rationed, anyhow.All governments are centralized power. Democracy is a kind of evil you prefer. I begun working on it again after some hiatus. I have this idea in my "Kibabase" virtual world conception that players can earn bases(currency of my virtual world) in mini games that help other players. They can then exchange bases to bitcoin for a fee..which is how I will make my money.One such game is the taxi. A player can either buy a taxi or rent a taxi and then take part in the transportation market. They determine their own rate and so on. He's....ALIVE! I have ludirious amount of free time but no bitcoin and no economic indepent.So it's time for me to look for...bitcoins.Here is what I can do:1. Programming in Ruby, and Javascript. I spent much of my time in those two languages. Other languages I could handle: Python, java. Other language, I barely touch: C. I am perfectly suitable for creating small scripts, little web projects, and anything that's not too aglorithmtic or required advanced mathematics.2. Writing. I recently got paid for an article. Might be worth hiring.3. Art. So-so.As you can see, my intellectual toolkit is relatively limited, but I am cheap. I am willing to do at minimum 50 BTC for a programming project. 25 BTC each per 1000 words. Art is so time consuming, that it would have to be worth 100 BTC at minimum. They all have to be within my ability to do, so don't ask too much. OFFERS1. Forum avatar art: 100x100. Anime style. 25 BTC2. Advertising game: I'll be happy to write short HTML5 games meant to advertise your products and services. You could use the game as a way to generate prizes. A project cost at minimum 250 BTC.3. Chrome extension development. I acquired experience in writing chrome/chromium extension from working for noagendamarket. Let me know if you want me to develop one for your service.Happy clients1. ducki2p2. noagendamarket Oh dear, how my motivation lose with no deadline to meet.  For the record, I am an anarchist, and an anti-authoritarian. Not a problem with the browser I think. It just mean that many of these sites don't have signed certificate. You could join a pool mining effort. You might have better luck if you do PDF or HTML. MagicalTux, not TuxSoul! http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/79 0.07I think it's going to be more anatomical correct. Let me know if you spot weird anatomical errors. My experience tells me that human beings are all evil. It doesn't matter if they have good intentions. We have relative strong property right in the western world. Without the ability of accumulation, there is no capital. Without capital, there is no wealth. It is not an academic exercise, but an actual economic consequence.Cannot follow the logic.I agree that the outcome is the same. However, for coercion to qualify, a human being must actively threaten another to do something. Denial of resource a human being own is merely "not helping". Working in a sweatshop is a lifesaver compared to the economic condition I would have to endure outside the sweatshop.It is up to those who possess the mean to determine what they shall do something with it. It is an extreme situation with impossible ethical choices. Save others, or yourself, or die altogether. I do not wish ill well on those who are forced to make such decisions like this. You need to drop all such arguments.The contract is invalid. You must sign it to implies that you understand "society's rule". The real situation is clear. Do as we say, or we use violence or throw you in jail. That is reality.This is not property right people understood in Libertarian parlance. It is understood that people, no matter how rich they are, cannot take your property away, unless you specifically sold it to said person.It is my opinion that slavery required coercion. A threat of violence. If there is no such threat but nature, than it is not slavery. The community here are very interested in making sure bitcoin succeed. There's had been historically genuine disagreement in the past, such as the wikileak debate, which was pretty heated. So this isn't an echo chamber, at least, not always.However, don't think that people will necessary agree with your arguments just because they're open to criticism and suggestion on how to strengthen bitcoin. It is polite to take the most charitable explanation and strongest arguments of a position and work from there. Otherwise, you end up in epistemic trouble. Selfish motives -> injustice is unjustified. You need to reason why selfish motives equal injustice. Where is this social contract and how do I sign it?If the rich landowner purchase land from him, than it's fine. If the landowner took it by force, that's a violation of property right.Working for food does not equal automatic slavery.
All socialists that I have seen on this forum are driven out by almost relentless argumentation, alone. They left on their own.But you, on the other hand, seem to piss off people more readily than any socialist crank that come here. I don't know what you did, actually. So, I hold no personal grudges against you. We need more nominations to choose from... I presume that the ads market is getting set up this weekend? Can't wait to begin using it to earn bitcoin.  Just use mybitcoin.com. This is creepy.The singer belong in an anime or manga, not in real life! At the very least use a more realistic art style. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/78 0.07 BTCNext price reduction: 0.06 BTC at 0.42 USD on the MtGox exchange market.Redrawing of legs in progress. All of which are not insurmountable problem in today's economy.Banknotes are already not making sense in the age of truly ubiquitous computing, when everybody have a smartphone. In Japan, this future is already achieved as it is already possible to purchase drinks from vending machine using a smartphone. This will become more common place in the long run.Bitcoin is already infinitely more more portable than cash in international trade since the bitcoin economy is already an international economy. The durability of bitcoin is based on backup. This can be easily achieved by merely uploading your wallet.dat to various online services. Recognition is based on adoption rate. which depend on us growing.All in all, paper currency will disappear based on technological evolution and more resources spent on making bitcoin easy to use. At the end of the day, incentive matters. Greed, selfishness, and altruism and all that are second fiddle to economics.Any educated libertarian understood that cooperation is the pillar of economic progress because they understood the principle of comparative advantage and division of labor. Democracy make life worse for the minority, and better for the majority. There's no cooperation, but the iron fist of the majority. In any case, democracy have no built in protection against the election of tyrants, idiots and so on. If they can elect Napoleon and Hitler, what's there to prevent the election of a tyrant even worse than the two of them?Had anybody ever tried to act against basic human decency, defraud anybody, and so on? I assure you that's only the minority of posters here. If they are identified, they are either banned or ostracized.I would also dare to argue that this community is in solidarity with one another.  We also have no qualm about donating to others, helping others, and making act of altruism. Libertarians are individualists, not anti-altruists.  And my artwork is of sub-par rendering! Give it time until I come up with something very good. WTF? That's my artwork! I think Satoshi is a male, not a girl. There will be a smartphone zerg rush. Once that happens, bank notes are unnecessary, only useful in a previous technological era. Some people in Africa are already using phones as a way to pay workers, pay for stuff, etc. It already happened. Already very convenience to acquired 30 minutes long hardcore pornography. They might be willing to pay for live sex, though. All satoshi need to do is say "I am alive!" The theory is wrong if the practice is wrong. The map is not the territory. The map must be fixed. Therefore the theory must be rejected as it is not in agreement with reality.I would also conclude that a republic also have the same failing of a democracy. I defer to creighto's analysis of electorate incentive and behavior to make my argument. And anything could happen. Car accident, suicide, personal financial crisis, etc. These ideas are discussed with disdain. Well geez, you must have your head into the ground with regard to the current community. This is mostly a libertarian forum with a significant number of us are anarchists. I would think that the support of democracy or equality is taboo around here. Bitcoin is an idea that originated from cypherpunk context, and by extension, libertarianism. Bitcoin does not dismantle the accumulation of wealth, nor does it democratize money. Inequality is inherent in bitcoin.Yet, everybody have the freedom to accept or deny bitcoin. This video had already been posted a couple of time. Shouldn't you guys look for hosting services that you can pay in bitcoin? It support the bitcoin economy plus you don't have to go through the extra step of converting bitcoin to euro or dollars.
http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/77 0.09 BTCI realized that the leg is messed up. So, I will be redrawing the leg for the next couple of days.Next price reduction will be 0.08 BTC at .36 USD to BTC on MtGox exchange. But we don't believe in the intrinsic theory of value! Intrinsic value have place in our subjective theory of value! It simply mean utility other than monetary utility. Get it? Guys, I think Satoshi left us. Last active: December 13. Electronics, decorative use, industrial application, etc.Bitcoin? Umm..... The bitcoin central market for Euro move rather slow, though.  Maybe you could ask noagendamarket for 200 BTC on the condition that it will be paid back once you buy enough bitcoin?* kiba is impatient about using the new ads market to earn kiba some bitcoin http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/76 0.10The texture of the wall and the ceiling are rather bland, I admit. Are you close enough to get all the bitcoin you needed to launch the site? Real name? We don't know.Some think he's a Westerner of some kind, not a Japanese person. Corporations ARE creature of the state. So they're made that "way". Doesn't mean it will operate the same for a bitcoin corporations or future corporations.We want cheap method of exploration and colonization not corporation hogging on charities. If the charity needs to do so, one of their mission will be to create more cost-effective way of exploring space.Otherwise corporations will be left to their own device in making it cost effective for us to explore and colonize space. Not really. It was just a hypothetical question.There are several programs that might be useful:1. Figure out low-cost method of clearing space junks in LEO. If possible, this can be spinned off as a company ala Mozilla Corporation. The money it make from clearing LEO could be used to fund other space exploration & colonization projects.2. Figure out how to build a self-replicating autonomous space station. This could paves the way for self-maintaining space colony.3. Mass-produced space probes. Let face it, scientific missions should be made cheap. No, that's absolutely a bunch of bull, as disproved by at least 100,000 members in the Planetary Society.Some of us think space is important and we choose to say so with our money. This is about a charity operated space agency, not let secretly funnel money to some corporations charity.And for the record, the research are meant to benefit humanity, not Keep the Benefit Away From EVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVIL Corporation motive. Yes, let coerce individuals at gunpoint to spend money on medical research projects for the GOOD of humanity. That sound nice doesn't it.But of course, all those things ARE UNSEEN. We don't know what kind of technology might emerge if the US doesn't "invent" the internet, which by the way, required entrepreneurs to make the internet USEFUL. With all due respect, they spend their OWN MONEY. You might hate me for spending my money on manga, good science fiction shows, and so on. But so what? All I am arguing is that the space program needs some modicum of funding. This is not about some nebulous "researching Uranus" that have little impact on our lives.This is about knowledge, the fate of humanity as a whole, and the ability to control our own destiny. Asteroid impact resulting in extinction level event is a very low probability but it doesn't mean it won't happen. There WILL BE smaller asteroid that will cause devastating damage to cities. It may happen once in a century. It may happen once in a thousand years. But there will be TONS of lives lost ESPECIALLY if it hit a city. No, stop wasting money on government! Stop voting! And stop believing that you're not in control of your own government, because technically YOU ARE.You can vote. You can throw out elected officials. You believe in this fairy tale called Democracy Make Good Government(TM). FOR THE LOVE OF ERIS, we already have those charities. But they aren't doing a damn thing about political instabilities and corruption. If they did, than the whole of Africa would be rising out of poverty within a generation.(Actually they kinda are, with the advent of cheap smartphone and new technologies) The resource spent on establishing market societies is much different than the resources spent on space exploration.Market societies don't need resources as so much as ideas. They certainty don't need engineers as much as badass commandos dedicated to enforcing the rule of law. Those engineers would be better spent on space exploration & colonization or some other technical concerns. You're not going to throw astronomers and physicists at problems outside of their expertise do you?Beside, once a market society takes off, like in Signapore and South Korea, EVERYTHING will change within one generation. Poverty problem solved. Of course, it's not actually that easy.In any case, this thread is about funding space exploration project VOLUNTARY. Not through taxes and theft, but through genuine donation from the heart. We're trying to find extraterrestial life, research options for long-term survival of humanity, and so on. These projects are very long-term but they're also very important. At least some kind of funding goes into it, no? That's not intrinsic value, that's monetary value. Very different thing. Research, for what they are, have an unknown ROI value. We don't know if they will bring us the cure for cancer, or help us save the entire specie from asteroid annihilation. Space exploration involves an innumerable amount of technology that it would be hard to imagine that they would have no wide application for life on earth. So in conclusion, space exploration will probably benefit humanity in many indirect ways...Still, asteroid annihilation is still a very real threat. It might happens now, or a thousand years from now. At the very least, we should prepare for that kind of possibility. (Beside, if we can mine those asteroid, earth would be like filthy rich since the price of many commodity will drop to the floor) Just do Khan Academy.And stop thinking of p2p as a solution to every problem. The primary problem with starving humans is that a lot of culture can't support a market society, or that there is some kind of wars going on, and so forth. We could potentially turn the great Sahara desert into a blooming breadbasket for the rest of humanity if those African society got their act together(or we stop actively harming them with our well intentioned aid)The ocean is also vastly unused. We might be able to support a bigger population if we can utilize that.Now, overpopulation isn't so much of a worry anymore. Humans seem to be voluntary having less humans as they get wealthier.  Money is not the problem, but rather how medicine is organized. Here are some of the problems:1. Insurance should NOT be used for daily health care! It should only be used in EMERGENCY!  You should be able to pay out of your own pocket. Insurance is supposed to incentivize preventive medicine, but it's doesn't! Insurance is broken.2. Medical guild. Enough said.3. Regulations that impose high cost on medicine, innovation, etc.4. Patents. Get rid of them. 5. Proven reform ignored. The fraking checklist? Where are the checklist in intensive care units? Where are my heart surgery factory? All these factors contribute to poor incentive, inefficiency, and lives LOST. Remember folks, there's alway be scarce resources. These things need to be take care of by the market if you want to MAXIMIZE life saving.
Overpopulation is NOT A PROBLEM. The earth can potentially support trillion more human beings. Energy IS the problem. We need to be more efficient in our use of energy and as well find plentiful energy source. This is so that we can convert all those potential energy into something that can support the human race. Remember, the earth receive more energy from the sun in one hour than our entire civilization use in one year!Medicine cannot be solved by mere throwing money at problem. It just need to be organized as an efficient enterprise. That mean, medicine should be mass-produced and as well become more effective over time. Imagine hundred of heart surgeon performing hundred of operation each day! You get more quality and quantity at the same time. Imagine all the hospitals in the world employing the little simple thing called CHECKLISTS.Space travel IS a research program. And with all research program, we don't shit how we're going to benefit from it. The ROI however, could be astronomically huge. Beside, if you're interested in the survival of our species, it can only be a good thing. Nuclear fusion reaction? Bitcoin's law: If a discussion grow longer, the probability of an argument on what exactly bitcoin is increases. Is it money, currency, commodity, or something else entirely? YES, THIS IS AN ANARCHIST CONSPIRACY TO PUT BITCOIN ON THE MAP!BITCOIN FOREVER!  Explore mars. Build space stations. Build self replicating space probes. The usual. So, how many of you would donate bitcoin on a regular basis to sustain a space agency? The earth can support plenty more trillions. Plus, we have ton of methane. Don't forget that we continue to be more efficient in the use of energy and that the sun give us more energy in one hour then we use as an entire civilization in a year.Go nuclear if we must. YES for walkable cities instead of socially suffocating suburbans.  Clearly, this is not related to promoting bitcoin at all. Marketplace is where you want to post your project. This is surely one of those "high art ivory tower" project.Why don't you draw us some pretty picture...or stop calling it an "art experiment"...and just call it an experiment. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/75 0.10Right now, I am suspending the character auction for the next art piece.I will do a one-shot comic called titled The British ODF. ODF stand for Orbital Drop Force.(Why such a comic so early? Because it's challenging!) That may be so...but no self-respecting fan would buy merchandise that wouldn't support the artist. No, I just have to be good as Misfile and Megatokyo. They don't permeates popular culture. Beside, I can alway sell graphic novel...at least until the dead tree format stop being collector items and just a bunch of paper with some data encoded in it.Beside, webcomic is a money making hobby, not a primary money grubbing and fame grubbing adventure. I just have different idea of a business model. I am partial to the idea of letting the webcomic be free, and then selling mugs, goods, and exclusive access on the side. Isn't the bounty, 450 BTC? Lot of things have influence on the bitcoin economy from day to day basis. It would be foolish to think something cause something else with no evidence to back it up.We simply don't know why bitcoin spectulators bid the ways they bid, unless we start handling survey each day on why they bid. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/74 0.10Cleaning and coloring of the wall! And it's not the point of this exercise. I am simply estimating when bitcoin could possibly take off much earlier. I know 2008 is definitely possible.  Obviously, bitcoin required bandwidth, space, and computation power.So I am trying to estimate the year that bitcoin cryptocurrency would be a practical based on computation power, bandwidth, and HD space. "Practical" as in, most users would not hesitate putting the bitcoin software on their low-end computer and use it with no problem.This is the year at which the bitcoin economy could start germinating itself in earnest with technology NOT be the bottleneck.
The bitcoin is for getting a hosting service? Progress report? You will be using bitcoin central? The concepts have nothing to do with the execution. The execution will make reality a a flawed concept, but we can alway fix the code.But if there is no code to fix, there is nothing to work with.Write crappy code that demonstrate said concept. Fix said concept if it doesn't work the way people like. Then fix said code. Repeat this process.Then write correct and clean code. Make it fast. Then, make the interface good. Wrong. The real problem is that there are no execution to work with. Concepts and ideas doesn't matter if we have nothing to work with. The GPL is my definition of what's "harsh". We're going around in circles. All this arguments had been exhausted and now we're just repeating them ad nauseum. Still, the correct protocol that been derived by argumentation is meaningless without an execution to work with. Convert it to a cypherpunk webcomic label? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/73 0.10More coloring.I think it's quite clear that I lack the artistic skills to produce a high quality work in no time at all. Satoshi proposed a brilliant solution to the chain problem long ago in the thread.(As well as appamatto but Satoshi's solution is much simpler) We don't need to worry about integrating those information in the bitcoin chain since we can use the same miners to generate 50 BTC and domain name coin.Only execution will give us something to work with. Theorists are just that, theorists. If the ideas don't get implemented, the idea of BitDNS is simply worthless. With bitcoin, teenagers can achieve independence from their own parents, and parents do not have to worry about credit card debt! Currently WTFing over the fact that the refund is transfered into my credit card as credit making my credit card debt negative 32.77 USD. Yes, I am quite aware of that.I was merely wondering how could saving/hoarding bitcoin lead to higher capital accumulation of production factors.I am guessing that it somehow tells the market the time preference of human beings, thus determine how much resource are available in the future for spending.The explanation posited by the other forum goers seem to fit...but the answer seem to be bit unsatisfactory. I made a request for the withdrawal of 32.77(1 dollars subtracted for withdrawal fee) USD from the advertising account at projectwonderful. These funds will be converted back into bitcoin.Remember, you can request your bitcoin back based on the percentage of contribution you made at the start of this campaign. Say, you contribute 5% of the total pledges. You will get back 5% of the remaining bitcoin.OTHERWISE, the funds will be redirected to other bounty project of my choosing.I will be PM each of you pledgees to see if I can get a response here on this topic. Will we have more pledgees? There seem to be no password recovery mechanism. I seem to have set myself a password that I can't remember. Have the fans left me? 3 days in a row without downloads is quite unusual. The Asian nations of the world have resisted adoption of bitcoin far more readily than the continental US and Europe. Bitcoin is basically a Western civilzation's currency. We need to fix this problem!What we have so far:1. A Japanese yen exchange. Western expats living in both Japan and South Korea.2. A Chinese user within mainland China.3. Some translationsWhat we don't have:1. Where are the South Korean won and Chinese yuan to bitcoin exchange market?2. No significant Asian presence. (That exclude westerners of Asian descent like me) I don't feel like doing the hassle of generating so many different kind of banners and testing them. For the pay, it was a lot of work. If you get it from bitcoin.org, properly secured, than it's ok?
There are confusion I have in my head.I do not know how saving bitcoin lead to capital formation. I mean, if I save bitcoin, that signal my time preference. IE, I prefer to wait for something rather than have it now. Or I rather spend on some future good that required X amount of money that I don't have rather than something now.With resources like timber, I know that if I saved X amount of them, I can build a complete room.(If the room is not completed, it would be expose me to the outside elements)So, I know that saving bitcoin would be akin to somehow getting enough resources to accumulate so that I can build x and y. But bitcoin can't help you build stuff x and y. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/72 0.10More and more cleaning up! Also, I should finish this art piece soon so I can move on to other projects. End of campaign report:Expired 10 days ago...30 days campaign.Expense: 23.83 USD. 41 % of our overall budget which is 57.60. Last day of activity was .45 cents.Pageviews: 373,768 total.Total clicks: 110CPM: 0.06 USDCPC: 0.22 USDCTR: 0.03 %All in all, an ineffective campaign. The money is better spent elsewhere. I will return what left of the funds by pledge percentage rate to donors should they choose to do so within 30 days. Shouldn't this be moved to the development forum? Let brainstorm reliable, useful, and easy bitcoin jobs that everyone can do for the economy.One of the probably most no-brainer way is to offer RAM, HD space, and CPU power to someone else. However, there need to be 1) problems that people wants to pay for and 2) easy to setup. Bitcoin mining fit the bill, but your gain is likely to be eclipsed by electrical usage.You could offers HD space via tahoe-lafs but there is no billing mechanism. Even though I posted a bounty to code a billing system long ago, nobody offers to do the job.  The time to nominate the next hacker charity donation with the hope of achieving donation acceptance is NOW!We got 618 BTC leftover from the CCC operation. Rolling to the next charity. There are other things we can do with 1000 USD. The license is rather harsh, but then I have not pledge a single bitcoin..so I get no say. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/71 0.10Wallpainting and cleaning of lot of stuff. I am also getting finished with the right side of cloak. I seem to have lost discipline.   Just because it is available for free doesn't mean it's legal to sell it. Hey, it clashes with our fundamental understanding of economic and reality! We're going to point out certain things that doesn't make sense to us. I think that negate the benefit that come from division of labor. And the market will reduce everything to mere commodity...Everyone will be reduced to intellectual works.That, and the homeless will have blankets and foods printed by machines. They can also have an education if they ask for one of those cheap smartphone. Tons of valuable will be stolen via social engineering attack before the government have the chance to try out that attack. Thus, users of bitcoiners continue to learn... Citation needed.Dude, it's called using blah miliBTC if you hate fractional an ownership so much. We already have an open hardware movement. The extranormal bitcoin video is just bad IMHO.If you have somebody narrating it instead of a computer voice, you would do it a lot better. We have 8 digit percison right of the decimal. 21 million bitcoins is not a problem.
Spending is just consuming something. For an economy to have wealth, it must produce the things that people want/need. A whole lot more bitcoining. I expect/hope to see a disruptive transformation of our economy in the way we deal with our finance and how we think about money.The rise of ubitious computing will continue. When we're finished with smartphones(the price of smartphone will drop until it become standard), we will upgrade our cars. At the end of the decade, we will have autonomous cars as part of our daily life. We're also begin equip everything with more computers and internet connections, connecting it more and more.Cheap 3D printing become an everyday normal thing. Customization and improvement of products increase at a frantic pace.Regular space launches will be the norm by the end of the decade. 2000: 1. Still on dailup.2. Pretty much everyone is still stuck on IE.3. The computer I am using was pretty much only 10 GB in size. I am pretty sure it's window 98.2005:1. We finally got rid of dailup and transits to broadband.2. Firefox already arrived, but it's 1.5.3. I gotten an upgrade in HD size and other stuff. 40 GB.2010:1. Bitcoin is in its infancy.2. The browser war is in full swing. Chrome, Firefox, IE, Opera, and others are competing and making the web a better place.3. My latest computer is still an outdated piece of shit but it is dual core and store 4x the previous computer. Why does metric sucks? You either lobby the government or get subjugated from some jackass competitor's legislation and go out of business. If nobody lobby, the government will listen to the whining and crying of the masses.The solution is to stop the fucked up game, rather than attacking organizations or individuals who were winner in the system. For all the focus on the super-wealthy and such...There's one thing that they're ignoring...the people.After all, who have the responsibility and the power of electing people into office, the one who have irrational fears about child predators, and possess such a statist belief system.Oh yeah, don't forget the old people who vote in favor of social security and burdening the younger members of the population with the bill Jesus, using the word troll had become..less powerful these day. Just because you feel insulted, doesn't mean that said poster is a troll. All files are equal. Some are more equal than others.Therefore it make sense to take care of some file more than others. Whether that is done through the application itself or the operating system is irrelevant.  http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/70 0.10 BTCI forgot to post yesterday's artwork.Expect price for future artwork to drop to 0.09 BTC when we reach .33 USD exchange rate for bitcoin. We come a long way as a 5 months old post-slashdotting community. Here's hoping for a bigger year next year. How so?People are rising to the challenge by helping him even though they don't know if he's lying or not. Ok, we will have 0.00000001 BTC a satoshi? So, how do you ensure that the paypal scamming don't come back? I thought your site was a complete goner. Turns out that you're still alive and well, but not told us what progress you're making. Er, how many mirrors are backing up the database? Sell services that the initial community like. These good and services are self sustaining. Eventually, the owners of these bitcoin business may decide to invest in a few risky venture that reach slightly less tech-savy users. These less savy users open up new businesses that are also self-sustaining in that reach that particular demography..and so on. People are absolutely buying my arts. There may be one or two download each day, earning me between .10 and .20 BTC.It's a pittance, but I earn zero BTC for my programming activity and mining make me only about .20 BTC each week. I don't want to get paid in lame dollars. I want to get paid in bitcoin. What if there are more  real bitcoin then there are real bitcoin in a wallet? http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1958.40
Are there people who are willing to pledge more bitcoin so guys like me will think it's worth the effort of coding it? mBTC, nBTC, etc. Noagendamarket really should update the thread to say that there's more than 100 BTC and also lists all the people who pledge too. jgarzik: is this site dead? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/69 0.10 BTCCompleted coloring of stocking.Experimenting with cloak drawing. I am a linux user. Such a mechanism would make bitcoin network unnecessary more complex. I think it's quite different than DRM that they're talking about. http://dri.freedesktop.org/wiki/DRM http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2528.msg34263#msg34263 I am too lazy to backup and type in the password, upload to various services, yadyadaydaydayda. Make me a backup utility that does this automatically(and prompt me a password so I don't forget mine).Pledges:Kiba - 5 BTC.Total pledges: 5 BTC.The spec are:1. Regular backups.2. Encryption.3. Upload to various services such as dropbox, gmail, and other places you store file.4. Upload your password protected keys to other places such as your thumb drive, your other computer and so on.5. Make it freakishly stupidlishly easy to do all the above.As a bonus: provide warning of trojan horses and limitation of such security measure.This bounty will expire 365 days later.EDIT: My pledge are redirected toward tahoe-lafs. Provide an extension architecture and let bitcoiners add their own extension on top of the bitcoin client. Of course, that mean more work for the limited developer pool.As for me, I don't do backup often because it's not exactly a walk in the park to do them. I have the programming skill to automate my backup, but far too often are distracted by somebody else. With DRM, all you're doing is offering an inferior product. If you can't code this feature, you might want to put up a bounty for it. I propose an incentive scheme!Instead of people risking their bitcoin..they could be compensated like flattar. Like, if you have an account, you fund it up. Then you simply vote the answer you like. At the end of every month, your funding is divided up into shares that goes to people you voted up the most. So, how mirrors are backing up the forum db?Is there a way to do a db dump of non-sensitives information? Thanks for the refund. I'll be happy to do the work for a fee.   Will you refund 1 BTC? 50% The media chain reaction hit ReadWriteWeb causing a tweet bomb for bitcoin. http://www.readwriteweb.com/hack/2010/12/interview-bitcoin.php
Most people here are either anarchists or libertarians.It's a natural consequence of a cypherpunk technology to attract antiauthoritarians.  Sir, why would my currency be anything other than bitcoin?Mybitcoin is essentially like what you described, except it doesn't do the "own digital currency". Mirror those sites across the net. Problem solved. It's called backing up and encrypting it. Tax is theft because you are forced at gunpoint/jail for doing so. And for the record, I think public roads are a menace on civilization and public education is a laughingstock. Other than that, I suggest you understand libertarianism to understand where we're coming from. They were 0/confirmed when I answer the question and my answers does not appear? Maybe you could open source the payment processing code part. I am a rails developer too, but I am kinda lazy about learning the payment processing part. Blah, I sent 1 btc and answer the question on What is the meaning of Life and got nothing back! Just because it fit libertarian ethical theory doesn't mean it's a good idea to put up a prediction.Assassination politics open up a whole can of worm. It's not going to be used against just evildoers, but people who are rich, people who made several individuals mad, or just being successful. Death is a dangerous weapon that should only really be used as self-defense.(How would you like it to be AIMED at you because of a person's grudge or a bloodthirsty mob?)Otherwise, I do not trust human beings' judgement on the use of the death. Progress report? Progress report? I want to earn bitcoin, not be a volunteer programmer.  That being said, there's some benefit in having a clear spec. I know how to use websockets, javascript, and canvas. Assassination politics is rather a dangerous game to play...Death by majority.It would be one of those things excluded as a prediction in bitpredict. No. If it was...then I would already announce it.My site is essentially a bank. I don't store balances for outcomes. This is to facilitate a liquid market. Store at your own risk.My site is just an intermediary. Outcome are decided by judges elected by people on each side. The site itself is open source. Shutting down my site doesn't mean much of anything if people can set up their own exchange. Such is a complicated thing for the proof of concept. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/68 0.10 BTCColoring of the pink stocking, nothing else much.Also, I am still auctioning the chance to be in the next art piece where you get to choose one of the three slot... An interviewee who is quite lazy at answering question....  
Blah, libertarians are regarded as narcissistic egoistic Randian worshiping fanatics. Starting tomorrow, I will accelerate development of bitpredict so I can take on this project.I been anticipating this project for quite some time but I did not expect anybody would take initiative in funding this project. How many articles, though? And you called yourself a HackerKing? We must be some weird outliers.  You could start a Chinese language edition for the bitcoin.it project. I made it my goal to work on and fix up prediction creations. Then I got distracted by the fact that I didn't have a logout mechanism. So I fix that. I would work on one, if there were 5000 BTC pledged.  But I can't take on new projects at this time. I have bitpredict to finish, after all.  So, if future is impractical to buy...then somebody could make a load of money by opening up a bitcoin future market and making it so easy to do so. There will still be a need to loan emergency funds. The 1% interest rate will just be regarded as a very high interest rate. In return, the bank might keep some of your bitcoin stocks as collateral or something similar. I imagine bitcoin will be banned much earlier in China than in the US. Bitcoin is a subversive currency that will anger all the world powers. So we're experiencing price instability in the bitcoin economy right now. The value of my saving sure like to fluctuate, but it's going up. If my saving maintain its present value or goes up in the long run, that's a good thing. Yeah, it's a bit sad that the majority of our techno-libertarian comrades don't always follow us. Bet they're still stuck discussing libertarianism and who's the most libertarian person on forum though.With the bitcoin community, techno-libertarians can actually DO something. Are you in mainland China, or Hong Kong, or Taiwan? They always need MOAR power to solve crime! Of course, all that does is change the criminal's method of "money laundering".  Difficulty doesn't necessary correlate to the popularity of bitcoin. http://www.talkgold.com/forum/r314650-.htmlhttp://www.hackthissite.org/forums/viewtopic.php?f=37&t=6477&sid=3a56ce98bc59ffbbe797297b22c92c58This is the extent of my investigation. If you were a part of this community, we are apt to believe you. Since you post a HELP sign as a stranger, we don't know if you're a bot, fraudster, or an honest person. You got fooled by a spambot pretending to be human. There is no fake bitcoin if you get a collision of key. It just mean that somebody have the same key to your vault as you.
Today, I worked on something non-essential called...the footer. Should be focusing my effort on getting a proof of concept working rather than..ya know...wasting time on footer. You misunderstand, I am not the one who will run the site, make a business, etc.However, I am curious about forming the first bitcoin microcompany without any force of law behind it. I'll be happy to risk some of my bitcoin to buy some share in this company, provided somebody have the ball to risk their reputation in this effort.(As well time and stuff)I have projects of my own anyway. I can't invest time without taking away time from my other bitcoin money-making operation. (Soulplaying.com and the still incubating bitpredict site, as well as a freelance project) Git addressed the same scenario better, for all intent and purpose.SVN introduces unnecessary little latency to my work as I have to push it to a server. With git, I can make as many commits as I like and even work without internet connection. When I decide it's enough, I simply push it up. Is anybody interested in this kind of venture? In fact, I would like to think about broadening the scope of the project.How about the first bi-directional online manga reader site, where exports of cultural artifact occurs bidirectional. English comics get translated into Japanese, and vice versa, as well in different languages.That would be an interesting experiment. A wall of text does not motivate me to respond. Seem to me, that Bitcoiners are simply the latest in the long(short) line of techno-libertarians that can trace our origin to cypherpunkers and hackers.I hypothesize that Satoshi himself IS a cypherpunk. That would explain his continued usage of svn in the age of git. Hyperinflation, trust, and integrity are HUGE problem. Bitcoin virtually eliminate the need to trust bankers not to abuse the printing machine. The uncertainty of people chargebacking you is still real. Insurance is more fees you have to pay.The historical record indicates that we are growing and continue to grow. Just this month, we broke just about every forum record. Obviously, past performance doesn't mean future performance will continue...but it is clear at this point that our community is growing beyond the slashdotting stage. You will probably never generate a bitcoin unless you joined a pooled mining effort.Even so, you will find it 50 times easier to simply sell goods and services for bitcoin. Very few people can mine profitably, anyway. Economic is primarily based on logical reasoning, not inductive.We can't run experiments on whole economies, and perhaps we never will be able to.What we can do is reason out something that definitely is true. Bitcoin is a weird idea. It's like trying to explain to them the concept of cryonic.Both ideas are really good idea, but it's so strange that people have a higher level of skepticalism.  The interest rate should reflect the saving rate. This can reflection can only be accurately controlled by the market.Democracy IS the problem. The people don't need a democracy. They deserve much better than a Lord of the Flies type of government.If you let people take care of themselves, I am sure that they can come up with solution that is much better than what politicians could create. The site's information doesn't jives well with my p0rn experience. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/67 0.10 Continuing my experiment with clothes folding and shading. I don't think the blue cloak look good. (especially the right side cloak)Also, pink stocking coloring is in progress! No incentive to save = no capital formation.Everybody's time preference will be short, and that means problem. I just tried out 7zip for encrypting. The only problem is that the encryption feature is obscure and require some automation. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Securing_your_wallet(this topic needs to be moved to Bitcoin discussion) I was working on the ability to make predictions. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/66 0.10 BTCI am not dead! You take bitcoin, right? Bitcoins are never lost. just that the key is lost in the ocean somewhere. One day, some guy might get very very very lucky to find a key to a vault full of bitcoin.
Notifying the owner of the security flaw is the most ethical choice, and yet you hesitate just because you want to look at my artwork for free. You refuse to pay an equivalent of 3 cents(.10 BTC * .25) each time. You didn't even make me famous.What kinda of person are you, bober182?But anyway, disclosure of a security hole is most ethical thing you can do. Assessing my artwork where you aren't allowed on server is a minor ethic violation, probably.  Seem like an easy way to get SmartKidz dinged. Look like they detect suspicious activity from you, smartzkid. I wonder how kwukduck manages to create that much accounts...did he cheat or something? I don't think so, as noagendamarket never objects. You will have to ask noagendamarket how the bounty awarding process work when there's competition.  All of these, of course, can be fixed with the robotic courier network!Or less ambitious, local bitcoin dealers. fabianhjr PM me on IRC, but he is confused as to who is actually the owner of pastecoin. But he left before I have the chance to inform him that genjix is not the owner of pastecoin. We could earn money from the bitcoin ads marketplace(as soon it become operational). We could have a 30 pages sampling, than the content is locked behind a paywall. We could also sell merchandise that use the branding of the manga in question. Readers themsleves could tip the individual authors flatter style.Lot of business model, I guess. My preference is ads fee to cover operational cost, and using merchandise to earn the bulk of the income.Think of it as a magazine. A magazine's true customers are advertisers, rather than the readers themselves.  So we got a manga translator and a banker in Japan. However, who will seek out manga artists?Also, there would be a need for somebody to program and operate the manga reader itself. Wait, how do you know that transfers are irreversible? Manipulation of price for bitcoin is not the problem, but rather the ability for price information is the problem. Shutting down liberty reserve and other way to exchange currencies for bitcoin meant that people no longer have any way of price estimation for bitcoin. On the internet, nobody knows if you're joking or not. irreversible?    The economic forum is not your financial help forum. Hmm, we really don't have any Korean won to bitcoin exchange. I suppose this thread is the display of our stupidity. Erm, guess private key to bitcoin address? I would like to reopen the discussion on the possibility of a manga reader site that directly pay authors for their work.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=680.0I think we have a Yen to BTC market now, in the form of btcex.com. This should make possible for manga artists to get paid in yen or bitcoins. Can't people do the same with bitcoin addresses? Today's Update: I find myself creating a lot of missing pages after working the model for quite a bit.I also realize at this moment that I forgot the crucial details on how to manage and rate judges.  theymos/nanotube, working on your implementation?
Found an error within the application. I think it was already fixed. I see what I can do about pushing up a new release.I also put up some information about how much it cost, which is 5 BTC. At current rate, that's only 1.25 USD. Very cheap.(Not yet pushed to production yet) http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/65 0.10 BTCSorry for the absence of yesterday! Is the new owner doing anything with it? Then you combine it with the distributed robotic courier network!  The free market will no longer be squashed without resistance! IT WILL RESISTS AND PROPAGATE ITSELF!Through bitcoin, of course. Use bitcoin! They are private companies. They get to accept or deny whoever they like. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1812.0 How does it happens? How come nobody is like..interested in this service at all? It takes time for me to write an interview, ya know? Why are we talking about Jews? Noah's Ark?I am creeped out about using religious images to deify Satoshi. It's a far step from purposely genderbending Satoshi. Instead of voting articles, why not set editorial oversight? Say if you get two editors to approve that article, the editors' bids get distributed to these writers...More if they got editors on board? Jgarizk: Progress report? Why it will take sooooooooooo long to get a new issue out? I don't know why I mentioned her. I guess I just misunderstood the thread. THE Jeriel Ellsworth? Progress report? I remember another dream about bitcoin again!
1740 BTC is not enough for you? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/64 0.10 BTCI finally started work on highlighting the air but this isn't exactly going well, as I don't know how to make good looking highlight.I am still adding more folds for the cloak. I fixed the thumb and work on the right thigh.  Bug fixed. And we smashed posting record! All time high! Yeah, that should be more generalized beyond PHP. Thanks for resolving this issue!That mean that the senior develooper can redeploy to a different server with the backups, if neccesary. Right?How many servers are serving as backup/mirror? Thanks...but I don't use PHP... I'll have to decipher which part is necessary and which is not. In some ways, I am still surprised that people can talk about bitcoin in so many X ways.For god sake, it's just a cryptocurrency! After fixing what I think are all the bugs in the system, I deployed too early and got a ghost bug. That will be fixed as soon as I wake up in the morning. Blah, is anybody still reading the book?The first chapter of MES is sure dense. I am doing an interview with a community member. Whatever the case, people will read the bitcoin article and thinks Bitcoin is a digital scrip.....when it's really Wikipedia's invention. Does anybody know how MyBitCoin SCI works?I just use their form builder as a template for my purchasing form, but I have no idea about how MyBitcoin send data back to my web app for validation. We have a group effort at...ummm...Rabbit Doubt but it never come to fruits.Anyway, I have too many projects...Bitpredict, JStet(a game in cavnas!), and Soulplaying...Until one of those project is completed, I won't work on any new game. Site update is imminent(tomorrow); as soon as I iron all the bugs out..it's ready for consumption.The changes are:Basically, you can now delete quests that you don't like, but not old quests you failed or completed, as well see all the quests.I also made some change to the navigation bar, placing it in a more "correct" spatial position. I also revamped the landing page on the homepage.After the update...I plan to work on clone quest feature. It's getting rather tiresome to have to create repeating quests. With this feature, you're basically not having to create repeating tasks manually. Latest update...I am getting close to a proof of concept. User funds are getting subtracted; bids are linked to prediction and user...Next step is to work on all the forms so people can submit predictions, and people can buy bids... I don't lucid dream. But I often have dream about bitcoin.   OH NOES! YOUR KID WILL BE SCARRED FOR LIFE! Digital scrips? WTF? Did you not need the forum for the past two week?
I gotten very angry with people for bad customer services before on this forum but...I never throw "ripped off" or "scammer" around so easily. Oh, I know some anatomy, but it doesn't mean that I am going draw them well. For the record, I used my own hand as a guide.Yes, I know that the eyes are way too big, and the shoulder too narrow..but that's just anime style. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=117 0.10 BTCMOAR coloring and adding folds to the cloak.It's too bad that I don't have much time to do other details, such as fixing the thumb and adding more shading to the hair. Thumb a total failure but I did get some shading for the hair.  Maybe that what Wei Dai want YOU to think?   How long will this process take? This should be offtopic. I don't have time to listen to attack pieces made by Krugman or anybody on any side for that matter. You're kidding me. The transaction fee is sub 1%. That's pretty low. What exactly does your community do?  2.31 Simpler?  The only downside is that you will be chased by hexcopters. So you have hexcopters, with some ability to charge itself and some ability to carry pizza....Hopefully, a hexcopter won't get into an accident and kill someone.Hmm, you could have a whole infrastructure. Mobile bot that carry batteries, charging station, and so on. Just say we don't know shit about who Satoshi is. We are growing. It's just taking time to get development of goods and services completed. Theymos dumped lot of wiki pages from the old wiki. Some of them are duplicate information and should be merged into existing articles. Thanks for the feedback on how things look. It really help.Sometime I don't get downloads at all, but it just mean that I need more fans and more exposure and more artworks. 2.28 Wrong community. We have no problem with money. Fat cat bankers, yes, but not banking and money itself. Add some more battery to it...you got a long term surveillance platform! 2.26
http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/63 0.10 BTCMore coloring and cleaning of cloak! I also continued to refine the hair and the left arm.Folds are hard for me to understand/draw but I think I am getting the hang of how they work. They take care of your health...Next, they control what you say. So, new owner of pastecoin...Will you be implementing 0/confirmation downloads? It could simply be that people are sending bitcoins from one account to another.Beside, MtGox exchanges are done internally, not reported to the bitcoin network. If you want to make money off your artwork right now, I suggest you sell some of your art at http://pastecoin.com or http://bitcoinservice.co.uk and link them here. 2.24 Can't find the recent change page.  (MT added it back) You think you only have 72 years but you forget to take into account technological advancement. [quote author=FreeMoney link=topic=2350.msg31545#msg31545 date=1292739968Oh, I hope you get it easily. I'm going to tell my grandkids all about how grandpa knew bitcoin was the new money and how I generated 9 blocks ON MY OWN back in 2010. But that's not nearly as cool as owning bitcoin.com.[/quote]And your great-great-great kids, which presumably be something on the order of 55 of them. If you think about it, bitcoin is pretty much everywhere the internet is. Um, why are you addressing stuff that's already fixed? Is magazine monthly? Weekly? A lot of thing can happens within a week. Doh! I forgot this study group. Will read up on chapter one tonight(or morning if necessary). Wrong place. This is the Project Development forum, not the Marketplace. I am not buying any license shit just to be able to submit my stuff under CC0. This is a ripoff. Can you explain what the heck the licensing is about? If you build a programmable kit, I would buy it. It would be useful as a scout bot for the robotic courier network. 2.22 for one share.   How much business is this guy getting? Thanks for the contribution, Morpheus. With all the effort taken to write replies here, maybe some of that can be contributed back to the wiki article?
I am under the impression that nothing codewise is getting done. You can already set it up with SMF. However, SMF does not have sensible defaults. It means nodes that had not been tested for whether or not they accept connections. Red mean down, green mean up, according to MT. Untested nodes. 0/confirmation allow people to instantly download it. I am surprised the US capital have some concentration of bitcoin nodes. I don't know what that implies exactly. Maybe it's because internet connection is concentrated there? http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/62 0.10 BTCToday is generally right side cloak coloring and cleaning day. 2 BTC for one share. Doh! I forgot to put in the links. Now I did. * kiba panics because he doesn't have a site to use it on. Jesus Christ. Will you stop misleading us to think that there are new content to read? Hey, I started a wiki page about MyBitcoin SCI. I was hoping to collaborate together on information on how to use MyBitcoin SCI.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/MyBitcoin_SCI Doh. It's my bid spec that's causing problem. Still, the easiest route to progress as well necessary anyway is to work on the site layout. Now it have a blue background. http://www.bitcoinjobs.com/jobs/add/I don't like solving captcha. Can I send you some bitcoin instead? Frott seem to think the success of bitcoin is inevitable or something. That's correct. Each bitcoin client have their own wallet. Oh, I misunderstood that the Bitcoin Delivery Service is about delivering parcel for bitcoin. This is complete utter nonsense if the system works as designed. Satoshi designed it that way. There's also no currying of favors here, at least as far as I know.Also, block generators serve an important purpose in the bitcoin economy, such as securing the integrity and as well processing transactions. They need incentives to do it. Is anything getting delivered?  The core understanding of libertarianism is that the government is a monopoly by force, and of force. It is the initiation of aggression that is the issue here.One could of course have a natural monopoly in a free market, but this isn't the same as hiring people with guns to enforce position in the market against all future and current competitors. With governments, they do not provide the rule of laws, but unpredictability.Here, we have a protocol that enforce a kind of rule of law. Violence on the internet is almost impossible by the virtue of actors being distributed far away, and the protocol provide a ruleset that is very clear in how it operate and completely predictable in its outcome. (21 million bitcoin, irreversible transactions, and so on)That is not simply possible with a democratic legislative process that care about everything in your life and wish to dictate rules on things that they don't know anything about, or their mind is tied to the fickle emotions of democracy.
Why the EFF of all organization? I'll concede that based on the fact that central banks are responsible for the control of the money supply. However, Satoshi and the core developers have no power beyond the agreement of all the miners. They are checked by bitcoiners in general and the right to fork. They do not control or regulate the Bitcoin banking industry, amongst other things.Certainly, they have less power compared to a nation-state's central bank.Nobody is disagreeing with that fact. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/61 0.10 BTCMore coloring of the right side cloak. I readjusted the left arm's curve to be more obvious and made the width smaller.As for shading, I learned that I did it wrong, by examining how real clothes fold. So I am in the processing of examining how they fold and how is it shaded and apply that to the girl's cloak. Technocratic central bank issuing currency? WTF?You buy CPU cycles in the hope that you make more money than you would in loss. It's not technocratic but based on economic calculus. Bitcoin doesn't exactly grow on trees. That is the fairest way we can think of distributing the currency.The experts aren't issuing the currency, bitcoin speculators who sunk tons of money into their mining rigs are.  The intention of WTFPL is to show that you don't care a shit about copyright laws. At least that's my interpretation.I don't even care about attribution. That why I asked MT to use WTFPL rather than anything else. Latest report:Started 22 days ago.Expense: 15.92 USDPageviews: 263,334Total clicks: 89CPM: 0.06CPC: 0.18CTR: 0.03% Blah, I don't make that argument. Silly people who think bitcoin is going to collapse because of deflationary growth do. So, there's the article.Feel free to add your content to the counterargument section. I am having trouble with bid and user.funds checking. However, there's still a bunch of work elsewhere such as creating a CSS file for the site, so I did that in absence of progress. Nobody want their money back?   Ain't brucewagner working on getting local merchant to accept bitcoin? Where would you get musicians to actually use it? Um, it's a bitcoin wiki article, not wikipedia. I created an article for a common criticism of bitcoin, which is the deflation going to explode the currency. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Deflationary_spiralI would like some comments on something I got wrong, or perhaps how I got the argument wrong. I also would like other users to contribute their knowledge about this debate. Why it is a fallacy? The logic of division of labor, comparative advantage, and specialization is unassailable.  Why would anybody use a region specific currency when you can trade with American, Brazilian, and other people not from central Europe? Speculation is an healthy activity part of any economy.However, you wouldn't get far if you bounded your currency to a specific community. Specialization and interconnection of our global economy lead to greater prosperity and world peace. You could always choose to patronize copyfree people. The plug is sticking out. I guess it wasn't obvious enough.Ok, I'll make the curve more obvious.Not true. The knee cap is on a different level. Bitcoin encyclopedia started by MT: https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Main_Page There's already a public API for pastecoin.Unfortuntely, it's rather undeveloped.
I think, forever. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/59 0.10 BTCShading attempt on hair is still in flux.Otherwise, I completed drawing the outline of the hand. Redrawing the cloak is now making signifigant progress.I started coloring and shading the cloak. We'll see how this turn out. That's not the same act. I just mean having a backup of mybitcoin's wallet. enoxice: maybe you could talk to the owner of pastecoin.com or bitcoinservice.co.uk about working together and building on their platform.They got the whole download and bitcoin spending figured it out. It's not a democracy, but an agreement!I believe that a split network will continue to operate independently of one another. In addition, we should be able to download the wallet, encrypted with some password protection.So everybody who use mybitcoin can use another service, or a bitcoin client their computer/phone/etc.. even if mybitcoin goes down. https://github.com/kiba/chrome-bitcoinI taken the liberty of making it public access.If you want commit access, feel free to ask me. Otherwise, you can simply fork and do your own thing.As for bounty, I guess everybody will do a peer review & vote as to who deserve the most. You will need to have at least 10 commits to be able to vote. Remember, the pledgers set the condition for release of bitcoin. So you can't just do nothing and expect to get something. Sorry for not being clear. Before the bitcoin economy, I was talking about your proposed monetary system. What kind of a commie is bober182 if he buy capitals? Remember folks, this site got on hacker news. So it's already a brand name. Let me recalibrate my understanding.Every computer will be essentially generating bitcoin. Essentially, it is hyperinflation. However, this distort economic calculation to a really bad level. Everything you invest in looks like a profit, when it's actually not.There is still no incentive to save, because your saving is becoming worthless every single day due to inflation. Basically, it rewards the biggest generator at the expense of everybody else, except those who borrows money.In the bitcoin economy, the generators still benefit disapportionately, but it will also benefit those who save. In other words, everybody who save win, except those who borrows money.Investors in business will be forced to be more conservative or efficient at finding economic opportunity. The Austrian School of Economic. You mean, PCWorld. EFF just mention us as one of those project that decentralize the internet. There is no incentive for early user to promote your inflationary currency, appammato. There's no incentive for saving if it is eroded repeatedly by inflation. Do you have php skill to maintain and improve the site? There is a reason why we have transaction fees. There is some compoetition in the form of dot p2p project. The bitcoin economy is undergoing a deflationary spiral, last time I check. We marvels at the fact that a pizza cost 10,000 BTC but we don't miss the old day.Anyway, the deflation that occurs in the bitcoin economy are *growth* deflation.You also have to remember that the early adopter are driven to make sure that bitcoin succeed. They knew that they will greatly benefit if they could get people to investing and using bitcoin.So they are not keen to horde all of their bitcoin, but rather invest in the economy. I think we could implement Shadow's idea.Sirius? And had nothing to do with the solving the problem with the PM system.
How long this debate had been going on? I am still unclear on whether or not you guys agree on anything.The longer we wait, the less chance of success we will have. Will there be daily update on the site's development? Meh, monetizing is good if it provide better service and goods.Beside, this will incentivize seeders to provide download for rare files. Is there an actual beer delivery service O_o. Pizza niche is now taken up by mizerydearia. Awesome!  Update done  for Mahkul. How close are you to a proof-of-concept. Poor service, probably.Fraud? That's a bit of a stretch.  Since bitquux finally responded to my inquiry and make available his work, we can now build on what he already had done. The problem with using bitcoin to timestamp is the possibly of bloating the blockchain, making fees goes up... Thank you. Accept bitcoins when it's 0/confirmation, not 1/confirmation. This is what ubitio.us and I think bencoder did too.It's an acceptable risk for what is...0.10 BTC at the time of this post. That should be standard. Some forum members are ignoring PMs. One of my PM was pretty importantA(concerns about security), but I got no reply. However, I do know that guy is active on the forum.Another, well you know the recent explosive anger displayed by me. I am pissed because you said that the project will be open source, then you failed to reply to my inquiry via PM. Of course, it was also my fault that I didn't request that this project to be open source and viewable on a public repository in the first post on this subject. If that was put into place, I wouldn't worry about much of anything. There wouldn't be so much anger if I take simple precaution like this.The only good reason right now is that we would spin off is that you are a bottleneck to the development process. If we have to wait for you to integrate all the changes that were happening, you are a liability. Of course, there's still one thing that I like you to do, put your public domain declaration in COPYING in your source code. You could use something like http://sam.zoy.org/wtfpl/ to make sure that it is somewhat foolproof than your public domain declaration on the forum. Once that is done, I'll simply take it and put it on a public repository somewhere. Development of open source projects like this should be done in public anyway. That being said, communication IS VERY IMPORTANT. Failing to reply to PM when you logged on to the forum inspire a serious lack of confidence. Rather, it's the lack of activity that worries me.If he got hit by a bus, there's no way that the money can be claimed again. Maybe this topic should be stickified? http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=89 0.10 BTCI continue to shade and make modification to the hair in the hope that I will have awesome badass hair.Otherwise, I am working that right hand, gripping the cloak on the left.  * kiba points to press hit topic at http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1958.40 Will you be taking on this project? Where the source code repository for the android client?
I am interested in making it easier for people to use bitcoin.That mean simplying the process as much as possible. Refer to this thread: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0Basically, a client built within chrome. Since that Bitquux didn't responded to my PM nor did he release the source code...I am going to pledge 20 BTC for a competitor to that Mr. DontReleaseCode because "I am not ready" BS.Same as last time, except I want to see a public repository of the programmer's project. No bullshit. It can be GPL or MIT, or what not license that satisfies[edit] OSI requirement. I like copyfree licenses the best, however. It should be licensed under the WTFPL.It should do[update requirement]:1. Standalone client, lightweight.Pledgers:1. Kiba - 20 BTCTotal: 20 BTC.P.S.I realized my mistake is that I didn't say it should be open source in the last bounty. Nonetheless, I still make the mistake of not demanding a public repository for other bounties. So for bounties that require open source project, I am going to demand a public repository and the explict license above.edit: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0Repository: https://github.com/kiba/chrome-bitcoin STARTING NOW, I will be refunding those who asked for refund(with corresponding bitcoin address). Otherwise, the funds will be rollover to the next hacker charity. If you don't want to wtihdraw your money, please say so.You have until the end of year to make your decision on whether to withdraw or keep the fund in escrow. Those who didn't asked for withdraw will be automatically assumed to have consented. Guideline for doing a bounty right, based on bitter experience:1. If you want something open source, demand that the person START doing so right now, and from an publically accessible codebase. Don't buy his "not ready" bullshit, even if said bullshit is true. You will be left with working code but not ownership of the codebase itself, which mean you can't fund other people to work on where that programmer left off. Don't forget the license either.2. If the person is going to escrow some kind of funds, demand that person to state a clear date by which bitcoin get used or returned to the pledgers.3. You should do your escrow of funds at the last possible moment. If a person disappear from the scene, you can't get the bitcoin back.4. Never give large amount of funds to somebody who is new.5. Never donate money to somebody who is inactive in the forum.I violated some of these rules myself, so I will be following them as well. http://pastecoin.comGenjix, Please refrain from making my customer wait for a confirmation. I don't have another room for a project, but I am going to pledge 20 BTC for a competitor to Mr. Don'tReleaseCode aka bitquux.* kiba is still mad. Why? There will be better encryption system down the road. Ubitio.us have the problem of file expiring. Pastecoin.com or bitcoinservice.co.uk is a better choice. Quickie update for today:I got some of the bid data model set up. Mainly, it hold data relating to the prediction data, and the user data. Why? We didn't sign any formal contract wtih Bitquux.  If not a pop, but at least a big rectangle red box that notify the user that they have PM. It works for us, but PM messages are not as noticable as the rest of the forum. They should be noticable and big so that people actually...reply to my PM.I knew bitquuix is on here everyday(At least yesterday), but he's not replying to my PM about open sourcing it. Any last ditch suggestion before I start refunding people's money? I believe that PM are pretty important and shouldn't get ignored. They should be popping up or the first thing you check when you visit the forum, especially if they are new. We're fucked if we can't legally package it as an open source project. People's money are wasted.  * kiba is still mighty pissed off. It's time to think about refunding people's money.The CCC is unresponsive to email communication, German or English. My PM to bitquux had been met with silence. His excuse for not releasing the source code is because it's not working in the last PM that he sent to me.Frak this!   I don't give a damn about if it doesn't work or not. This is stuff that bitcoiners(at least those who are the pledgers) paid for. Now we're stuck with a codebase that we can't pay someone else to improve or fix up.* kiba is boiling mad.
What is with all those self-published source? The best source of how bitcoin work is the project's documentation itself.Those media reporters are liable to get the details wrong. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=85 0.10 BTCI got the hair the way I wanted. All that is left is more shading, more shading, higher level shading, and more shading.I started work on the cloak. One of the major feature is the hand grabbing it. I will be working to perfect that.  Ummm....we're a community of entrepreneurs, not a startup.... Next time, can we refrain from calling a company a fraud early, especially when you're trying to get customer service, and especially so if others had good customer service?A lot of issue are apparently communication. That would be a good start. Tahoe-LAFS would be nice to use also. (There's also possible synergy between Tahoe and Bitcoin)I think we can handle trusting the seniors not to abuse the database data.Any possible timetable? * kiba points to the piratebay. The first slashdotting is higher than of the second slashdotting attempt. Resurrecting this topic; we can't get complacent about this subject.So, the simplest solution to this problem is to simply back up the database to somewhere safe, no? Can we get Sirius onboard with this idea? What's the difference between virtual and digital goods? Jesus, upload to one of those bitcoin download service. They don't make you wait 40 seconds shit, and force you to solve a captcha which you will fail. You mean the second sentence?  A little update: Worked on making sure you can't get a negative balance in your funds in your user account.Barely got started on bid spec test. Bitcoin, of course! We are now back on Wikipedia. So anything after that, Biomike? da2ce7 said on IRC wants to be in the background, so he will. So, I am making one exception....there is a background spot available. What if somebody confiscate ArtForz's mining rig?   Updated. 205 BTC pledged so far. * kiba bangs his head against the wall. So, is anybody finding it useful?
Do we have enough uncontroversial detail that somebody can start coding? It's....kiba.  1L7ywhXKssgor6DxBGrpaecmUJuUmxGrtU So I was wrong. These are well meaning bitcoiners who don't know much about the bureaucratic process try to get bitcoin up. That hinder our credibility. Even so, I think you have to concede that there isn't a concerted effort by mass of bitcoiners to try to get the article re-listed. * kiba feels a bit foolish sometime. Oh please, you're the one wasting time here. Are we...dead? If nobody offer such service in Germany, maybe you could be the first person to offer bitcoin for cash. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2236.0For those who want bitcoin/tahoe-lafs integration, pledge your bitcoin where your mouth is. ROFL. You think we are secretly sockpuppetting accounts on wikipedia. That is paranoia, pure and simple.If you EVER BOTHER[edit] to read the discussion here on the forum, you would realize that the founder of the community DO NOT LIKE being associated with wikileak. That shut down the discussion of getting wikileak to accept bitcoin donation. Of course, that was moot. The gossip mills spread too far from our control.This. Is. Hilarious.  Dude, just be objective and do your job instead of being paranoid about a secret conspiracy by bitcoiners. You do realize that Bitcoin already received media coverage by PcWorld, IrishTime, and ComputerworldUk?If that doesn't make Bitcoin notable, I don't know what will. Yeah, you don't have to tell us. A couple of Wikipedians in this community told us that to get included in wikipedia, we must be "notable", which mean newspaper, academic source, etc al. Wee! Thanks for another 50 BTC anonymous donation yesterday! Half of my saving now come from my art career earning. Your continued baconage is continuously welcomed. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=79 0.10 BTCI redrew the right portion of the hair and made the ponytail more apparent. Other than that, some more shading is done.There's some inconsistency on the left portion of hair. I'll fix that. Than I'll move on to her poorly drawn hands. No, no, and no. We're just letting this deletion discussion run it course. Update:I created two models; prediction and bid.Prediction data: title, description, and by date.Bid: PredictId, UserId, txn.I also added a funds attribute to users.Once the rudimentary detail is done, I'll work on a script to upload site to aceat64's server so that I can test it with a few people. Thanks for the idea..I am going to make an epic wallpaper one of these day.... Tested it. It should be 23:59 for future quests. I figured out how to use it, with some difficulty and some heart jumping moment.(Do not post URI to private data) I am pledging 5 BTC for whoever....Create an accounting system that will incentivize people to contribute HD space and make it easy to pay bitcoins for storage of data.Pledgers:1. Kiba - 10 BTC2. slush - 100 BTC3. dejayal - 100 BTCTotal: 210 BTC A mere 30 years after the collapse of the Soviet Union? Interesting. Distributed knowledge at our call! Also don't forget we also have no bureaucracy. 
So erm, I have no peers. It said I have zero peers after I wrote the stuff for my introducer node or whatever. Don't forget Hacker News!http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1998144 Did you put the date today? That might be why.I am going to make sure that when you post Today, it will be 23:59 instead of.....00:00. That will be 4 BTC in total. Anyway, noted.Waterfox lead at spot 1 and 2 with 2 BTC. davidonpda lead at spot 3 with 1 BTC.Auction info: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1929.msg28537#msg28537 We broke Most Online Today with 104 users on December 12. Wow. Please link to page so we know what you're talking about. Site is operational. (with mybitcoin)There is much more work to be done. Security, user restriction, etc. Trolls are indistinguishable than totally super-uninformed can't think users. I got it running, but I don't know how to use introducer. I think this tahoe-lafs thing is more difficult than it needs to be. Each wikipedia language community develop their own rules. For which spot? Tahoe Lafs is not exactly userfriendly. davidonpda lead each spot by 1 BTC. Fixed.I also have an auction ongoing for those who buy a spot with Haruka Nakamoto at a New York Cafe after an important bitcoin conference. That will be my next art project.No spot had been bid on yet.See http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1929.msg28537#msg28537 for more details. Jesus, I made a mistake. That's just the preview, Mahkul. A small, TIIIIINY picture. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=56 0.10 BTCBlah, you can only do so much in one hour of coloring.Anyway, I shrinked her pony tail and gave her a ribbon, which is not easily identifiable now. I put in some shading for skins and hair.The next time I work on this, I'll redraw the right portion of her hair(Remember, she's facing us). By that point, I am pretty much done with the line art on her face. Weekend update, please? The right to silence are very important to us, even if we don't like proprietary software. We aren't looking to eliminate proprietary software, but a monopoly privilege.That's a very important distinction. 
On second thought, didn't tribler already implemented all of these? I created a rudimentary registration system. Not sure sessions work.So I am working on prediction stuff. No need a torrent block chain. Just run a p2p distributed search engine. You find a torrent you like. You download it. You keep the torrent data in your torrent cache so others can download it from you... Nobody is going to do it for free....and even if they, they're probably occupied with an open source project. I hope you're right. Let hope the governments of the world simply ignore us. There are already fierce competition in the download space. There is ubitio.us, bitcoinservice.co.uk, and pastecoin.com.  Well, my effort to do so partly work. I got it enough so that people tell other people that wikileak accepting bitcoin is a bad idea at this stage in development. Or we can Sirius here and discuss about how we're going to mirror the bitcoin forum database... More people needed to fulfill niches! I tried to stop people from thinking that idea, but apparently words got to journalist faster than I can inform twittering users.All that is left is to organize and mobilize some kind of defense. If anybody don't object, the book we will focus on is Man, Economy, and the State. Read chapter 1 by 12/18. Be prepared to discuss it next week.Also, PDF is available online from mises.org. The deadline: 12/18 Saturday.In the meantime, I suggest we come up with a guide on how to approach our reading... VLC? I am hard to hearing. So I don't hear fan noise.  I am setting aside some time to experiment with Tahoe-LAFS. If all goes well, I will fulfill my promise to pledge 5 BTC for a bitcoin payment solution. Hey. I forgot you! The 15 BTC weren't worth enough dollars to be able to deposit into projectwonderful. Do you want a refund? Which then get converted into USD? With BitDNS, I don't think you have to care much about customer service since registration of domain names is entirely automatic. Usually when you posted on the bitcoin.org forum, you don't call them a fraud first. You ask for customer service on the forum...then if they did not reply, feel free to call them a scammer. Beware, that others have good customer service with them. So this accusation can deflect back on you. First of all, you misunderstand "scam". Scam is usually a social engineering attack, not a software attack. It is your mind that need securing, not bitcoin. "Bitcoin is a peer-to-peer network based anonymous digital currency." should have anonymous changed to pseudonymous?
Already blasted the writer at twitter about this connection he made with bitcoin and wikileak.But otherwise, it's time to grow like...WEEDS. Satoshi is already Independently wealthy(or will be). Why would he operate banks? http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=53 0.10 BTCUpdate today: The shading in general are much more pronounced now. The left portion(she's facing us) redrawing is pretty much done. Skin shading is just starting. I also started cleaning the cloak. If you want large changes in one revision, you won't get it in this update. Remember though, this is about an hour of work. Also, thanks for the anonymous patron donated 50 BTC to me! Make my work all the more worthwhile. For the last recent downtime, Sirius did an upgrade on the server. No worry. Satoshi doesn't operate any e-wallet/banking business in bitcoin. Also, the use of "father" is creepy. Founder is a better term. Peter Thiel have nothing to do with Paypal now, therefore he isn't responsible for bad behaviors of paypal. It's Sirius and he speculate that there were too much memory usage. In other words, the bitcoin community is growing. This is the second time that the forum goes down. We should definitely do something about distributing and mirroring it. Anonymous is a mob, pure and simple. what u mean ? you can sign up and trade on bitcoin[/quote]Dude, nobody understands what you're saying. You don't even understand bitcoin! * kiba heads into the bitcoin bomb shelter to wait out the currency war.Pissing off and winning an economic battle with the world's most powerful organization in the world isn't going to be easy.  It's Netflix's choice!But fortunately, the customers can decide to leave NetFlix. An overwhelming supermajority for BitDNS. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=52 0.10 BTCIn today's update, I redrew the eyes, nose, and mouth as well generally cleaning up shoulder/neck area. Then I begins applying a skin primary layer.With the exception of the skin coloring, these changes are subtle, but I think it will produce a much cleaner artwork.(What's going on, guys? No download yesterday!) Wait until they get wind of BitDNS!   Usually, when a bank run happens, it cause the bank to collapse. I wouldn't trust Russia with processing my payment anyway. They will use gangster and other mean to impose a bureaucrat's personal taxation system. So how much money is recovered after the paypal crash? If we all withdraw money, can MtGox guarantee no bank run? The supply of bitcoin is just an integer determined by network. Otherwise, bitcoin are non-scarce. I can copy a wallet a millllllllllllioooooooooon of time and it will contain the same integer. It's a very weird form of scarcity and non-scarcity. Both book are extremely hardcore, however Man, Economy, and the State is a book that teach you from the foundation. Human Action assume a lot of knowledge.The knowledge of bitcoiners probably vary widely despite we are probably one of most economic sophisticated laymen. So it's good to get a super solid foundation.Start with MES, then we can tackle Human Action.
Just because they are powerful and well-connected doesn't mean we can't win.Rather, it just require different strategy for our size. Why does coding an android application that use bitcoin doesn't count? Is it domainchain or is it bitdns? Let settle this question! In 30 days, this poll will expire and that will determine the final name for the project. I think he mean, "dual licensed business model". One is the GPL, the others is "as long as you pay us, you can do whatever the shit you want" license. So, any work lately? I already created an encyclopedia that is dual licensed under GNU FDL/CC-BY.  The conclusion? Nobody cares if you're an obscure encyclopedia. Any other suggestion on how to verify the integrity of banks/e-wallet/whatever. Well, I am definitely going to petition banks I used if I can download their wallet at least one time everyday at anytime I want. Loaning is fine. It's just losing my saving due to fractional reserve banking that I am worried about. Anybody have a book that they want to suggest? It's also the most unmarketable information. Here how you market your software: http://www.bingocardcreator.com/ Hmm, how do you verify the integrity of banks? Mtgox and mybitcoin. So, we do not see any fractional reserve banking yet. All the banks are full-reserve. We broke record today, once again. December 9 with 418 posts. As far as I know, I am the only artist who continuously produced arts for bitcoin. Alternate currency? BitDNS is not a competitor to bitcoin, it's [edit] supposed to serve the purpose of domain registration.  This is a forum. You could at least clean up your writing up to my level. We called Satoshi the bitcoin founder, not "father". Father is weird, IMHO. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=43 Price: 0.10 BTC.More shading, and more redrawing of lines. Instead of those figging ugly hairlines, I have replace most of the hair strand lines with niccccce lines. I hope you guys will be able to perceive the difference because I put about an hour of work into this.I also watched a few tutorial on drawing and coloring anime figures. In that time, I learned that I did my shading wrong. So, shading fixing here I come! No. We do it the hardcore way, productions of goods and services meant to undermine the authority of the state.
Our code repository is non-existent and we're still debating the best route for DomainChain/BitDNS.* kiba is anxious.  Erm, I am reluctant to buy because I don't have much money. The entirely of my saving is 99.86 BTC, some of which are reserved for pledge payment in the future. Sorry. The price of bitcoin is determined by the market.You can inspect the source code yourself. However, the real control lies in those who run the software. The programmer may wrote the code, but it's the user who run bitcoin that decide if they want to use it. Supply and demand. Ok, my last statement make no sense, either.I meant, you have to pay if you want to preview it?Thanks for fixing the problem. The OpenGameArt project, which patronize artists for the express purpose of building a resource base for open source games.If you want open source games to have pretty graphics, you can now donate bitcoin at this address: 1Q1Vh8Mfr2yNeDogtJWNLMZCdxteCwbueETheir website is: http://opengameart.org/ Yes, we should do something better than a HTML scrape. Do you mean, I have to pay before downloading? Makes no sense. Bitcoin god?    Seem to be a non-sequitur.  Very few business that I know of make money from BSD model. They make it from their GPL/dual licensed model.It doesn't matter if you just closed the source code and try to sell it. If you make your own changes, but you have to integrate the upstream source....well good luck. Nonsense, most people will still buy domain names.  And why do you think that is?I started the bounty pledge drive precisely because I didn't like what the The Pirate Bay is doing. A bunch of Japanese tweeted about bitcoin. Maybe we could contact one of them and ask them if they're interested in making some sort of exchange for yen to bitcoin. So how hard it is to get the forum data mirrored, anyone? For my next art project, I will auction "character" space.The image will depict Haruka Nakamoto, the genderbended version of the inventor who invent bitcoin, talking with 3 bitcoiners(Who still have no idea) in a New York cafe after a bitcoin conference. This will be a wallpaper.It will  be my first entirely digital artwork, no drawing on paper.1. The person sitting next to her. waterfox - 2 BTC.2. The person sitting across to her. waterfox - 2 BTC.3. The person sitting left of the person sitting across to her. davidonpda - 1 BTC.4. Background spot. da2ce7 - 10 BTCIf you win, you will be asked to provide a photo, or at least a description of what you look like. You will also be provided daily FREE access to work-in-progress.End date: Whenever I finished the current artwork.   I don't know. We could have a round-table on a book. Let say, each of us pledge to read a book about economic. Then we get together and talk about the particular chapter with questions like....What is true and not true, economic implication, and so on. Self sufficient mean making your own food, house, etc. Interdependent mean that you are relying on trade partners, and trade partners relying on you. Bad communication exacerbated by my brain not processing right(sleep deprived)."Minced" is allowing humans to do whatever they want, instead of adhering to strict procedure defined by software code. In other words, introduction unpredictable, and eventually a lack of respect for the rule of law. "Let censor this shit because I don't like it" that kind of thing.That is what I mean here. Unfortunately, my brain thought process wasn't translated accurately in the writing.
Jeri Ellsworth is the most hardcore hardware hacker I know, while also being a women.I don't think she's an anarchist, though. interdependent Anarchy is no ruler, not no law. Define an "illict" business.Look, all I am saying that if somebody is doing something bad, it would better if we know about it, rather than remaining underground.If he protocol will not get minced by "exceptions"...well all know how well that road turn out.[edit] Who say that I actually support BitDNS/DomainChain piggyback on the bitcoin chain? Nanaimogold seem to have gone irrational. That's a rather strange conception. DomainChain/BitDNS are available to anybody who wishes to use it. It also make them easier to track down. The authorities would ban/censor such site instead of actually solving problems. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/53 0.10 BTCDecided to switch back to bitcoinservice.co.uk because they have preview displayed.So what I did in this artwork? More shading and more redrawing the lines. It's rather slow work sometime. With all due respect, taking the site's domain name down won't do anything against criminal activity. It just make it harder to track. Also, it was human elements that force domain name to be taken off the net.If you have to say "Sorry, we can't do anything about it. It's against the protocol", than you can't take down the domain name or interfere with its operation. Blah, those aren't likely to be original. They can go to 4chan and download wallpapers for free. Bigger stuff mean higher priority. Bitcoin users who didn't load the bitcoin chain data with lards are left with lower priority. December 8th. Largest post in one day. 389. Coloring process = digital touchup then actual coloring.If you download the latest artwork, you would already know that yes, of course, I do touchup. Others elsewhere or previously have suggested we build a chain dependent on the bitcoin chain. Some way to hash the data against a block.That way, miners would still be strengthening the bitcoin network. Miners are rejecting the [edit]isStandard. Hmm, I think it might be cost-effective to distribute flyers around college campus and get people to come to a room or some location on campus so that you could fully explain bitcoin and answer questions that they might have. Shouldn't this be in the bitcoin discussion forum. Update? Bitcoin stock markets and bitcoin corporation that are not officially listed in any government registary. Based entirely on the reputation of the corporation.Shareholders can be completely anonymous.
No, it's a study group comprised of bitcoiners. Hmm...since bitcoin needs economists who can think accurately about problem, how about we set up a study group to motivate each other and learn. Make sure you guys vote.Israel added. TheMadHatter: It seem that you are alway chronically short/empty of visa cards. Latest report:Started 13 days ago.Expense: 7.79 USDPageviews: 136,114Clicks: 58CPM: 0.06 USDCPC: 0.13 USDCTR: 0.04% Time based expiry date rather than block based expiration system. Obviously registrar could remain users to renew as they had done in the earlier system. You misunderstood me. I didn't suggest anything like voting or whatever. You have forgotten the rule that I asserted earlier in the thread:Nowhere did I suggest that we should give authority to whoever, or shutting down the DNS system in favor of court/judges/messyhumanjudgement. It could set some precedent for protocol change that allow people to shut down certain domains.I suspect most of the domain names will be grabbed by speculators who will ransom it to large corporations. Search engines would ignore domain names that violate certain standard of a business mark. Done. I got similar vibes. Feel "snake oil". (However, I am not a health expert so I wouldn't know) But promotions are good, I guess. So, Bruce Wagner, do you actually listen to this national radio? Yes, coding need to be done soon.Repeating ad nauseum:Speed is of the essence. When I make enough bitcoins each month, one of the first thing I will be buying is a phone from this dude.  BUMP. Just send money to wikileak directly. Very strange to form a foundation for DomainChain before we form an organization for Bitcoin. It would be a very different direction if you're looking to make money. Better to organize a few rich libertarian donors. I am a linux user and I don't use expensive photo editing tool. Beside, GIMP is good enough for me. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=16 Price: 0.102I jumped again to another download host, looking for the best deal. This time, it's forum user genjix! I have two things to complain though:1. WHERE IS THE PREVIEW IMAGE THAT I ASK FOR?2. 2%? You dare add them to my price? That's unexpected behavior.As for what I am doing to the art in this iteration:I am redrawing the lines to be crispy clear with a GIMP tool called Path. It is a very POWERFUL tool. Heck, I might as well draw digitally instead of scanning in artworks.Now, at the same time, I am also shading. I finally figured out how to do that by manipulating the opacity. Combined with path, they're a piece of cake.I didn't know all these thing before I started drawing for bitcoin. For those who download...Thanks for the continued baconage!
No, no, no. The DNS system should be kept as simple as possible.There will be no silly voting, or court, or any complicating shit. So your friend knows that he have to convert from LR to dollars before finally making a profit?Hmm, maybe you should trade him cash for bitcoins. It's called a surprise party. We will have a party at the deathbed of governments, while they try to furiously struggle to get out of the bed for one last confrontation. But anyway, the idea of fixing vulnerabilities, in my opinion have merit. Software quality can get better.  They are getting colored. Added Costa Rica. Not if we make it extraordinary harder for NSA to discover new holes, cause we plugged them all.A tiger team IS confronting reality. It just find holes through any mean possible. Find security vulnerabilities are like vaccination. Time is on our side. There is no need to test this proposition when we can gradually grows and then catch the government off guard. Than they can't do shit.Fund security bounties, or form a tiger team instead of letting a hostile force performing it for us. Max chance for accomplishing our goal, not max chance for extra publicity. There are plenty of PR opportunity that doesn't make us get additional scrutiny from the government. Simultaneous inventions are not surprising. This phenomenon had been happening throughout the history of science and invention. Do we have a consensus on nanotube's proposal? Any objection? The free market are "self-regulating" ya know? Speculation is natural; even healthy.  Look, we don't need to take extreme risk to win. Time is on our side.Once hyperinflation break out, the government can't do much of anything. By that time, the bitcoin economy would be ready to take on the economic load of the collapse.We have no idea about the rate of growth and the ability of government to find flaws to attack bitcoin. Ribuck: I believed that is a brilliant hack. We finally have intrinsic value for bitcoin!  <--- In another thread.So there's an economic calculation problem. We...cannot reliably predict how many domain name registration are needed each block.So we going to need to price generation of blocks, somehow? We won't make fun of you.On my Bitcoiner honor! Look like we got a supermajority of libertarians, and then the libertarians are composed mostly of anarchists. We need a wiki real bad so Rhorning can write down what he means.RRRRRRRRRRRRRibuck? So domain name generation are limited by the velocity of miners spending, but then they have to generate a block to get the coin. So if you spent a coin to register a domain, then it stay frozen until the domain expire? Let me this straight: so we use fractional coins to prevent network spamming? Or is it bitcoin?
Umm, each coin stand for one domain.However, I don't think we need transaction fee. This is not bitcoin after all.The incentive for 50 coins each block they generate ARE the transaction fee. Maybe?I am worried about people who spam change to the DNS database? Remember, we can't let those .p2p dudes beat us to the punch! Yup, they're a mob, alright. I RAGE.  At any rate, do we have enough information that's agreed so that the core hackers can develop right now? Hmm. I guess I might not just have the auction then. That's interesting. I guess we adopt that. I am going to do an auction for domain name generation rate.Simply, put your bitcoin where your mouth is.Those money raised will be going to the core developers of DomainChain.(Not me!)Each blocks shall generate...50 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.100 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.150 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.200 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.250 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.500 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.1000 DCC. Bid: 0 BTC.I suppose the generation rate will gradually move toward the limit that people voted on(with their BTC). Help...me...please! Doesn't seem hard to me. It's a normal trade to me. Wait, I am a bit confused. Alternative currency for DomainChain?Oh, these represent addresses? DDoS doesn't produce anything productive. It's a version of a mob. We broke Most Online Today this December with 101, finally overcoming July's record of 98. BTW, the liberty ads work well on...well LIBERTY related site.   The post-slashdot community is only 5 months old, but I think a lot had change over the past 5 months. 100 domains per block is 25 years.150 domains per block is 18.5 years.200 domains per block is 12.5 years.Personally, I don't feel like I am a rush to do a lot of domain registration fast. 15 years is good enough for me. We don't need to register tons of domain within a few short years, since not everybody will be willing to switch from central to decentralized.Also, the population of humanity ain't likely to grow forever... So we can expect that growth at some taper off at some point in the future.However, this generation rate have the potential to spark a long debate..so we need a method that let us decide quickly somehow. Satoshi had essentially gave his words that we're going to stay low, at least for the time being.In my opinion, this is the wise decision. There is no need to risk battle for high risk gain when we will obtain that anyway.Plus, you also have to remember to factor in monetary inflation and federal reserve's policy. When the government does collapse, it will be incredibly m00t. Time is on our side, as long as we grow. The value of wilicoin will be certainly almost worthless compared to bitcoin.If people start using wilicoin and the currency become more popular, there may be the danger of wilicoin displacing bitcoin. So the formula for creating problems and adjusting difficulty will be the same?(Forgive my ignorance) The mobs might just be looking at him as a witchhunwfricklet.Human judgement are fickle.However, you could easily solve this problem by villagers owning the bridge outright.
Thanks for downloading when nobody else did. You have to think through your example.Suppose that bridge have access to a single village and the bridge owner decides to institute an annoying rule to annoy travelers and village people. That village will die out. The bridge will fall into disrepair and the owner will be left with a bridge that doesn't make any money.In other words, the bridge owner have some incentive to maintain links or else he have to find another job.Of course, if he doesn't have a profit motive, that's another matter.However, the same thing can happen to people who put their money into a scam, or willingly sell the bridge to an evil property owner who have preferences outside of human norms.If you institute a regulatory authority of some kind or have some kind of mob rules, the rule of laws will disappear, and the uncertainty cost will increase. This lead to less capital formation that alleviate your bridge problem. I am please to announce that I am able to access bitpredict's VPS again thanks to aceat64. I am following a freakishly easy tutorial on QT. You can see my progress of my client for DomainChain by watching my repository progress. Where the incentive for generators to get paid?On the other hand, it won't be limited right? It will be a unique name of some kind. Exceptions are of course, dangerous.We invent it in the time of danger, never to waver again. Sometime we invent exceptions so we can arrest that person we don't like. I have no complaint. Latest report:Begun 11 days ago.Total expense: 5.95Total pageviews: 108,028Total clicks: 50CPM: 0.06 USDCPC: 0.12 USDCTR: 0.05% Bleg. All I need to do is change the name. In any case, do ribuck and RHorning have any inkling on what you guys agree on and how to implement the protocol? The faster some things that are agreed on, the more code we can do. What software are you using for the site? The Cherokee were some very sophisticated folks. So, I will be learning the QT toolkit and creating a client for BitDNS system.We don't know how bitDNS will work in great detail. I assume many as possible bitcoin convention will be borrowed for expediency.Repository: https://github.com/kiba/DomainChain_client It's easy for me to change the name of the git project, whatever you decide. Still BitDNS is catchy. Oh yeah, this is nice. We need a distribution scheme of some kind. Yes, the core developers should be focused on the network and the protocol.I am making it my project to write a BitDNS client. I don't need the bitcoins. I just want to help so that the core developers can focus on the important stuff. We should look to help people of all wealth level so they can contribute to the strength of the bitcoin economy. Any progress lately? Even my political system teacher said that statistically, votes don't matter. These the are principles that I discovered/believed govern...bitcoin.1. Certainty rule. It is better to have have predictable simple rules over complicated and uncertain rules that can be gamed or justified away. Human judges are worse than computer programs since they can be bribed, feel with irrational emotions, and prone to logical reasoning failure. Algorithms have no hidden feeling, especially when we can inspect it.2. Least Violence.Incentive structure should be devised to keep scammer and baddies in check. However, we won't raise hell to confiscate bitcoins and other goodies. People don't die in bitcoin transactions. If we raise hell, we have a court system, which violated the Certainty rule. Then we must have police force to take down the scammer and confiscate his bitcoins/goodies. That send a strong signal to bitcoiners to be reckless and careless with their money because they can alway use force to get it back. That's bad for the rule of law.Your thoughts?
Remember, speed is of the essence. We can alway replace the database with something else, but not time.All non-essential features should be blocked from implementation focus.That mean the core developers don't work on a fancy GUI. They will focus on:1. The mechanism to mine, register, and change a domain name.2. The mechanism to distribute or output the DNS database. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/21 Price: 0.10 BTC.WE HAVE PREVIEW! Thanks bencoder for adding this feature.So, what the latest revision so far?Base coloring for hair is DONE. Cleaning the hair of remaining stray lines is DONE. Next I believed is 3 layers of shading. I am using this tutorial as a guide, even though I used GIMP. For the love of god, do you want another war? Two wars that cost a lot of money, then we get social security liabilities(entitlement) to worry about. Then we got this security and military industrial complex to worry about. Code:Attempting to connect to :8335Error? They don't like the idea of free radical hackers undermining those in power. Keep the ball rolling folks! I know this is not all of you. * kiba points to a discussion link. Wha, a wireless provider now accept bitcoin!? How is price determined? Against exchange rate on mtgox? When in doubt, remove human elements. Adopt certainty of computer software code over uncertainty of judges. Complicated rules invite gaming and abuse. Sound like fractional reserve banking. Thank you for giving us a boost. By all means, pledge some bitcoins if you can't code, or do anything. I can't do any of the real important stuff, but I can show that I am serious. Github and git. I like. It's distributed version control system. Any developer can fork the project and continue on their own implementation and they can request pulls as necessary.Also remember, everything is in version control. If you messed up the code, it's not a big deal. Just revert to the last state. Remember to commit as well push often too. And we have no money. I think the community is squeezed between the FSF possible bounty and the bitDNS bounty. Speed is of the essence if we're going to show .p2p how to really do distributed DNS. I am impressed that Satoshi think of everything.   Ribuck, If only I have the necessary knowledge to adapt it, I would have dropped it and just implement it. Nobody asked for refunds AFAIK, but it is accurate that bytemaster had not been active since November 9. He should at least visit the forum 5 minutes a day to reassure us.He didn't. You reasoning is sound, but the cost and benefit is hard to determine. We don't have many people who really understand how bitcoin work, real deeply. So Satoshi would have to be fast on his toe. Wow, so we don't need a bounty at all?
If previous bounties are any indication, there won't be a developer that will do something to claim it.I think it is also best that the project is a group effort if multiple developers claim it. The bounty splited will probably be not worth the effort, though. Best way to get the BitDNS system running off the ground?Adapt the bitcoin source code? Done. Now we're in business.Of course, the more people donate, the more incentive there will be.Pledge. Pledge. Pledge. Pledge. Pledge.The race is on!And oh yeah, pledge. Time to start a bounty thread, S3052. bober182: If you're still here and you're still doing "that thing". I suggest you turn around and tell the wikileaks folk that wikileak should stop considering bitcoin for the moment in case that Satoshi's message didn't get through. Anybody who the balance on behalf of others, really.But, you won't be able to authorized withdrawal until the grace period is over.For example, some kind of server check each site if it is down. If the grace over is period and the site is not backup, a person can then go to the server and authorize release. Thank you, ribuck. We shouldn't rely on trust to do this. Latest report:Begun 10 days ago.Total expense: 4.95 USDTotal pageviews: 93,770Total clicks: 39CPM: 0.05 USDCPC: 0.13 USDCTR: 0.05% A "Deadsite Kill Switch" system is frankly a way of refunding balances to owners after a total, complete irreversible shutdown of a website.All the balance hold by that website operator are automatically refunded. It doesn't matter if the site operator went to jail. There would be no way for anybody to stop the refund of balance.Anybody want to brainstorm on how to implement this idea?1. I think a grace period is needed. Let say 15 days. This is so if the site went back up, it would still keep the balance.----EDIT-----Uh oh, it should be moved to the Discussion forum. I incoprorated your excellent countermeasure suggestion. Alright, we're on a roll! Bounty rose to 60 BTC.Keep the pledge coming. Thank you for the continued baconage. All that bacons are really nice.I raised 1.4(0.10 which was by me....since I can't download my own artwork for free).That mean, I get to take home 1.26 BTC, while bencoder have the rest. That mean, I made .20 USD this week at the current exchange value. When he went to all this trouble to create this wonderful project, he deserves a lot of recognition. Let's not let this issue divide us.You do realize that time spent on helping wikileaks is not time spent on growing bitcoin. I think growing and making bitcoin better is a good use of our time. There are already ton of people helping wikileaks. When the time is right, bitcoin is going to change the world, just as it had changed how bitcoiners view money....forever. Yes, yes. This is why I offered a bounty. I encourage everyone to pledge some bitcoins if they aren't capable of doing this project.Why it is only 40 BTC at this stage is beyond me. I speeeeeend way too much time on this project.Anyway, here's what I done.1. I run everything through the ink pen, which make everything a bit more clear and sharp. Then, I turn up on the brightness and contrast to clean out the grey lines. Not everything is rendered painstakely, but that can easily be arranged when I get around to color and then further cleanup.2. I finally figured out the multiply mode of the layer. Started coloring the hair with the base color.3. I redrew the left eyes, digitally. These eyes are now 100% more awesome than the sketch version.Here's the download...http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/18 Price: 0.10 BTC. This isn't about a permission issue.I just want bober182 to be a responsible member of the community. He's going in there, contacting the organization, when it is clear that members of the community don't think it is the best idea. He didn't address any of our concerns. He didn't give us any details what he is planning to do, except putting additional "pressure" which could mean anything from "being pushy" or selling "snake oil".This is akin to somebody just go in there, with no plans and guns blazing, costing half of his squads and then costing us a war in the long run. This is god awful reasoning that didn't address any of my concerns, or jgarzik, or any others.We also have no ideas what the heck you're saying to these people. So you decide to ignore the long discussion and just do it?Listen to people's argument, make a decision, give a reasoned case for what you're going to do, and then do it.Also, it would be nice if you explain what kind of "pressure" you're doing. You represent the rest of the bitcoiners here, so it's nice to know how bob182 is acting on our behalf.
The likelyhood of the idea getting implemented is likely slim to none. A domain name key should be so important that people will backing it up, automatically. Bold the heading, incorporated one of RHorning's suggestion. Err, just start a bounty thread? Using that guy as a sacrificial lamb isn't exactly what I called, anarchistic. Unless, he agreed to cover for the real leaker. Updated my analysis.  A top secret anarchist cabal penetrated the US government. It's simple really. I don't have money but I think we should set up a bitcoin bounty for security, like I been suggesting everywhere. It will be a start. People already put up links about BitDNS. It may allows us to unfold our wings.Beside, what is done, done. Bob182 already talked to a person within the wikileak organization.But there are much safer route to unfolding our wings. Please note, this is a revised version of an email that I sent to a guy who know something about security.--------------1. Who are our adversaries?Corporations who have their business destroyed by bitcoin competition, or in the process of getting destroyed. Government who are keen to control their economy through central banking.2. What are their capabilities?Security and cryptanalysis knowledge. Nation-state level resources. Ability to use force and threats to keep people in line.3. What are our countermeasure?Network effect; strength in number. Promoting, and growing the economy.Security and cryptanalysis knowledge. Constant discussion about security.Decentralization effort such as BitDNS. I open sourced my prediction market; however, we do not have open source exchange markets and other critical infrastructure.The head cannot be easily cut off. The authority will find it difficult to haul away Satoshi Nakamoto, but it cannot be said the same for other people. Already growing the number of hacker who know how bitcoin work and can improve it. 4. Measures we could take:Create a dedicated tiger team whom jobs is to find security flaws within the network. Offer security bounties as incentives.Open source key infrastructure such as trading sites.Create protocol documentation."Kill switch" for bitcoin banks system. (Really, it mean that everyone who hold bitcoin balance on the behalf of somebody else.) I suggest assembling a tiger team or make security bounties or do both.But, you have to remember that the security of the network also come from the strength of people running it. So, wikileaks might add more legit computing power rather than cheating nodes, or not. It's hard to know.Brute-force attacks are least likely. We probably have some bugs lurking in the system. Success is not guaranteed; access risk; act wisely; remember knowledge gaps.It's funny to see a miniarchist libertarian say "Bring it on" when anarchists like me are advising cautions.It look like I am right, people throw cautions to the wind. There's alway a leader of some kind. It might be a person with a high reputation. I am using this document as the BitDNS bounty's protocol document. A....USB drive!And the whiteboard is actually a monitor. Maybe I should put some stuff in there... For some reason, we lack programming manpower.Nobody is doing an android client, for example. Security is not made by invading foreign nation and inadvertently increasing heroin production in the process, inadvertently killing more Americans through heroin overdose... Since I woke up, I been hard at work cleaning the image up and practically redrew some of the features such as the eyes. If you had been keeping my artwork through out the evolution, you would have notice the cleanness and sharpness of the face compared to the scan.So here's my work for today, which had been resized from its ungodly large scan:http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/17Price is 0.10 BTC. We can't have this for the community do we?It's more fun to think of Satoshi as the awesome badass hacker with a secret mission to destroy money monopoly rather than just an ordinary hacker who got a really good idea how to destroy money monopoly and decided it would be risky..hmm....
Latest report:Begun 9 days ago.Total expense: 3.83 USDTotal pageviews: 68,790 impressionsTotal clicks: 38CPM: 0.06 USDCPC: 0.10 USDCTR: 0.06 Just woke up...Update complete. Lot of little Davids versus a few Goliaths. What can the worst happen? http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2072.0Started a pledge drive. Go. Go. Go. In the unlikely event of several bounties being fulfilled at once, all my bitcoins will be gone.BUT THE TIME IS NOW! We heard the .p2p folks sucks because they can't figure out how to decentralize allocation of domain name...so we're going take the glory for ourselves!Since I don't know shit about creating something like bitcoin for DNS allocation, I'll pledge money instead. Here's the proposal below.http://www.bitcoin.org/wiki/doku.php?id=bitdns_draft_0_1Discussion on the idea:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1790.0And Pledgers:Kiba: 20 BTC.Ribuck: 100 BTCem3rgentOrder: 20 BTCbencoder: 20 BTCSmokeTooMuch: 1000 BTCchaord: 2000 BTCnoagendamarket: 50 BTCjorgen: 90 BTCda2ce7: 50 BTCforever: 50 BTCMahkul: 100 BTCTotal: 3500 BTC. One thing I have learned in this community:You can't prevent bitcoiners from doing whatever they want. They throw caution to the wind. Knew it. They sucks.Our opportunity is now, but unfortunately I think we lack the expertise to create a BitDNS. THIS IS WORKING DRAFT:How it will work:Each claim have a stock of 1000. People will seed price estimation by deciding how much each of the stock is worth. Each stock can be sold and brought on the market. Each have an end date.Traders who don't invest in a claim will judge. There can only be 3 of them, they must be elected by majority rule on each side. If possible, bots will judge. Bot don't have feeling, emotions and their code as well data they collect is open to the public for inspection.The losers' pool get divided up into the winners.1% of winner pool get divided into the losers.Meanwhile, the site operator and me get 0.002 for each trade. 0.001 of which will go to the judges.UPDATEStill working on old boring registration and session system. Wow. It actually say generated? The media will want interviews with Satoshi Nakamoto but we have no idea who he is. Confirmed. Satoshi Nakamoto might as well be John Smith. It's a common name. So I am going to give her a generic name.Haruka Nakamoto. Sooo not going to make it. I think earned something like 3 BTC at best. Oh well. But I think I will make more money next week given that I have higher price and better commission rate.BTW, everyone who is part of this challenge is supposed to report how they're doing...at least one time each week...because ya know it's interesting. Read it again. You will receive X amount IF this block is solved.I think the server calculate based on the value of your hashes. But doublec can switch it to actual hashes contributed. How often is this synced? What make you thinks teen use weeds? Since I pretty much completed the lineart, I scanned it in at a high resolution.The price is 0.10. I am sure you can handle that, no?http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/16 Supposely there's a job board in the work. With the exception of the billing related issue, the site is pretty much fully operational. Very well. I'll email him. 
1. Please implement trading fee calculation so that we don't need to make an additional mental calculation when selling and buying on the currency market.2. Your transaction history doesn't include processing fee for 40 BTC from testing. Is that a bug?3. legitament should be spelled as legitimate. https://mtgox.com/merch/about4. Your interface for sending bitcoins not using mtgox is flawed. It should keep user on a waiting page for six confirmation to pass -OR- take a risk and accept payment with 0 confirmation.5. I am making this forum post because you are sporadic in your response on IRC. I know that you're not doing it full time but it pains me all the same when I cannot launch my business due in part because of someone's non-responsive behavior.Please respond to the concerns listed here so that I can make decisions and make plans for my business. Did anybody else use mtgox as a payment processor? Your bitcoin are worth more, and it can purchase more. It's different from the result of inflation. I prefer to not let human judge say if it is right to appropriate money from thief. It is introducing a level of uncertainty.This stem from what I called The Principle of Least Violence.(Totally invented on the spot...may or may not coincide with actual principle)Even if it is libertarian theory, proper, to confiscate possessions to be returned to their rightful owners.......one must use least violence amount possible to exact punishment and overcome incentive to steal from others.The goal is to discourage thievery, not necessary to get your property back.Because if you use more violence than necessary:1. You will involve some kind of court system, which may or may not rule that your property is valid for taking. 2. You are creating complication in the common law system. This make the law less predictable.3. You may create more cost than benefit, leading to a downward spiral of societal and rule of law.The bitcoin system encourage people to be more careful with their money and create amicable relationships, thereby eliminating the need for the court. Only when extraordinary circumstance required, that a naturalistic court system will be established. Even so, the court should endeavorer as much as possible eliminating the need for their service. I have blacklisted a forum member for spreading or attempting to spread libel against bitcoin speculators. Others had joined me into the cause.Group ostracism and blacklisting people is the primary system of enforcement by bitcoiners. Other than that, we expect that some people will take advantage of our trust and adjust accordingly.Thus, some of the rule of thumbs are:1. For reversible transaction such as paypal, used trust members.2. Never believe a deal until you demand proof/evidence.3. Use escrow service. Let me ask you a question:Do you really really really really want a judge deciding all of this? I am already calling mtgox and mybitcoin banks. There's no byline that tell us it's written by Satoshi Nakamoto. But wallets are, until you back them up multiple time and encrypted all of them... Please refrain from your overly long posts. It's a waste of time for everyone.The economic advantage of open source is not a distribution policy but a development policy. This development policy implies a distribution model that is quite...open.The GPL is however, not without cost. The term of the GPL is tricky and overly complicated. The proof is that I failed most of the question offered by the GPL. Thus, here lies the transaction cost of the GPL. The GPL is quite indifferent to the development methodology of open source projects. The development methodology of Linux would hardly change if it switch to BSD or more liberal licenses.From there, we can infer that the GPL offer little economic advantage at all from the perspective of open source projects.However, to address your concern about no growth: It mainly have to do with authors not adopting public domain and instead prefering copyright. Thus, we don't see much growth of public domain.Experimental data suggests that people do pay for copyfree stuff, at least Jason Rohrer(About 42,000 USD in a few month) and me(bitcents but earning nonetheless). http://buildingreputation.com/writings/2010/02/on_karma.htmlTL;DR summary:1. Robust karma - quality of contribution and quantity of contribution is key.2. Simple and complex reputations. Simple are evaluation made directly by users, easy to understand. Complex are multiple evaluations based on a variety of factors such as search engine results.3. Don't display karma frequently but also make sure that karma are narrow and contextual as possible.4. Avoid negative karma lest you get "karma bankruptcy" in which a user start a new account. Than we need to grow the copyfree movement.If we could get a coalition of artists and programmers, we could shut down or at least bring a showdown with malicious collection societies. Personally, I just use BTC. Apparently, you send it to a new randomly generated address and then send that to the address you want. I think we all agree here. It's just that....Intrinsic and intrinsic value of theory  got confused together. Please, put your site up so that we can actually provide you with real feedback. It's a human valuation and human use that determine the usefulness of an object. That's subjective theory of value. Perhaps say, humanity don't value or use gold at all. That automatically make gold worthless.Intrinsic theory of value say that each object have an objective value that can be determined without the need of human judgement. It is settled.Bencoder's download site will be used by Kiba from now on.Bencoder's terms are VERY FAVORABLE compared to ubitious.1. I don't have to pay a fee just to make money.2. He only take 10% or .01, whichever is higher.3. Files don't expire, period. Latest report:Begun 8 days ago.Total expense: 2.84 USDTotal pageviews: 50,729 impressions.Total clicks: 23CPM: 0.06 USDCPC: 0.12 USDCTR: 0.05 % This is merely a semantic game.I don't believe each objects have an inherent value of its own.
I started working on bitpredict's user registration and user login/user sessions and the whole nine yard that come with setting up an account system.I will come up with an accountless system for those who are too lazy to register. Oh please. It's a very specific definition.An object is said to have an intrinsic value if humans can find ways to use it other then...money.So cows, cars, houses, etc have intrinsic value. It's not in conflict with subjective theory of value at all.Now, why gold? Well, because gold is the mean of starting over from a barter economy. Bitcoins have no value in a barter economy and cannot arose as money until gold or some other form of money emerge.Therefore, gold is the best form for storing your wealth over the long term. We also see that gold have thousand years of experience as money, while bitcoin...is only 2 years old at best. People trust gold coins more than they trust some new fanged thing called bitcoins. Fair enough. Let me try an answer.Mises' Regression Theorem shows us how money's value is established.The reason why gold arise as the money of choice is because it is a useful commodity under barter(intrinsic value). In other words, gold got its start because it is valuable in an a barter economy, not because it was a good medium of exchange. That come later.Does bitcoin have any value in a barter economy? Nope.But if you can exchange bitcoin in term of gold, than you seed a way for price estimation.Thus...Sheeps -> Gold -> paper money -> unbacked FR notes -> Bitcoins. <- Gold again.IF our economy were to crash and the bitcoin network is wiped out, we have to start with gold again before we can start using bitcoins. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=583.0 Intrinsic value is required for money to arise in a barter economy.Once we get beyond that, we can now bootstrap a currency like bitcoin.Now we have information by which we can perform economic calculation. There's already a casino and it's an MMORPG.http://dragons.tl Wow, you have the hardest job in the world...To explain bitcoin. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/14I am trying out bitcoinservice.co.uk out. This time, it cost .10 BTC. Gold is very useful. If it were more plentiful, people would use gold.Gold have medicine, electronic, and decorative use.  Why would public transport disappear? A bus is more fuel efficient and should benefit from the economy of scale.There would be more train tracks. Trucks are used for local transport of material instead. Expensive?  The site itself seem to be a weird... info-commercial for all the weird medicine stuff. If you have the basic system going, I suggest you to launch it as soon as possible. Why is it so easy? How is it done? Why would this be the most optimal resource allocation? If your goal is to make ice cream available to the masses, then it make sense to allocate to places where people actually will buy ice creams? http://www.cafepress.com/This seem to be a good place to sell t-shirt.If you guys willing, I might do a t-shirt version of Satoshi-chan.  If I do this though, I get 50%, and whatever left goes to...bitcoin bounties. Can you please explain what you mean by this? I concede that one.Then this is a matter of competition between various BitDNS system then. if sex.bitcoin is lost for example, it can't be used forever. And there is only one sex.bitcoin in the whole universe.It doesn't necessary make other domain names more valuable. What it does though is make certain resource useless. If someone lost their wallet, their domain name stay with them forever, with no way to transfer it.Eventually, you get a long string of really good domain name that can't be used forever.
Tax evasion? I was thinking of selling bitcoin t-shirt and mugs to help fund the various bitcoin bounty and other projects here.What do you guys think? Really? It's called The Insurance Company.Insurance want to reduce chance of insuree getting into hospital. Perform a cost analysis, decides that it's cheaper to have everyone be immunized. Offer discount for immunization, moreso if x clients sign up....Well, you get the idea. I will say this again and again ad nauseam. Incentives matter. I been running the remote miner last night....and this morning I saw this:93 clients for a total of 66632 khashes/s or something similar to that. Wee!   New funding option? Did I miss something? Um....  I see. Then the miners will set the fee for domain renewal. Just ask another person to run one. Today's report:Begun 7 days ago.Total expense: 1.69 USDTotal pageviews: 25,637 impressions.Total clicks: 17CPM: 0.07 USDCPC: 0.10 USDCTR: 0.07% Sorry for missed Tuesday.Wednesday is classes day too.... And why it won't work? How would domain name renewal work?   Never mind. Root directory have no space. Code:CMake Error at /usr/share/cmake-2.8/Modules/CMakeTestCCompiler.cmake:52 (MESSAGE):  The C compiler "/usr/bin/gcc" is not able to compile a simple test program. Hmm, it would be interesting to cruise around the world with no permits, official contracts, or anything stately. A government directed assassination of the wikileaks director will be in even deeper shit than wikileak that it is not even funny. If you are German, pretty please send an email to vorstand@ccc.de?EDIT: Fix spelling. Not really. Since, 144 blocks were generated each day in the bitcoin network, this mean 7200 addresses that can be assigned a domain name. Plenty, if you asked me.
 Calling something retard and having no substance to back it up is not a good argument. So, have we reach a decision making point on backup?I think the consensus is:1. Offsite backup, encrypted. Keys held by elder members. Nice to have.1. Failover solution. Some way to get the forum back up and running. Done. Now get lzsaver to do his part. No, no, no. It's not about that even.The government have no incentives to provide quality roads and no incentive to hire competent planners. Yes...you did...Now let me send in the prize money. Offer him some kind of code to access his bidding page. Though I think you have to make sure the traffic is encrypted lest you get people eavesdropped on ad. So, are you going to offer a big bounty for this project? All of which are provided by plunder of individuals and are of... questionable quality.The US have lot of public roads. GAZILLION miles of roads. Our infrastructure are falling apart because we can't maintain the GAZILLION or roads. Plus we get car accidents and traffic congestion.We get snotty city planners that think it is fine to zone area into RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, and INDUSTRY as if it were sim city. The result is suburban sprawl.Incentives matter, BioMike. A lot. Everybody with half a brains know that the elderly had plundered the young with social security.That is the fatal flaw of democracy. Nobody have the discipline to simply not vote themselves money. dyson sphere's habitat 110F There is no difference between the majority and minority representation in government.In the end, they PLUNDER. Do you want rich people to plunder, or the regular poor people to plunder? That is the state. Hmm? I thought we're going to use a separate blockchain than what bitcoin use. It's nice and all that Satoshi can finally exchange bitcoin to yen, but we don't have many Japanese bitcoiners. With all due respect, there are thousand of ideas that are never executed. Then nobody is going to execute it. So, is this proposal for real or what?Is somebody going to modify the SMS, or come up with a new codebase?No offense, but the license of SMS sucks. A million thing can go wrong... But a backup is just that, a backup. There's no communication on the forum happening until SMF is running. The problem is trying to separate "I agree. I disagree." kind of votes from "insightful, I would like to hear more about it" good votes.
Interesting idea: but beware of unintended consequence.I do not want the forum to evaporate cool to only a certain type political viewpoints as much as I dislike certain ideology.  I seen no Germans here try to contact the CCC. I did propose sending a bitcoin representative to one of their conference.  African are generally poor. http://www.mises.org A failover would be nice. So we can continue talking while the original server is getting its shit together. Despite the downtime, we achieved 315 posts that last day of November.  Any German speaker here? I figure I might have better response if a German speaker write in German to the organization at vorstand@ccc.de. Ever since I added finance to our query, we got lot of impressions but still not much clicks.  Here's the report:Begun: 6 days agoTotal expense: 1.01 USDHits: 11,889 impressions.Clicks: 13CPM: 0.08 USDCPC: 0.08 USDCTR: .11% Added Ireland. Yes, it does sound hard to enforce property rights in an anarchy.But, bitcoin is an economy that functions without central banks.So, I have some hope that we can function without a coercive state apparatus.  So, are people actually serious about this idea? I agreed with this assessment. I think in the end, we're voluntaryists at heart. Those who running crying to mama will probably end up getting blacklisted by people in the bitcoin economy, or maybe it will start an evil worse reaction.... If you want to die against military trained killers, good luck with that.What you need to do is:1. Undermine their credibility.2. Reduce dependence on the state.3. Increase your credibility.Rebellions will likely be crushed. Even if you succeed, a power-hungry demagogue will rise to power and make your life even worser. Don't count on it. Bitcoin is not a bank or an institution. It's simply cash money. If you want to be paid in subscription, you will have better luck of interfacing with bitcoin banks like mtgox and mybitcoin. It would be great if you price it in bitcoin. Nobody have a photo of Satoshi. He's a true mystery man. I am perhaps more afraid of promoting bitcoin and looking like a spammer more than you are.But indeed, there's a purpose to my statement "One charity at a time". I want to raise a good amount of money for the charity that the bitcoin community donate to. Quick! Offer a bounty in bitcoin! Pretty much every big company that we think of probably distort the market in some way.
I didn't bash porn. In fact I love porn. It's just that I am worried about crazy people running after bitcoiners. Using the statist court system to enforce contract is a stupid way of doing things.It's expensive, uncertain, and slow.Rather, arbitration services should naturally arose over time. That will become the basis of the bitcoin common law system. Its service will actually be subjected to...market process. Very well...I just have an allergic reaction to ideas that I considered fallacious notions, especially anything that threaten my material prosperity.(Long term, at least) Sending an email there and there, and I am still holding on to significantly amount of bitcoins....(No real response from the CCC about bitcoin donations) Don't assume anything about an individual...that we don't have any information on. Good lucks and hope that you don't have the feds up on your ass. (I dislike these kind of projects as they are likely to drawn heats from authorities.) I deny that it is slavery. Protests are weak and least likely to do anything.All you do is put up signs and gather in a large rally.....that does nothing. There is no such thing as a wage slave. Plus if you have any notion of fiscal discipline and practice it, you won't have any debt. It's called not spending beyond your means and SAVING. Having no debt IS getting your shit together.Plus, you get points for doing so. If you have a credit card budget set below what you actually earn, you get free points. Plus, the credit card industry hate you. You make no money for them and thus called a "deadbeat". I added a button to the advertising mix today. You can download the attachment to see what it look like.Here's the report from the frontline:Began 4 days ago.Total expense: .47 USDTotal pageviews: 1223 pages.Total clicks: 7CPM: .39CPC: .07CTR: .57% This is no good! We can't continue where bitquux left off. Recalculated with UTC timezone.For Sunday, I earned .12.For Monday, I earned a total of 1.72.That bring me total earning this week: 1.84 BTCs. I insist a virtual world of some kind is the right idea to soak unemployed teenagers! Uh oh. Projectwonderful got a 5 dollars required minimum deposit and I only converted 13.5 to 2.84 USD at exchange rate of .21.   Don't question the antitrust authorities: Offer your price too low, you're doing predatory pricing. Offer your price too high, you're gouging your customers. Offer your price the same, you're colluding. You're evil, and should be eliminated. Where? Freenode? The Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association. I heard that growing is the greatest use of oil resource, rather than the transportation part. I started the BMAA, but I would consider myself an anarcho-capitalist.In reality, I don't really have any favor for the two flavors of capitalistic anarchism.
If you want prosperity, global trade is the way to go. Global trade encourage division of labor and specialization, which lead us to still more economic productivity.And global trade forge interdependency. Interdependency mean that if you attack your trading partners, it will be harmful. All I am asking you is to put the argument into your own words. Don't be so lazy that you force me to watch 45 minutes of video. No art today. Have classes. Hyperlocalism is for tree hugging hippie.If you want world peace, have global trade! I don't want puritanical parents breathing up our collective neck. Nutcase ideas attract nuts?But I believe we are the 1% nutcase who are actually right.   Dear god, when the public finds out that Satoshi is actually a guy....I will be declared as the master of gender-bending. So, how the advertisers are going to bid, semi-accountless? And we crossed 6,000 posts. Rerap made possible makerbot. Makerbot make more makerbot operators, who are hacker type. More hackers mean more effort. More effort mean more inventing and innovation.Currently, you can basically mass produce on a small scale plastic objects. Give them a virtual world to hook them up to. Then they discover that play money is real money. The price somehow went back to .27. Maybe somebody should sell robots that record activities of government agents for bitcoins.We could have..."YOUR LITTLE BROTHERS ARE WATCHING YOU!"Plus, camera tend to prevent abuse of authority by policemen. Price collapse. Wow. I believe enforcing EULA is akin to enforcing a contract that say you must not pour milk with your cereal. The only way an EULA is worth anything is to actually sign it using public key cryptography. On the contrary, I produce stuff that people purchase. DUH, people actually buy my art!!!!!!!!!11111 Why do you think I do these kind of crazy stuff, because I think I can support myself without copyright! Now, you're trying to resists because you can't see how you can make money. You can't be brothered to experiment.In other words, you have no balls.Let me tell you what...RESISTANCE IS FUTILE! Adapt or Die!Good luck. RHorning is ignoring our assumption and world views. He tries to dodge my argument about selling cars with "reproduction rights".Duh, if I have a thing I owned, I should be able to reproduce the object in its likeness whenever I fricking want. I don't give a shit about you not making money. Go do something else. Script kiddies...But anyway, not all smart teens hang out on hacker forums like this one or tech blogs, either. Earning bitcoins by selling your services/goods.Selling art and other materials on ubitio.us is easy assuming you find 3 downloader for each of your investment.If you're a programmer, there's a few bounty laying around unclaimed. Otherwise, try fishing for people who want your programming service.
We don't even have a cryptography topic in my AP computer science high school class. We should finds way to introduce teenagers to bitcoin and the concept of earning bitcoins.We knows that there are lot of unemployed teenagers who would like some extra cash.Any ideas? Thanks for the bacon! I will convert 13.5 into paypal USD tomorrow. Then I will deposit 13.5 into project wonderful account I have. For Sunday:I earned .18 from bencoder and another tester downloading picture. I earned .12 cents from my art download commission. I earned 1.5 bitcoins as bounty prize.That total up to 1.80 BTC. Not bad. Not my intention to portray it that way. She's touching her cloak. I'll try to remedy this error by trying my above method. So...Offer a bounty on it? So commodity markets will be even bigger in the future. Imagine buying exotic matters so that you could print them with your machine. Fractional reserve banking mean that the bank have a tendency to collapse. I think we're safer with mtgox type banks where they just keep the balance and earn their fees somewhere. Publishers are owners of their site, presumably. I will be trying out bencoder's download service in the next artwork revision that I sell. If I like it enough, I might switch to bencoder's site. Hippich, watch out! Added a new banner to the rotation. I redrew the left hand. However, smudges that can't be removed means that if I keep further revising, than it will be further dark. I got an idea on how to fix it though. I'll simply digitally erase the hand area, print it out and redraw it, then scan it in. My only fear is that the quality of the lines may degrade. However, I think it will be best be done when the line art is complete, but by then, I'll simply move on to other art project. It'll be worth a revisit in the future.Other than that, I am struggling dealing with perspective. I discovered that the height of cluster box must be smaller as it goes inward. I also discovered that lines must be pretty parallel.Once drawing cluster box is complete, I will probably add further details like tubes and other decoration, and then it's off to the cleaning phrase.http://ubitio.us/file/download/44 Search the forum. You will find out that there are plenty of discussion about this. And there will be still rich bitcoiners and poor bitcoiners. It's the Ludwig von Mises Institute. Sorry about giving it that a single person.The copyright and patent game can occurs with copyleft licenses too, not just public domain.But, what I am doing is using the media effect in reverse. Just as pirates popularize movies and games to certain extent, then media corporations that use my stuff will end up popularizing my stuff. People will find out, eventually.You might think this is naive theory. Perhaps it is, but we should wait for experimental data for how that theory works out.Moreover, if you think open source development model is a superior model, then eventually it will win out. At that point, you can shape and use public opinion and media coverage(created by the court) to change the way people think about copyright. Lawsuits and legal wars are just minor hindrance. People won't change their opinion if they don't see me letting stuff into the public domain. They will think "this guy have no balls", or "this guy is bullshiting me".I gottach have creditability. Where do I get it if I used copyright myself? Imagine having to explain that my work is under copyright law for X reasons. Confirmations is really how many blocks that had been generated. If there are 5 blocks after my transaction, it mean that there are 5 new blocks. Let the publisher approve banners. I was a wikipedian for some time and then left. I help the comixpedia project flourished and then also left. I also created a gaming encyclopedia called Libregamewiki. My interests moved on. Security through obscurity will not work. We need to address concerns and problems.Edit1: revised second sentence. Same right I have to turn around and sell a car.In any case, I also thought long and hard about this. I concluded that I can make a living doing public domain work. Next is experimentation to see if that work.A contract is something you signed, not a license you look at and then take. Under a libertarian society, a copyright contract is just a standard contract. But obviously, things work differently.Perhaps you been sleeping under a rock. Libertarianism had undergone a revolutionary change in how they think about intellectual property. The answer is to abolish it. It had occurred to such an extent that the Ludwig von Mises published under Creative Common Attribution but also published articles that argued for the abolishment of intellectual property.
1AMVDD55BQ19RyFQUN4Kt4WvD6ECryu33FI'll keep 10% as earning.(This is a bounty after all!) Robotic courier.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1629.0 No private parts showing. Pretty safe for work in my opinion. Am I such a fool for believing such a crazy idea like bitcoin can succeed?  I did not gave my art away, I sold them. We want people to have exclusive control over the patterns that they acquired. We don't want authors or large corporations controlling patterns you have in your mind, or have special privileges in the market.We are not against contracts, signed voluntary, that disallow you to distribute it under certain term. However, we are against third parties being inflicted upon by contracts that they did not agree to. That is the libertarian position. Follow Hippich's example of not registering but spending money on advertisement?You also don't need an account to register and publish ads, in my opinion. What will government do when it collapse and there's hyperinflation?It may be also a really dangerous time. So it's definitely crucial to stabilize the world economy at that point, since we are so interdependent now. The goal of the movement is to abolish these institution, not perpetuate it.What do we gain from applying copyleft? Sure, some protection from evil folks. Protections that make us dependent on intellectual property.You misunderstood us as wanting to help people share. Sharing is nice, but that's not what we're about. It's about property right, damn it. I been trying to talk to them, but the response is sporadic.If anybody is in Germany and is willing to represent bitcoin, we might have a chance. Ah, thanks, I will redraw the left hand. Left and right are sooooo confusing. Attacking bitcoin with CPU power is one of the most stupid, expensive, difficult way to destroy a currency. I know the JMRI court case well, but it's not a counterexample because (1) no-one gave anything away into the public domain (the software was permissively licensed), and (2) Katzer sued the original author for infringing his patent, NOT for infringing copyright.For sure, the patent system is seriously broken, as is the court system, but even so Katzer lost in the end and "good guy" Jacobsen won.[/quote]It is also apparently a very high profile case.Nonetheless, suing a very prominent individual who release stuff under the public domain might actually be dangerous.If you sued Jason Rohrer, who make public domain games, there would be massive coverage by the gaming media. Hmm, are you sure you're not confused? Today's advertising report:Total expenses: .28 USDBegins: 3 days ago.Total pageviews: 921Total clicks: 6CPM: .30 USDCPC: .05 USDCTR: .65% That's the right hand. Might as well write a rap:This is revised, short introduction.Receptionist: Welcome to the FEE conference on Austrian Economic. Bernanke: Tell those Austrian crazies that I have arrived!Nakamoto: And tell the Austrians that I have the solutionReceptionist: (looks to Nakamoto)...who are you?Nakamoto: I invented a cryptocurrency called....BITCOIN!.....on the speaker stage.....Yeah, we oppose each other, economicallyBattle for economic domination.From the opposite side of the world You get 3000 internet and 50 pound of bacons instead.  There's some method to my madness. Deadline is Saturday, December 4.Here's my progress report thus far:Sunday: 0.07 earned from art downloads thus far. Day is just beginning.
Evildoers' deeds could be used as political ammunition. Mostly to damage the credibility of copyright and patent institution in question.I won't say it is not without risk, to be copyfree.  Purchasing service from mtgox, almost complete. Need a bit of testing. Naturally, speculation in the currency market doesn't count. I added a square ads to our advertising mix. Let us know what progress you're making? Gottach draw better hands somehow, but I am afraid the smudges will mess it up?Anyway, thanks for your support. I feel like, I am gathering fans! Second update of the day:http://ubitio.us/file/download/37 Interesting solution. However, the incomplete work already functioned as "blurring".I sell the latest revision of my art each day. If they want me to continue, they will continue to buy to see further rendition of my artwork. If you want to be a smartass, that's fine. Piracy is more of self-infliction rather than harming other people.You know what, it's in your guys' right to pirate whatever the heck you want. Just be warned that it is not in your long term interest to do so. They're copyleft, not copyfree. There is a difference. Oh come on, I know that 99.9% that people use torrents to pirate stuff.    Downloading and torrents does have a lot to do with copyright. The economic consequence of this usually have an advertising effect for the product and crowd out copyfree people. If you download software from people who don't want you to share their stuff, you're supporting them.If you don't like the idea of supporting the RIAA and the MPAA, vote with your money by supporting copyfree artists. We have the thing-o-matic that function as a sort of first generation duplication technology in our universe already.   Meh, we just have longer attention span for different things. There is no evidence to suggest that copyright laws were ever beneficial, economically.Copyleft is quite unnecessary for no other reason that non-sharing and the lawsuits of pirates imparts inferior economic benefit than the freedom of distribution and modification. In the 19th century, there were massive piracy of British literature but also patronage by players in the American literacy market. American writers were especially angry about this situation.They petitioned the government to grant British writers the same right, supposedly for the idea of an author's natural right.Eric's Cathedral and the Bazaar illustrate the economic superiority of open source production system over closed source. The speedier evolutionary rate of open source software will eventually win over the close source. GPL is only useful if you lived in a world where the productivity difference between close source and open source are vanishingly small.However, my position is ultimately a libertarian one. We reject copyright and patents on the ground that is unethical to coerce individuals from doing their own things with the property that they possess.  It will be cleaned up in the end. The hand on the hip? The right hand on the cloak?
The most difficult to draw are:1. Face2. Hands3. FeetTiny squish details that are a fricking nightmare to draw. The solution is however, to draw lot of hands and stick them into art pieces, no matter how much it detract from your artwork. If you alway hide hands, you never will draw good hands. The point is not about ignoring copyright and burying our heads into the sands. It is cruel to see people copyrighting your own work. It is cruel that people mis-attributed your work as someone else. It really does sucks.However, part of the philosophy of copyfree is whether or not you choose to share. We do not force you to share the source code, to guarantee that someone can always modify. We promised not to use violence on individuals that don't share or don't cooperate. Above all, we respect your property right. The GPL does not respect your property right. It forces you to share the source when you distribute. It is very different from the philosophy of copyfree.I am not an idiot naive person who expect people to be nice.  I am a capitalistic and entrepreneurial person who will put up a fight. I will do it the right, proper way, not with copyright lawyers with blazing guns. Hello BMAA members, please vote on proposal! We need more votes for it to pass. Very well, 3 BTC is left. Something like the chromium extension. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0 Freedom.Freedom to sell, freedom to modify, freedom to buy, and even freedom to do no attribution.We are revolting against the institution of copyright itself and to instill a more voluntary society.Copyleft is a coercive license. It is using an unethical means to achieve a good end.I believed we should be right in our actions as well in our end. http://ubitio.us/file/download/36Further progress. Now she's fully clothed.  You need a proper page when a link expired instead of "pag". It was a reposting of the article from the Irish Time. The current clickthrough rate is...2.07%Effective CPM(Cost per thousand impression): 0.70 centsEffective cost per click: 0.03Total clicks: 3Total pageviews: 145Campaign: 2 days old.Tomorrow, I will have a square ads.I have the leaderboard ads picture attached: Apparently, they don't let you tag with two names. I find lot of sites with wealth or financial, though. Thanks. I didn't know such a site exists for copyfree. I am trying to make a new economic movement called the "Copyfree Movement". What is it about?Copyfree is the act of declaring all your art or creations into "public domain". It is more about letting your artwork being subjected to the normal rules of property law, rather than bullshit of intellectual property.So, I been declaring all my artwork "copyfree" by now, but there is nothing much happening. I am only one artist, and I am not a particularly good one yet. I am getting microbitcoin patronage and profiting from it, but they don't add to even 1 BTC.So what to do now? So it's like hippich's ubitio.us except worse. Overall expense is .09 cents. At this rate, it's going to be a long time until the budget run out. Now what we need to do is carve up some physical space as enclaves like Lee's Greater Hong Kong. Whatever the case may be, we have to work with them, not against them. Feature request for paid account: Unlimited time for files uploaded to the server. Sorry folks, no update today. I have no access to the scanner. So tomorrow will be double update. Eh? I thought it was a long established tradition to turn economists into rappers?
The goal of this challenge is to facilitate and challenge people to make a certain amount of sustainable income each week, thus growing the economy.The rule are:1. You must sustain the goal of earning 5 BTC each week for a month.2. It must be done ethically (No stealing, no frauds, etc)3. You will report your progress every week.Please don't shoot yourself in the foot by lying about how much you earn. The goal is to actually help you earn 5 BTC each week, not "Impress the lady" contest. This is not a race.Signup:1. Kiba. Beginning artist. Canvas, Javascript, node.js, ruby and rails knowledge.2. Balboah. PHP and Python programmer3. tyler. Ruby programmer.Graduated:None at this moment.Deadline: December 4.(Next Saturday) The only question is: who here will be the first to make X bitcoins every week for a month, and do it ethically?I guess, we'll be starting with 5 BTC a week challenge. So, nobody is interested in buying a portrait of F. A. Hayek? Majority vote, majority take.Also, what with the 24 years? Anybody seriously considering making a living from the bitcoin economy someday? I am a beginning hardware hacker so I might be willing to buy products from you, but I don't have the skills nor the money... Go ahead.As long it is easy to do transaction locally and is open source, I'll donate some bitcoins to you.After all, this is not a donation, but a bounty, albeit public spirited. I am experimenting with a mailing list to to inform my fans about what I been up to, art-wise.http://eepurl.com/bJVGb I only got 1 click so far but we needs more different ads to target different ads boxes.A leaderboard ads is 723x90. Right, but nothing will happens if there is no hacker willing to take on the project. ... Disturbing?Anyway, I didn't set it up. Hippich is the guy who made the download site. Demand is low. People are getting tired of my artwork in progress? It's called being curious. http://ubitio.us/file/download/34 (NSFW?)Revised sketch out for tonight. Budget is set to 1 dollars a day, .10 maximum bid at every ads box...And so far we spend 0.02 cents with 12 impressions.One of the target: https://www.projectwonderful.com/advertisehere.php?id=22502 Thanks for covering us. And there is no link to bitcoin.org at all.  Done. Your 1% interest rate become more valuable in a deflationary environment. Your bitcoins will purchase more. So 200 + 1% is more like 215 BTC rather than 202 BTC for example. Who said the video are paid?
PMed Sandos. Silly bitcoiners, trying to tie events to lack of bitcoin volume when there may be no correlation. http://ubitio.us/file/download/33I got tcatm's source data. You'll have to download it from ubitious since this forum doesn't like anything with an xcf extension. Done. We wouldn't be able to use his material to teach because it's a commercial enterprise, not that it is accredited.I think accreditation actually harm the academy. I would like the academy to succeed on its own merit, not be tangled up by accreditation. "I didn't invent bitcoin. A mysterious guy from Japan invented it. "   Added. Oh I don't know, I feel kinda nervous for pushing bitcoin onto people. Bitcoinex and sandos, where are you? Banks, as we know it. Perhaps this topic should be moved to project development forum section? I started a campaign that target all site with "anarchy" in it.Since we only have one banner size, we can only target sites that have 468x60. Fund deposited in projectwonderful. Now I have 62 bucks. 56.7 USDs are now available for advertising. Budget is 1 dollars a day spending. Received payment from nanotube. 56.70 USD. November finally broke forum posting record. Previously it was July with 4968 posts. Now, November is leading with 4985 posts and growing. Recalculation: 22.5 Bitcoins are kept as earning for me. 202.5 will be the advertising budget. http://ubitio.us/file/download/28A portrait of F. A. Hayek! If there is some interest in buying the real thing, I might be willing to auction the art piece. Naw, democracy and government is for old farts who brothers to vote. Crony capitalism is just a side show.The big problem with democracy is the tendency to vote oneself money. I am responsible for 21% of all posts in Project Development. Make that percentage smaller! Would it be awesome if we have a rap battle between Satoshi Nakamoto and Ben Bernanke over whom monentary system is the best?  Receptionist: Welcome to the FEE conference on Austrian Economic. Bernanke: Tell those Austrian crazies that I have arrived!Nakamoto: And tell the Austrians that I have come to counter Bernanke and his shenanigans. Receptionist: (looks to Nakamoto)...who are you?Nakamoto: I am a cryptography researcher who invented a new kind of money called....BITCOIN!
193.5 is now devoted to advertising budget. I am keeping 21.5 bitcoins for myself like I said before. Thanks for the bacon. The only problem is his content isn't available for commercial usage. It wouldn't be suitable for a real academy. You can trade via #bitcoin-otc.However, you have to remember that currency speculation on bitcoin is not often an indicator of bitcoin economy's health status. I mean, 3 new business started up and it barely affected any changes in the price or volume, if any at all. Nobody is changing their mind whether or not to buy or sell. Sorry about that. I wasn't intended to have a naked person at all. It's just that I didn't get around to selecting the clothing. Blimmerhead, did you ignore this thread on purpose? (Sent a PM) Those who are members of the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association, please vote on proposal http://fivegrinder.com/group/Bitcoin%20Mutual%20Aid%20Association/Bounty%20for%20Association%20SiteThe budget for the mutual aid association is only 10 BTC, which is surely insufficient. However, I don't want to drain the treasury of the organization, so we're raising two members' worth of dues every cycle.The last proposal we voted on didn't get enough vote, so I was left donating my own money to the CCC.(Still working that)On one thought, the democratic structure of five-grinder could leave our treasury drained due to people voting themsleves money. So once our organization's site is up, we'll work on a new governance structure. Do the real world have dark pools too? I am a newbie starting my "career" as an artist. So be warned if my art come out noobish.For my first art piece, I am doing a theme called The Mystery of Satoshi Nakamoto. I only work on an art piece for about an hour each day, when I don't have classes.(That's normally 5 days a week)Here is the current art:http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/135 0.01 BTCPrevious revision for those who are interested in how the drawing evolve, listed from oldest to newest:1. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/14 Price: 0.10 BTC.2. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/16 Price: 0.10 BTC. This is a high resolution scan.3. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/17 0.10 BTC4. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/18 0.10 BTC5. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/21 0.10 BTC6. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=16 0.10 BTC7. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/53 0.10 BTC8. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=43 0.10 BTC9. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=52 0.10 BTC10. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=53 0.10 BTC11. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=56 0.10 BTC12. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=79 0.10 BTC13. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=85 0.10 BTC14. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=89 0.10 BTC15. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/59 0.10 BTC16. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/61 0.10 BTC17. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/62 0.10 BTC18. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/63 0.10 BTC19. http://pastecoin.com/download.php?file=117 0.10 BTC20. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/64 0.10 BTC21. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/65 0.10 BTC22. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/66 0.10 BTC23. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/67 0.10 BTC24. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/68 0.10 BTC25. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/69 0.10 BTC26. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/70 0.10 BTC27. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/71 0.10 BTC28. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/72 0.10 BTC29. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/73 0.10 BTC30. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/74 0.10 BTC31. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/75 0.10 BTC32. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/76 0.10 BTC33. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/77 0.09 BTC34. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/78 0.07 BTC35. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/79 0.07 BTC36. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/82 0.07 BTC37. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/84 0.07 BTC38. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/85 0.07 BTC39. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/95 0.07 BTC40. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/96 0.07 BTC41. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/97 0.07 BTC42. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/98 0.06 BTC43. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/101 0.06 BTC44. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/104 0.06 BTC45. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/106 0.06 BTC46. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/108 0.05 BTC47. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/110 0.01 BTC48. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/114 0.01 BTC49. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/115 0.01 BTC50. http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/134 0.01 BTC14hJAw9hqLGXTpJvNvSHGL87dfRUFwJHLyThis is an experiment in micropatronage. I am also making my artwork "unlicensed". You can do whatever with the artwork, include selling it. Also, please do attribute stuff to me. It's just the right thing to do. There should be a line at top of the wall that say "Unlicensed by Kiba".Miscellany:(Nothing at the moment) I am trying to make it work with mtgox merchant service.I am also reskinning the site. Can't afford a designer.  I believe it was just transaction spamming. Your commission fee are in some kind of weird limbo. It's a distraction from the downloading process. Here's how I would get new users:1. Offer free download sponsored by a user.2. After he finish download, then you could introduce bitcoin, somehow. You should put the bitcoin facuet stuff AFTER the user is done downloading. http://ubitio.us/file/download/19I revised my sketch again. Sorry for the crappy hands but I hope you like the beginning of my GPU cluster scenery.You'll have to wait until the next several art evolution before I start drawing really good hands. I am a beginner, after all. More incentives for little people to mine, the more CPU power we get. Then let brainstorm possible incentive scheme for people to mine. Maybe transactions should be decoupled from mining somehow? We are doing fine at the moment. We just saw a few new services opening up.  Ideas are worthless until they're executed.
Pay off your loans? Isn't it taxpayer's money? (I know, tax is theft and all that, but we shouldn't be parasite on taxpayers) I am assuming we're in the starting period. It seem very very very slow growth. Then we hit a period, then BAAAAAAAAAAAAAAM. We follows the J-curve until growth taper off.The hard part is maintaining momentum until we get to the growth spurt. I am more concerned about how many computers does it take to overcome the network. Added. If bitcoin was invented in Japan, maybe it should be popular in Japan? Thread revival! We got some new arrivals here. Let see if the demographic have changed. Is the source code available anywhere? I would like to put it on github. Gorgeous Angeline Jolie wallpaper? Ain't that pirated? I got the email address right anyway. Blimmerhead is left. Done. As price deflation continues, the new bounty become more valuable, thereby inducing incentives to complete the bounty. IF there are price deflation, the value of bounties rise. This increase incentive for people to complete them.However, new bounties will offer less money. http://ubitio.us is potentially one of the most benefical site. All we need is good uploaders that provide us with new materials that aren't "pirated". Bitcoin.org is too technical. But the buttons and login screen still sucks. More work to do. Bytemaster is inactive again. He is last seen November 9. On one of those site(rapidshare), you have to solve a captcha, then WAIT 15 seconds, and then BE LIMITED to slowass download speed.  Can't come to Germany. Finally got around to sending a letter to vostrade(AT)ccc.de
bitcoinme.com is a better alternative. We may have better luck with advertising on Anarchy In Your Head. It might be rather expensive though.(Sent a short email to the author about it) Wrong topic. I posted a list of targets in the original post. However, I'll need a bigger banner for the forum.http://nhunderground.com/forum/However, the number of liberty related site are VERY LIMITED even though they're very cheap. Let make me know if you found a site on projectwonderful relating to liberty. It works. I am making use of tcatm's revision. I put up an alternative banner. Will use this one if nobody objects. Thank you. I sent 0.02 to that address so I can get 50% royalty.Mine is 1A7UHtFpNXYGVWs9ypj1YwWgN1KXfZXX3t Thanks S3052. Now, we'll just have to see if the rest of everybody will put bitcoins where their mouth is. I see no money yet. So no downloads? You presume it is a scam without asking others if they used it. You also assume malice rather than a server error. It's very wrong of you to do that. Bitcoin.org, for now. http://ub.yepcorp.com/file/download/4My revised sketch. The girl have legs now. Done. Done. N0body like me taking my own bounty? I put up a banner already. Is that not sufficient? Miscommunication issue, I sense. The Chaos Computer Club. I sense some bad blood brewing. This could get out of hand.
That remind me. I need to get to the CCC. We need to conquer more charities before we take on the Goliath that is Wikimedia. Added a niche relating to easy one-click encryption and warehousing service for bitcoin. I might as well do it.1AMVDD55BQ19RyFQUN4Kt4WvD6ECryu33FSend me some bitcoins if you like the banner below. I keep 10% as earning. The rest will be used to buy paypal dollars. Send it to the dude that take up the project. Done. 230 BTC easy money! GREAT! A complementary service to chaord's credit card to bitcoin service! You'll be hard to get Nakamoto-sensei to answer your questions. He doesn't frequent this forum sections or any other except technical discussion. It's still one of the oldest and first bitcoin bounty. We got a big FAT BOUNTY for a bitcoin animated movie. 13622 BTCs. That's serious, man. Nakamoto-sensei? No BTC offers = no incentives. Warez downloading would be bad for the image of bitcoin. What we really need is a vibrant copyfree art community. Well, it would be helpful if mtgox didn't say "ERROR" and instead give me more detailed debugging information. Do you really want to solve FRICKING ANNOYING CAPTCHA or WAIT FRICKING 15 SECONDS? It requires javascript? Rotten luck!I did a plain form. Anybody have any success in implementing a mtgox merchant option? There's been 5 transaction that I counted. So that's about 30 hours. More than day worth of time. How many hours does a download typically add? I revisited the download link. It said "pag".view-source:http://ub.yepcorp.com/file/download/8It must have expired. This should be moved to Economics.
Continued script:--->BUT it is DIFFERENT<---Like....1. It's cash on the internet. It's not a credit card, bank account, or a paypal account. CUE CUES OF X'ED OUT CREDIT CARDS2. Not backed up by any nations or governments. CUE VISUAL CLUES OF X'ED OUT FLAGS.3. Decentralized transaction processing and minting. CUES CLUES OF GOLD MINES AROUND WORLD. CUE CLUES OF ACCOUNTANTS AROUND THE WORLD. A "paid" account would be a download buffet. 5 BTC would provide like 250 downloads.(as well, upload) BTW, I think you got the upload incentives NAILED. I uploaded a picture, get INSTANT feedback of how much my picture is worth..03 BTC in commission for .02 payment. w00t. Economic Advantage of a micropay download site:1. No Turing test that reject you even if you're a human.2. No waiting 15 seconds to download.3. No FRICKING ANNOYING ADS.4. No bittorrent seeds fail.Suggestions:1. Keep it simple and fast to download site. Should be 3 seconds, MINIMUM. The longest process should be the DOWNLOADING OF CONTENT.2. No ads please. No content to distract us from the act of downloading.3. Make it easy to find new content to download while without contradicting #1 and #2. Advertise good uploaders on your front page. 4. Keep ANONYMOUS uploading, no account. An uploader should be able to try the service without registering, visiting his email account, etc.  How can a service like this compete with free? The bitcoin art scene market is ON! * kiba hopes to get people to download his stuff and get commission for bitcoin. http://ub.yepcorp.com/file/download/8A sketch for an idea.How does payment back to me work, exactly? Refresh? We end up with different knowledge and technologies, probably.Maybe there would be some kind of electro-mechanical internet precursor. Establish rapport with the audience, help them understand it. But don't you need to accept a price? Nice start.But I think I got a better introduction.---> What is bitcoin?  <---Bitcoin is money. It is a currency like any others that is used to buy goods and services via the internet.CUE VISUAL CUES:Bitcoins IS LIKE the...USD. Yen. Yuan. Pound. Euro. I agree. Visual animation would work better than talking heads. Done. Mono tone sucks. Until the USPS decides to "oops, I lost it." 12%? Where you get that number? Hmm, I can't think my way out of this problem. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1812.0Android bounty. I don't know. We have to spend to find out.Ads on projectwonderful are surprisingly cheap, so we probably gain a lot. Moreover, there's more to advertising than just clicking. For one thing, there's brand recognition. 
Two words: Economic growth.That, and nobody brought anything from my business yet. But I am switching over to mtgox merchant service, so.... We're going to snatch and target several liberty related site with an ads advertising bitcoin on http://projectwonderful.comI am pledging 5 BTC for the bitcoin advertising budget. I am also pledging 5 BTC for a nice bitcoin ads design. (I am running out of money, so I can't pledge as much as I like.)Also, 5 BTC for your...personal incentive.1. Kiba. 15 BTC Took on the bounty instead. 2. Blimmerhead. 15 BTC3. Jorgen 50 BTC4. S3052 50 BTC5. chaord 100 BTCTotal bounty: 215 BTC with 10 BTC from ribuck. Paid.Targets:1. http://blogofbile.com/2. http://newhampshirefreepress.com/node/4743. http://nhunderground.com/forum/ I think we should advertise bitcoin directly. They are concrete plans in the sense that there are bitcoiners who are willing to put their bitcoin where their mouth is.That is, if you're referring to the android and the chrome bounties. Despite the bounty, there seem to be a chronic lack of manpower in a place where hackers are supposed to be plenty. Why are you sold on bitcoins?Here's my story. An open source gaming of mine link to bitcoin to a thread. I checked it out, then I immediately realize its potential for agorism. I was sold right there.I never heard of the idea called cryptocurrency though I was vaguely aware of crypto-anarchism. I thought about digital money but concluded that they will never work in practice because there's no way to render them truly scarce. I did got a reply.  Damn, I almost missed it.http://twitter.com/#!/chaosupdates You'll have to compete with biddingpond, the first bitcoin auction site. Think you can do it? Latest trade information is hard to read. Change it to darker color. In other words, an exists that nobody in the world can close. They might thought that they could close the door, but it is moot.Well, maybe. We don't know if bitcoin succeed or will not succeed. One thing for certain, the power that may be will have to give at some point. I dislike the idea of hiding it, plus it can be phrased in way that doesn't seem all that bad."You can make transaction goes faster by paying a fee so that people will want to process yours ahead of everyone else. Pay higher, the higher priority." Most transaction are free, but you can make it go faster by paying transaction fees. "Digital commodity" down below contradicts the first paragraph. Also, can you please automatically calculate the fee?  Instead of saying there are no transaction fee, you should say "Transaction fee are OPTIONAL. Sending bitcoins can be as free as sending an email. If you want your transaction done faster, you can DETERMINE any price you're willing to pay. The higher the faster." Running out of BTCs, that's what. The proposal phrase in the BMAA fivegrinder group is 27 years. WTF?Also, how do you get funds distributed? I was forced to donate 17.5 BTC of my own money to the CCC because the proposal somehow failed to have an effect on the treasury. Today's progress: I stripped the CSS bare and rewrote all my pages using the templating language HAML. It was a lot of work. Sometime, there is no display. Sometime, the chart is displayed. Sometime, there is no data in the chart. No progress report? Tried to contact them via twitter, didn't work.
Shouldn't this be moved to Project Development? You're that stateless person! I can see the chart when I am logged in. You might want to post your bounty in the title. Because flash sucks. Simple. By speculation. Maybe they're just incredibly busy? Mt Gox should be renamed to Mt Grok. Now he said that people don't like to use 0.0003 or something.Nobody will be using a long form of 0.0003 but an exponential notation. Plus, why would anybody cry foul about everything GETTING cheaper. Shouldn't the bounty be in bitcoin? added dating site. Dead in the water?   Added your niche. Remember, I will pester people about their progress! But a smartphone is a gaming device, camera, phone, and a computer at the same time. We call them bounties.  Smartphones are more futureproof than bitcoin smart card? I am running out of bitcoins(pledges, bounty donation, etc), so I can't hire you or anybody to make graphics.If and when I have enough bitcoins, I might commission you to do a graphic novel for a story I have in mind. It's called the The Mystery Of Satoshi Nakamoto, which over-dramatize and totally made up about how and why Satoshi invented bitcoins.Other than that, keep an eyes for bitcoin meme bounties. This is something I will definitely do more in the future. The pledges from me will be small amount, but you might be incentivized by bigger pledges. Others may offer bounty for other type of bitcoin graphics. Did he say he will interviewing Satoshi, the mystery man who invented bitcoin? http://xifin.wordpress.com/2010/11/18/bitcoin-a-rube-goldberg-machine-for-buying-electricity/Damning criticism with faint praise.I am not sure how to answer it myself as I don't completely understand how bitcoins work.(lack of cryptographic knowledge) No one say it'll be easy to fight against authorities for the right of self-determination in economic and social affair. It takes some bravery, some discipline, and absolute moral clarity.Liberty is not without cost.
Our small community size meant that it will take time for somebody to decide that this project is worth their time.Also, your bounty would benefit from the price mentioned in the title of this thread. Done. Sorry, I just changed the rules so contestants can't vote.  Voting...commence! Brocktice upped the ante to 800 BTC, plus a 200 btc potential bonus. Well, since it's not open source and seem to be quite dead: I made a bounty for an android client. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1812.0 Added. Added. I am pledging 20 BTC for the development of a viable bitcoin client for android for the purpose of facilitating local transactions. Added condition: I want it to be open source. GPL or BSD like licenses.Pledges:Kiba: 20 BTC.brocktrice: 800 BTC.creighto: 50 BTC.brucewagner: 800 BTC.slush: 50 BTC.Vandroiy: 20 BTCPledges outside the forum:akivasilver@d00m.com - 20 BTCTotal: 1760 BTC so far. So, did anything ever come of this project? Added a new niche relating to learning. Initial bitcoin payment billing is available. Don't expect anything to look right.ALSO, please add wishes, bug reports, and ideas here for consideration. Progress report? The free market is not a democracy.Plus, miners need higher price for their speculation to be profitable. And now I can claim that I started the longest thread on this forum, ever.AND! I just extended it by one post longer with my declaration.  Added the first entry. More to come. Progress update? Thanks for the media storm created by jimbobaway. How about a learning site for programmer-wannabe?There would be three levels:1. Short videos that are continuously modified and improved. Most of the content are free. Ads supported.2. Flat tuition fee. You get put in a class of 30 individuals headed by a tutor for 3 weeks on a subject.3. Pay as you go tuition. You get to pick a tutor who will devote X amount of minutes to you. What is this site is about?
I prefer killing facebook rather than getting a pie of facebook. I have not forgotten about you guys and I intend to fulfill my bounty. Just have a lot on my plate and organizing images to vote on, well, is a lot of work. Nonetheless, I'll organize the pictures for voting.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1500.0First entry:By our resident commie, bober182!Second entry:By newbie, Eternal Wind.Third entry:By full member, jimbobway.Anybody can vote, except the prize sponsors of the bitcoin GALORE! meme contest and those who entered a picture into the contest. Voting end by November 30. Plenty of time! Anybody up for calling the CCC? Anybody have connections to the CCC?Please respond. Gold mine of what? If you want to connect to a courier bot, you need a key. Sadly, the project is dead(for now).It's odd. I can do torturous running activities yet I can't write a novel. BTC. I think he means that it doesn't matter how many time you tip someone. You will always only donate a percentage amount in your flattr account for THIS MONTH. You don't tip him forever. More like a lack of economic education and the ability to resist economic education. Teaching why free trade is good is like trying to convince creationist that evolution is a true theory. The hard part is...execution. But there is no monetary incentives for a system like flattr to keep running. Perhaps, .1 %? The writer have a very...sophisticated understanding of bitcoins. It seem that we have reached a level of posting and activities not seen July. You could offer a bounty for such widgets to motivate hackers to code. It work effectively for the chromium extension. I guess we're too radical, even for the seasteading community.   I have this idea called "protocol AI" in my novel. The idea is that business interaction are mediated by a network of AI whom jobs is to learn reputation, make judgement calls, and so on. They are manned by game theory experts, who are called judges, but their real job is to make their protocol AI the best mediator on the internet. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d0nERTFo-Sk "The Federal Reserve has more PHD's per square foot than any institution in the world" - Alan Greenspan, 2006."The bitcoin forum have more libertarian computer hackers than any institution in the world! Let do battle for economic dominance, Greenspan." - Kiba, 2010.  You're new here. Why should we trust you? Bitcoins already have opinion valuing it. It's currently valued at .20 cents. They already gambled with it, spectulate on it, even brought pizza with it, and spend serious amount of money to mine for bitcoins, and so on. Plus, it already proven to be safer than paypal dollars. Why is this taking so long?
Added a pizza web order niche. But who will buy bitcoins other than you? You still feel like a spammer. What kind of communists speculate on the free market? tumblr is a blogging platform. I didn't say anything about the poor being lazy scroungers. That's YOUR words. I don't have anything against helping the poor and so on.But, I am against stealing. Taxation is a form of stealing. It's wrong, period. Like I said, it doesn't matter if you tax the poor or the rich. Nobody deserve to have their property being stolen, no many how selfish you are or how rich or poor you are. If anybody have actual connection with the CCC. Speaks up.The EFF letter posting was successful with somebody's connection to the EFF. So a genuine connection would probably help me contact the CCC. If we could build a tower for launching spaceships, we can reduce the cost of escaping earth's gravity. People might think it is some kind of spams.It does not help if the people posting in questions have a low post history.When you promote bitcoins on other forum, please establish yourself with the community in questions. At least 100 posts. Looks unprofessional?  Make gold? Why not mine nearby asteroids for gold? Free healthcare is not a free lunch.Even so, taxing the rich is just as evil in taxing the poor.Some rich people actually contribute to the economy, ya know?  It is becoming an annoyance if Macho keep polluting economic threads with his anti-speculation worldviews, anti-gambling worldviews.I propose we should move all Macho anti-speculation posts into his own little thread. I can get two large french fries and a coke for 5-6 bucks. Yummy.It's not exactly the most healthy thing in the world, though.I think the 3 hot dogs a day diet with drinks are a far cheaper diet, yet far more unhealthy diet.The problem is not the lack of food, but the lack of cheap, healthy food in our society. 5 Ways How to Not Persuade Your Audience The Macho Way:1. DO NOT build rapport with your audience. You must insult, call them names, and so on.2. Always argue against strawman version of the audience.3. Claim every logical argument the audience made as a construct of authority figures regardless or not if the argument in question is true.4. Call your audience EVIL.5. Always claim morality superiority. If he does have an account here, we didn't know. Jon Matonis. On the contrary, I am not against academia, or dynamic innovative culture, or any of that stuff. What I am merely against is  coercion.I believe that we should fund academia, if such is a good thing in the first place, with money voluntary donated or paid from the people.  That's not the lesson that Bastiat taught. You're missing the point..Destroying windows mean that window maker benefit, but the shoemakers would have to spend it on replacing window rather than buying shoes. The lesson here is about the fact that "making work" doesn't mean increased productivity or greater wealth to society and individuals as a whole. http://undergroundeconomist.tumblr.com/post/1528511369I say bollocks due to time preference theory.Regardless of deflation or inflation, there will be a need to buy food OR DIE.
A conversation between me and Ethereael about the idea of incentivizing users for providing good latency: I just send another email wondering what's going on. Will check tommorow to see if anything is happening. Can you clarify  what a clientless version mean? What this talk of trading? I guess my hypothesis is accurate in at least one instance. So...how is development going? My hypothesis is changes in the number of competitors causing a temporary price instability. Will my feature request be implemented or not? I think the influx of new speculators mean that price instability increase? Wow...just wow.Thanks for everybody who help and donated the funds for EFF.  Feature request if not already implemented: Add in the cost of doing a trade so people can figure out the profit margin. But you did say I endorse polluting the environment, slavery, amongst other things. I have no problem with speculation and owning factories but I do have a problem with slavery, polluting the environments, and such. You went batshit crazy for two thread and accuse us of all sort of stuff that we didn't endorse.  An engineer said, "I got an idea for a new currency!"Mises said, "What is it?"The engineer said "Electricity!"Mises said, "How does it work?"The engineer thought a little while after that.The engineer said, "I don't know..."Afterward, the engineer was enlightened.Add your own koans, modify existing koans, criticize, or interpret the meaning of koans. I don't know what you Macho and bober182 see in bitcoins.Especially when the economy is inhabited and controlled by the very people you hate. Bitcoin is a capitalistic idea. What do you expect? Tree hugging hippies? I am proud of this community. Despite Macho's insults, you guys play it swell and didn't insult Macho back. Regardless, you are still accusing me and others of stealing and scamming. I WILL HOLD YOU accountable for libel on bitcoin community members. I will not trade with you, give you anything, and so on, to the best of my knowledge possible. In other words, if I found you using ANY of my web app that I am building right now or in the future, I will suspend your accounts. I will tell other people to boycott you until you apologize for your fallacious libels.Is that clear? http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0Fund the chromium extension effort! Or help the guy code it? I brought bitcoins for six dollars. I have never stolen from anybody anything. I brought and sell everything fair and square. I also wrote a bounty and fund part of it through my own personal expense for a bitcoin google chrome extension to make payment easier. I also organized the donation campaign to the CCC and the EFF. This is a false accusation of my character. Name a person that I have actually robbed from. Guess what? You probably called 99% of the bitcoin community scumbags. I guess the bitcoin community is a place of villainy and evilness. Why would you dare to walk amongst some of the most evil people on earth?
Please explain how risking my neck to provide liquidity(in the form of currency speculation) means that I am feeding off society. Bitcoins are not that complicated from a user point of view using mybitcoin. It doesn't compromise the integrity of bitcoins so it is a non-problem. Have you reconsider the arguments for speculation?  So it charges .65. This complicate my trading effort as I have to do further calculation for profit.   Nothing yet from the CCC. This is complete utter nonsense once you consider that speculators are risking their money and their credit rating. They essentially take risks so that farmers and other people don't have to speculate. They serve a very important economic function in ensuring supply meet demands. Who do you think give you the liquidity to convert your dollars into bitcoins and vice versa? Bitcoin speculators. Who do you think have a vested interest in keeping the bitcoin economy growing? Bitcoin speculators. Why do you think I post a bounty for a chrome bitcoin extension? Part of it is to make it easier for bitcoins to grow, thus increasing the price of bitcoins. Which in the end, help me make money. Nothing to see here. Move along.I am one of those traders who like to profit by selling and buying small amount of bitcoins, especially where the offers don't meet closely.  Done. Oh sorry, I been doing other things. I am sending a letter to the CCC now. A pyramid scheme!  Chapter 2 is out. I really need to step up my writing effort if I want to accomplish my goal by the end of the month. I am 5 days behind.Chapter 2 This is unsubstantiated. I was making offer and profiting at the .37-.38 price range. Yes, I got burned.  *kiba 's mouth drops to the floor.We reached 0.5. Now, a bitcoin is worth .50 cents. Only 4000 btc are left on the market. Price surge beyond .30! ABSOLUTELY NUT! There are only about 11,000 btc left on mtgox, but the demand for btc is like crazy!Right now, it's .2899. It is already less of a waste. For example, you do not need ten men to guard a vault that store bitcoins. Gold can be now used for other purpose other than money. You don't need a large anti-counterfeiting organization.Plus, your idea is not new. It would be best if you search the forum for your ideas and see why it won't work. Done. http://reason.com/archives/2008/06/16/baby-bustI found a very interesting article that call our hypothesis into questions.Let just say we have to wait and see what happen. I thought it was the host culture's unwillingness to assimilate was the critical factor.
When the future belongs to old people, you're not going to care much about breeding. I expect some kind of chaos and instability within a couple of decades in these countries. Eliminating aging would rank on par with human colonization, perhaps even more important than human colonization. At least, that's my opinion. I would be happy to donate a small sum of my money into anti-aging research every month, with bitcoins. This is an exercise in the Broken Window Fallacy. Basically, you're assuming that something won't develop if DARPA did not fund the internet. Something else entirely could have develop -or- something similar to the internet.Let us note that we cannot predict technological trajectory of an alternative universe. Done. You have access to an inter-dimensional wallet.  Los Angeles at this point is essentially a masses of building connected to each others. Moreover, many floors are actually underground. The streets are just literally a big giant hallways that can support cars and bots and heavy stuff. But then they have to install a greasemonkey extension, not a bitcoin extension. Plus, can greasemonkey access stuff outside firefox? Code:There is public domain in every country to my knowledge.[/quote]I didn't say they don't have public domain.  Chapter 1 This is not economic, but financial advice.Though, if it is such a good investment, why is everybody aren't doing it? Well, Japanese people can't release their under public domain. Japanese copyright law forbidden it. Unless, Satoshi lived in the states instead of Japan or I am misinformed about Japanese copyright law. Without knowing what exactly you put into your file, I don't know how to help you. I think it came with bitcoin. Well, just by holding on to your saving mean you can buy more with your investment. However, you better make a profit fast to pay off your investment.It's a double edged sword. Did you start the bitcoin daemon? Also, it would be nice put your address out there for people to pay you via extension. I asked the same question: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1471.0 It's in his signature link. Something that will piss off communists like you.   Congratulation. My part for the bounty paid.
I made my first short selling earning a total somewhere around 14 bitcoins. Booya.Recommend nanotube as the to-go guy for your first short selling loan. Mine is 0.13.3 beta. * kiba  tilts head tooHey, you're right! So is this your new business model? I was thinking of using my soda cans as part of a water heater and then engineer a Stirling engine using soda cans so I can power my computer to generate bitcoins!   Or parallel universe travel! Imagine the possibility of using exotic matters to construct our dyson sphere! Is this project dead or alive? I suggest trying to build a dyson sphere that absorb the entire energy of the sun instead. With the dyson sphere, we'll build more and more desirable space to live using the entire resources of the solar system. Will you guys please start talking in English?   If there are heavy corruption, you can make lot of money inventing a competing currency. Right now you're just spreading FUD. Just release the god damn bug fix instead of sitting here? Will MtGox shows volume for dollars? It works well enough for me. If anybody know the correct email address I should send it to, let me know. They're more concerned about making office software than protecting freedom.Best to write a letter to the FSF instead.Plus, I still have not sent a letter to the CCC. I'll fix the grammar and spelling errors tomorrow morning. In the meantime, I'll probably have a blog soon. Stores are stories...in skyscrapper. Bad spelling. Please note that this is my attempt to write a 50,000 words novel. (November is the novel writing month. Novel as in November. Get it?) There will be a lot of crap, spelling mistake, and grammar errors but hopefully it will be fun. If you like it, maybe you could send me some bitcoins: 1QEjP76By5LrReZvdG9pUdGvXuXirVAzZfChapter Zero: What about it? They're just a bunch of autonomous individual courier AIs, not a single mind Well, I am not exactly looking forward to writing a snail mail.
I am in flavor of crawler/roller/climber bot. I guess that's technically trespassing people's property, but I don't think humans will care if robots are doing "business" on the roof.Even so, climbers would serve the division of labor of carrying packages to suitable location for pickup. Basically, such bot would hold up the package into the air and let the plane "snatch" it away without even having to land. It just need to be in a location where a plane doesn't crash into a wall or electrical lines. That's a false assumption, because they're driving on major Californian roads for thousands of miles.Driving slower than traffic is quite dangerous.  No, they're already driving in traffic. Adapt autonomous driving technologies. Google cars are already driving themselves, avoid obstacles, and such.  Only operators with the proper key can control the robots. Small robots that can deliver small packages from one location to another on air and ground. They are tracked through an encrypted interface.Operators operate robots remotely, share code and data for further improvement of courier AI and credited through bitcoin micropayment system.Bigger payments incentivize courier operators to pick up object and deliever it to another location where other operators can pick it up.Obviously, something need to be figured out to prevent operators engage in robotic combat for packages, not get into traffic accidents, not get package stolen, and so on. Ask the beneficiary directly. May....I....invoke Bitcoin's Law?   Thanks for whoever donated another 100 btc. And inflations have a tendency to end empires. So where do I send the letter to? Seem to me that nobody is willing to do the deed, I guess I'll have to contact them. Donation process is done. Since I can't seem to find a way to spend the BMAA, I ended up paying for the donation.Now, all I need to do is to send an email to the CCC. Chinese like to inflate their money supply so they can increase their export. Fair enough. I'll take that as a first draft.  It doesn't accomplish the purpose of raising enough money to buy the machinery. Barring bugs, I will be working on implementing shopping interface chart that will use mybitcoin and trials/paid days. However, as incentives, people will get discounts for using bitcoins instead of using other payment methods. If there is too small amount is raised, I'll simply buy the rest of the shares and own majority of the company and the business will start much later.After all, my previous ventures will be bootstrapping this venture and the profit will continue to pour in until I purchase all the unbrought shares. Commence what?
The only problem is that MtGox have not respond to the petition yet. But it's only 18 days! 162 days before you can send money via paypal again.(From the start of this thread) That's a long time. Instead of adsense, he should accept bitcoin ads! Noagendamarket, where is your ads service? And my system just happen to update to 7.0.517.43. I could.However, you gottach realize that the usefulness of the extension also depend in part how well it work on the stable version. Mostly bitcoin spectulation. It doesn't convert anything for me and I still can't send bitcoins. So bitcoin's law got invoked in its own thread! Hehehe. I think people are keen on being an anonymous shareholder and public the use of key cryptography. My petition still stand. Remember, the French are nuts and prone to collective madness. Gald that they didn't have their own hitler figure. It would be really fricking bad and much worse than the German.The French revolution is an example of French lunacy.  They even celebrate it!  It won't be long before EU try to regulate bitcoin too! Damn governments. Alway thinks that they have the right to regulate everything and anything. Pphysicians' brainpower are wasted. They should be used for scientific research. Train a diagnostician nurse to do the day to day task.Lawyers could be useful if they help defend you from evil dudes. However, some lawyers are connected with politicians who make laws for the lawyers to make money from.Teachers with a "teaching degree" are the most useless kind of teachers. They don't apply the scientific method, look for constant feedback, and generally don't know much else unless they're a professor of some kind. Even so, professors are continuously distracted by the research process and getting grants for their research. I am a college student, not a teen.  Nonetheless, humans knew objectively that their belief about money have different effect on the economy. Sorry to bust your bubble, but most of them are probably spam accounts. Bitcoin is a Neal Stephenson plot device.Courtesy of a tweet:Browsing http://www.bitcoin.org/ - it reads like a Neal Stephenson plot device. #fb - Paul Wright http://twitter.com/wrighty How many blocks you have so far? I am slightly offended by the suggestion that kids are hard to teach because we watch too much youtube. Bitcoin is on a rally again! The exchange on mtgox surged to 60,000 bitcoins in the last 24 hours! MtGox is back in business.Also, a dollar will now only buy you 5.15 bitcoins. The bitcoin economy is now worth 854344 dollars! We're on our way to a million dollar economy! Yippie!
Hmm, spambot are getting more sophisticated. That mean they might pass the turning test one day!We'll be talking to spambots and don't know it. The world is doomed!  If the picture above me is much smaller than this, I think I would vote for that image over the previous cat image. You guys are awesome. I think the next step is to offer a prize of some kind for the best bitcoin phrase that accomplish the goal of this thread. Personally, I think the cat picture will do a better job than that bear. Even so, he will win if nobody submitted an entry. Provide a picture or the cat picture will become the automatic winner. It is irritating that bitbot is constantly disconnecting! I propose we should move bitbot to a vps, not connected with the owner's net connection or computer.Of course, we'll need to do something about monthly payment for bitbot. However, who will pay? Those who pay for bitbot hosting are suckers, and everyone else just leech off those who pay for bitbot. Someday, Jeffrey Trucker is going to run an eloquent article on the beauty of bitcoin and free market money on mises.org. Trust me on this.   Archlinux distro. Chrome version 6.0.472.62. No luck, anyway.  So MtGox, now that you given up on finding a suitable withdrawal method....What do you have planned for MtGox in the future? Guys, try not to use words that the average Six Joepack may not understand.Like this:Bitcoin is a digital commodity that can be used for commerce and bartering.  I think you exceeded the 15 words limit. Bitpredict will be resuming development with the project to learn how mybitcoin merchant API work for soulplaying.comOnce that is done, development of bitpredict's market system will begin in earnest.  Oh, I forgot! Didn't start my bitcoin daemon. Will do and test again. I challenge the forum to come up with the easiest to understand explanation of bitcoin in 15 words for Joe Sixpack! Bitcoin is a free market currency! It arise spontaneously! What not to like? Error validating address string. Nothing is foolproof? My parents pay the mortgage too and my mom just doesn't make all that much. We're in the same socialeconomic status, but we hang out with entirely different folks.I hang out with hackers and geeks, all of which tend to be oriented toward libertarianism. This has lead me to a very different understanding of the world.The situation isn't exactly analogous to be sure. My relatives own two nail shops. They're rising in socialeconomic status. My family does, with my sis finished her college education.The Vietnamese people tend to integrate politically well. They also tend to be vehemently anti-communists. They also happen to own supermarket, nail shop, saloon, etc. They are a very entrepreneurial people. I think entrepreneurial traits is very consistent with immigrant populations in the United States.Even so, hackers start all sort of startups these days, not just work for pointy haired boss. It's very hard to say "I hate capitalism" in that environment, in that philosophical framework. It just doesn't make sense. Even if I am poor as dirt, I have a future, I can advance, and help make the world a better place. Being ignorant of the situation is no excuse to write bad post accusing MtGox of things that actually did not happen. 
Highly paid parasites that sucks up whatever jobs was left. Have you ever known what it like to be a poor farmer? My father was a farmer back in Vietnam before we came to the states. On the contrary, we're wealthier than ever before. Whatever lowly position my father hold today, it is a blessing. We didn't make much, but that's alright.I count the bigass 3D TV, speedy internet, computers, and books, amongst my blessing.But you decided that  minimum wage is not enough. And you know what? I am unemployed as a teen. It took me a while to find a freelancing job. That, I graciously accepted for little pay. You, on the other hand, have the audacity to decide who is and who is not being exploited.I despise that.  And I would consider shoplifting to be a form of theft.  I also don't believe in consensus decision-making.Rather, voluntarism is the driving principle of my life. I don't need your permission, but all I need not to do is not act out of violence or aggressions against others.  I do not trust them at all, or anybody, or even myself. That is why I am an anarchist. Yes, the Nazis were terrifying as well. For that reason alone, I distrust democracies.But Lord Acton said it best, "Power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely."The American were privileged to have George Washington, who gave up his power. (For the record, I am heavily influenced by my history professor's lecture on the French revolution) Amen. The French Revolution. Why the French celebrate it again?Not because the French did any sort of anarchy(They did not) but because it's a revolution that gone completely bunker. Bitcoin is a free market currency, not controlled by some annoying union in a factory.And I do not like other people telling me that some capitalist is exploiting my labor. Butt out. I consider the goal of socialism to be incompatible with my individualist worldview.I am not opposed to community, having social relations, charities, and things like that. I'll organize a society of mutual friendship and mutual help as much as I'll organize venture for personal wealth.  I don't think there's anything economically ideal about a stable supply of money. I think people are happy with the ability to predict the growth of the money supply. As alway, the adult industry is the first to adopt any new technologies, or at least relatively the first. I doubt there are any algorithm or any human being that can detect if somebody is doing this kind of fraud, unless he is a serial fraudster. Compromising the bitcoin network is the fastest way to make your investment in a botnet worthless. Better to just mine it and sell it for bitcoins. That take too long and I have a web app almost ready to use. https://www.mybitcoin.com/downloads/mbc-sci-toolkit-1.1.tar.bz2It seem that the code there is in PHP, but I am using rails.How am I supposed to integrate a bitcoin solution into my website? I declare that bytemaster is dead, incapacitated in one form or another, or have trouble in life. Verified.Still, somebody donated an extra .50 BTC that cannot be verified. http://www.soulplaying.com - A TODO list with RPG elements. Gain point for finishing your tasks on time!TODO: 1. implement objective list rather than a objective description box.2. implement adminstration system.3. implement transaction system. Mostly done. This is internal feature meant for use by admin.Put feedback here or give me feedback at hackerkiba__AT__gmail.com It's now possible to send money into MtGox... In the mean time, I'll guess I'll prepare a "prospectus" about the business idea. It will also include details of how to do assembly and voting, all the possible costs, business model and much more.It'll be available for viewing and feedback.
It will be hard to prove that I have 625 bucks, especially when I don't like showing my paypal account to outsiders. grondilu felt this is an especially unfair arrangement. I want his money but I also want an amicable relationship with my shareholders. Could he simply be automatically sending bitcoins from one wallet to another? I lowered the fundraising target to 612.5. Until I can front the other half, it will remain no go. Than you'll have to wait until I make enough money from other business venture before I'll consider raising capitals for thing-o-matic. This is as far as I goes. I am sorry? You mean I have to purchase it myself? I am the guy who will put in the code and the labor and direct the operation. If you get 1 share out of 100, you get only 1%. Investment are entirely in bitcoin, and profit sharing are entirely in bitcoin.The labor is in assembling in the kit, the coding of the website, customer support, and then the delivery of boxes. However, I expect the operation to mostly scale.Then, there's also the maintenance and upgrade cost for the bots too. My reputation is also at risk. Not just if I screwed you guys out but if I make money for you guys too.Keep in mind, I get 50% of the profit. You guys get maybe only 1% of the 50% leftover and you get to stay anonymous.That's a good question. I don't know what to decide yet.A pound of plastic is included with the kit. But to buy more plastic, it cost 15 bucks for a pound of plastic, 65 dollars for 5 pound of plastic. I assume electricity isn't a problem. What you guys have learned during your time in the bitcoin community?Here's my list:1. Paypal sucks. 2. Don't trust escrow agents with a short posting history.3. Economic of bitcoins. Is deflation bad or good? Stealing bitcoins is a different process than stealing physical goods. 4. Visa organization5. How to run a microcompany based on only trust(In progress)6. The process of letter campaign writing and raising donation. 7. How bitcoin work(roughly)8. You can use the GPU to do bitcoin mining. 100 posts is not trivial... It is not just "rapid prototyping" but "mass produciton rapid prototyping". Thing-o-matic is a 3D printer. Basically, it will produce a 3D object out of ABS plastic. People will be charged primary on the size of the object and than how many objects that will be produced.The bigger the order the bigger the cost but they will also benefit from bulk discount. Suggestions noted. I'll change so that people can call assembly and vote for decisions, but it will be noted that the document is not finalized yet. I am also unfamiliar with signing document with my key and such...so there will be some time.Also, I will be responsible for most the daily decisions making. Alright. It would be helpful if a lawyer can give his opinion on it, too. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1554.0 Anybody who help fund the purchase of a thing-o-matic will get a share of 50% in the profit-sharing scheme based on how much they funded. People can call for an assembly and vote on business decisions. Otherwise, I will be responsible for the day-to-day business decisions and such. Note this is only tentative. http://store.makerbot.com/makerbot-thing-o-matic.htmlThe business proposal: A thing-o-matic hooked up to a bitcoin based interface. Basically, I will be the first business to manufacture items on a mass production scale for bitcoins.Why trust me?1. I been an escrow for the EFF and now the CCC and help organized the letter writing campaign to the EFF and the CCC.2. A highly active and interested poster in this forum.3. A 500 dollars bet/stake into the success of the bitcoin economy.PENDING TRUST(Not fulfilled yet)1. Run a web app that accept bitcoin.2. Run bitpredict.The fundraising effort will target 612.5 dollars worth of bitcoins. You invest at your own risk. All bitcoins will go to this address:[redacted for the time being]Also notes, I will need to exchange bitcoins for dollars. That will take time.  Double no such luck. I re-edited the formulation. Still awkward. Don't you remember? We have done all that with the EFF. It would be awesome to have a thing-o-matic factory that is bitcoin operated. We would have a real manufacturing economy!
Bitcoin's law: If a discussion grow longer, the probability of an argument on what exactly bitcoin is increases. Is it money, currency, commodity, or something else entirely?Hat tip(metaphorically) to noagendamarket for suggesting the idea on IRC. I merely formulated the law.  The discussion of economic here has gotten to be pretty interesting and insightful.I was thinking of starting an economic journal for us amateur to submit academic paper. Granted, it won't be done by professional economists, but I don't there are any professional economists deeply involved with this community. SmokeTooMuch: Will you donate? If you don't reply here, I'll have to PM you. MtGox: Will you give us an official reason as to why people can't withdraw via liqpay?Also, can you check your email? I had an accounting issue with your service. Thanks. Someone will need to commence asking EFF what is up. The NoAgendaWall? No effect. How do I turn on notification? Arguments are soldiers not meant to be stabbed in the back. Pretty much every human beings, even anarcho-capitalists, have a series of self-reinforcing beliefs. It's like building a strong unshakable foundation. These communists have formidable suit of armor to penetrate through.In any case, I don't see how homelessness, unemployment, poverty, can be destroyed by the elimination of property. I thought western civilization in general are having higher standard of living.Just a few weeks ago, my family got a really big TV that can also do 3D. So I don't see any mentions to donating to bitcoins on EFF's WAY TO HELP page? 14xRsatFwAZqyJSMbR7mqqkwZusYtmYxiPThis is the address for the mybitcoin account that I just created. If the BCMAA take forever to approve the funding. I'll personally donate the whole proceed myself. I highlighted a bitcoin address and click on send bitcoin but nothing happens.The balance of my bitcoin wallet shows though. I wouldn't mind testing it. What I have in mind doesn't require the use of a bitcoin daemon. It should be self-contained as a bitcoin client. Simplicity is the driving goal here. It should be so easy that grandmas can use it.Sorry that I didn't emphasize it strongly enough. So I will pay once the chrome extension is available for installation or it is available as source code. I will pledge more bitcoins for the development of a self-contained browser extension for bitcoin. The ideas of having to install two software package is a barrier. Well, if nobody else submit an image. He will be the winner of the 40 BTC bounty, automatically. The need for a bitcoin GUI client negate the benefit of a chrome extension. The objective is to lower the barrier of getting into bitcoin, not increase it. Do you have a repository that we can look at? Is the code open source? Well, I wasn't thinking clearly at that time. I think it would be useful if you got notified automatically incoming payment, instead of your wallet's balance silently increase. It helps if you know where you got it from.
Working now. No good. Satoshi is like a taoist master who make everything run smoothly by not being too involved in the affair of the bitcoin economy. As a reward, I sent ya some money. Stay tune for a mybitcoin account. That's 485 dollars worth of bitcoins! Wow! I learn something new today! Canadian tires! An attempt to regain back his reputation. No, no, no. We're just trying to describe and predict the growth of the bitcoin economy. The bitcoin economy and the community give me the warm fuzzies.  Beside, I think we're dedicated to more of the principle Voluntarism rather than anarcho-capitalism. Anarcho-capitalism is just the inevitable implementation of voluntarism.  Nobody will buy your if you have no reputation. Why does it direct me to google search? I sold 40 bitcoin at the loss of .097 each when I was selling something much higher than .01, which was at the price at which I purchased bitcoins. I don't know why this is happening.Gah. So is the letter perfect or something? Arbitrary distinction.  I did that already. Will MtGox be adding other sources of funding methods? You know, I think *money as a form of positive social order* are just simply unquestioned around here, taken as truth. Though, I believed that money are indeed a form of positive social order, particularly free market money.Silent Truth or Silent Assumption? I think the only way to resolve it is that the bitcoin economy will disprove sturle. I pledge 20 BTC for whoever submit the funniest bitcoin image with the word "Bitcoin GALORE!" by the end of November.Extra bonus points for whoever use nekos and cute anime girls.Afterward, we shall begin posting Bitcoin GALORE picture whenever a breakout occurs.
Ingenious!  Dude, you couldn't do worse by using the Japanese as an example. They tried interventionists measure, didn't work. The Japanese stuff their money under the bed.Even if they were to spend it, there would be massive inflation. It's bad for the Japanese all around.There are good deflation and bad deflation, just as there are good inflation and bad inflation. Though generally, most inflation that happen today are just bad. I pulled directly from darcs.  I think microjobs are stage 4  of economic growth. New people could earn bitcoins by joining talhoe lafs when bitcoin micropayment integration are built in. It make easy for people to earn a little bit of bitcoins. I have a feeling that the democratic system of your website will leave most of the organizations' treasury empty. Is there a way to manage the budget? I want to be able to hold 50% of bitcoins in the treasury from being spent at any time. Interesting, but a bit way aroundness.I thought an interesting introduction for kids is to play MMO and then discover that they can exchange their MMO currencies for bitcoins and use bitcoins to spend on things. Thanks for increasing the bounty to 300 BTC. With SmokeTooMuch and the joining of the seventh members, we got 517.5 bitcoins. 17.5 are donations from the BMAA. I don't understand what you're thinking there. Googling doesn't seem to turn up a solution. I try easy_install the .egg but that doesn't exactly work. Perhaps, I'll need to install easy_install too. My investigation turn up the fact that Wei Dai is a poster at lesswrong.org.http://lesswrong.com/user/Wei_Dai/submitted Code:  File "/home/kiba/projects/tahoe-lafs/support/bin/tahoe", line 6, in <module>    from pkg_resources import load_entry_pointImportError: No module named pkg_resourcesI got this error. Help? As soon as I got a node running and finish fixing my system clock, I'll pledge 5 BTC for whoever integrated bitcoins into the tahoe network. Wait, this doesn't make any sense. We are unable to deposit dollars into Mt. Gox. for quite some time. I am predicting the divison of labor already.Older bitcoiners have an enormous reputation due to their contribution to the bitcoin economy and the number of people who can vouch for bitcoiner's trustworthiness. These guys will end up top dog and brokers for huge deal.New guys will have to find their own niches other than what the older bitcoiners occupied. I think that's at least 6 stages from where we at.For stage 3, I am thinking the rise of MMO that use bitcoins.  Middlemen should be convenient, but not assholely. From bitcoin, it is clear that the first stage of growth is marked by sporadic services and goods that can offered with relatively little investment. It is also dominated by exchange entrepreneurs and bitcoin speculators.Speculation and exchange between one currency to another is the main form of economic activities. The liquidity grease the engine of small web app and businesses.I think the second stage of economic growth is the payment processor, and the ability to pay for goods.
Hmm, there are various bitcoin causes competing for bitcoins.  Perhaps, Mt. Gox. could add many options for deposit and withdrawal? Writcoin and bitcoin exchange market! I guess, I'll collect it when the donation to the CCC is due. On the other hand, we got our sixth members. 30 bitcoins in the treasury, that mean 15 BTC!Every 2 weeks, we collect 5 bitcoins or so. So the treasury will be growing, growing, and growing....and so will the fund for the CCC. Spam? The perfect solution?RSS. Oh dear, on top of a paypal-like behaviors, we're going to wait until Tuesday?When Mt. Gox will recover its full glory? 25 bitcoins in the treasury. 12.5 BTC to the CCC. 5 members!MOAR MEMBERS! He proposed dollars as an explanatory mechanism for why the bitcoin economy simply doesn't implode.I submit to you that investment in the bitcoin economy is paid for in other currencies (eg dollars), not in bitcoins. Given that, the strength of the bitcoin economy has nothing to do with the availability of money for investment. And indeed a growth in value for bitcoins should drive investment in bitcoins, which leads to what you've observed.I don't know. The computer industry doesn't seem to be imploding. Investment in semiconductor fabrication plants are becoming more expensive why the products are in deflationary sprial.(Perhaps that is not a good example since fabrication plant investment cost are offset by inflations?) Only time will tell.... Hmm, I guess I could put bitcoins loan as part of being with the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association. And we got a member already!   We still need donations to the CCC. I created the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association for the purpose of promoting bitcoins as well to build social solidarity. We only have 3 members. creighto: Thank you for advancing my economic knowledge. That was helpful.I already incorporated time preference and the observation that the bitcoin economy is experiencing growth deflation. Are you going to hire a proper web designer? It sure look ugly. Continuous price deflation? I believe you could get an accurate probability of when you're going to get bitcoins. However, it is mostly a random process. You might not get bitcoins for 4 weeks, or get 2 in a row. Who knows? http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=1794532I'm sorry, but this statement alone convinces me that there are important facts about economics which you do not understand. Deflation, among many other things, discourages investment. Without investment, economies stagnate. -btilly on Hacker News.I feel cognitive dissonance. The bitcoin community's overall investment seem to be increasing not stagnating. I also know the computer industry is spending lot of money on their factories and plants while the price of computers continue to lower. What if you could contribute spare CPU cycles to do useful work and then getting paid for bitcoins?
So, is anybody going to critque my writing or join the BMAA?   Though we know that you are working in your spare time to add payment processors, the patience of traders are, nonetheless, wearing thin. But would you be willing to join the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association? I would, if I have any money. I don't want mtgox to get shut down. I also don't think donation will be enough to prevent a shutdown.  It add nothing of substance to the topic... No, I don't think so. All it does is make scammers' selling of bitcoins less profitable. This is poor economic reasoning. The necessity of monetary inflation does not follow toward economic exchange and the effectiveness of money. In other words, this is a non-sequitar.His reasoning also ignored the fact that people need foods, water, and the like. All of which will exceed the desire to horde. It is worth noting that money, by themselves are not an end. For any of the money to have any use at all, they must be spent and invested, or otherwise saved for some future catastrophe, spending needs, and others.All the saving rate does is forecast the time-preferences of the consumers, thus economies will follow consumption pattern that are longer term and make possible capital intensive projects.I say his reasoning is a bunch of gibberish easily disproved. Somebody stole your 10 dollars letter mail along the way? 15 bitcoins in the treasury! That mean 7.5 bitcoins are available for the Chaos Computer Club! Waste of time and money. We need a reputation system of some kind to keep the scammers at bay. Bitcoiners, however, have an interest in reputation system because it is directly applicable to the bitcoin economy. We have no court and police, but the reputation of men. Increased barrier, less likelihood of fraud. One charity at a time. Market correction.I rather find out now than find out later. Bitcoiners could get together and exchange dollars and bitcoins? I don't understand.  What is the timetable for a new payment processor to go up? I am attempting to raise money for the CCC in conjunction of making the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association grow so that we can actually fund projects.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1432.0 I think MMO are still one of the most potent potential economic engine for the growth of the bitcoin economy.
Could be abused to blacklist people they don't like. I am starting a membership drive for the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association. Whatever in the BCMA's treasury will be divided by 2, then the proceed will be donated to the Chaos Computer Club.We only have 2 members, with 10 BTC in the treasury. 5 BTC goes to the CCC. 5 BTC stays in the association's treasury.Keep in mind that you will have to pay 5 BTC membership dues every two weeks. However, anybody in the BCMA will get member discount with any business that are members of the BCMA. The BCMA will offer more benefit as soon as people figure out what BCMA should also offer.Join and receive benefit, while also donating to the bitcoin promotion cause: http://fivegrinder.com/group/Bitcoin%20Mutual%20Aid%20Association Updated. I was planning to donate but I have problem with compiling bitcoin. I will donate soon.However, people do not have incentive to donate to mtgox. IF they could, they want to keep as much of their profit as possible. This meant that mtgox essentially rely on the few suckers who do donate. Second of all, even if they did, it will probably not be sufficient to cover the volume that mtgox experienced everyday. Isn't this getting off-topic. In any case, we need to figure out how to contact bytemaster if it is at all possible. Never heard of it. Must be fraudulent! Delete!Roleplay beside, did you check their TOS to see if they prohibit virtual currencies or something similiar?  http://blog.bumblebeelabs.com/social-software-sundays-2-the-evaporative-cooling-effect/This forum is full of hacker and ciphergeeks, and people familiar with crypto-anarchist political theory. This in character encouraged voluntary entrepreneurial behaviors and the discussion of radical business models(such as p2p darknet powered by bitcoins).However, as the bitcoin economy, we may dilute the knowledge quality and entrepreneurial and voluntary spirit of the community. Thus, voluntary. nonviolent, and innovative solutions may be looked over in favor of possibly more corecisive solutions and corrosive social environment.So I invites forum goers here to figure out how to preserve the effectiveness of the bitcoin community in the admist of bitcoin economic growth. All the more reason to fund the development of increasingly easier payment and receive methods.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1411.0 For the last few days, it's a lot more than a 1K USD a day. I supposed you could call it double-backed up reserve banking for no exposure exchange practice?Or should it be doubled back exchange?Or is there already a term for this? Updated. Tie up all the smaller guys first like the FSF and CCC, then we can convince Wikimedia foundation to join the bandwagon. Time to write a letter to the CCC(Chaos Computer Club). We will also need German translators once the donations and the letter has been finalized. This is the letter adapted from the EFF letter. Feel free to critique and make improvement.Dear Chaos Computer Club, The Bitcoin community appreciates your efforts to protect electronic liberty and help the internet remain free of censorship and unnecessary intervention.Bitcoin < http://bitcoin.org > is a new open-source P2P cryptocurrency system, published under the MIT license.There are several enterprises and individuals in the Bitcoin community and growing. We have donated about 600 BTC to date to the EFF, now we wish to donate X amount to you.We are certain that you will receive many more in individual donations if you will set up your own bitcoin address and tell people that they can donate to you via bitcoins.Warmest regards, The Bitcoin community. Mt. Gox. should find ways to make money and maintain emergency reserve. We are thankful for being able to trade on such a liquid market. However, it is unacceptable that Mt. Gox. can easily go bankrupt, thus losing one of the easiest way to purchase and sell bitcoins in the bitcoin economy.Signed...sincerely,Mt. Gox. customers and traders.~Kiba. The first ever bank run.People are buying bitcoins now that dollars are unwithdrawn-able for the time being.I think that prove bitcoins are hell lot safer than dollars. Good to know that not everything is in paypal.However, will you begin to charge for mtgox services? It would be comforting to know that mtgox can keep running after some catastrophe. I mean, you are fronting all the risks for providing such a liquid market. I believe in nobody, not even the bears.Let kill some buddhas. Bitch! We're going to get our revenge on paypal by making bitcoin the best currency ever!So those damn paypal dudes will be forced to pay attention to us. So Noagendamarket said you were working on an advertising clearinghouse like projectwonderul and google's adsword.How is it going? Updated niche list for plant store and beer supply store.No takers on any of these project yet. It's....deeply ingrained.
I think the Chaos Computer Club will be the next target in the hacker unity behind bitcoin letter writing campaign. Only two members? When is the last time that somebody saw bytemaster alive? Membership fee is 5 bitcoins every 2 weeks. Who you're quoting? Two casino! A duopoly in the the bitcoin market. Report bugs to mtgox! http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1412.0 I am thinking a possible downward spiral to the 0.060 price range since there were a large of bids in the 10,000 bitcoins were. Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association I used it to create the first ever mutual aid society for bitcoin, the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association! http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1395.0I think if you submit a name too long, it will redirect you to a "Group not found", but the group is created already. http://fivegrinder.com/group/Bitcoin%20Mutual%20Aid%20AssociationI created the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Assocation with 5 bitcoins in the treasury. Join and make proposals and stuff! It is sad that our libertarian comrades don't agree across the board. Only crypto-anarchists comrades agree that this is a good idea. This is not a thread about asking existing services but for bitcoiners to suggest niches and work on niches. I think we have a long discussion about the economic of bitcoins until all the misconceptions of the bitcoiners boiled away. I updated the wanted niches list to include local classified ads niche. It would be better if veteran traders can opt out of the 30 days withdrawal.I think it would be a nice feature of a paid mtgox account. I am pledging a bitcoin bounty of 10 BTC for the development of a chrome extension that interface with a bitcoin wallet or create one.It must do the following.1. Automatic receive and confirmation.2. Detect payment options on website.  A way to click "buy" and bitcoins are deducted.3. Tell us how many bitcoins there are in the wallet.It doesn't need to have bitcoin generation feature or any of that, just a very simple wallet management system built right in. Extra bonus points if wallets can access services like mybitcoin.Pledges:1. 10 BTC - kiba Paid.2. 100 BTC - TTbit Paid.3. 100 BTC -Bitcoinex4. 40 BTC - sandos 5. 50 BTC - Blimmerhead Paid300 BTC total. Easy to sell gift cards and money, but nothing much else. Somebody brought a computer, though. We're talking dating instead of mutual aid? Github is not the name of the software. It is the name of the git host.
The chicken and the egg problem. Well. We experienced another day of volume record breaking. I think for the first time, we actually exceed slashdot era price record.What can I say? It's absolutely nut. Perhaps now is the time to discuss actual implementation of a reputation system. As it stand, a German scammer probably got away with some bitcoins. The scammers are probably going to come in with more frequency and the like. This is going to be a hassle. There gotta be a better way... A withdrawal insurance company. Interesting idea.I love how people come up with solutions that doesn't coerce people. While interesting, he is only one individual. The Chaos Computer Club is composed of many more individuals and we have German speakers on hand who can help us. Convincing such large organizations will allow us to convince more hacker charities.Still, if there are Chinese speaker, than he could contribute his spare resources to convince individuals like these. A cross-pollination and cultural exchange between the east and west would be beneficial. How about the Free Software Foundation? Mtgox should find a way to make money other than asking people for donation. This is to keep mtgox in business even when a large scale scam hit and Mt Gox couldn't sell the bitcoins at a high price to offset the loss.I'll go ahead and make a donation to mtgox... That's a lot of bubbles in one decade. How does a person know if the paypal account is a fraud? Very interesting that early in bitcoin history, somebody already is trying to do a large scale scam? There are low inflation, so you did see a great deal of inflation. It's not mutually exclusive. What is the problem about? Somebody actually trying to scam bitcoiners out of their money? I don't think the current situation warrants the great optimism on the market at all.It's just weird to me even with the positive news that has been circulating in the economy. Would this explain the huge volume of exchange in mtgox or is it just a coincidence? Why do you use subversion and sourceforge.net instead of the new and hip git and github.com? How old are you anyway? When are you going to display old auctions? Continue the trend of the letter writing campaign to the EFF, which hacker/geek charity do you guys want to target next?I guess we could use the EFF as an example charity that accepted bitcoins. I guess nobody is very interested?   It could be any number of things.For example, a new casino mmo just poped up. Probably some ATITD users are looking to cash in on what they earn.If there are any new services that manages to pop up during the bitcoin rally, it will probably drive up the price higher again....
time server? Yum. Let inflate even when time are prosperous.  I guess this thread will be used for news of EFF's eventual implementation of bitcoins. It been at 0.06 for a really long time for like 2-3 weeks? In any case, the market seem to practically ignore the fact of monetary inflation. Sorry for my misunderstanding. 30 days waiting period for paypal dollars deposit meant that influx of new buyers at mtgox ain't possible. Two months of work....success! I been thinking of funding a series of bounty for browser extensions that store as well automatically receive bitcoins.I also want to do it in conjuction of forming the first ever bitcoin mutual aid society, the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association at http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1395.0 I want to move forward with this association idea for short. I guess I'll called it the Bitcoin Mutual Aid Association.I think the simplest benefit that such an association get is discount from business.50% of the funds will goes to bitcoin promotion projects, software bounty and the like. The other 50% will be saving. Part of the 50% spending will be breakdown into 25% advertising, and 25% software bounty.I think the membership fee will be 10 btc per month. Anybody who's a business owner and member of the association will offer discount.Very simple. The next step is to outline a charter and governance structure. Possible but there are inherent general gender imbalance in hackerdom. The possibility of a volume record breaking is high now with 42669 bitcoins. Any feedback? Maybe it would be a good idea to form some kind of "friendship" society, um like a fraternity or something. Basically provide things like mutual aid, insurance, and benefits to its members and function as a way to um..make friends.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendly_SocietyPerhaps member businesses associated with the bitcoin mutual aid societies get discount. So you might pay like 5 bitcoins every month and you'll get select discount on certain sites.These bitcoin money would goes to insurance thingy, promotion of bitcoin projects, etc. So how do you determine if there is enough questions for Satoshi to answer? Any more niches for people to fill? I never got the chance to try it out despite the invitation to test it. Will do soon. All you need is to mine a nearby asteroid than BAM! Everyone's faith in gold is gone. MtGox broke volume exchange record yesterday with 36672.7 bitcoins. That's a lot! Massive quantity of volumes are exchanged in a few days in a row. Possible slight movement in price.I also noticed the high activity rate for the last 5 days or so and the appearance of a few new highly active users. Perhaps bitcoin community growth has fueled the volume? Or not, we can't be sure anyway. Are you really from Japan?
A sufficiently smart thief will social engineer you, or just steal jewelries and other stuff from much easier security system. Try again? No email?   SUCCESS! Bitcoin at this time was still at the front page of FSDAILY! If we upgrade now, we don't have to convince as much people later if the bitcoin economy continues to grow. There are like 4 Satoshi Nakamoto on facebook, yo! There are nothing to connect even one of them to Satoshi of bitcoin fame!  High volume! Not much fluctuation in price, for now. No email from the EFF?  Maybe ya need to send a letter until it get noticed by the EFF people. Razor Theorem say that it's his real name. His life are probably typical of that of an average hacker. The gender say it's a male. A declaration of saying that you're going to avoid taxes is a bad idea. No volunteers? We're doomed! We might get some new users from the free software world!Vote em up!http://www.fsdaily.com/EndUser/Bitcoin_P2P_Cryptocurrency Given that scientists cannot create much of a quantum computer, I don't see how the government can possess that kind of technology. Wow, it's already 1425 bitcoins already. Did they attempt to sabotage their own movement or something? Maybe we should just ask Satoshi why he did it.  What is the difference between currency and money?My dictionary research yielded that currency is a current medium of exchange and that money is a medium of exchange. Since, people are actually using it as medium of exchange, therefore, it is both money and currency. Somebody must crack your computer's security or social engineer their way to get a copy of your wallet. However, if you spend your money first, than it doesn't matter what the criminal do. Cryptographic functions are the hardest to break, but other things are much easier. What would economic think of bitcoin as? The most obvious conclusion that it is MONEY because it serve the function of money. There used to be people who use giant rocks as money, shells as money, cows as money, etc. Money arise naturally out of a barter economy, and advance from there. From there, we see that gold, salts, and other commodity evolved into money over time. Hence the phrase as "This guys is worth his salt".Money is not some legalistic conception that arise out of king saying "THIS IS MONEY, USE IT OR DIE".Bitcoin is as bitcoiners do. What silverman seem to be doing is conflating legalistic thinking and strategies with the economic science. 
I consider that economic definition take precedence and importance over legal definition. End of story.Government are not forever. The rules of economics are. Government are authorities. Economics is a science.You cannot nullify the concept of economic scarcity even when we entered a non-scarce economic reality. You cannot nullify truth.Nobody is advocating on how to decide how much bitcoins is worth, what the proper use of bitcoins is, etc al. What people like me are doing is trying to DESCRIBE REALITY aka scientific definition, not prescribe some rules that bitcoiners shold be following. The court provide bad services. The problem is, people act as if X products are truely worth X bitcoins. They trade bitcoins for dollars and euros and the like. They also buy and sell using bitcoins. People calculate if their business in bitcoins is thriving or not. What people believe partially make up economic reality. People do not make arbitrary distinction about trading being completely separate of bitcoins. Money is not defined legally, because money is a being of economic nature. It does not matter if crooks declare bitcoin to be not money. It's a legal fiction completely irrelevant to the true economic nature of bitcoins. Stallman is less receptive than Raymond simply because Stallman is just a moderate socialist. Raymond is an anarchist and he's already siting on the fence about IP abolishment. Nonetheless, I don't know if the free software crowd would be receptive to bitcoin and ciphergeeks and anarchistic hackers that surround it. The function of money is to serve as medium of exchange, store of value, and more. Bitcoin serve that job, thus pass the "duck" test. It doesn't matter if bitcoin is mere immaterial information. The fact is, it have literal effects on the world, much like a computer program does. It satisfies every test of money that I have learned from my macroeconomic class. No, it's not a 'commodity' and all that BS. The economic reality is that we use bitcoin almost exclusively for economic exchange.  I suspect it's more profitable to run a email scam than to generate bitcoin. I was stating the fact of the matter. We truly don't really know why Satoshi did the thing he did. Yes, there are guesses and speculation.  No matter how accurate they are, they are just speculation and guesses.  This bounty is dead dead and dead! Since the community is composed of hackers and ciphergeeks at the moment, it is indeed one of the goal. However, we don't know the true goal of Satoshi. So what if a botnet generate all these bitcoins? He'll be able to move markets for his money. Big deal. A P2P computer program and currency is not exclusive to each other. I can do static pages, list of goods, user accounts. However, I can't do bitcoin stuff, yet. The original idea behind EFF letter writing campaign is to use the limited goodwill of the bitcoin community to achieve the goal of uniting the hacker tribe under the bitcoin banner. The hope is that when and if the bitcoin community will get attacked, somebody will speak for us.  I am not so optimistic about bitcoin's success.  As it stand, it takes effort by bitcoiners to build business and economic activity, as well letter writing campaigns and such to expand bitcoin usage to the globe.  This is something that the bitcoin community must keep sustaining throughout the period before takeoff. Even when there seem to be large growth, it is probably not the time to be complacent.We probably really don't know where the takeoff point is until long after bitcoin disrupt the economy. "First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win." - Mohandas Karamchand GandhiThe key is maintaining the velocity of growth and innovation high enough so that the adversary can't catch you. It helps if the FED are an incompetent cabal. More probable that they never heard of it.Still, it's interesting that there are still tremendous barrier between the west and the east as far as cultural exchange goes.  Well it's kinda impossible at this point. I already hand them the mybitcoin account. Nobody is from Japan except Satoshi, or at least as far as I know. I was just playing it safe with anybody that might have crazy relatives or overly politically correct bosses. Yup.
Today, I worked on the development environment on my netbook at the coffeeshop/bookstore so I can develop bitpredict from there. The only problem is that the netbook take too long to do anything. By the time I leave, I have the development environment barely set up by the time I leave the shop to pick up mother. So um, are you going to add categorization and the like? Rating? Comments? ESR might be willing to accept bitcoin donations.He is both a hacker and anarchist and he would fit right in with the bitcoin community. I would prefer not to waste the donations of everyone here in the community. The donation was already sent. At the very least, the EFF would liquidate the coins. Have we not wait two weeks already? You mean, uh, charity. 34209.3 bitcoins lot. Hi, did you managed to get control of the mybitcoin account?  Any more services and goods you want to see fulfilled? Is anybody working on any of the wanted niches? A guy brought lot of bitcoins on mtgox and it didn't exactly goes as planned.  The flip side is that the counterfeiter/thief? cannot inflate the economy with bitcoin cash copies. So 10,000 of bitcoin getting sold no longer have a great effect on the volatility of bitcoins? So we are one month into an astonishing stable exchange rate period despite high inflation rate.But we all know that stability cannot last forever.... Hmm.. I just thought of...You could steal bitcoin by copying them and then spending them. However, if the owner spend it first, you're out of luck. Oh my. Porn.   I am going to go with the optimistic hypothesis that they got bigger fish to fry than try to exchange bitcoins for paypal dollars.With the famousness that they have with geeks, it wouldn't be surprising that they simply forgot our email. This is a non-issue. Nothing to see here, keep moving. You should remove the account info for the bitcoin account as soon as possible. Perhaps the next step is to ask if they have access to the account or need help. You could ask them if they would like to receive more bitcoin? Thus leading to the question if they will put up a donation box. No offense, but you sound spammy.
Indeed...what to do. Unfortunately, I lack facilities in learning and discovering social norms.[1]----1. That's a bit of an exaggeration. Let just say that I have asperger syndrome and I am slow to catch on as far as the social game goes. I thought bankers are superconservative folks that would never go near something like bitcoins. Of course, I was wrong. We need news! It is probably much more efficient to not have a anti-counterfeiting organization, or all the security guards to defend the gold vault, etc. Meanginless generations and intense computational requirement of creating new currencies is not an adoption barrier. The lack of business accepting bitcoin is. An average Joe Sixpack user won't care about generating bitcoin. It's just too complicated for him. He'll just use an online account to keep a wallet.  Combine with public key encryption to verify that you are who you are across bitcoin sites would be great? Sound like a prediction that can be set to the test.   All it need is the date of happening and specific level of unemployment rates, amongst other things. A reminder that I should continue and make progress everyday. Bitpredict is not dead! I just had another web application to attend to, one that will accept bitcoins!I'll report on the payment integration with my new web app since it is relevant to know how I will implement such a system for bitpredict. No, it's mostly their fans who say that.  It seem that our culture evolved to associate the positive notion of property right with evil copying monopolies. Electronics, man. Electronics. IF gold are cheaper, than electronics would be cheaper too and we would use gold much more often in other area. If we ever mine asteroids, gold would cease to be money. An irony, if you think about it. Moved #2 to niches being worked upon. I don't know why but I think I'll stick to ad-infested contents while using ads-blocker. N0body is going to pay to listen to you if they got thousands of other things that they can read, unless you're freakishly good. Hey, it's the site operator and me's discretion to slap down any bet we like. But, I would like to give the site users to moderate themselves by killing a bet within say, 5 hours. Let just say I don't want bitpredict to be a source of calamity in the world. Automation would be basically the site gathering data and than computing the result and then paying the bettors accordingly. No humans involved other than the site operator/me coding it. I would argued that mainstream media is not just one of the factor. One possibility is that the booming amount of web services that accept bitcoin will drive the price of bitcoin up. If the media noticed the growing number of web services accepting bitcoins, than it goes to reason that media are compounding factors. It's a chicken and the egg thing. I am not sure if this is fair, but I'll implement your suggestion when the time come. The best way to find out something is to actually test and see how it goes. For now, I am going with the normal user account. It might change in the future. It is open source. I just have not decided a license yet. Well, some bets will be excluded on what the site operator and me thinks it will encourage dangerous and unethical events to happen. Examples are not up for discussion.
Well, I was busy the whole day with another web application, a MVP if you will. I was close to completion so I decided to pour all my effort into getting it online. With any luck, I will integrate bitcoin as a payment option.As for this project, it will resume as soon as I fixes things that went really wrong and reveal the MVP for feedbacks. In any case, the price for bitcoin is stubbornly stable.  Is this just a payment option added to an existing service or is it actually a new service? So nobody is taking up some niches?   If you're only loaning 10 BTC, than you only need a little verification, and so on. That would be an interesting movie. "The Planter Rebellion" Than I guess it is one of the goal of the bitcoion community. Avoid economic collapse and pull back the economy from the brink of collapse. Not a real answer. I mean somebody who will actually do it. The only question is: who will develop the infrastructure? It seem like a lot more work than creating a simple web-service. The increase in money supply? People put up a bet on things that they will think will happen. For example, who will get elected in 2012 US presidental election. Will the republican take over congress? The marketshare of the search engines. It will be mostly be something specific and easy to verify. Let hope it doesn't end in a genocidal event.  If they see that bitcoin is supporting "piracy", they might be more keen to try to shut down bitcoin. You could develop one of the niche listed instead. It benefit you and the bitcoin economy more if there are more web services payable in bitcoin.  I did another session of coding tonight. I created an empty template page for new user, wrote unit testing code, and generally making sure that you can't actually have empty username. I think spammers' scale tend to be bigger than that. Anyway, it is distracting from the purpose of the thread, although it is important to discuss the viability unless someone decided to try it anyway. .5 * 1000 is 500 bitcoin. .5 * 10000 or so is 5,000 bitcoin. .5 * 100000 is 50,000 bitcoin. Imagine if the spammer want to register million of time across sites. The cost will run up very quick. Well, of course, you can adjust the price of posting a little bit.  Just pay .5BTC that prove you are human. If you can make spammers pay for everything they spam, you have done well. What possible legit captcha breaking activities would there be? What uses would it be to other bitcoin users, and what possible benefit would there be for the community? Nobody have volunteer yet for any of those niches, which I think in theory can be done in a few weeks time.(my niche is writing the software for bitpredict) Not sure what you are talking about. I thought of bitcoin as a captcha itself. The theory goes that bitcoin are valuable stuff that spammers are reluctant to spend.
The developer behind this project has done well. Now we will need to reciprocate by making something that he might want to spend bitcoin on. Fostering trade relations and interdependence is very important for a successful bitcoin economy. There are quite lot of opinions on how to increase adoption of bitcoin, here and elsewhere. But anyway, creating a way of doing bitcoin jobs like Mechanical Turks is a neat idea. I put it down in my list of niches to fill. There already is a Russian exchange. Look in the marketplace forum. I would think a markeeter these days need programming skills and statistics to analyze mass amount of data, doing A/B testing, etc. Although most of the work will be done within a week, I think you'll find that streamlining the download process, doing testing of different version of the site, will be a big part of your job. Let face it, there are many frustration in finding and downloading contents. While I am not connected to the industry, I am considering building a bitarcade. In my game sketchbook, I try to figure out the simplest game that I could humanely implement while still being somewhat fun. This is somewhat inspired by sweepmine, a facebook game. Through online gaming, they discovered bitcoin. Then they learn bitcoin can be used to purchase physical goods and real life services, thus beginning their career in the bitcoin economy. There will be nothing to market if there aren't anything to market. I suspect it required maybe only a week of development if you're competent. Other than that, it's about gaining critical mass of stuff to download before explosion, I suspect. Marketing can be something like gathering desirable and not illegal stuff to download, curating it, etc and than giving the link to people who want it. That can be done in your spare downtime until you find marketer worth his salt of set up an affiliate program that incentivized people to market for you.Actually, I  didn't suggested it originally, but somebody else did in the thread about p0rn. How many days we have left? When you beat the game, it made a post at your blog bragging how good you are. Just by playing sweepmine, you help promote bitcoin and the game at the same time. This is Operation Economic Growth. Our mission is to grow the bitcoin economy by making everyone specialize in a narrow range of good and services.Simply put, announce what you want to consume and I'll add it to the list. Somebody then will announce that he will try to enter that niche. There can be competition within niches too, but there are other niches to fill.We'll hold those people "accountable" for their niches by plodding, encouraging, starting a thread and then getting disappointed when the service didn't come online etc. Wanted Niches:1. craigslist like classified ads for locale.2. "Mechanical Turk"-like site that list simple jobs for people to do. Suggested by noagendamarket in the Stable Exchange Rate? topic of the Economic forum.3. Beer supply store. Malt, yeasts, hops, etc.4. Plant store for selling various herbs and stuff.6. Hacker Academy. Free educational video. Flat tutiion fee classes. Pay as you go for personal tutors.7. Dating site that accept bitcoins.8. Easy encryption and backup service.Niche filled or being worked on:1. Advertising clearing house like http://projectwonderful.com. Suggested by mskwik.(I used projectwonderful to make tiny bit of money. I wonder if I can get more money from a bitcoin advertising clearing house) noagenda offered a large bounty on it and being worked on Biomike.2. Download site like rapidshare and other crappy host. Inconvenient captcha and required paypal. Bitcoin can possibly take both roles and streamline the whole process. Suggested by Kiba. Taken by Hippich. Eventually sprawned 3 competitors.3. Freelancer site. Taken by whichspace.4. Pizza order system. You can order on the web, from the commandline, from your smartphone, sms, etc. Taken by mizerydearia. Yeah, Bitcoin serve as good captcha.  I created a register link, fix spelling, and figure out how to do routing. Today is the most substantial progress we see. Let see what happen tonight. In a prosperous economy, everyone narrowly specialize and consume diversely.Not everybody have a niche in the bitcoin economy, so there are no diverse consumption.This forum could be used as support group for entrepreneurial activities and niche finding effort. Theaters would just show public domain equalivent and be done with it. Smaller risk, and smaller profit maybe. Heck, public domain books these days sell, sometime like hotcake.If somebody can make a million dollars worth of movie quality, and don't force you to sign a non-copying agreement you're basically screwed.   Well, I mean store that sell physical items, not brick and mortar businesses. In my sleep deprivation  I slipped up. Very tired person from college. All I did today was beginning the use of an authentication framework and generating a user model. Ugh. I missed a day. No excuses there. A convenient metaphor from the age of physical money. Let leave it at that. By deleting your wallet, of course. It's like deleting your Celine Dion mp3. That's a destruction of property. You can alway download another one from the internet though. However, if you don't back up your wallet, you lose it forever.Well, I don't know how to decide bitcoins. I mean, bitcoin can only be spent once and you can only discover a bitcoin. So if the thief spend your bitcoins, it mean that your bitcoin in your wallet are invalid. It doesn't matter how many time you duplicate the bitcoin. This is why I do the evil laugh when Short-Sighted Commercial Dude do something stupid like stopping piracy of their software.
Business beget business. Before you can have physical stores, you must do it with cheaper capital business. I supposed the thief owe you money after he spend it or destroy it. If they are willing to accept the agreement in the first place and the cost of enforcement does not exceed the profit from persecuting said violators. This is especially dubious when you have million of people with CDs. This is even more dubious if they can do it anonymously with no easy way to track the anonymous leak.If people actually stop pirating in the said ideal world, than GIMP and other copyfree business will eat and run away with the copyright holder's lunch. if you make something artificially scarce, you better have the quality to make it worth people's livelihood to host it at the movie theater. Not possible in libertarian theory. You can persecute the party in agreement with the contracts but third parties and outsider have no obligations.The problem with evading IP laws to get free musics and movies is that they're only promoting the monopolist's interest, not the business interest of copyfree entrepreneurs.Piracy[1] is a poor use of promoting free markets and libertarianism.[1]: Piracy has apparently evolved into a catch-all phrase for "Things that Short-Sighted Commercial Dudes Don't Want You To Do". For our purpose, it means illegal copying of a monopolist's pattern. The Pirate Party is not what I consider to be "anti-IP" people, just "less copyright" people. The libertarians that I talk to know and accept this argument. So you're arguing against quite possibly a strawman. What we're against is involving third parties who have nothing to do with the non-copying agreement. Intellectual property right violate real property right. I presume that you're the developer of sweepmines? Didn't somebody show how bitcoin didn't violate the Mises' Regression Theorem? Yes. It doesn't matter what nation-states think bitcoin is.All we're doing is saying bitcoin as something else other than its economic reality. Yesterday, I didn't do anything. This is bad.Today, I only modified the home template. I think I'll do something with a bit more substance tomorrow. Perhaps, a generic registration system will be in order. I thought it was important to keep projects like this one alive by periodic bumping.  It look like the bitcoin feature is unimplemented at this time.How you find this?  It is "of course" for you, but how? Since we are waiting for the two week period nothing to do for the EFF....I decided to ask a question.Is this project alive? The bitcoin escape velocity - the point at which governmental damage control is ultimately futile and that we will never ever go back to the USD or other nation-state controlled currency. I was working on getting EFF to accept bitcoins and then work on other geek organization. The idea is that if bitcoin got attacked by annoying government people, there will be people who will speak and defend on our behalfs. It's all about uniting the tribe of geeks/hackers/singularists/technolibertarians into a united front for bitcoins. I was thinking of a traditional console that you plug into your TV. Ideas:open source video game console.: cheap 200 dollars linux machine with cheap game controller and ethernet port to connect to the internet. I call it bitman 200. Starting capital is 400 USD.robotic toy company: make lego clones using makerbots and engineer an open source robotic platform using lego clones. Extra bonus points for constructing a makerbot using said lego clones to manufacture even more lego clones. Starting capital is probably 1,200 USD.But we should establish an economy based on web services first as they are non-capital intensive. Once there are a bunch of bitcoin entrepeneurs making some money, than we can consider funding VC effort. More progress: figured out how to generate static pages in rails.
Ycombinator is an actual VC firm that incubate startups but kickstarter is a platform for projects to raise funds. Anything yet? How about a ycombinator type program for bitcoin businesses? Say, you fill out an application and VC fundie check the application to see if the business proposal have value and approve/disapprove. Once you got approved, you basically get X amount of funds from the pool and in return 10% of the revenues.This will be more useful for services that need more than just a web host and coding chops. I got a bit further along today. Finally got the test server from the rails directory running. My goal is to make much more progress than that tommorow. I also attempted to set up my netbook for development. It was an utter fail. My strategy is not to find specific niches that would work for bitcoin really well but to create lot of mini sites for bitcoins. It can't hurt to have lot of miniservices by which users can spend their money on. This of course, contribute attraction for developers who might develop the right application that will be the viral niches that allow bitcoins to take off. Think of my strategy as a metastrategy for allowing your strategy to be viable. https://btcex.com/Look like the Russians now have their own exchange from which to buy bitcoins for whatevercurrency they use in Russia. After realizing how late it is, I updated to rails 3 and restart from scratch the bitpredict project directory. A disappointing start, but the key is progress.If you can move, you will eventually get to your destination no matter how long it take. So, my goal is to alway be somewhere further along at the end of the day rather than be stuck at the beginning of the day. Well, I am working on a prediction market. I should have some code by the end of the day. 630 bitcoins are accounted for.  I will post daily developer log of what I done for bitpredict, a bitcoin prediction market site. However, today I am too tired to work after returning home from college. I might or might not got anything done tonight. We'll see. Have you heard anything back? That, and I have 500 dollars on the line. I plan on making it succeed so I can collect my 500 dollars bet. So, who is going to teach?  I forgot about that. However, I have yet to figure out the shipping cost and how to do it as well, On Saturday, I think I will be able to put up an auction. So, how and who is going to implement this? Nope. My email was simply about the mybitcoin account. Possible coding bounty. I just handed the EFF details on how to access the account. Pretty soon, I won't be able to know about how much bitcoins EFF have. Done. Now all that's left is to wait. I just checked. We have 640 bitcoins in the account.
It's in another thread for EFF donations. I don't have much time to do anything right now as I am in college. Also, can you please post the email message from the EFF so we know what it says or does that violate social convention. I have choosen to use mybitcoin, which are essential online bitcoin account. Very easy to use. I just need to give them the password and the username. I think you'll need to express your needs and see if people are willing to offer and try to get started. However, at this point, we have too few users to facilitate much trading since there is a lack of coincidence between what you want and what resources they have. Two months is too long to realize that generating bitcoin is a waste of time, I believed. It's not a plausible hypothesis.However, this is September so school is probably a plausible hypothesis pulling bitcoiners from the community a little while.Another hypothesis is that the community has already say much about bitcoins and that we're running out of stuff to post. That's probably implausible though but I don't know how to determine this. I will check it this Sunday to see if there is more donations. I won't be marking people since that's too much work for me. The rate of posting is low this month, and there are few real members creation. We don't have enough critical mass for takeoff. I don't know if we're losing momentum, but just to make sure, double the amount of energy into increasing the mass for takeoff. We can't expect others to do their share of the work, we must do it ourselves. Slashdot so far is only our signifigant source of new members blast. We may need a couple more blasts to go to the rest of the J curves but we shouldn't relies on it to make our success. If anything, user blasters will be the product of creating our own "lucks".Keep showing up on IRC and forums. Keep building web services. Keep writing letters. Most of all, find yourself a niche. Division of labor has made our wonderful civilization like this. Let seize it in our new society.I know I also need to do my part too, so I shall contribute in some small way. I'll shall begin working on a prediction market no later than this Wednesday. Any progress for that matter? No reply, ever. Any suggestion on how I should move next? Nothingness and Nothingness.   590 bitcoins so far. Black Swan event? I got Bad Hostname for some reason. Perhaps this is a bad omen?(JK, I don't believe in superstition) At this time, I still do not have anything from the EFF. So that was a grand worth of bitcoins?  Finally got some bitcoins! Thanks to whoever sold bitcoins on the cheap. That is not what I meant. My focus is on the goal of making bitcoin stronger using the limited goodwill of the bitcoin community. Geek charities are more likely to understand what bitcoin is and is likely to sympathize with the various goals of the bitcoin community. Don't forget the big guys like the Free Software Foundation. It is not a good idea to stretch the generosity of the bitcoin community too thin. Focus on one charity at a time, and geek charity first. The objective is to unite the geek tribe under one banner. You could just elect to running your own bitcoin using web application, not program for others. For example, I been thinking of building an ads network. Ok. Accounted for bitcoindonor. Project dead? 
I sent this letter with "several" not "several hundred" to the EFF. I don't like to exaggerate.  I counted 420 bitcoins reported. However, 100 btc are unaccounted for.  We got two guys who donated. 110 bitcoins. So....where do I send the letter to? Nothing happening? 1MCwBbhNGp5hRm5rC1Aims2YFRe2SXPYKtThis is the address of a mybitcoin account. Donate and report to me your amount and I'll cross you off the pledge list. Escrow 10 unanimous ayes for escrow is done. Now, I am the escrow. Tommorow, I'll have an address for people to donate. When ya donate, make sure to report what amount you donate. 1 more aye. Done. Hmm. I am thinking of getting all the hackerspace all over the country to act as supernodes. Hackerspace are learning and community centers for...hackers. Any words, mizerydearia? Added ya. We now have 700 bitcoins in total.Also, 2 more ayes needed to approve escrow. Is the letter ready to send to EFF? Few will bid unless it is seriously under priced. When they do, they will have emotional investment and will eventually drive up to approximately where the price you want it to be. So it look like people agree that it is a good idea. However, it will need funding and a team to engineer such a project.  3 more ayes for selection of escrow. 4 more ayes. The price managed to be steady in the face of inflation. I don't noticed much significant growth in the way of traffic on the forum, since my arrival after the slashdot event. Five ayes. 5 more to go. How many bitcoins are you going to buy over SMS? How does it work?
Those who got in early do so at the risk of bitcoins not taking off. Their generation of bitcoins would be quite useless if the bitcoin economy is not successful. So for those bitcoin miners, it is in their interest to invest in the economy. The more they invest in the economy, the potential for big pay day. However, useless activities mean that they either lose their bitcoins or their USDs. Eventually, it will even out the bitcoiners who invest not so wisely from the so wise.Those who sit on their bitcoins and expect to get rich are mere gamblers.Don't be so conceited that there are who are in rich class will remain so in perpetual. Entrepreneurs who win big may displace older business owners. Standard Oil was never able to completely dominated the oil industry. By the time the anti-trust lawsuit was successful, it only have a marketshare of 64%. This was because they did not tried to undercut their competitor by outpricing them out of the market.Even if was a monopoly, Stanard Oil earned it. People who don't download and install update is at a security risk. There will be many more security risk incurred from outdated clients than there are in an unlikely hacking attack. It's a tradeoff. There would need to be a concentration of bitcoiners for this to work. I suggest penetrating into a community that would be extremely receptive to bitcoins. Progress report, mizerydearia. Three people aye Kiba for escrow. Seven more to go. If EFF set up a node before the aye is done, than there are no need for an escrow.However, I would still like some more pledges. I know it's not all of you, yet.  I am happy to accept Fresco's version since others like it. So, mtgox, are you're going to implement some of us' ideas? Which one are you going to implement in the future? So is when the old auctions list going to be available? Lower auction price make people want to bid on it, in the hope of getting it for very cheap. However, it mean that they are attached to the auction and will probably bid for more.I saw a silver coin going for 0.99 bitcoins and now it's 60 something bitcoins. Another coin was sold for 100 btc this way I think. Trying to get the community to use words other than what accurately describe bitcoin is a losing proposition. So, is the letter all right or I am missing some criticism? Even I get confused by the bidding and asking. de ja vu. It appears that I am nominated for the roles of escrow. Nobody wants to volunteer but nobody wants to acknowledge me either. I just realize that this is a very old post. Finally got around to adding you. I earned most of my money trading on mtgox. Otherwise, I am trying for the software coding angle but I am impeded by my own laziness. The longer this thread goes on, the more stale the pledges are going to be as people forget or leave the community.I propose someone swiftly volunteer to be the escrow, and get people to donate their pledge. If people don't trust the escrow in question, please speak up.10 acknowledgement from other users will make the volunteer the official EFF escrow person.  We have 691 users, with 9818 posts. This is about 36 posts a day, 3 members a day, and 15 users online each day.
We're on a roll today! Thanks. That's quite an assumption. It would mean there are 1 user for each nodes. It is more probable than some users run more nodes than other. Thanks. Simple, just use UTC. http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=778.0 We have about 575 bitcoins, which translate to 37.72 dollars at the current exchange rate of 0.056.Not everybody pledged a donation. Some of which probably won't be donated at all. So, how is the video making going? More complementary than competition. Thanks for your pledge! Instead of calculating the volume as the last 24 hours, which give us a false impression, implement total volume for this 24 hours period. Letter upgrade, complete.Dear Electronic Fronter Foundation, The Bitcoin community appreciates your ongoing efforts to protect Internet freedom. We hope to remain free of intervention and would welcome your supportThe Bitcoin community comprises approximately N users and over 30 business enterprises employing a new open-source P2P cryptocurrency and monetary system called Bitcoins. The software for bitcoin is published under the MIT license. In addition to many other useful properties, Bitcoin has extremely low transaction fees, high divisibility, and is difficult to produce and counterfeit. These features make Bitcoin useful as a medium of exchange. As such, Bitcoin may become a threat to centralized monetary systems, which are typically backed by governments. The Bitcoin community knows that governments will defend their monetary monopolies, perhaps by suppressing the Bitcoin economy.Members of the Bitcoin community have expressed an interest in donating [cryptocurrency] bitcoins to you as a gesture of appreciation. In order to facilitate that process, we request that you add a bitcoin donation button to the EFF website.  That would involve setting up a Bitcoin node, which is quite straightforward. We estimate that EFF would receive approximately X bitcoins currently worth about Y USD. We note that, by accepting bitcoin donations, EFF might expand its support base (perhaps substantially).  What make bitcoins different from all other cryptocurrencies of the past? Only to forget! Your client need a regular donation mechanism. Added. I think it just sound better to greet the Electronic Frontier Foundation. Beside, the starter sentence feel "out of the blue". Added you. I took Ichi's version and modified it a little bit. Dear Electronic Fronter Foundation, the Bitcoin community appreciates your ongoing efforts to protect Internet freedom. We hope to generally remain free of intervention, and would welcome your support.The Bitcoin community comprises approximately N users and over 30 business enterprises employing a new open-source P2P cryptocurrency and monetary system called Bitcoins. The software for bitcoin is published under the MIT license. In addition to many other useful properties, Bitcoin has extremely low transaction fees, high divisibility, and is hard to produce and fake. These features make Bitcoin useful as a medium of exchange. As such, Bitcoin may become a threat to centralized monetary systems, which are typically backed by governments. The Bitcoin community knows that governments will defend their monetary monopolies, perhaps by suppressing the Bitcoin economy.As a demonstration of our value, members of the Bitcoin community would like to donate some of our goods -- cryptocurrency bitcoins -- to you. In order to facilitate that process, we request that you add a bitcoin donation button to the EFF website.  That would involve setting up a Bitcoin node, which is quite straightforward. We estimate that EFF would receive approximately X bitcoins currently worth about Y USD. We note that, by accepting bitcoin donations, EFF might expand its support base (perhaps substantially). I think the donations are one-time only. Nobody has pledged to donate per monthly. Upgrade complete. Request for comment.Dear EFF, the Bitcoin community appreciates your ongoing efforts to protect Internet freedom. The Bitcoin community hopes to generally remain free of intervention, perhaps with your support in the future.The Bitcoin community is a society of users with over 30 business enterprises based around a new open source P2P cryptocurrency and monetary system called Bitcoins. The software for bitcoin is published under the MIT license. In addition to many other useful properties, Bitcoin has extremely low transaction fees, high divisibility, and is hard to produce and fake. These features make Bitcoin useful as a medium of exchange. As such it is probable that it will become a threat to centralized monetary system, which are often backed by governments. Members of the Bitcoin community have recognized the interest worldwide governments have in keeping their monetary monopoly. Their resulting actions could be a possible threat to the growing Bitcoin economy.As such, members of the Bitcoin community would like to donate osome of our goods -- cryptocurrency bitcoins -- to you. Members of the community will donate X bitcoins unconditionally, worth about X USD. We will also donate more if you fulfill various wishes such as putting up a bitcoin donation button, setting up a node and more. Combined, this is X Bitcoins, which are worth X USD in total.The EFF is free to convert the Bitcoins to other currencies, buy goods and services with the Bitcoins, or simply do nothing with them at all. The members of the Bitcoin community hope that the EFF will put the donation to good use. Added.
I added Russia anyway. Rewording accepted. The Bitcoin community hopes that it will generally remains free of intervention, weather or not if you ever expand to protecting alternative monetary system.Reword complete. Request for comment. Saying how awful it is doesn't exactly help me. The letter may not be that great, but it remains that I am the only one who is writing it.  Satoshi is not all knowing and there were probably not anybody who working on cryptocurrency at the time. So there are less ideas for Satoshi to feed on. If you ever do expand to protecting alternative monetary system, the Bitcoin community have hopes that it will generally remains free of intervention.Reword complete. RFC. The fact that there will be only 21 million bitcoins forever and the fact of inflation is factored into the price. Bitcoins is very predictable and people can plan their economic calculation around that. Well, its definition is:not interfered with, disturbed, or harmed. I prefer that the government believe in their own legal fiction and regard us as "toy money". >We also see you as an important partner to ensure that the Bitcoin community goes unmolested or at least won't go down without a fight.If you ever do expand to protecting alternative monetary system, the Bitcoin community have hopes that it will generally  be unmolested or at least won't go down without a fight. Reword complete. Good or not? Should I just delete this altogether? So is this article going to get published? Can you reveal to us who's publishing it? Those brain atoms generate a sense of self, an individuality. Our neurons cannot be linked together with other brains to create a collective brain and collective scenarios.Even when there are cases of brain merging, the two individuals retain their own memory and sense of self. I won't brother to understand what the hell is Universal Dividend, other than it's some kind of basic income that maximize an individual's version of fairness.There can be no collective that act or thinks, only individuals.  You're in agreement with X individuals. Or you're in agreement with Group X that is composed of individuals who is in agreement with each other.Generally speaking, bitcoin users agreed with each other pretty much 100% since they all run the same software. When the bitcoin community decide on something other than running nodes and the like, it means that approximatively 90 to 95% of the community decided to do something, or at least there's a large number of individuals doing something about it, and there's no opposition.From a human point of views, individuals are the atomic decision makers. Groups cannot act, think, or taste. Individuals can think, act, or taste. A group's action that is seemly in harmony is an aggregation of thousand of individual decisions that happen to agree with each other. Within groups, there are dynamics, incentives, and disincentives, that individuals act upon. If the dynamic is not right, individuals won't act in harmony.Groups are an abstraction, a nice categorizing system that people often abuse to ignore the fundamental reality of human actions and the often messy reality of group dynamics.That is why you cannot say that Google is wholly categorically good or bad, despite people saying such things. This is why you see things like Google having the ball to face the Chinese, or Google compromising with Verizon. Different people in different part of the companies can act differently. Some anarchists are Frenchmen, but it is not possible to say that they identified with and support the states because they're French nationalities. Anarchists don't like the idea of the state handling justice, education, security, or monetary policies. In fact, they don't want the state to handle anything at all. In addition they're anti-democratic and opposed to the idea of majority rules.As we can see, you were hardly able to get any traction with your ideas because the underlying ideology generate incompatible ideas. Your refusal to understand libertarian ideologies has make your ideas more unpalatable than usual. Recounted. It was 540 instead of 630.  Any more donors? Upgrade complete:Dear EFF, the Bitcoin community appreciates your ongoing efforts to protect Internet freedom. We also see you as an important partner to ensure that the Bitcoin community goes unmolested or at least won't go down without a fight.The Bitcoin community is a society of users with over 30 business enterprises based around a new open source P2P cryptocurrency and monetary system called Bitcoins. The software for bitcoin is published under the MIT license. In addition to many other useful properties, Bitcoin has extremely low transaction fees, high divisibility, and is hard to produce and fake. These features make Bitcoin useful as a medium of exchange. As such it is probable that it will become a threat to centralized monetary system, which are often backed by governments. Members of the Bitcoin community have recognized the interest worldwide governments have in keeping their monetary monopoly. Their resulting actions could be a possible threat to the growing Bitcoin economy.As such, members of the Bitcoin community would like to donate osome of our goods -- cryptocurrency bitcoins -- to you.. Members of the community will donate X bitcoins unconditionally, worth about X USD. We will also donate more if you fulfill various wishes such as putting up a bitcoin donation button, setting up a node and more. Combined, this is X Bitcoins, which are worth X USD in total.The EFF is free to convert the Bitcoins to other currencies, buy goods and services with the Bitcoins, or simply do nothing with them at all. The members of the Bitcoin community hope that the EFF will put the donation to good use. I don't know what you're talking about. Money is entirely a human invention and is used and valued by humans. So, does anybody have any constructive criticism for my letter? I found that I always write bad grammar and spell poorly.
If people ever figure out how to mine gold on asteroids, than its industrial uses will be widespread. Interesting.Maybe we could form a nationwide network within the US with bitcoin users? How it is flawed?  Thanks. I'll consider it for a future business. Well, OSI and FSF would consider it open source. The bitcoin users who opt in this system and actively trading are in fact taking a risk. They are banking on the success of bitcoin.  Edited the last letter to reflect this.It's actually licensed under the MIT. So I made use of the spirit of your suggestion instead. Very well: I follow your format.Dear EFF, the bitcoin community appreciate your ongoing effort to protect internet freedom such as internet netruality and patent busting projects. We also see you an important partner to ensure that the bitcoin community goes unmolested or at least won't go down without a fight.The bitcoin community is a society of users with over 30 business enterprises based around a new open source P2P cryptocurrency and monetary system called bitcoins. The software for bitcoin is published under the MIT license. It have extremely low transaction cost, is hard to produce, and is hard to fake and as well many other property that make bitcoin a good money. As such it is probable that it will become a threat to centralized monetary system, whom are often backed by governments. Members of the bitcoin community recognized government's interest in keeping their monetary monopoly and their resultant actions as possible threat to the growing bitcoin economy. As, such, members of the bitcoin community would like to donate our goods, the cryptocurrency bitcoins to you. Members of the community will donate X bitcoins unconditionally, worth about X USD. We will also donate more if you fulfill various wishes such as putting up a bitcoin donation button, setting up a node and more. All together combined are X bitcoins, which are worth in total, X USD.The EFF is free to convert bitcoins to other currencies at will, or buy goods and services with bitcoins, or simply do nothing with it at all. We, members of the bitcoin community hope that the EFF will put the donation to good use. Yes. Make your own digital currency. Stop brothering this community.Come back when you have proven the currency to be superior to bitcoin. Time to write a letter. Feel free to write your own paragraphs and the like, as well give feed back.Dear EFF, the bitcoin community would like to donate X bitcoins, which are worth X USD because of the work EFF to protect new and emerging technologies, as well internet freedom. Bitcoin is a new emerging P2P cryptocurrency that have over 30 enterprises and a boatload of community members around the world. It have extremely low transaction cost, is hard to produce, and is hard to fake and as well many other property that make bitcoin a good money. As such it is probable that it will become a threat to centralized monetary system, whom are often backed by the state. Members of the bitcoin community as recognized this as a potential hazard impeding bitcoin adoption in addition to the threat of monetary freedom. We also recognized previously that you protect other kind of internet freedom, such as net neutrality. Thus, our motivation to donate to the EFF.As, such, there are X unconditional donations, but there are X amount that have specific requirement for you to satisify. Conditions include the EFF setup a node and donation buttons for members of the bitcoin community to be able to donate. Others require you to mention bitcoin to help promote the cryptocurrency. Of course, EFF can convert bitcoins to dollars at will, or buy goods and services with bitcoins, or simply do nothing with it at all. We, members of the bitcoin community hope that the EFF will put the donation to good use. I suppose you don't respect the idea of private property. You like to strip a rich man's dignity and his pride so you can make society equal. You make the poor and the unproductive master of rich men. More over, you make even the poor who earn more than other people slaves too. More like under age 25. Market anarchists are a very young demography. We only got a few old market anarchists in their advanced age like Eric Raymond. I have no idea what you're talking about. Money arise out of voluntary exchange amongst individuals. That is all. There is no need to respect whatever values, etc. Welcome to our community. People here are individualist anarchists, or at least the majority of them. They don't take kindly to democracy or ideas of democracy. The community has clearly spoken against your idea. Whatever. Man cannot escape from his nature of being an unequal entity in the world of men. It's impossible. In fact it would be hell if we are made equal.  The biggest irony is that an individual who clearly wishes to change the norm of bitcoin society against majority's wishes."We don't like majority rules or democracy or whatever!"But anyway, I am not liking Galuel's anti-individualistic attitude one bit. I'll REBELL if Galuel get his way. All men are equal, but some men are more equal than others.EQUALITY IS A REVOLT AGAINST NATURE! There should be a way to give people a gift cards that would release bitcoin or give access to a wallet. Any chance you will add other currencies to the market such as Pecunix GAU? I will join a revolt as soon as there is one if such things is happening. I cannot be a leader since I don't have any knowledge in cryptography.
This is nonsense since computer prices keep deflating. Economies grow when they have capital or saving. More saving, mean more resources to spend. All this will balance out when people start spending money again. This can easily be resolved with a bitcoin specification? I don't see how this encourage bitcoin users to create services and goods for the economy. In fact, by starting a business, encourage others to start a business, so a bitcoin user gain a "dividend" in the form of economic growth. Much more so, if they start a business. We're at 420 bitcoins now! But we need to set a goal.How many bitcoins this thread should try to raise? I want a spare wireless mouse. That should be around 15 BTC.I also want an arduino or an arduino clone. I imagine that will instantly broke though.So I should be working on writing code for bitcoins so I can afford such electronics as well buy books to increase my limited electronic project.My idea is to build robotic mouses. Mouses that you can use for normal input, but can transform into robots. This is called monetary inflation. It doesn't matter if it is created out of thin air or not. The rules of law is a crucial factor in the creation of a wealthy society. Anything that does not fit shall be terminated with extreme prejudices. If that mean taking out the power of the government so be it. If that mean no tolerance for the idea of democracy, so be it. If "diversity" itself should be terminated, so be it. I would love to buy one but I am bitcoin-poor. FAIL HARD.Please provide an actual argument beyond your assertion. Any more donations? Anybody want to volunteer as escrow? Is it possible to get an address collision? Aceat64 is taking the risk of operating a prediction market website while I code it. You mean a statist, inefficent court system with a Byzantine and overly complicated law system.In any case, the bitcoin society is effectively evolving its own common law system and social convention, many of which are enforced on the software level. I prefer not to sue in an inefficient, unfair, and everyone lose except the lawyers court system. According to laughing libertarians, they're not.  We got a big jump to 90 bitcoins with noagendamarket.  Keep them coming folks. Show your appreciation for EFF for protecting our electronic freedom. The key is to embed bitcoins deep into society to the point that there will be huge consequences for authorities for messing with bitcoin.Otherwise, we should raise support from our tribes, which are basically computer programmers. Get the FSF, the EFF, and the rest of hacker charities, as well everyone else and you get a united front for bitcoin. Whenever somebody tries to attack bitcoin legally, the computing world will be up in arms. Thanks for your donations!Everyone, we got 40 bitcoins in total pledge! Keep going! Diablo-D3 won't like this at all. He said gambling will attract the feds. We now have 30 bitcoins pledge! Let get the ball rolling!
Only one other pledge? We can do better than this, people! Idea:Make a mini computer that run pretty much only bitcoin. It will also print out bitcoins whenever it mint a block. Make it steampunk style. Let donate to everyone's favorite freedom defender, the Electronic Frontier Foundation.I pledge 10 bitcoins and will donate as soon as someone act as escrow.List of pledges:1. Kiba - 10 btc2. gridecon - 10 btc3. dejayl - 10 btc4. bootfast - 10 btc5. silverman - 50 btc6. hugolp - 10 btc7. biomike - 35 btc8. ichi - 50 btc 100 btc actually.9. ledskof - 50 btc10. Rhorning - 10 btc11. em3rgentOrdr - 15 btc12. bitcoindonor - 100 btcSpecial conditions:1. noagendamarket - 50 btc if EFF set up its own bitcoin node for people to pay them.2. dejayl - 90 btc if EFF set up a bitcoin donation button.3. Fairchild - 50 btc if EFF mentions bitcoin4. gridecon - 50 btc if noagendamarket is satisifed, and 90 btc if there is a bitcoin donation button.5. semyazza - 200 btc if gridecon is satisfied.Additional donation:1. noagendamarket - 100 btc2. guybrush - 10 btcTotal pledged: 800 BTC You can still read them with the Google Universal Translator. I can't hear a thing. Added. Come on, people. Vote. I know there are not only 39 of you. Is it possible to cancel bids? I once accidental put in 99 bitcoins when  I meant .99 bitcoins. I still got outbidded though. Hey! Why you're leaving out mtgox? So, who is working on this project? Looking to see if somebody will start a FOAF or write one. If not the case, I'll volunteer to write one for 50 bitcoins per week. (I know I have not been coding lately but...) So I noticed that people are posting on a thread listing honest traders. Perhaps, the next stage is to write/make use of a decentralized reputation system, like a web of trust. I saw that all the old auctions are gone. Maybe it would be better behaviors to keep old listing? The idea is that people get to see that the site actually get used. Now, I am 3 dollars in profit since the beginning of the bitcoin spectulation career. Now, I can spend some of new profits into black swans bet.  I saw a profile on p2p social networking thingy that say he's from Japan. An interview with Satoshi would be interesting. Are you sure that Satoshi Nakamoto is a libertarian? We don't know much about other than he wrote a technical paper and invented bitcoins. Who did you sold it to? I think it means that the market is now maturing since we now have lot of bitcoin volumes to work with. However, a big bitcoin "killer business" will cause a sudden growth spurts, thus wide oscillation in the bitcoin economy. This just mean we have established ourselves a working economy. Now people will need to to work toward a killer business that will encourage major growth. Added Brazil.
Better payment service help grow acceptance of the bitcoin currency. Ukraine and Denmark are added. Winland is not added. Sorry for the double negative there. I was not thinking clearly when I wrote it. Nigeria added. Hmm...I feel weird in the abritation and judgement area. Some jobs won't be of to the satisifaction of some individuals. Some individuals think it is a satisifed job. Some jobs are completely subjective.But, clearly, I am not thinking clearly since I am tired and all. What are you currently working on for biddingpond.com? Agorists are anarchists who don't think voting will work. So they advocate subversive but nonviolent and beneficial behaviors.Edit: Fix Double Negative There's absolutely no point in generating bitcoins if you don't have anything to buy. Beside, it's a lot easier to get bitcoins if you do something that people might want to buy. Hey. I know of a way of investing money that doesn't require you to sign loads and loads of form and lot of money. There's a new currency called bitcoins. It's electronic and all, but people are buying bitcoins for buying stuff or in the hope that it become big. You can invest 5 dollars and buy bitcoins on the currency exchange market and then sell it for a higher price. If you're successful, you can repeat this process as much as you like. If you lose 5 dollars, than it isn't a huge loss, anyway.Plus, you could buy something with bitcoin if it doesn't pan out. I hope Quantumplation is the wolf or somebody will die tonight. Hmm, you could even set up a logistic company that ferry goods between Keene and Grafton. I think somebody in both Keene and Grafton must first promote bitcoins amongst the libertarian crowd. I am under the impression that only the documentation page is a wiki.  Until I have enough bitcoins, and enough electronic knowledge to use it, you won't be able to sell to me much stuff.However, I do want to make robots and the like. It's just that it take me forever to get anywhere. Not to mention that I don't make much money. So eventually, you should be able to sell to me lot of stuff as I grow my money-making and electronic knowledge. You mean it is designed  to "trust no one", not of "trust everyone collectively"? Interesting, but don't people just buy mp3 instead of used CD? It might be a good idea to sell a usb drive full of songs, or songs that the user want instead of an obsolete city.However, I am more willing to buy used CD player for its scavengable DC motors, laser reader, stepper motors and other valuable electronics. Especially if it is far cheaper than buying factory rolled out and unused DC motors and other parts. It's because some people have faster hashing engine than others. It is felt that it is fair to equalize this by giving everyone a faster standard hashing engine. Buy is the lowest price you can buy bitcoins for.Sell is the highest price a bitcoin buyer is willing to accept. I hope that clear up the confusion. I'll consider buying silver coins when I have enough bitcoins. The computational and energy cost for generating bitcoins is quite irrelevant to the bitcoin economy since it does not compromise the integrity of bitcoins. People should be more concerned about a botnet trying to cheat rather than mine bitcoins. I suggest that the bitcoin.org main site to be turned into a wiki? I believe there are several good reasons for it.1. No more reliance on Satoshi on maintaining the site. Now the community can maintain it.2. People can start immediately translating bitcoin.org into their own native languages.3. General more likelihood of information being up to date.
It look like nobody is willing to buy soon. There's probably a willing buyer in this universe but it will take a long time until a buyer show up. You might consider putting your wireless minutes up on biddingpond.com where all the other auctions is taking place. It was not possible to use my short nick kiba. It wants 6 letters username. Why is that? Added Portugal and Spain to the poll. I am seeing a lack of eastern countries being listed. There's no India, China, Korea, Japan, and the like. What can the bitcoin community do to expand its userbase? Not necessary. For example, what people want to sell might be higher than the last price posted. What I mean is that these bitcoin cards are credits for you to claim your bitcoins. You could basically enter whatever serial numbers...and it will either direct you to a wallet or send you money to your wallet. high - highest price in the last 24 hours.low - lowest price in the last 24 hours.vol - amount of bitcoins exchanged in the last 24 hours.buy - Current lowest selling price.sell - Current buying price.last - Last price bitcoins were sold at.I am unsure if the time period is 24 hours...or 48 hours. Pre-paid bitcoin cards that people can buy from others, circulate on the local market, etc? Link doesn't work, buddy. KILL KILL KILL Hmm, now that I think about it....13 years old would find bitcoins to be a money making opportunities, especially since they generally can't be employed by business and such. They can however, offer services and goods of some kind to bitcoiners in exchange for some money. When he/she saved up a bit, she/he can buy hosting services and bootstrap their way to bigger business operations. Nonsense. I have a house, a computer, fancy operating system, foods, medication and the like. Compared to the kings of old, I have more absolute wealth in many area you can measure. Why does one cares about the relative wealth of another individuals versus our own, especially in a system where people can mutually gain from exchanges? If anything, one should be concerned about one's own absolute wealth over time, not one's relative wealth to another. Also, maybe it is a good idea to extend the auction by at least 24 hours since people do live in different time zone. You could use biddingpond.com, but I am not sure if everybody check biddingpond.com. So I guess it's a good idea to advertise your auction if you're looking for some bidder.BTW, how minutes are in t-mobile and virgin mobiles minutes? Just be careful of bad math that cause you to believe in something that isn't true. Your map does not correspond to the territory and all.You don't want to be like Paul Samuelson with his economic textbook touting the idea that the Soviet economy will surpass the USA's economy. He didn't understand how they work at all.The Austrian schools merely derive their economic from deductive logics. So there is a way to disprove them. Just explain their logical mistakes.  That's some serious money for bitcoins. I'll donate 23.05 bitcoins. Added Netherlands. Also Canada from some time ago. No thanks. I'll stick to emacs, the world's most powerful text editor, that even have more power than MS Visual Studio 2008.   Whatever the case may be, somebody, preferably those with some knowledge on how online banking in Japan works, will need to setup a yen/bitcoin exchange market.
Quantumplation is just trying to get the suspicion off his back. He must be the wolf. I do not know of any artists and designers in Japan who would be interested in publishing their original work online. Yes, we're trying to provide a revenue model for artists that want to get outside of the normal publishing model. Using your computer to generate bitcoins does no useful works, other than creating bitcoins, which is useless by itself. So you missed the entire point of bitcoin, which is to facilitate an economy using...bitcoins. It is, but I figure everyone is not from all over the place. I'll add for the odd person who's from somewhere else. Which country you guys are from?If your country is not on the list, please tell me so. It is impossible to persecute the person for fraud the usual way. So I guess one way is to tie it to your reputation somehow. If I have sufficient cash flow and the risk warrant such insurance, I might try. BTW, shouldn't this be in the marketplace section? skull88 just won the 1BTC Kiba Flashy Award!   The goal here is not to run foul of copyright laws, but to provide a legal, reliable, and convenient source of manga for the public in form of online reading sites. As it stand, these illegal online manga reading sites can get taken down anytime for copyright infringement.It is a niche that needed to be filled. Or the economy is stimulated less than usual, and you end up with less total wealth growth between the two of you. This should be moved to the economic forum. Then there will exists a bitcoin stock market as soon as a bitcoin company exists. Recently, there has been tremendous economic loss in the illegal manga scanlation market, caused by copyright holders who wishes to shut down the competition. This economic loss is mostly the loss of very convenient online manga reading websites. Sites that shut down their online reading service includes Onemanga, mangatoshokan, and mangahelper.Factor in their failure includes:1) Copyright law.2) Angry copyright holders.3) Failure to build relationship with the actual mangaka.I propose a website that provide said convenient services, but without angering snotty manga publishers to the point of shutting down our sites, and build relationship and rapport with the people who actually produce the work, the mangaka. In addition, we will compensate the manga translators who make reading manga in English possible. Of course, this will involve bitcoins.Business model:There are several possibilities, which may or may not be combined:1. We can create a paywall for mangaka who wish to put their manga behind and publish say, 30 pages for free as advertisement.2. We can puts out entire manga for free reading by anybody and share the ads revenue with the mangaka and translators.3. We could have paying accounts with premium features. Jobs:1. Japanese agent: Somebody who is fluent in japanese and is able to woo mangaka and explain bitcoins.2. Translator agent: Somebody who is able to woo scanlation group and explain bitcoins.  3. Programmer: Somebody who could write and maintain the web application.Revenue sharing model:1. 50% go to mangaka and translators.2. 50% for everybody else. Alternatively, we could pay Japanese and translator agents for the number of successful recruits they made.Unresolved problems:1. No knowledge on how to price bitcoins to yen and vice versa. Yen to BTC exchange market needed.2. Where do we get a Japanese person who know manga and bitcoins? There is also the issue of no known Japanese bitcoin using community.3. Mangaka might think bitcoins is crazy. Maybe we could pay them in yen instead of bitcoins? Depend on problem 1. Another option for you is to try to build a simple web application you can charge for. Using the town market model, you could have business model to do arbitrage. What is not so highly valued valued in one town may be highly valued in another town. Using that knowledge, you could profit the difference.You still need heavy concentration of bitcoin users in towns and cities though. Obviously, we're too dispersed to have a local bitcoin economy. But I think we could advertise and get people in certain area to use bitcoins though. Specifically, I am thinking of a town in New Hampshire with lot of agorists in it.Edit: fix missing adjective. Who will provide the p0rn? If they're malicious, they're isolated from the real bitcoin network. If they want to build their own bitcoin economy, that's fine too.  The bitcoin network strengthen with an addition of a node. Thus, the bitcoin is quite secure from the perspective of controlling the majority of nodes problem.Security is not everything, throughput. It is also a tradeoff. You can have the most secure system in the world but what's the point of using it if it is massively inconvenient? Sure, we should try to increase security and fix vulnerability, but then we have to weigh against opportunity cost of such security.  It would seem to me it still warrant a bitcoin exchange market.
There is Wikipedia and its hierarchy, just like government and their hierarchy. The idea that the government could represent the people is laughable. Similarly, the Wikipedia hierarchy devolved into politicking, no sexual perversion needed. I propose all nodes that don't agree with each other to be separated into its economy.Say 32% of the node don't agree with several transaction. Separate that 32% of the nodes into its own economy/system. This is an economic nonsense. It what people believed that make money "real money". The fact is, people are exchanging USD for bitcoins, and then use that to purchase various services and and goods.However, it is an economic nonsense that we would like potential adversaries to believe in. It does not require an entity to know what happen if the design of the bitcoin network didn't anticipated this kind of event. If it does happen anyway, than it may or may not be intended to deal with it. How else it is going to work, throughput? I don't think he don't like black market anarchists, just black market anarchists who practicpated in drugs and prositutions traditionally handled by criminals. He probably wants agorist to offer services that doesn't scream "EVIL CRIMINAL ENTERPRISE". Though you could buy marijuana, legally in California and other states.  Why does the government hates internet gambling?  You hate to say this? You don't like porn or something? Maybe they won't be reconnected. Instead, we will effectively have two currencies. This will lead to the creation of an Eastern-Western bitcoin currency exchange market(s). I was very lucky to find a block within a few days of running bitcoin. What is this tricky voting that you speak of? I think you're writing in the wrong thread. Anyway, this "toy money" is only a fantasy of IRS. As long as their map of reality is wrong, the bitcoin economy can continue to grow and thrive unmolested. They must not believe what we believe. If it is not cheaper than what being sold on the exchange, why buy bitcoins from him at all? The only question: Where would he come up with all the bitcoins supply? I am an anarchist too, but I don't think the IRS is going to hunt me for selling game boy colors thingy for "toy" money.  Mtgox should substract whatever you're selling from your account so you don't sell what you don't have. Build the shadow economy on something else other than police attracting goods and services. They're not going to attack shadow lawn mowing services, at least not at first. Whatever bitcoins is backed up with does not matter. Even gold is backed up by nothing. What matters is that 1) bitcoins are scarce and 2) People can't just dilly willy print whatever money they want. Boohoo. They don't like us. Big deal. Than the economy will shrink until it become profitable to produce again. Economic deflation mean that people are creating so much goods, that it effectively outstrip the demand. The price of computers has been deflating for a while, but it means bigger markets over time. People don't buy computers every year, but it become more attractive to do so every year.Hoarding will means that you keep hoarding until you see an attractive price and buy. Effectively, hoarding is determined by your time preference. If you hoard more, you could get more at a later date, but then you won't buy anything to satisfy your needs, for now.An extreme economic deflation will only mean our time preference will stretch, but it does not mean that our time preference can be stretch to infinity. We need food and we will buy food.
I don't like people with a heroin store bringing heat on bitcoin users. Leave the heroin store to the criminals(for now), and focus on selling goods and services that's less harmful to its users and will easily pass right through policemen and politicians. I am not sure if you can have a fixed exchange system. If the demand is sufficiently different, than this warrant a floating market exchange rate. The difference between the two coin supply and demands entails another market exchange currency, which is an another playground for me. Well, it's not decentralized like git. You win the 1BTC Kiba Giggle Award.   I understand all the questions. I am just not sure how to make clearer for you. I clarified some of the questions.  I added a few questions, but nobody wrote a full answer to the questions yet. I made a bit of cash in the process, but the rise was totally unanticipated, so I missed out. However, it could be worse. Currency trading is fun, but essentially it's gambling. I strongly advice anybody who earned on the market to pull a portion of what they earned into their little piggy bank, which I plan to do by the end of the week. It's also a good idea to not trade everything you have. If the market want credits, they will get it. Beside, bitcoins is already decentralized. What more decentralization do you want?What the hell are you asking? I am not sure about what you mean. It's impossible to have a central credit or central bank in the bitcoin economy, unless we're talking about a very good bank that crushed the competition. Maybe somebody should develop flying delivery bots for small delivery. Money is whatever people agree to use as a medium of exchange. Thus, bitcoins are money. It is physically impossible to build a transistor smaller than an atom. So yes, Moore's law is going to stop.[/quote]For now, our understanding of physics said it would be impossible. Is it possible to link shipping option to the exchange rate of bitcoins? Google have more resources than black SEOs will ever have. Google have thousand of engineers, testers, etc, at its disposal, and then they will just use YOU.  Good SEO people will work with Google, not trying to game Google.Everytime you search, they use that data to make better ordering over time.Human intelligence has given us Google. Look, if somebody thought they have something that could kill google, they would have won by now.  Guys...time to make a better economic FAQ.This is the starting list...Objections/Concerns1. Does Bitcoins violate the Mises Regression Theorem?http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=583.0 (If somebody wants to summarize it, that would be great.)2. Is the bitcoin economy safe from inflation?3. Are Bitcoin legal tender?(Do people really ask this?)4. What if bitcoin economy is deflating and everybody is hoarding? Would that lead to a collapse?Update 1: Added more questions. Feel free to provide answer.update 2: Clarify questions. Google is quite good. The only thing I am worried about is the data falling in the wrong hand. I think people in here knows that democracy can be pretty dangerous. In USA.
I was thinking of selling my gameboy games collections that I never am able to play again. Then I realize that I didn't think about shipping.Anybody got advice on what shipping options I should choose? I thought volume is defined by how many bitcoins were exchanged in the last 24 hours. YOU WIN 20 BTC!  Now all I need is your address for you to claim Kiba's AWESOME POST prize.Edit: got it. How do you plan to make money? I am not quite sure why you did that. I am totally satisfied with paying the 2% commission because it help me support the bitcoin economy and thus grow the amount of services and goods available. Plus, I don't have to think about donating. Than one should make use of that information to win big in the market. This will increase market efficiency by ensuring that bad speculators' money flow to good and less gullible speculators who will be able to allocate resources more appropriately.  If that is their goal, than it have backfired on many occasions. Perhaps this is not a systematic campaign by wikipedians, but rather the effort of a few. It's quite simple really. They will just delete things that they never heard of. This kind of behaviors have made people start quite a few encyclopedia wiki specializing in an area.They're not out there to make people improve the article for them. They're out to delete shit that they think isn't notable for X crappy reasons. I am saying that minting is not overly important, rather than saying that minting should be turned off. A possible solution to this problem might be to back bitcoins with nodes. That is, anybody who wishes to solve problems can purchase CPU time can use the bitcoin network to do so. Of course, how do we verify that the problem is something that people want to solve? Another problem with this solution is probably something that I didn't think of. So mine is probably a bad idea.If anybody got any idea on how to imbues bitcoin with non-monetary property or at least fix the weakness, please say so. We might come up ways to increase bitcoin's value as money. We should be encouraging wealth creation so that people can spend their bitcoins on, not focusing on minting coins. For every 100 nutcase loonies that are totally wrong, there are one nutcase who is actually right, non obviously but seriously right. So we ought to be asking ourselves, are we the the right kind of loonies? The difficulty would just goes up and make it harder for you to generate bitcoins. As the community grow, the number of developers may grow as well. Thus, it become increasingly more difficult to hide clever malicious code. Satoshi have as much power as Google has over the internet, which is none.The internet interpreted censorship as damage and route around it. The internet will also interpreted bad money as damage and route around it. LRC site seem to be full of strange, loony, or simply alternative ideas, at least that what I heard from another libertarian. (To be honest, bitcoins is probably perceived as loony to the rest of the population)But it's still nice to know that bitcoin is being covered. So, bitcoins didn't gets it value from barter. Gold, and other traditional money have industrial or decorative functions.But bitcoins seem to have no previous application whatsoever and thus doesn't satisfy Mises' regression theorem. Is this a problem that bitcoins doesn't arise out of barter?If it is a problem, what people can do to fix this? What conspiracy libertarians are believing in? What's "kooky" about my views? You also made me laugh when you say speculating is bad.   Speculating is a valuable service. http://mises.org/daily/4466 http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=431.0
