I'm 99% sure that I've got a code, but I'm on my phone atm, and about to go to sleep. I'll be able to check and get back to you within 12 hours. I figured that I'd add that technically, we've been at peak bitcoin since the beginning, and it'll just go downhill from here.  By definition, an internet forum, with (an) admin(s) and mods, is not a public forum. One person has to pay all the hosting costs, or hosts it himself.  joulesbeef, I want a serious, yes or no answer here.Would you rather have these attacks happen now, when a BTC is worth ~$5, or would you rather have the attacks happen when BTC has achieved mainstream use and 1 BTC = ~$10,000? Heh, I just read the steam page and assumed that that small text wasn't special! Anyway, sorry about that, I'll give you frozen synapse for 2.2 BTC, then. I'll sell you Frozen Synapse for 4.5 BTC, PM me. There are still a few people who appear to support solidcoin sincerely. I guess that has clouded my view of reality around these parts. If you're sincerely telling me that you think that RMS would take coinhunters stance on SC's source, forcing people to ask for it, then i reserve the right to find you and punch you in the face.  Well, there's your problem. nVidia cards are signifacantly worse than AMD cards for mining, unless you're got crazy cheap or free electricity, you'll probably spend more money on the electricity than you'll get from mining. Used computers are a murky subject, so I'll just say that even seperating the bezel would have voided a new laptop's warranty from any manufacturer(except one very specific manufacturer). Yesterday, they were just over 380m/30 days.Anyway, it was just a curiosity really, because I need game time, and I have bitcoins, and I've never bought in-game currency against the TOS before. Although, now that I think about it, IIRC, you need a retailers license to resell GTC's..... If it's USPS's fault, one of you might be able to get some money out of them for mis-handling it.PS: Sucks to see you get 2(that i've seen) transactions that went bad, but cheer up, you can't have bad luck with transactions forever  Title says it all, I've got these annoying little pieces of paper that have codes on them for games I'll never play. I have never heard anything about this Lara Croft game on the internets, so I assume it's pretty lame. Since Dirt 3 is out, Dirt 2 is probably worthless too. Anyway, they're both up for grabs:Lara Croft: AKQ2F-GA9Y7-KCJ9Q-CLAWQ-DBMCHDirt 2:PF62G-CN2MH-WDCQB-ITGK8-4WMMRIf someone gets one before you, and you get nothing, it's not my fault, find the person that got them first and beat them up. If you got them first, gloat here. I'm not going to update the title or OP, read the posts from the people who already tried/succeeded/failed at getting these free codes. I get over 920 Kkey/s with my i7-920, not overclocked. The text under Bananington's avatar is correct. A++ PM me a newly generated address and I'll send you .99, can't guarantee that I haven't fallen asleep by then, so ill get to it tomorrow. Any plans to sell GTC's? You don't have EVE time codes or  Nintendo 3ds, so I voted maybe. When a user in offline mode or with a cracked client tries to connect to a server, the server says something like "user disconnected. User not premium" Sounds like you need to go research fpga cards. 5970s are not the most power efficient.
