I have an LLC and three DBAs setup for the LLC, I definitely clear hobby maximum per year.That's why I'm looking at this now, I think tomorrow (today being Sunday) I'll call my accountant to see what he says about it, bet it'll be one of those two hour explain what I'm doing and what it is and make it basic conversations for a 30 second answer and summary.EDIT:If anyone is interested, review publication 525 from the IRS, under Barter it states:In my case if I accept it at the rate of $0.25 USD to 1 BTC that means I can declare losses, gains, etc... as normal on my normal tax forms without further requirements at this time.BTC not being formal cash (think LR, etc...) and membership being acceptance, generation, etc... of BTC via client, this I believe would cover it so the .05 BTC I got earlier (thanks faucet) would be declared as income and taxed measured in United States dollars based on the conversion rate of the foreign currency as of the date of the contract for sale.So as I'm viewing the rate at $0.25 per BTC and accepting it at that rate, I have a tax liability of $0.0125 for that income, if going by my other form of payment which is via Paypal the current ask as of close is $0.075 which amounts to $0.00375 which is rounded up to the whole cent so $0.01.This of course means, if I'm selling something in BTC for a price less than I pay to provide it, I can declare a loss however does not mean I can declare a loss when stacked against the USD at the alternative price I charge in that currency..... I believe now, a nap is in order. Let's put this to numbers...Rate of BTC to USD = $0.25 (defined through whatever means of rate determination)Service cost to users in USD $2Service cost to users in BTC 4Service cost to me in USD $1.50Service cost to me in BTC 6That makes it a loss in BTC to USD for that same plan thus a tangible loss, could I raise prices? Yes. Could I drop BTC? Yes. Is it a demonstrable loss in profit on that item? Yes. Is it a demonstrable loss in profit on that item according to Fair Market Value? Yes (same service sold in USD).Loss in any currency can be declared as loss, it's done when you price in multiple currencies, for instance, EUR vs. USD, if the EUR tanks at the time of conversion to USD, you've incurred a tangible loss. Yes, you are correct, based on my knowledge and experience with the IRS and tax law as a business owner, your example is correct however should be run by a tax attorney or CPA first.It's my area where I'm having a bit of confusion and problem, I want to accept BTC as a valid form of payment for services...If it comes under barter law, perhaps the best scenario then would be to establish my once per year rate and hold that rate as I would for prices normally, for instance in my example I could set the rate at $0.25 == 1 BTC which means my pricing for BTC would be four times the charge in USD for equality however for marketing, I could sell at a loss based on that rate and be all perfectly fine in the eyes of the IRS (those scoundrels, making me think this much for something which should be simple) as the rate was established by me in an official manner recognized by my company and thus in turn can be formally recognized in my case by the IRS and held for a sustained period which contrasted to the value of the USD to say the EUR is a miracle of taxation calculation.This however would place all users paying under BTC into a barter agreement which can complicate issues further as you and I would both have to know details of one another thus breaking anonymity as it would fall under a barter exchange, you have BTC and I'm setting the rate and this makes my company a barter exchange: http://www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=188095,00.htmlThe flipside of this is if I go on a rate to be established by someone else (eg. the market exchange), I can use 1099-MISC or my normal 1040C however even as income the sales would be at a loss in BTC still and thus I can still declare loss for the sales in a recurring manner which would probably still get the IRS up in knots trying to figure out BTC to USD. Perhaps you are right given you have received digital product (coin) however how would you declare this to the IRS as a service provider?Would it be an exchange of services for product? Your digital coins (a digital product) for my services? At what rate would that be declared at for loss or gain? My services sell for say $19.99, you gave me 50 BTC, would that be taxed at $19.99 or declared at the rate of BTC to the USD as it is a form of currency you accept, where is the rate for BTC officially? If going on a transactional basis you have to look at the complications there, my rate is not going to be the same as another service provider's rate.If I took 200 transactions each with different BTC payments you have to consider (especially if price varies) which is more value for loss and gain purposes and which incurs the tax if any applicable and without an established rate officially recognized, it can incur numerous taxation issues. You do an exchange at $1 per 2 BTC, I do one at $1 per $1 BTC, for the IRS this disparity moves that your rate and mine are purely individual however if I say the rate is $0.25 per 1 BTC then I say I sold it at a loss as that would come to about $5 so then I have a loss of $14.99 I can declare. Repeat that for 200 transactions, do you think the IRS would accept that or would they go for the throat and try to establish a rate more closer to my price as barter income at a loss is a full writeoff.Of course they could scapegoat to say it's barter hence an equal trade but then where is the tax for them? You traded something for X and you got something at the same value of X, no tax gain, no tax loss... just a lot more paperwork for you and them to go through.Isn't tax law fun? I believe as a service provider currently considering accepting BTC, 10 confirmations is a valid waiting period for payment acceptance for at least mid-level transactions of less than $50 however if accepting for larger transactions, I would recommend a 20 confirmation minimum.For transactions less than $10 perhaps a 5 confirmation requirement would be more sane of course. Bitcoins are digital bits, hence a digital good, when you give that to someone in exchange for something like other currencies, you are creating a sale and thus a taxable event in the eyes of the IRS, that money you have received is a payment for your digital good and thus taxable income.Bitcoins as digital bits however provided to someone else as payment (eg. for a service or good), that could be construed as barter income to the person whom received payment however it would be a very hard stretch that would require a centrally stated and official value in a manner which has a comparable exchange rate.Right now Bitcoin has the advantage here, there is no central authority however, if pressed, I'm sure any government could attach an intrinsic exchange rate to the currency based on the established design of there only being X possible coins in circulation which would have two advantages for Bitcoin legitimacy, one, it establishes a daily reporting rate requirement for the exchange of BTC to the currency of that government (eg. XX BTC to YY USD), two, it would make Bitcoin a legitimately recognized form of payment in the eyes of that government and force acceptance as by setting that rate and required reporting means that it becomes an officially recognized form of currency in that country and, three, it would mean that Bitcoin would have to be developed to be used in portable and mobile formats, perhaps best done through BTC bank support wherein you have a debit card loaded with BTC which can pay in both BTC and native currency with that same BTC based on the exchange rate.To you as a service or goods provider accepting BTC now, you are simply giving away these services or goods and at this time, based on current tax law, means you get to declare them as a loss until the government can find a means of establishing a rate of exchange which starts a whole new level for BTC.For the record I am not a lawyer, nor tax professional and thus the views I state are only based upon my personal experience and should not be taken into practice without consulting a proper tax attorney or accountant. I believe the Baht symbol is the best option for Bitcoin denotation however would recommend a small change, ฿C for BitCoin instead of just ฿.This would allow for differentiation of the two easily should they ever be listed side by side and is the same setup as the Nicaraguan córdoba which uses the US $ in its currency symbolism written as C$For long hand (eg. those who can't type the Baht symbol for some reason) the use of BTC can be used in place of the ฿C as no currency in place currently makes use of BTC as the long hand for their currency (eg. USD for US Dollar, GBP for British Pound, etc...).Examples:50฿C/month50 BTC/month
