i need more accounts please Skype? well i need a btc loan fast for an investment i am getting into and that i am  0.056 BTC short on.Willing to send pic of my passeport for verification!Should be able to repay in a week max. The same. To introduce Bitcoin. But not describing it as money (see related thread). I refused to follow the link after I read the URL. "Mulls printing more money" my ass! They don't print it any more. They just spend it.I just read a factlet (but forgot the link) that the Federal Reserve has doubled the money supply during the past two years. What does this mean? It means 50% inflation coming down the pipe, guaranteed. How monumentally stupid do you have to be to piss away half of America's productivity in just two years?  Bitcoin is something radically new. Nothing like Bitcoin has been possible until now. I would go so far as to consider it sui generis; "in its own class".  This makes it important to understand what Bitcoin actually is before we try to describe it to others. We're getting a good handle on the code, and of course on Bitcoin's function and utility, but what words should we use to describe Bitcoin itself? There has been some debate in other threads [mostly my doing] over how it is like/not like money, cash, dollars, etc. I'd like to start this thread by focusing on the term "money", and play Devil's avocate by asking for your best arguments that Bitcoin IS money. My legal dictionary states "In usual and ordinary acceptation it [money] means gold, silver, or paper money, used as circulating medium of exchange, and does not embrace notes, bonds, evidences of debt, or other personal or real estate." [cites omitted]Wikipedia says "Money is any object that is generally accepted as payment for goods and services and repayment of debts in a given country or socio-economic context. The main functions of money are distinguished as: a medium of exchange; a unit of account; a store of value; and, occasionally, a standard of deferred payment." [cited omitted]Webster's Online Dictionary defines money as: 1. The most common medium of exchange; functions as legal tender; "we tried to collect the money he owed us".2. Wealth reckoned in terms of money; "all his money is in real estate".3. The official currency issued by a government or national bank; "he changed his money into francs".4. A piece of metal, as gold, silver, copper, etc., coined, or stamped, and issued by the sovereign authority as a medium of exchange in financial transactions between citizens and with government; also, any number of such pieces; coin.5. Any written or stamped promise, certificate, or order, as a government note, a bank note, a certificate of deposit, etc., which is payable in standard coined money and is lawfully current in lieu of it; in a comprehensive sense, any currency usually and lawfully employed in buying and selling.6. In general, wealth; property; as, he has much money in land, or in stocks; to make, or lose, money.[links omitted][/list]I maintain that per these definitions, Bitcoin cannot possibly be described as "money". And further, I think that those who do describe Bitcoin as "money" are doing this community a disservice.But that is just my point of view. Are there any that can convincingly argue otherwise, that Bitcoin IS money? Maybe you shouldn't have given them the impression that Bitcoin is money!Maybe this deserves another thread. I'll start one and see what happens. Bitcoin will have to earn its place in the economy. If it's good, it will make it. If not, the best parts will find their way into something more appropriate. You've got my vote! fresno just gave you a three-week break. What did you do with it?fresno has helped a lot of people to understand the difference between what they owe and what they assume they owe. Were you listening? No, creighto, whatever you just said. Please restrict your 1099 and other reporting to your own personal affairs.I'm calling for you to take responsibility for your disruption of the threads calling for an assessment of Bitcoin's legal standing. This is something that needs to be done, and is not helped by the invocation of various "everybody knows" laws at every turn.Inappropriate legal terms have been thrown about casually in reference to Bitcoin, and these may be prejudicial to Bitcoin's survival. They need to be addressed and eliminated positively, and directly. Bitcoin can be structured so that it is not a currency, is not taxable, and is not reportable. This means no 1099s or other forms, IF we do this correctly.  The MadHatter's Bitcoin 4 Cash site http://vms43o4cqysakvyb.onion/ trades directly in several private currencies, such as the FRN, etc. So load up on Bitcoins and spread them around! Yes! We are soon due for some unnecessary grief because of our shortsightedness in describing Bitcoin with a garbage-pail load of terms such as currency, coins, money, cash, dollars, etc.I've been ineffective in my earlier posts, maybe you can do better in getting our ducks in line before we take them out in public. I agree. Do ONE thing, and do it well.But that doesn't stop anyone from writing a trading suite, and using the Bitcoin protocol inside it. Free isn't affordable??? Payments, cash, cash equivalents, credit, fees, refunds, money, currency, dollars, coins... NOW does everyone see what happens when you throw these loaded terms around?The 1099 is just the first of the reports that Bitcoiners will need to fill out for being so foolish. Red? Creighto? You guys still around to take responsibility? Remember Waco? Did you ever learn the original charges? Unlicensed gun sales! Hell, everybody in Texas trades unlicensed guns! Do you know how they justified torching a church and shooting the people as they escaped the fire? They indicted the survivors with every law in the book, and kept the jurors in a room until they came up with convictions on some diddley-squat charge, so the Times could headline they were all guilty.You obviously have not observed how the DOJ goes after the low-hanging fruit, burying some small-time fapper under a flurry of impressive claims, hammering hard until one of them sticks. The news services love this game, it gets them big attention. It's a very effective way to intimidate the populace.Why invite this sort of thing in the first place? Bitcoin CAN BE STRUCTURED TO AVOID THESE SORT OF CHARGES. Why needlessly expose ourselves to charges of illegality and money laundering? Let's get our shit into one sock and do things the right way.I'm buried in work right now and can't do much. I've outlined several times on this site what needs to be done. Let's do it. Big-worded committee bloat is slipping in. Not knocking anyone's efforts! Improvements should consist of removing and simplifying. I'm supposed to be working, but couldn't control myself:They will look at the site, and get back to us if they have any questions about how to receive Bitcoins. I doubt they'll have any trouble. Good grief right back!1. I never advocated censoring this board.2. Your claim that Bitcoin is money is indefensible.3. The rest of your statement is incoherent.Somebody keep an eye on this guy while I'm gone. 
Cold, yes, but what is more cold than business? Those dealers are the front line on reality, and they are either correct, or they lose their shirts. Brrr!Great book, ichi! I want to say "yes!" and write little amplifications as I read it. But I have to stop before tomorrow morning, because it's off to work for me. I'm glad that there are a few people here that recognize the tricks of the Beast. I hope you'll have the character to call its name whenever it appears.Bitcoin is a system to enforce honesty.  The titles and the slogans mean nothing in law: Copyright piracy means uncontrolled use of state-protected intellectual works. Health Care means corporate welfare for the drug and insurance industry. Financial Reform means welfare for the banking industry. Aid to Education means welfare for union voting blocs. The War On® means raw governmental control over whatever it chooses...And money laundering means an uncontrolled economy, which really bothers most social engineers.But the law doesn't look at this intentional misdirection. It looks at how these terms are defined in the written laws themselves, and black can indeed be defined as white. Go to the U.S. Codes, or the C.F.R.s and do some Googling on the terms money, cash, and currency. Do you really want Bitcoin to be associated with any of this guano?Let the dealers take the heat. They are the ones that claim Bitcoin is worth X PayPals. We should be totally out of the exchanges, and above any exposure the the Great War On®.I'm going to be away for a few weeks. Somebody else is going to have to carry the ball. In that case, Obama really IS a genius. The dealers and exchanges ARE the market. Bitcoin is the system of accounting, not the things being accounted for.Posters here have been confusing the Bitcoin with currencies, with Federal Reserve Notes, and with Euros. Now you want Bitcoin to get your women and booze. No! Find a dealer that has what you want and see what he will take for it. If it's Bitcoins, then you've got a deal. We can make this into a healthy thing, without nuking the board and without rewriting history: We can discover the truth and change our ways openly.  Not a bad strategy, hey?One complication: A responsibility has come up in my Real Life that will take me away until later next month. The things I'd like to change have been covered several times in my posts. Bitcoin is simply a distributed system for keeping things straight. Nothing more. We have a healthy, growing community of traders and exchanges that will in their course do the things required to make a healthy Bitcoin economy.I'll be checking in for the next couple of days, then not quite as often. Take care! Yeah. Bad choice. Now that you know we made a wrong turn, do you want to keep on going?Slow down! You're making a big assumption there.Bitcoin is a computer program that is run over a P2P network. Everything else you wrote is incorrect (and misguided by a few poorly-chosen words on this website). The Bitcoin units can be used to keep an economy straight, if it chooses, but that economy is entirely separate from Bitcoin. So, saying the Bitcoin is "worth" something, say ten cents, or a shoelace, is totally incorrect. An independent trader may give you something for your Bitcoin, and vice versa, but the Bitcoin and the Bitcoin system have no involvement in that trade other than to record the movement of Bitcoins. No. I thought the description was just fine myself, and it WAS fine as far as descriptions go. But I soon realized 'Uh Oh'. It was loaded with landmines from a liability standpoint.So, now that we are at that point, which is worse, to ignore reality, or to be a little late getting our act together? "Bitcoin" is a coined word, with no previous definition (someone should check this), and can mean whatever we want it to mean. But calling the Bitcoin "cash" or "money" is inaccurate, and sticking it in the face of TPTB. Want to guess where the brave naysayers on this board will be when the SHTF?mizerydearia: Start at the Bitcoin main page.  ribuck: I'll sign off your changes. Good work, and thanks for taking the initiative!Insti: My "approved" words are intended to keep us out of hot water. I think you want me on that job, until we get a real Church Lady.Generate, discover, mint, are not in this category, but I've noticed some disappointment when new people learn that more power doesn't necessarily equal more Bitcoins. Generate is a misleading term in this respect. I actually like mint from a newspaperly point of view. It makes the story more interesting, but it also takes us into that touchy area of money, commerce, etc. Red: You seem a bit shallow. The answer to your question is: "Bitcoin is a program, running in a p2p network, plus continuing management and improvements. That is all. It is not money."You should be able the find it in the post just ahead of yours.The rest of your post is disrespectful. I don't find much to nit-pick. But I'll do what I can :-) - "You can buy stuff with them" That's an unsupportable claim. - "you can mint Bitcoins yourself" Would "discover" be a better term? - "coins" Several instances. Use 'Bitcoins', or some other term. - "a user would expect to generate bitcoins in proportion to the amount of CPU power that they dedicate to the task." I think this is incorrect. A user can locate the discoverable Bitcoins in proportion to computer power, but there is a point of diminshing returns. - "Others are selling Amazon gift tokens, so that anyone with Bitcoins can buy pretty much anything online." Good selling point, but iffy from a liability standpoint. "Someone with Bitcoins can buy pretty much anything thru independent brokers"? - "Some people are buying bitcoins for cash." But NOT THRU Bitcoin! This is freedom at work, but it's done outside of Bitcoin's influence.Good stuff, ribuck! Yesss!Bitcoin is a program, running in a p2p network, plus continuing management and improvements. That is all. It is not money. Why would anyone make such a wild claim? (Sorry Satoshi!)A case can be made that Bitcoin is intended for "illegal money laundering", and that case has been prejudiced by some ill-advised claims made on this website and elsewhere.Let us correct this error now! Oh yeah, the letter...I think the term "cryptocurrency" will come back to bite us someday, but Satoshi has already used it publicly, it is a coined word with no prior usage, and it works.  Come on people. This guy is trying to introduce us to his program. Let's give him a little respect and talk about IT.You want to get this kind of reception when we go to other projects? Right.Except that we have right now several people spreading the word that Bitcoin IS money. And that it is worth xxx dollars. And that it is both a pudding AND a floor wax.The best way to end this confusion is to realize that Bitcoin is a set of machine instructions to keep an economy organized, and nothing more. The trading and commerce that this enables is NOT Bitcoin.Simple, and it helps you avoid questions. I like the tally system analogy. I think this is the closest description so far of what we are trying to do with Bitcoin. But the tally system of old needed the power of the King to make it effective. How is this done with Bitcoin? By relying on logic. The King can be deposed, logic cannot. It will always be either true or not true. And that makes it more reliable.I'm afraid that I don't get the GETS system. It's an exchange, it's global, and so what? Does something like this actually exist? Who is the King that insures its stability? Do I even care now that we have a logical King in Bitcoin? That will make three documents the community is sending out; the letter to EFF, the magazine article, and this thank-you letter. Please be careful, and not ratify any loaded terms, especially "Digital-Only Dollars", "network-based currency", "pay for whatever you want without any worries", "stable, private, untaxable and uninflatable", or in any way imply that one can "buy groceries with it". Yes!I think the analogy of a tally system is a good one. It can be used by the community to account for transactions, yet has no value itself. I think this is an important distinction to counter any future charges of running a "fraudulent money scheme". And you know that is going to happen."The term 'money' is synonymous with 'currency',.." People v. Miller, 292 IllApp 643, 11 NE2d 827. There is an impressively long list of court cites that say the same. I think it is a dangerous policy to imply that Bitcoin is currency, or money. And it is totally unnecessary. Why even go there? I'm dubious, and here's why. You contract says:"DIGITAL SILVER GRAMS are payable to bearer in physical silver grams, at any exchange provider supporting our contract..." Is there one within, say, fifty miles of where I live?"Silver Grams are audited monthly by highly trusted people."Do I know any of them?"Make sure this contract is enforceable in your jurisdiction."Or it's not enforceable. Right?"Silver and its maker, God, are solely liable to perform according to the conditions specified in this contract."Aren't the exchange providers, or the highly trusted people liable as well?"Any server operator using this contract will not issue any more silver digital currency than he actually has in physical silver."But who's to stop him if he's not liable, and the contract is not enforceable in my jurisdiction? I've already forgotten about it.Sometimes semantics are important. I know something about law that definitely one, and probably only two of the others here know, and I'm trying to explain it in the best way I can. They're not jumping in, for whatever reason, so that leaves me to get the message across."Trust me. I have a plan." First you falsely claim an employer-employee relationship, then you admit to engaging in an illegal activity. I sure as hell don't want you managing my business!You could have simply side-stepped the whole issue as I advised earlier, but you chose otherwise. I hope you will show better judgment when you're out on parole.
Misplaced paranoia. The article is there. Some versions of our letter to the EFF, and of the magazine article being considered have buzzwords prejudicial to Bitcoin. They are being prepared on a Bitcoin website, by bitcoin people. A reasonable and prudent observer would be able to rely on the ill-advised claims. A grand jury can certainly accept these at face value. An ambitious prosecutor can and will have a field day, using our own statements against ourselves. I am not sure how this is done on other countries, but in the United States the contract is written on a federal form W-4, and documents the employee and his Social Security account number and the employer and his Taxpayer Identification number. It contracts both parties with the federal government to abide by a set of rules called the United States Code, the Code of Federal Regulations, and a host of others.You cannot have the kid down the street mow your lawn as an "employee" outside of this system. Impossible.My point: These words have consequences.  Fresno is about as far from Europe as you can get, and I never thought of money itself as a tax liability. How does that work? Are you expecting to get something outside the "real world" and then take it back in tax-free, or do I misunderstand? Let's agree to call it whatever we want, outside the context of Bitcoin terminology. This may be OT, but I'm interested.nelisky: You shout me down, I shout you down. You want that? I'd like to factor Bitcoin the method from Bitcoin the useage.Bitcoin should be a convenience owned, used, and maintained by the community.The community can grow around Bitcoin, to be a web payment system, or an auction, or a commodity exchange, or whatever. But it must be understood that these enterprises are independent of Bitcoin. They should not be owned, operated, controlled, or promoted by Bitcoin in any way.Keep it simple! Freedom is starting to sneak out everywhere on the 'Net! Let's be ready for it! Okay, then give me an example of a real world currency that is 'worth' something. /serious smartass questionThe is not one currency today that has an intrinsic value. And you call Bitcoin worthless! Yes, we can in theory. But do we have the organization to defend our terms? Do we even agree on what those terms might be?We have anonymity, and we're below their radar at the moment. But that will change as soon as they see us as a threat. If you haven't seen the wheels of justice grinding in all their hypocritical glory, you are ripe for an amazement. Any appeals to "fairness" are going to get you slapped down hard.I say the best way not to get shot at is to not be a target, and certainly not to donate the ammo. Don't claim to be money. It's that easy.ichi: Why should I do your work for you? If you want to argue, then bring something to the table. Um, where can you find real money any more? In a museum? /smartass questionI "generated" 100 Bitcoins in about two weeks. That was over a month ago. Running over 12 hours/day. I haven't "made" any since. Bitcoin "generation" is a great feature for seeding the Bitcoin economy, but if you want enough to buy beer, you'll have to get them in some other way. Mine has been to trade "things" for Bitcoins. I have way too many things, and way too few Bitcoins. Has anyone noticed that the FRN is exactly that, "it's own unit for accounting purposes"?The lawful United States dollar is defined in law as 371 4/16th grains of silver. This has been slightly modified, but never repealed. The "dollar" is actually a unit of measure, you can look it up. Bet they didn't tell you that in school!The Federal Reserve Note is "denominated in dollars", or as Red above states, they have defined their own unit for accounting purposes. Write the Fed a letter, press them on the subject. The will reply that the FRN is "backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government." What they won't admit is that the FRN is NOT a U.S. dollar as defined in law. It is "denominated" as one only because you agree to the terms in commercial contract.Why did we take this little tour? Because it illustrates that we can define our terms. And that it is foolish to use their terms -- money, cash, dollar, currency, and a crapload of others. RHorning: "...some of the comments made on the Zeitgeist forum are some valid issues that need to be evaluated and have some legal defenses set up to protect against what will be an eventual legal challenge to Bitcoins and their usage as a form of payment for goods or services."If Bitcoin is at all effective, these challenges will be inevitable. Might as well plan for it, we don't want to say something now that we will regret later.The MadHatter: Those who use Bitcoins could join/create a separate society. They could, in theory, define money/wealth/currency/person/corporation/dog/cat/apple to mean whatever they want. They could even have their own dictionary that their society uses to interpret from. Those who use Bitcoins could join/create a separate society. They could, in theory, define money/wealth/currency/person/corporation/dog/cat/apple to mean whatever they want. They could even have their own dictionary that their society uses to interpret from.Bitcoin is as close to sui generis as it gets. Let's make our own vocabulary while we're at it!noagendamarket: “Permit me to issue and control the money of a nation and I care not who makes the laws.” Mayer Amschel Rothschild, founder of the Rothschild international Banking Dynasty, 1790I think this sums it up and why bitcoins should steer away from calling itself "money".And foolishly assuming a lot of other "establishment" jargon. It doesn't fit us, so let's not use it! I offered one term, that wasn't immediately accepted. I'll lay back for a bit to see what else might work. I do know that today's commercial jargon is not appropriate, and can only get us in trouble. YES! You are the first one I've found outside outside my little circle that understands law (and that includes lawyers), and the importance of the words we've been throwing around. "Cash, money, currency, dollars, worh," etc.These words will come back to bite us, guaranteed. The Zeitgeist movement seems kind of screwball to me, but I like some of their comments, especially those questioning our terminology. You could trade beans for marbles or baseball cards, but they would be totally independent of the bean thing, right? Whose side are you on?!!We donate Bitcoins to EFF. They do whatever they want with them. Maybe they'll discover something we haven't thought of.Stop converting Bitcoins into everything under the sun! That's not our business. We regulate Bitcoins and keep the system working. That is all.Let somebody else convert Bitcoins into drachmas and poker chips. Or maybe do it yourself, on your own site. Keep Bitcoin out of it.  No, dammit! Somebody might trade x amount of gold for a FRN, but there is no guaranteed conversion. A FRN isn't worth squat, and they'll tell you that! Too bad Bitcoin isn't that smart. Want to kill off Bitcoin really fast? Call it money!Make up some catchy slogans calling it cash.Compare it with the FRN. No, even better, claim that one Bitcoin equals xxx FRNs! "the US FRN is akin to a national stock with a reverse dividend,.." ROTFLOL!I challenge this group to think simple!Bitcoin is something we use, but Bitcoin is not the use! It is simply a machine. Don't give it names it doesn't deserve. I like that, Willsway. [Duplicate, sorry!]
YES! Why bring in banking terms? This project is as different from banking as blogs are from newspapers.And very good work, kiba, but who is going to guarantee that Bitcoins are worth xxx USD? Not me! (What is a USD worth, anyway?) They were joking, but I wasn't.What should have been considered by someone sharper than me is Bitcoin's use of several "terms of art" that are near and dear to the legal/commercial community; "cash, money, trade, commerce, exchange, worth, dollar," etc., and so on. All of them carry a kharma that could be avoided by using a different term that I can't seem to recall at the moment.But I see Bitcoin going ahead, unnecessarily exposing itself to their consequences. I've adjusted my expectations, and we'll see what happens. This could be extremely important, once Bitcoin becomes more widely known. One small oversight in terminology today can bring disaster tomorrow.Does anyone here have access to Westlaw? My law library is twenty miles away, and nobody would believe what I wrote here anyway. We need an accepted authority. No conditional donations! No json! We're saying hello and giving our support to their program, not negotiating a contract.I think our hardest task will be to define what Bitcoin is http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=815.msg9854#msg9854 I used to think that calling it a digital currency was a good idea, now I don't. Compelling argument, creighto. Let me try once more. Then I will be silent on this subject forever. Maybe.To label Bitcoin a currency incurs a liabiliy, and hostile governments and organizations will gleefully use such liabilities against us: To promote bitcoin as money, cash, dollars or their commercial equivalents is nothing less than suicide when we are found to be tweaking the noses of the financial industry."Mr. satoshi," (having been subpoenaed to participate in seven weeks of Senate procedings against illegal money launderers) "it says here on your program's website that your Bitcoin is a currency, does it not?""Mr. kiba," (on suicide watch in a neighboring cell) "in your letter to the EFF, you made the claim that xxx Bitcoins are worth xxx United States Dollars, did you not?"Bitcoin is very close to being what could be considered sui generis, "of its own kind". We have the choice of defining it according to OUR purposes, or we can use the meathook-filled existing terminology of commerce. Do you understand the tremendous opportunity that this is?Why piss it away? Why give the opposition just the things it needs to shut this project down? Why let them set a precedent that will deter others from trying anything like this ever again?I've called Bitcoin a commodity earlier in this thread, and I've defended the term. It's a perfect term for us to use:"COMMODITY. In the most comprehensive sense, convenience, accommodation, profit, benefit, advantage, interest, commodiousness." This is the first definition, right out of the weasel's own playbook! Okay, find another term if you like. But Bitcoin is a convenience. It is an accommodation. It is a benefit. Bitcoin is not money and it shouldn't try to be, nor is it a money exchange. Sure, there are exchanges that use Bitcoin for all sorts of trading, but they are not Bitcoin. That would be like comparing stores and shopping centers to the street that brings people to the stores: The street is common law, and it's ours by right. Bitcoin is a public utility in its own right that the government has no reasonable interest in controlling.Think about it. If we factor 'Bitcoin the convenience' from 'Bitcoin the community's many uses', we will bring no commercial liability upon ourselves--because we are NOT IN COMMERCE! There is a letter being written to the EFF, there is also an article being readied for publication. I think this issue needs to be considered before we go further in endorsing them. There is a thread on this board titled 'Win 100.000 BTC'. The context shows this to mean one hundred thousand Bitcoins, and not one hundred with an accuracy to three decimal places. I see the potential for misunderstanding. Can we agree to use 1,234.56 notation as a Bitcoin standard? Firefox 3,5,11. And I am also using TOR w/Vidalia. Could be a cacheing issue?Sorry I got frustrated. I can come back the next day and it all works again. Thanks for having this board for us! You're describing a thing, I'm saying Bitcoin is a method, a convenience; a program.COMMODITY. In the most comprehensive sense, convenience, accommodation, profit, benefit, advantage, interest, commodiousness. -Black's Law Dictionary, Revised Fourth Edition.Sure, converting from one thing to another is useful, but that is for others to do. Bitcoin is the convenience that does it, nothing more.To take on the other jobs is to also take on the other responsibilies. Bitcoin doesn't need to do that, and in order to stay vital, absolutely shouldn't!Yes, Bitcoin IS a commodity, in the classic sense of the term; an accommodation. It should not claim to be the exchanger, nor the exchange, nor the thing exchanged. Why make things complicated? Look! It's happening again.I can post here, see? I'm obviously logged on.But when I go to the Economics forum, I can't. I'm listed as a guest. I can log out, shut down my browser, then reload and start a new session. Same thing; guest.-----And I did just that. I logged out, shut down my browser, then restarted it and logged on again. It says "Hello fresno" at the top of the page. I can edit this message.But when I go to the Economics forum, I'm just a "guest".Frustrating! And what about those who refuse to participate in the SS fraud? We can't use banks or credit cards, are you going to freeze us out of Bitcoin as well? You know that the SSN is the index into Baal's Big Database. So much for decentralization!  Red & creighto: Maybe we should define the definition of "definition" then. Mine comes from Black's Law Dictionary. Possibly you have a more accepted authority to quote from? We should have a feeling of accomplishment that we are at the point where an owner of goods can receive Bitcoins and be assured the the purchaser's role has been satisfied! Red: Until I looked it up myself, I would have agreed with your commodity as a thing. But it is not. It is a process: "convenience, accommodation, profit, benefit, advantage,.." (see above).These are THEIR terms. We will have to exist in today's legal environment, and use their legal language. Why not use it to our advantage?That is our ace. Bitcoin is a process, just like their definition of commodity; it is not a thing. People can use it to trade things, and that is fine, but that is not Bitcoin's domain. See how simple this makes things? Willsway: Defend how Bitcoin is a good and why that would be a desirable claim to make. You already understand that it is undesirable for Bitcoin to be an exchange, or a currency.creighto: Their "little fiefdoms" can compel you to appear before their magistrates. I don't think you are prepared to deal with them. Red: 'I really do stand by my definition, "If I can barter for it. It is a commodity."'No. Commodity is the process that facilitates the barter. There is no "it". I think that answers your two questions.Hope I haven't missed any important points. Sorry I'm coming in a little late with this, but do we want to expose Bitcoin to the liability of being a "currency"? In another thread, I've posited that we should be careful not to claim that Bitcoin is useful for any particular purpose, especially as a currency or money. That could leave us open for charges of fraud. Anyone claiming copyright of community projects, publishing on this community's board should be hooted outta town.  COMMODITY. In the most comprehensive sense, convenience, accommodation, profit, benefit, advantage, interest, commodiousness. -Black's Law Dictionary, Revised Fourth Edition.Black's goes on to define commodity in the commercial sense, and I think we should stop right there! For Bitcoin to survive, it must not in any way threaten "TPTB"; the Federal Reserve and the financial establishment. I caution us to not use the same loaded language that they very effectively employ to control competition.I think commodity is exactly what Bitcoin is; money, currency, and dollar equivalents it is NOT. It is vital that we understand that Bitcoin is both an implementation and a commodity, and to concern ourselves with the former only. The public will discover Bitcoin's utility and make whatever trades and exchanges they will, but for us to claim that Bitcoin is convertible or useful in this way leaves us exposed to allegations of fraud, and I can cite cases where they have gone to ridiculous lengths to accomplish just that. Could we lose the "$" sign in this thread's title and the dubious conversion into Federal Reserve Notes? The quickest way to get this project shut down is to encroach on the territory of the Federal Reserve.The further the Bitcoin can distance itself from the Fed, "coinage", "currency", and even "money", the better.  Sleep with the dogs, you're gonna get fleas!There are a couple of reasons to use Micro$oft products, like if your work requires it, or if you want to play the newest games. Otherwise, try a Linux or BSD live disk--Knoppix, CrunchBang, MEPIS, PC-BSD, or SLAX--and watch the cruft disappear. You don't have to be a digit-head, you just need to boot from the CD.  I'm having this problem with the Trading Discussion forum right now. I'm logged in, obviously, but I'm not recognized and cannot post in that forum.
