I am basically an atheist, but I put "other" just to avoid semantic traps. I don't believe in anything that I call "god," but it is certainly possible to define "god" in such a way that I would believe in "him" (the universe, natural law, etc.) And I've found that oftentimes the definition of "god" used is so logically incoherent that it would be wrong to say I don't believe in it, as that would imply an actual concept to negate. Rather, they are "not even wrong," and literally speaking nonsense. Other, I guess.I am largely a libertarian, but my reasons are as much pragmatic as they are ideological. I do think there are legitimate and beneficial functions of government, but I remain open to non-governmental alternatives, and am interested in anarchic societies. I am "culturally liberal" for the most part, inasmuch as subcultures tend to correlate with politics. I don't think there is a single right way to do things, and I dislike dogmatists of all kinds.I'm a fan of parallel, competing currencies, and I think Bitcoin is a fascinating experiment that I'm happy to participate in. And making a profit isn't too bad either. Everyone decided it was worth nothing? I don't think so. But then, you could say that about virtually anything. Acorns have never been "worthless." Austrians have a lot of good thoughts, but they tend to be religiously inflexible in their theories. Bitcoins shouldn't exist according to Austrian theory, so they cannot admit that they do. "What has to happen, according to this quoted authority" beats out "what actually is happening in real life." If you point this out, they'll just call you an empiricist (an insult, apparently) or demand you try to refute the theory. There is no reason that the total value of all gold would be equal to the total value of all bitcoins, any more than either would be equal to the total value of anything else, e.g. "Marlsfarp's Toenail Clippings."However, I could be wrong, and so I'm willing to offer you a (potentially) fantastic deal for your gold. 8 BTC per gram of gold! To be fair, a pyramid scheme is not necessarily a scam if it is acknowledged to be a pyramid scheme. Early "investors" will indeed get double their money back, at the expense of the later investors. Think of it as speculation: "I wager that I will be in the first half of investors." Or really earlier than that, depending on what kind of a cut the "scammer" takes.Of course, that doesn't make it a smart investment. Will Wikipedia ignore my claims of inventing a teleporter?The reasons for Wikipedia's notability and sourcing standards are various and good, learned from long experience. Anything that is just the say-so of the person contributing will get deleted. Anything that resembles advertising or other self-promotion will get deleted. And rightly so. Thank'ye kindly, ladies and gentlemen. And Inedible, I understand, truly, for...Generate? Uneconomical!Hardness is now astronomical!My laptop runs hotBut coins? I think not!So I just thought I'd try comical.No economy has ever flourished without annoying street performers. Think about it.::glances meaningfully at tip jar:: ::dances::There once was a pitiful stashLimited by a slow hash.This isn't a joke,Please help out this bloke -Send some electronic cash?::rattles tip jar::
