If you selected, Other, can you please post which country you're from - thanks  No, you tell him that if he pays in fiat, he will pay fees.Example: He wants to pay by Paypal - he will now have to pay the fees. So if your charge is for EUR100, he will pay EUR100 PLUS the fee.The discounted way is if he pays you in Bitcoin. I'm just wondering if there's demand in Immigration services with payment in Bitcoin or if that's not something people really need (i.e. if they're going to pay, it'll be in fiat/bank transfer) Tell him future transactions that he can pay you in any way he likes but if it's in fiat, he needs to cover the fees. This way if he wants to pay Paypal, he can pay the fees. If he wants to do a bank deposit, he can pay the fees.However, you're willing to pay the fees if he'll pay by Bitcoin.Problem solved and you won't sound like you're being difficult. Wow - you've been at this for a long time Maria.With 20% gains per month GUARANTEED, you must own most of the world's wealth by now. Don't forget, this is as good as gambling! Did you get this issue resolved? I'm facing a similar problem just now. I can't believe this saga is still ongoing! I'm not sure that's true.  There could be a doubling in price if the ETF goes through on the 11th of March. I don't even May I ask how these have been confirmed? Does anyone else here have an account with BTCC.com?They've recently sent an email round asking for proof of address and ID. This is pretty normal.What I don't find normal is they state they need another copy of my passport (something I already did when I set up my account).Naturally I emailed them and they said that yes, they need a new scan, a photo of me holding my passport and proof of address so I asked them why they needed another scan of the passport and if they had lost the original.They replied that the original system didn't keep a copy of the passport photo which I find incredibly unlikely. Why would you throw away identifying documentation? How would you confirm details of the person in future when you need to?It seems to me that they've simply lost the originals and are now looking to get them replaced.I'm not sure I have faith in them anymore. Has anyone else received this email after previously providing proofs? I have no qualms about an investment not working out.I don't even have a problem testing out the new risks presented by a DAO but I'm just trying to work out whether I need to consider the risk that what appears like a fair deal isn't all it seems. I just don't want to need to factor in an additional risk - collusion.The only issue I have is that someone with enough resources (say USD2M) could effectively double their money by buying enough DAO tokens to take control.So you could say the curators would manage that by preventing that from happening and that's a very comforting control unless the curators themselves have something to gain from allowing that vote to go through.I guess you could say that in this instance, it's a conflict of interest the current curators have. I'm currently investigating The DAO and it looks incredible. It seems like a great model to build businesses like-minded people can support based on their own beliefs and goals, however, I have some worries about the current offering from daohub.org.I get that you can vote on whether or not a proposal goes through.My understanding is that if you vote NO, you can withdraw your ETH before the proposal goes through.This all leads to a perception that you have absolute control of your investment but I believe that's true up to a point.We all know that in order to have more say in a DAO, all you need to do is buy more DAO - which is fair enough. If you have a larger stake, you should have a larger say and this is where my doubts begin.What's to prevent the main stakeholders of The DAO from ensuring they have the majority share by buying up just enough DAO to maintain that position? You would only needed to have been an early adopter in ETH or you'd need a cash equivalent of around USD1.7M at TODAYS price (USD460) to do that. You'll need more and more ETH/cash before this is up but these amounts of money are tiny in the financial world.With control of the DAO, you now have a huge amount of funds at your disposal. You've effectively doubled your money.Now you can put in a proposal to pay for some big project that you control. You could effectively pay yourself a huge sum of money to build a product that will return 5% of any revenue.You now have a lot of cash that built a project that you keep and you'll only pay 5% of any profit it makes. Now that sounds like a bargain to me.To make matters worse, you can now sell your large stake (because all the funds have been extracted from it) and you're all done.You can tell me that this will never happen but then I'll point you to the numerous examples of people getting conned by organisations that all claim to be reputable. Who is this Andersen person you keep referring to?   Or we could all just hold our horses and wait for the transfer.If there's no transfer or the transfer isn't from an account that we can be certain Satoshi is in control of, then we can just let all this drama pass.Of course this doesn't prove he IS Satoshi but from where I'm sitting, it's the next best thing < insert speculation of bought/sold keys, hacked email accounts, compromised private keys > If that's Rory Cellan-Jones then he doesn't have the technical capability to verify a hash generated in front of him. He's a nice guy but sure as heck doesn't have the technical chops to verify. Have you read none of this thread?
But Gavin is smart enough to realise the current level of 'proof' wouldn't last an hour under scrutiny. Why would he stake his reputation on something so flimsy? Is a 12 hour window enough time time to convince core devs to do this? Wouldn't core devs check the 'proof' for themselves?A good theory but it doesn't seem like it would be sufficient time to do what you're suggesting. Extraordinary claims and all that... It's possible he was hacked but how long do you think before someone asked Gavin? If it was a hack, the hacker would need to have colluded with Craig thereby incriminating him (Craig) when Gavin is asked "Were you hacked?".Not exactly a foolproof plan. That's not going to happen. He's never broken cover yet (and some believe he's dead), he's not likely to break cover for someone who claims to be him without a jot of evidence.It's already moved. Maybe he made a mistake?Some people say he was hacked but that's much less likely. The hacker would need to be collaborating with Craig and if that's the case, Gavin would be able to refute the blog post within 24 hours and Craig would be facing criminal charges. Other than shorting Bitcoin, where does Craig make a gain from all this? Unfortunately, in the digital world, your identity is only as good as your private key.Moving some of Satoshi's original Bitcoins is equivalent of watching someone move a mountain.Sure, he might not be God but to all intents and purposes he might as well be. I'm aware that it's used in criminal investigations but I'm not writing expert and sure, you could run a statistical analysis on the writing to determine if the styles are different but the analysis you're referring to is actual handwriting where the writing is unique.Let's face it though, there's going to be no proof more solid than a digitally signed message. It would be irrelevant what his writing style is.To prove/disprove that it's not the same person based on a small sample of text and a single space between 'blockchain' is as watertight as the current claim. If you've run the analysis on the handwriting samples then sure but otherwise, this is all muddying of the waters.If he can produce a signed message then your analysis is wrong. If he can't produce the signed message then your analysis is of no consequence because he hasn't proven anything.Ultimately, a signed message is all we're looking for.(This isn't an attack on you, just that people are going to debate back and forward endlessly about this issue when he could easily just prove himself in one action.) This isn't even remotely reliable as proof or disproof and only muddies the water further.Stick with digitally signed messages. Nothing else short of this will be sufficient. Aren't you able to check the live price from where you are? The price has already dropped and stabilised at around 440.When the Americans wake up, the price should fall a little more. What else would you expect him to say now? If he makes any admission of guilt, it's prison time.Even if he realises he's done wrong now, he has a vested interest in maintaining his previous thinking.I've gone from disliking him to feeling sorry for him. I can't imagine what it takes to turn a person into the person he is now. He's also either terrified of what's going to happen to him or he's sociopathic - either way, this is someone's son. They must feel disappointed that this is what he's become. You're not free to discriminate.I can't not serve you just because you're 'different' to me or because I don't like something that you are. By definitive, I mean the best source, not that everything listed will be absolutely confirmed lost (as there's no way to do this). Hadn't realised it was still being updated. It looked like OP hadn't updated for a while. The list is purely for information/fun/facts. Don't suppose you can add that to: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/166lXkfm_FeaNPvJI40rZjd-7e_k9_g_h8cXB4XdXmTY I don't know what the 'dump' button is but for the purposes of this database, a Bitcoin is lost when access to the wallet is no longer possible by anyone. I doubt we'll ever get to an exact figure and I reckon this is why this database will upset purists. People want definite numbers. They want certainty but this isn't going to be possible. At best, this will be an approximation of lost coins.It could be said that a lot of currently non-lost wallets will be lost over time because the people that own them will eventually forget about them or when they die, they haven't made provision for access to their next of kin. They'll never spend another Bitcent from that wallet but it's not yet 'lost' until they've passed on. This will result in the value of 'lost' Bitcoins being rather uncertain. I think it's going to be difficult but hopefully we can lower the risk of false claims with dates and checking for new outbound transactions since the date of when the wallet was 'lost'. That's the actual thread I'm referring to (juuuuust over 20 Bitcoin). Google docs spreadsheet is a good idea. I'll get that done.https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/166lXkfm_FeaNPvJI40rZjd-7e_k9_g_h8cXB4XdXmTY This is true and that's why I think I'll include two dates to the database.One to specify when the last outbound activity was and one to specify when it was reported.If it's ever noticed that there's outbound activity then we know those coins aren't lost and it can be removed from the list.
It would be interesting if someone had the addresses for the initial blocks but these are probably indistinguishable from Shatoshi's accessible loot.I can see that people won't want to admit to mistakes but I hope this could still be a useful resource for the community at the end of the day. I guess we'll have to leave those off the list unless we can have an address to go with it. The address is a requirement to confirm that a) there are indeed that quantity of Bitcoin lost and b) that the coins are likely lost (i.e. they've never moved since they were on the list).I hope those Bitcoin really can never be recovered because if they can, it means people can recover coins from our wallets.There will be deflationary pressure over time from lost Bitcoin alone but it should be small for a long time to come. To know if it was a small percentage, I guess you'd need to know how many were lost. For all we know, it's 5%.The list is just for informational purposes and over time, to see if it does cause significant deflationary pressure although I suspect we won't be around to see that time. I'm just wondering how many Bitcoins have been lost to the ether. There are a few threads from 2011 that discuss the philosophical details of lost Bitcoins and one thread in 2013 tries to list all the losses but gets as far as 2 instances totalling juuuuuust over 20 Bitcoin.I'd like to create a definitive list of lost Bitcoins.The database now requires:Date Last ActivityDate LostAddressAmountWhom - This should be a pseudonymAdded By - Most likely a bitcointalk.org username (If other, specify)An address is needed (so that we can easily see if there are any outbound transactions) and an amount. It might be hard to determine an address if you've formatted your wallet on the hard drive but without an address the data would be meaningless. (Yes I know, you could just not move coins from a wallet to make it appear as if it's lost/abandoned but why would you do that?)Update: Google Docs Spreadsheet created so that anyone can edithttps://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/166lXkfm_FeaNPvJI40rZjd-7e_k9_g_h8cXB4XdXmTYEdited: Added more info Sorry, but my inner grammar Nazi is twitching away like a snake in hot oil.You mean voilà (even just voila would do). What's the difference between MSDN keys and Retail keys?If the differences are negligible, why doesn't everyone buy MS software for $5 a pop? This is what I think I'm seeing right now (happy to see evidence to the contrary) although I'd disagree that there was a lot of capital flowing into Bitcoin from Cypriots. Is there a source for this? I think you're only reading what you want to see... and perhaps you have anger issues? I would think a week of market falls would cause some kind of rise (even if minimal) in Bitcoin but it seems that this isn't the case. It looks as if Bitcoin follows the market - maybe it's all going to the gold market? So hands up all those that predicted a rise in Bitcoin price when/if the markets started to fall? What is 'them'? The devs or the security holes? Are you saying there are holes in this script? If so, tell the devs, they'll fix it. As for development, have you tried approaching the devs of the actual script? Or as previously witnessed, giving him enough rope to hang himself.http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/give_him_enough_rope_and_he'll_hang_himself The volume of Bitocoin has inflated. That's a serious case of demurrage. Thanks for the input guys.I will start selling in small volumes to begin with and see how that works out.I guess trust needs to be built somehow. I mean just Bitcoins themselves but to UK buyers (or people willing to deposit Sterling into a bank account).What would be considered a small volume? 20? 200? 400? You really are a disgusting person.Edit: To be clear, I don't mean Xian01, I mean Josh If only there were a higher resolution time series. Then we could see the Bitcoin cart vary wildly between booms and busts. I've noticed the markets falling over the end of the last week but didn't think much of it. If you're right, there should be a continual sell-off over the coming weeks.
I don't see how that would necessarily be the case. Care to expand? There are a lot of pretty graphs on this thread but can anyone say if this bubble will crash in the next minute or the next decade? So a bit like most of the Bitcoin payment services available where merchants take Bitcoin payment and sell it for fiat immediately?So a bit like most of the Bitcoin payment services available where merchants have to pay transaction fees to the processor? Is there any confirmation that Josh will be going to jail?I have no skin in this game but for all the awful things he's done to everyone here, I hope so. I want to believe that money will flood into Bitcoin but I suspect it'll be a small bump from people who are already Bitcoin bulls.People who haven't heard of Bitcoin nor understand it won't rush from what they believe to be a low-risk, low-volatility holding to a high risk, high volatility instrument. Post count is no indicator of the value of an opinion.If you really believe so then my opinion is two and a half times more valid than yours. Hi folks,I'm trying to find out if it would be pretty easy to sell 100-ish Bitcoins to the UK market (only interested in GBP) quite easily.Does anyone have any figures for market demand or even anyone that would be willing to buy Bitcoin in the UK? I think Xiaoxiao is just debating for the sake of debating  (Otherwise he really doesn't understand how people value a currency and the difficulties in establishing one). Why didn't you start your own thread? This one is over a year old... Yes. Yes it would. There isn't a limited amount of steel, which is NO different to gold. In that sense gold is unlimited.WHAT?   1) This isn't the fault of Bitcoin and the same can be said of gold or platinum.2) Gold cannot be created but it's still being 'mined' as is Bitcoin. There IS a limited number of Bitcoin.3) This isn't a point, it's more like a summary of 1 and 2.Do you know anything about Bitcoin? Wow, I've been away a while and I come back to this.I'm pretty glad that they've been shut down. Making so many people wait for so long whilst holding onto their money was pretty poor show. Treating them so badly whilst ripping them off was just too far.I remember Josh behaving like it was the customers at fault for being impatient. Whilst I don't wish for him to be sexually assaulted, I do hope he takes a share of the responsibility that'll be handed out. He certainly deserves that.My commiserations to the people who lost money to those criminals. If this hammers the CPU, won't you risk getting cancelled? After cooldgamer's post, I'm lost.Are you proposing a website that functions like eBay (but items are denominated in BTC) or are you suggesting some sort of overlay function on eBay (which wouldn't be allowed)?I suspect it's the former but cooldgamer's post is also a valid interpretation of your post. Probably because everyone wants to be in USD just now. Yeah you dirty sluts!That'll teach you to wear short skirts and skimpy tops.It's totally your fault that you were surprise sexed. I think the problem is mainly on the side of the borrower.Let's say he needs 10 Bitcoin. He needs to return 12. As the currency deflates, he's going to have a harder and harder time accruing 12 Bitcoins as over time, it's value is going up.Sure, it's great for the investor.How I think it will work out is, during periods of massive inflation (like now), no-one will take out loans.Once deflation stabilises to the rate of population growth, then loans will be taken out but at something like 0%.In real terms, that's still a 3% return because the currency is deflating.I just don't see how we get to that point. NXT? The Bitcoin variant? Would you be ok if society put in place financial policies that meant you would starve?
I mean it's a negative feedback loop. Nothing to get nervous about. Negative feedback loops exist everywhere, even in your own body. It's not some pre-programmed condition in Bitcoin. Deflation will reduce consumption of luxury goods at the outset but at some point, people will still want those goods and those purchases will be made.Bitcoin isn't inherently inflationary/deflationary. It's demand/supply that determines that.So long as demand is higher than supply it will be deflationary. During times where supply is higher than demand, it inflates. Deflationary isn't necessarily bad. I see a small amount of deflation being no worse than a small amount of inflation.I believe there's as much incentive to invest in a deflationary environment as there is in an inflationary one. I just believe the conditions for investment aren't right yet and will only be suitable a long time away. In the meantime, Bitcoin is at risk of failing.My example is once deflation stabilises to the growth of the economy, deflation will match that rate. Your investments just have to outperform the current deflation.What this means is that it's automatically regulates economic growth because when economic conditions are good, investments will slow down (harder to outperform economic growth during these periods) and when economic conditions are bad, it will be a good time to invest (as it's easier to outperform economic growth). But how would we manage that transition? Just let half the world starve to death so that the ones that have been sensible with their spending can live on? For the sake of argument, let's say it's only $10B. It's still a massive amount of money to not be able to trace.Source: http://www.forbes.com/sites/haydnshaughnessy/2011/03/24/solving-the-190-billion-annual-fraud-scam-more-on-jumio/ I think I see the issue you're trying to raise.You're saying Wall Street will want to treat this just like an ordinary security which of course it can't be because this asset is a currency.You'll need banking expertise to secure the asset but the instrument itself can be left out on someone's desk.Are you thinking that there are going to be bonds or something with private keys printed on them? This could be the cause of the potential scalability issue you mentioned?If that's the case, you really don't need to do that. The private key doesn't need to be printed and you could still have claim to a tranche of Bitcoins. I forgot to mention, in today's Bitcoin world, you have pretty much the same problem.Any large exchange requires you to be identified before they allow you to cash out to fiat. Why are you printing out private keys? This is the equivalent of printing out your banking password. In fact it's worse - it's the equivalent of leaving your money on the table instead of in the bank.I can see no reason why you'd print your private key out. Are you needing to transfer the base asset of your investment vehicle?I get that you might not have a full understanding of how Bitcoin works but this is a fundamental misunderstanding you have here.I own Bitcoins. You could walk into my office and there'd be nothing you could steal that would endanger my funds any more than the $20 bn boutique fund. Are you kidding?People steal funds electronically all the time.Sure, Bitcoins are harder to trace but do you think the banks have thought, "You know what? Let's just make our systems slightly secure. We don't want to make it too difficult for people to steal money."No, what they've done is strike a balance between security and convenience.Sure, you could make it a requirement that you need go into the bank with a DNA sample to make a withdrawal. That would be damned secure but ultimate completely impractical.Bitcoin could be made 100% secure, it would also be 100% inconvenient.So yes, securing Bitcoin will be no different to banking.Recent losses on credit cards amounted to $190B - if it were that easy to trace, surely they wouldn't be losing so much would they? What happens if there is no growth because Bitcoin never gets to that stage due to its deflationary nature?By assuming 3% growth (in your example) you've assumed we overcome the initial stages of Bitcoin adoption which may never happen due to it's deflationary nature. This we already understand but once the world has stabilised on Bitcoin and the economy is growing at 3% (this is an unfounded assumption), it'll be possible to make loans at say, 0%. This would be the equivalent of a 3% loan.As has been repeated a million times before, even in a deflationary world, you'll have to buy food. You'll have to buy a car for work so you're still going to spend what you have to to survive. What's 'dead money'? Do you mean lost Bitcoins?The day you can do that is the day you can take anybody's/everybody's Bitcoins. That's the end game I hope for.Can you explain more about how those investments would work in a 3% deflationary world? I can see Bitcoin co-existing with fiat. In that world, I don't see the world changing much though.The same things that happen today will also happen in that world but they might be on a smaller magnitude. Are they advanced or do they live in underdeveloped areas? Let's imagine Bitcoin takes over the world today and it's the only available currency.Are you saying it's a better world where we have people who can't afford to buy houses?A better world where if I have a fantastic business idea I shouldn't be allowed to build that business until I've gathered all the resources required first?I can see an option to approach the rich to fund my idea but this seems to me that all the worlds finance would eventually concentrate at the top because they're the only ones that can afford to build big projects. And it's this sort of effect that will slow down the economy. Bitcoin adoption might kill off those cycles. I'm not looking for a loan. Which debt are you referring to?
I think there will be large numbers of loans - just far off in the future, assuming Bitcoin stabilises.I don't see divisibility solving the liquidity issue. Divisibility doesn't allow me to start my new business venture.I'm not sure removing debt instability will improve productivity. Even if it does, I see not being able to start new business ventures as a bigger detriment to the economy than any possible improvements. Where do I sign? I can't remember the thread I read it in (it was very recent) but someone explained how deflation would reduce productivity because only businesses that could generate extremely large returns could ever afford a loan to get started.The only way I could see a deflationary currency working is in the very long term.Let's imagine Bitcoin is eventually the only currency in use and after some time, 1 yottaBitcoin is worth 1USD in today's money.At this point I see deflation being close to 0% - people can now freely spend their Bitcoin because there's little value in hoarding and waiting for increased future spending potential.Now people can take out affordable loans.At what point in time can we see Bitcoin loans being affordable? 10 years? 100? Security will be a major issue but no more of an issue than for electronic banking.I don't understand your comment about theft of bitcoin by taking a picture as that would only be the case if you printed out the private key to a wallet. There would be no reason to print that out unless your investment vehicle demands it.Not knowing how REIT securities work I can't really comment but I do wonder why you'd need to reallocate the underlying Bitcoins to a new shareholder. Doesn't the share abstract away that need? (This paragraph is more to address your comment earlier about handling thousands/millions of private keys etc.) It's great that people are happy to PM you (I'd bear in mind the number of con artists going around - don't take this as an endorsement that you, or I for that matter, aren't in that same group) but I'd recommend you keep the technical details public where details don't impinge on regulations. This will a) help others and b) save a lot of people a lot of time when answering.When you say how large BTC holders value public investment vehicles, you mean those interested in becoming involved? I would think all of them would be interested in any legitimate means to increase their wealth. What you'll see here is a very protective and vocal part of the community defend itself from perceived threats.As far as securing Bitcoins is concerned, it's very similar to standard IT security for banking. I guess the operationally, only you know the requirements as you're the only one who knows how the underlying investment vehicle works.As an investment vehicle, I guess the liquidity will determine the types of investors (I still find it incredible that a currency can be used for investment) but as long as there are longer term investors around, there will be interest. That sounds pretty promising.Might mean banks are now happy for people to buy Bitcions. Let's say you're totally legitimate (your personal details are available for anyone to contact you and find out more about you).What exactly is it that you need to know?What technical hurdle are you coming up against?What information do you need to make a decision whether to take this forward?Surely as a forum, we can all provide you with that information and then you can assess whether this will work or not.Surely this would be a better route than you to keep proving yourself to us and us continuing to grill you? Can you provide some more info on what you're planning on doing? That's incredible foresight. That article was written two weeks after our posts  Also, I'm not convinced. One source (from the future) and it's from a news outlet. If I believed everything that was written in the press I'd have bought a garage for my flying car and be mining my Bitcoins on free electricity from all the fusion reactors that would be available today. We all get it. It's a high price. It's been mentioned a lot already.Nobody is forced to buy. Another bump for you OP.Keep us updated  It's almost as if the system were designed to make you read the basics required to become a member of a community and not to upset that same community by doing something ignorant.You sound like you'll be a great asset here. The change to mBTC won't in itself change the value of Bitcoin.The belief is that the general public is badly informed (not a bad belief).As others have mentioned, the general public may think that you can only buy a whole Bitcoin.You and I know this to not be the case but the general public don't know this so they don't want to plop down $700 for a Bitcoin.Now, if you denominate things in mBTC, the purchase price now __appears__ to be $0.70.Nothing has changed, however, the same general public will now feel it's much more affordable and buy up, say, $7 worth. Heck, some might even go as far as $70.This opens up the market to the less informed people, resulting in more Bitcoins being bought.Sure, it's not a huge volume but it's going to be some amount (the long tail).It's this additional fiat flowing in that will increase the Bitcoin exchange rate. By how much is anyone's guess. It all depends on how many people believe that you can only buy whole Bitcoins AND it's the high price that's preventing them from buying.Hope that explains things for you. Can someone explain what manual work is required for staff to do?Isn't it all numbers in a database?Coinbase takes all the risk - isn't it all automated? I don't get the day-trader hate.Should they not be allowed to buy and sell Bitcoin at any rate they choose? It sounds like you have a strained relationship with your parents. The fact that they don't support you sufficiently for you to have a bed to sleep on makes it difficult to understand why they would then lend you $1M, no questions asked.You have no reason to explain this as we're just strangers but you have to appreciate that it leaves us in a position of some scepticism. It was significantly more valuable yesterday. I'm afraid you're going to have some issues if you wish to cash out.You're considered a minor under UK law so you'll need a guardian with you to either countersign or to get an account that will accept large volumes of cash.As others have suggested, you might want to diversify so that you don't have all your eggs in one basket.Keep investing until you're 18, then you're old enough to do everything yourself. My thoughts exactly.It's not like the hackers could magic out the fiat without them sending it out to a bank. Just mark account transfers for manual approval over a certain limit. I can't see how this would help that situation.If it were me making a huge sell just now I'd be pretty peeved that the whole world has now been alerted to the fact.
How does this solve the price falling too fast? This will all stop as soon as Bill Murry wins Andie McDowell's heart.Until then, we're Goxloop'd! What do you mean 'attacking people'? I need to buy components for a low power desktop and I'm looking for a store that accepts Bitcoin.I don't mind where the store is in the world but the components need to be shipped to the UK and I'd like to be able to have import taxes added to the total cost so that I can just pay once.The components I need are as follows:mATX motherboard (minimum 16GB)RAMCPU + Fan (low power VT enabled)2 x 2TB drives (from different batches)Is there a store that can provide these components and will allow me to make a single payment? Alright, I'll save your bacon.I'll buy them all now for $110 each.Don't say I'm not good to you. Do you have a reliable source? You're saying it's likely that people will live to at least 130 years by 2140? It's quite interesting watching all this go on. Who knows, with any luck, in 30-40 weeks you might have recouped your Bitcoin cost. I don't think anyone cares who builds the road, more who pays for it.Tolls discourage usage too and that'll have a negative impact on the economy. Does this exclude the poor from travelling? If a poor person ends up being killed, do we just ignore it? Do you mean voilà? Government isn't about efficiency. It's about doing things that people ordinarily won't.People can barely organise to get a stairwell kept clean between 6 properties. Don't tell me that thousands of people would be fair about getting roads maintained. I guess it's only unfair if the government does it. I think you're falling into the trap of believing everyone would be as generous (or even as well off) as you. The problem with people, is they're lazy and greedy. If some people feel they can wiggle out of paying for a road, they'll do that, even if they use it the most.You probably feel that everyone will be fair about it. They won't. I don't think it would work and thus I have no solution other than some form of tax.I can think out of the box but that doesn't help in a society that won't accept any unusual solutions. This is so badly written I feel I could write a better article despite not being a 'wealth building strategist'.Kinda makes me wonder if anything else he says is as well researched... Are you having a bad day or something? When the last bubble popped, lots of new users came here wringing their hands wondering if they'd made a mistake. They were met with comfort, kindness, humiliation and contempt in equal measure but most of all, the message was clear.Don't sell, stay calm(TM) and just wait until the price rises again, as it surely will.Well, now you can see that it's true, we can all look back and laugh.Who can tell if this new bubble will pop? Nobody knows.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NG1qooBzE2wThe song is done incredibly well and the lyrics are pretty impressive to boot. Here's the original for anyone that's not heard it before.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a_XgQhMPeEQ I suspect most of the people here saying that the roads would be maintained by the users aren't considering areas where there are fewer houses or poorer families.The areas with fewer houses will either need to be owned by rich people or they'll have to move closer to town. Fine.What happens to the poor areas?What about road standards? I built it, I demand people drive on the left.What about sewage, water supplies, telecoms infrastructure and of course, health care? Everyone believes in innocent until proven guilty so we're in a bit of a moral dilemma here.If only you Bitcoin had a method of recalling a payment if he's found to be guilty. A chargeback if you will...
Before everyone pounces on you, it's mining, not farming Also, if you're mining on your PC at home you might want to work out if it's worthwhile (i.e. will you spend more electricity than you'll make back in Bitcoin - that being the case, you'd be better spending the money directly on Bitcoins; you'll also have the benefit of saving yourself weeks/months of time).Welcome Edit: Forgot to answer your questions.I got interested from hearing about it on a website somewhere years ago. The concept was interesting and that's what hooked me. What's your wallet address? I'll send over my naked shorts. Wait, WHAT?! You're right - it's just a rumour.There's no truth to these stories. Calling Satoshi on the Bitphone! I'd be interested to find out how many writers, video editors and Blender 3D users there are here.Just wondering if we could organise well enough to produce a Bitcoin mini-series... Ok, adding a massive short sell. Ok, I've sold all my Bitcoin - what do I do now? The problem you have here is the press/media influencing people's opinion. I actually have an almost complete Bitcoin script with a few twists in it and some issues that would upset reality purists   Oh, has the wind direction changed again? @nanobrain  - Don't get me wrong. I think there's plenty wrong with 'people'. You're right about rape, it's not funny because it's threatening.I think what you're missing is both sexes are bad - they're just bad in different ways. Doesn't make one worse than the other but it does make them harder to compare.Sure, men wave their di*ks around, women manipulate with their bodies. It's the way we were built.Are either sex capable of bad behaviour? Yes.Are the types of behaviour the same? No.Imagine if I were to go to a baby forum and claim there was so much oestrogen-fuelled posting or talk of 'how to trap your man' and start posting "you women are so bad" comments. I'd have a point but I'd be missing the bigger picture.All people have the potential for good/bad behaviour. It doesn't matter the gender. A real covert agent will be well educated, intelligent and attempt to insinuate themselves at the top of the power hierarchy.You won't spot them because they'll blend right in. Reading a pro-Bitcoin website to decide whether to 'invest' in Bitcoin sounds like confirmation bias to me   The vast majority of posters here are male. In my experience around half of them are decent people, a quarter are trolls and the remainder are newbies or egomaniacs.That being the case, I'd say it's normal to see strong male orientated behaviour here. Is some of it distasteful, yes but are you saying that this is purely gender related? You're saying a group of women would behave differently?If so, isn't what you're saying inherently sexist?What you're saying is females are better people which I disagree with. I think you can be good or bad and be male or female. I don't feel women have the monopoly on sensible discourse.P.S. I've personally not seem much in the way of sexism at all (other than overt sexist posts which I assume to be jokes), if anything, this is one of the most sexist posts I've seen simply because there's no irony or humour here. You're pretty serious in your belief that female behaviour is better behaviour. I think you should read up on the Nash Equilibrium http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nash_equilibrium When this date does happen, I believe there'll be much news and fanfare.You should allow multiple people to bet on the same date. They would just share the pot. It's possible your understanding of virtual currencies is wrong.You're using them as an investment vehicle (and whilst they're still appreciating in value, there's some merit to that understanding) but ultimate it's just a currency.If I said "Should I invest in alternative currencies like the Yen and the Euro too?", you can see it doesn't make as much sense. Personally I don't feel the name is as important as the act of actually moving the decimal place. Even if it's a short term solution (mBitcoin) then at least some of the general public will still have an opportunity to buy in.With renewed adoption, the price will increase but more importantly, I feel that more of the general public will hold Bitcoin, and allow them to benefit from the upswing.Let's face it, if we don't get Bitcoin into more hands, it'll all end up concentrated in a few hands and then we have the 1%er situation all over again.An added benefit is also increased price stability. It's a good enough reason but say Bitcoin is valued at $5K next year. Won't it mean another re-denomination will be necessary soon after?
Just wondering, are those that voted to keep things denominated as whole Bitcions, the same ones that believe Bitcoin are known to be divisible by the general public?Perhaps the ones that voted Bitcoin isn't known to be divisible by the public haven't voted or don't see it as a problem? I would cast Christopher Lee.Fu Manchu Returns! It isn't a smart way of doing it. Looks like it spooked the market. It's all looking a bit weird now... Satoshi awakens! it's awesome to watch.Lag at over 10 mins right now. Are you touting your wares on my thread?  Good luck   Would someone be willing to post a running update? The second part of this thread:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=338144 This is Part 2/3 of the previous topic:Does the general public know they can buy fractions of Bitcoin?https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=336011So we accept that the general public has a perception that Bitcoin isn't divisible and with it's value so high, this presents a barrier to purchase.What is YOUR preference to re-denomination? It doesn't matter why you think it's the better option but feel free to discuss. I've never suggested that if the general public knew you could buy fractions that they would. Just that it will stop those who want to buy but don't have $650 to buy any.Who said this was an original thread. Taking only the first post into consideration you can see I'm aware that it's discussed to death already.You say it's not rocket science yet I reckon a lot of the public are put off buying simply because of this belief.Where is your aggressive attitude coming from? lol You do realise that without people like him, your Bitcoin would be worthless today? That's racist. The Chinese could be white, middle class males if they wanted to be. I think you're all forgetting the volumes of money required to take valuation up to $30 or $260 is different to taking it up to a valuation of $1600. Listen, you had your chance and you blew it.You're forever spurned from the community you stabbed in the back.You're dead to us.I'm kidding - lolGlad you had a chance to take a second look. Don't worry about other people's views of Bitcoin. Just imagine how your future, your world, your government could be changed for the better with Bitcoin and you won't go far wrong.Don't forget, Bitcoin as a vehicle for investment is only an early phase. At some point it'll just be a currency. I think if they reasoned it out then they'd come to the conclusion that they must be able to buy in fractions but I suspect they don't give it enough thought and just get put off. You've really not understood the reason for this thread.The root cause is simple ignorance. It's not something you can change easily or without a massive budget for educating.There's plenty of room for discussion - just not regarding things that have been rehashed over and over.Also, this is a three part thread so I can't see how you'd know if this is a waste of time yet. However, if you're here to make yourself look smart or if you feel you're above it all then there's nothing I can do about that. Feel free to make yourself feel better. I edited it as soon as it was posted. You must have seen it before I managed to edit  I was going to use this thread as part 1 of three.Poll 1: Does the public know they can buy fractions?Poll 2: What should be the smaller denomination? (I know this has been done to death but it would be to see what should be adopted rather than the merits)Thread 3: The public doesn't know/understand the divisibility of Bitcoin. Let's get exchanges denominated in units of Poll 2. Edit: Ignore this post - it was posted when I was reading something else and posted the opposite of what I meant.What's really odd is that most people posting agree that the public feel you can only buy whole Bitcoins yet the poll suggests the opposite.Does everyone who voted no not want to discuss?
I'm not sure if a lot of people have misread the question (or are adding an interpretation to it that doesn't exist) but the only relevant point is if you believe the public thinks Bitcoin must be bought in whole units i.e. anyone wanting to buy right now needs a minimum of $460. That's not the point of this thread. It's simply if the general public believes they can buy only whole Bitcoins, in which case it's a barrier to adoption. 1) Naturally it only affects those wishing to buy. I feel it's an additional (imagined) barrier to entry.2) This supposes they already understand the premise of this thread. That is so clever! Would be interesting to hear from those that voted No. I suspect it's because we're used to Bitcoin and thinking of it as a currency rather than a stock. This reminds me of your other thread I copied/pasted/edited Glad to see you're still holding out for a price drop. First of all, this is NOT a discussion about the unit in which Bitcoin should now be denominated in. That's been discussed to death.What I'd like to know is if people are thinking "that's too expensive - I can't afford to buy in".Traditionally, stocks can only be purchased in whole units.Although Bitcoin isn't a stock, the perception is that it can only be bought in whole units.Agree/Disagree? OMG - you didn't have enough to stay alive? How are you posting this?(I jest - hope you're better <3) Seems like quite a big deal to me.That's two days worth of all Bitcoins mined.It's also now worth $3.5M. That's not small potatoes. An intelligent person would be able to do a far better job of it. BTW, I'm not having a go - I just didn't understand and now I do.I think what you've created is great (I said that in your other thread too). I meant your cell phone. That explains it (although I don't get what you mean by the wiki link lol). Why not use the correct currency sign or, if anything, not use a currency symbol at all because the heading is the currency. I think I ought to be clear about something. I'm not considering the home falling apart or the land being a toxic waste dump. That's not a concern to me as OP has offered to let any purchaser inspect it so there's no issue there.What we disagree with is who the risk lies with. Why do you feel there's any risk to the seller?You can see after 6 transactions (a few coffees) whether the transaction is complete.Will you run through an example with me? It'll be a multi part post after your reply.Let's say you're not a French citizen (which I suspect you're not). I tell you that I have some land to sell. It's a fantastic price.I'll even let you camp on it for a week before you buy it just to make sure you like it.We go to an Office de Terre* (an official and much cheaper way of transferring property in France for those in the know) and I have them confirm the land title transfer and we sit and watch you make the coin transfer to my address (which I've given you, naturally). When I see your coins are confirmed (or not, because I'm a busy man and I have meetings to go), the official gives you the title deeds and then I leave.Would you say that's a pretty good way to go about it and that 'avoids escrow' although the Office de Terre seems to me to be acting as an escrow?(Also, why do you keep saying that the OP has probably vanished. He regularly replies :/) I'm not entirely sure what you're saying here (partially because I think you're using Dollars instead of Yuan in part of your explanation).Taking China as an example, it looks as if the USD value is too high by almost 3 times? I expect 1 Bitcoin to value at around US$400 and the CNY value to be a multiple larger than that. That's not currently the case.It seems to work fine for US$ when a US trade goes down. Look at the Russian one - the US$ value is totally out. Can you give me your mobile phone? 1) was just me being silly (no offence intended)2) is about how inaccurate the value appears to be (by an order of magnitude) (0.1 Bitcoin sold in China has a valuation of $400-ish)3) is about how people could be misinformed by the information they're seeing Well my dad owns MI6 and he tells me you're lying, Trance. I still remember a time when people said $450 was too much.
1) Why does it eat up so much CPU? It might as well be mining Bitcoin...2) Why are the fiat values so high?3) How do you take into account Bitcoins that are changing hands, i.e. I take $400 and buy a Bitcoin. Someone else then buys it off me for $410. $810 of fiat didn't 'leak'? This is interesting - can you explain why the Gold Standard would impoverish the rest of the world? I'm interested because I do read that it doesn't work but I've never heard a compelling reason as to why this would be the case.Please correct me as my understanding is this: There's not enough gold in the world. Can't pricing be flexible now that we have computers and the Internet? I suspect the solution will require technology of some sort. This looks great.I'm unsure of it's value because I can't work out how it takes into consideration additional fiat into the system rather than fiat just exchanging between two people. I couldn't say guaranteed but I think there would be mass adoption. So rationally, everyone should have moved from the Dollar right? I think people believe that just because the situation is bad or there's a lack of trust in a system that people would abandon it.Clearly that's not the case otherwise people would abandon the banks that got us in to financial crisis and dropped the quantitatively eased Dollar by now. You might say there's a monopoly position there but so would there be for USCoin.  It is a little narrow but would Bitcoin be half as large as it was a month ago without US funds? Let's say the general public, on average, is a bit uneducated on these kinds of things. They see this magic new crypto currency - I could see them all jump on it.I'm not saying it would be smart - just me having a low opinion of the average person on the street. Almost like we all learnt that the banks are doing evil work we must stop them in their tracks...I could see that happening. What if the vast majority of the public went with it?USCoin would get the publicity, the acceptance and the volume that Bitcoin can't. Don't people trust the US dollar in the same way? I suspect Bitcoin would lose a tremendous amount of traction and thus value. A panic would ensue and then it would be near abandoned. Again?!   Let's imagine the US government is in real financial crisis. It's aware that it can no longer afford to pay off it's debts and can no longer print more and more currency.It decides it needs a way out and it sees Bitcoin as the solution. Unfortunately, Bitcoin isn't under it's control so they see this as a risk and not one they're willing to take.They decide to issue their own digital currency instead - USCoin. It's identical in every way except the government controls the codebase and also accepts USCoin for tax payments.Would you exchange all your Bitcoins for USCoins immediately and ditch Bitcoin or would you hold on and hope that Bitcoin can also compete as a currency? I watched that episode and I have to say, I didn't get the impression he was entirely clear on how it worked either.He also unfortunately came off slightly loony. He would go off on rants about the financial system and it lost him credibility.It was also clear that the panel will barely remember anything about Bitcoin.He left no lasting impression. @Fleabag - did you buy Bitcoins when they were only $200?   I think this one will hit around the $400 mark and then burst. It'll be the next bubble before it hits $500. You didn't even grin when he said 10,000 Bitcoin was worth 11,000 Bitcoin?   Arbitrage? My bet is $400ish followed by a crash to $210.People forget that the volumes of cash to take bitcoin to this kind of level are massive compared to bringing bitcoin up to 260. I still don't see how this prevents someone intent on committing fraud from defrauding the buyer?If I'm engaging a lawyer, why wouldn't I use them as escrow? They're a neutral and trusted party.
Can someone please explain to me what I'm missing?I honestly don't get it.Am I imagining the risk that the buyer takes on by using Bitcoin without escrow?Has this already been addressed and I missed it or the post deleted?lucasjkr - please help me out here!BitchicksHusband - have I gone insane? Polls of the future:1) What is your net worth?2) Do you go out often?3) What kind of security do you have at home?4) What social activities do you do most?5) Where do you live? Perhaps the OP could be reframed as:We need to change where the decimal place is used.1) Whole Bitcoins are cumbersome to denominate everyday goods in2) Psychological phenomenon dictates that people prefer whole units of something rather than fractions3) Improve uptake of BitcoinAdditionally:a) This change in denomination should be reasonably future-proofb) This future-proofing has an upper limit due to the transaction fee becoming a significant proportion of the actual transaction (this fact is due to the limited flexibility of changing the transaction fee size)These things being true, it would suggest that a unit should be easy to come to.Milli is out as it's not future-proof. Nano is out because the transaction fee size. That simply leaves us with Satoshi and micro.Personally, I think it would be travesty to use Satoshi only because it's an odd unit. It'll be a nightmare integrating it into payment systems. It would need a special exception everywhere and I think this would slow it's adoption or certainly make it a nuisance for everyone to use.As someone already mentioned, China likes to denominate in units of 10,000 and it's a collosal pain. Having personally dealt with it, I can tell you that the Satoshi would be the same thing.That being said, it would be very much appreciated in China so I guess it's East vs West on that front.Someone mentioned that it would be ridiculous to want 50000 slices of pizza instead of 5. I don't think that's the case as people used to sell Bitcoin in lots of 10,000 for a few Dollars. It's not unreasonable to buy 50000micro Bitcoins for a Dollar. Should they eventually appreciate, people will wonder why they didn't buy more, just as has happened for the rest of us.I think Bitcoin should be re-denominated to a smaller unit, just not the Satoshi.My vote - go with the Micro then once the transaction fee gets lowered, go for the pico.================Slightly off-topic but for those that are interested:MilliMicroNanoPicoFemto I think you've missed my point.Also, in the world of Bitcoin, if you're not skeptical, you're broke. I'm all for selling property for Bitcoin - check the other thread where I'm out and out defending someone trying to sell property (only they're not leaving a potential buyer at any risk).Again, the seller holds no risk here. I don't know how often I need to repeat this. Of course the seller is happy without escrow - they have nothing to lose, whether they really do own the property or not.Perhaps an example will work better for you. I have a 2 million dollar house I'd like to practically give away to you for a mere 10 Bitcoins. It's a bargain. Just think of all the profit you'll make when you sell it.All you have to do is come over to the UK and we'll get the Tenant Rights of Property* signed over to you. You can sign the blockchain proving that you own the coins and once you've transferred the Bitcoins over I'll give you the title deeds. It can all be done at a licensed and registered Title Deed Exchange Office*.I can't believe you won't take up this fantastic opportunity to make almost 2 Million dollars - and you call me skeptical. You might want to revise your numbers a bit.You won't be running your heater at 100% capacity 24 hours a day. Did you miss the part where OP said he didn't need escrow?He's right - he doesn't need escrow but the Bitcoin holder might want that security.I suspect 99% of the people on this thread aren't from Missouri so will have no solid understanding of the law there so they'll want to have a lawyer involved. As soon as a lawyer is involved you have escrow facilities.You could just trust OP to get "someone to do the title-deed process" but how are you going to confirm the title deeds are real?I personally wouldn't be able to tell the difference between a general (special warranty deed), a quitclaim deed or a fiduciary deed far less determine if the documents were even genuine. They might as well be immigration papers as far as I'm able to tell. I hope someone does buy it.I just hope they do it safely. The worry is that some naive person gets scammed.Goodness knows Bitcoin's reputation doesn't need further tarnishing."Bitcoin allows you to get scammed!" - No, not being aware of the risks allows you to get scammed. Have you read the thread or only the last few posts?   Doesn't the government have access to all your communications (for those not in the know I'm not referring to Prism, I'm referring to the confiscation of all KnightMB's computer equipment)?Won't that mean that they could pose as him using the information gleaned from you? You first started off by saying no escrow was required.Then it turns out you have a person that doesn't release the funds until the paperwork is concluded (which as far as I'm concerned is the escrow).Assuming the person doing the holding of funds is neutral and is liable if they release funds when the documents are forged/fake or the person who has the documents isn't the person who owns the property then that is escrow.If you're saying that if you were buying a bridge off me and we both met at a coffee shop and I showed you ID that I was Mr. Bridge Owner then:1) You transferred the bitcoins over to me2) We then sign the documentsYou've just been scammed.I'm going to head to the bathroom for a moment whilst you look over the documents. You have my fake ID but I don't care. I'll make some more.You're left with a bridge that isn't yours or mine and I'm away with Bitcoins you can't recover because you don't even know who I am.Where's your recourse? ...oh, wait. I hadn't cleared my cookies  That can't be true. All I get is goat porn related stuff... It's more like seizing 1.5% of a very small country's currency. A the cat's identification led to knightmb? Sounds more like parallel construction to me...They probably already knew who they were going after but just needed some way of reaching him without letting everyone know they had intel on him from nefarious communication capture techniques. They're plenty well funded. $25M is less than a third of a percent of their annual budget. It shouldn't really matter how long the FBI was involved even if it was from day 1.SR is an illegal operation so they went after them. Whether drugs should be illegal or not is a different matter. You can make Bitcoin hit almost any value.You could give someone $1 for 0.00001 Bitcoin. That values Bitcoin at $100K/Bitcoin!Woot! Bitcoin just hit $100K!!!(It's a bit like how laser powers are quoted.) Great work stick  It seems you believe one persuasion over the other. IMHO, you should be equally critical of both sides 
Fine, I'll ask this one simple question:Are you aware of the risks involved in being the purchaser (i.e. the one handing Bitcoins over)? This is copypasta from the other thread:================================I don't know if this is sufficient evidence but it's all I could do with Google. Here's the FBI website:http://www.fbi.gov/newyork/http://www.fbi.gov/newyork/press-releases/2013/manhattan-u.s.-attorney-announces-seizure-of-additional-28-million-worth-of-bitcoins-belonging-to-ross-william-ulbricht-alleged-owner-and-operator-of-silk-road-websiteI know the two links are to the same source but the rest of the news articles and Wikipedia pages pointed to the same places so I figured it was a good start.I can't confirm the story wasn't planted or that the website hasn't been hacked though so you'll have to take my word for it that I'm not involved. I don't know if this is sufficient evidence but it's all I could do with Google. Here's the FBI website:http://www.fbi.gov/newyork/http://www.fbi.gov/newyork/press-releases/2013/manhattan-u.s.-attorney-announces-seizure-of-additional-28-million-worth-of-bitcoins-belonging-to-ross-william-ulbricht-alleged-owner-and-operator-of-silk-road-websiteI know the two links are to the same source but the rest of the news articles and Wikipedia pages pointed to the same places so I figured it was a good start.I can't confirm the story wasn't planted or that the website hasn't been hacked though so you'll have to take my word for it that I'm not involved. For this to be true, wouldn't Forbes need to have not verified their sources/information (granted this does happen)?If that's happened how did the court documents get onto the court servers? I like a good conspiracy story as much as the next person but this one is a little wide of reality. I can't imagine someone at the FBI doing the transfers slowly in 324 units. It would be madness and the supervising officer would surely wonder why it's taking so long.Also, why would the FBI want to tag their transfers? And the winning bid for this auction is to Mr. FBI for $12! Congratulations. What else was seized? Wait - I don't read blockchain very often so I'm not entirely sure what i'm looking at here.Is that 144K Bitcoin and does it all belong to one person? (i.e. the US gvmt) Religion - it's where the real money is. That $400 withdrawal model breaks down for Cyprus lolThe average investment is no longer assumed to be $1000. I believe it's now $3000 based on rpietila's silver purchase model (seems this comparison has a few faults but better than just guessing). I'm with adamstgBit - it really doesn't matter who he is.If anything - it'll lead to instability. Right now we've no idea who he is. He's almost godlike (not necessarily a good thing).If we discover he's just a human being who eats, defecates, parties, cries, farts and is altogether human - we might just find a way to discredit Bitcoin  because we disagree with him being a Mormon or that he enjoys deer hunting, etc.Better we leave things as they are, that way Bitcoin stands on it's own merits.Who knows? Maybe he knew this all along and he knew that disappearing was a requirement to it's success. January will be the new November and Spring will be Autumn.Watch out for rain with a chance of meatballs.  I would disagree that Bitcoin looking like a ponzi will be the cause of low uptake.I suspect it's too sophisticated for most people and will just need adoption to come via recommendation. At some point it'll reach critical mass and be accepted just like Paypal.I still remember the time when if you mentioned Paypal, people would look at you like some sort of computer nerd. These days it's commonplace to find it at any online store.No-one cares that I've used PayPal to pay, just that I did. That's where I see Bitcoin when it's finally adopted by the masses. This is a really interesting thread with great detective work.Hopefully Bitcoin doesn't end up with a 1%er problem but at the rate we're going at - I'm not sure how that would be avoided. You love me really <3   I'm sure he has a sense of humour   The only people on here that have any chance at making REAL money are the people who basically got their coins for less than $1000. They know who they are and they are smart. They are the ones pimping and hyping the shit out of bitcoins. I have been rebuffed for used stocks as an example but it applies to bitcoins. The people who have gotten in on the big companies and made their millions and millions are the ones who got in at the right time. Coke, microsoft, apple etc the list goes on. The ordinary joe is going to get rich on an obscure stock now? They're going to catch the boat. Opportunities come around many times in a persons life and right now at $200 the boat is still in dock. even at $100 or $50 the boat was believed to be gone! EVEN if you don't have a ton of money to begin with and my point is then moot. Can you imagine having 10 bitcoins and you paid $2000 for them? Now you have smart people scraping $1000 together to buy 5 coins. Do you see what I mean?Now I have a question for the naysayers. Tell me there isn't an investment past or present(not a stock) that costs $200 or less that anyone could buy that made that person a millionaire. The only caveat is that the investment had/has to be a fully disseminated idea that the world knows/knew about. So in other words the person got in AFTER THE FACT and made millions off of a smart investment.  These are all so well done.The singing is great but the lyrics are probably the hardest part.Great work   Not sure if you're just wilfully ignoring the points being raised or if you're trying to convince people that you're naive and can therefore be trusted  
Something doesn't quite add up.He sold about 3.5Kg of drugs over the last 4 months and was in the top 1% of sellers?Let's say these drugs are going at $50/g. That makes around $45K per month.Some sites say $1.8M of transactions were passing through Silk Road every month in 2012.The top 0.5% of sellers must have had massive volume. Then the title company is your escrow.I'm assuming that the title company effectively vouches that the titles are genuine and that they belong to the seller? (I.e. no thefts or forgeries of title documents). None of us is related to you so you'll have to understand if we need a slightly higher burden of proof here.I think what you don't understand is the risk for the buyer.I'm not saying you can't execute a purchase without a lawyer. I'm saying the buyer can't trust the seller when Bitcoins are involved. Let me explain:Here's a little background on me. I'm 12 years old. I own around 30,000 shares in Berkshire Hathaway. I've been developing .NET apps for 38 years. I wrote Linux. So, I think I know all about how the world works. Second, I have bought and sold about a dozen castles and all whilst holding my breath.Some of this might not be true but you can trust me because I'm confirming it is.I don't think you understand how Bitcoin works socially. You might have a perfect grasp of the technical issues but clearly you have no understanding of the community here.Well all of your 'proof' that you're well versed in selling property was never called into doubt.The reason you don't understand Bitcoin is you don't appreciate the risk the seller puts themselves into when they're buying off you if no escrow or lawyers are involved.I'm sure you're a stand-up guy, after all, you've proven it beyond a doubt with the sheer force of your convictions.We get it. You're an amazing guy and everyone should trust you.Only, that's really not how things work around here. Here, the standard of proof is a little higher than a few posts explicitly stating how awesome you are.This isn't Missouri.You could think about it from the buyers point of view. As a mental exercise, imagine you're buying a house off of me.I'm 12. I'm a stand-up kinda guy. You can trust me. I've done this before... It's only safer for the recipient.Also, these boards are full of people who have never bought property before so they don't understand how it's normally done.Having said that, your suggestion to do it all without banks, escrow, real-estate agents suggests to me you don't know how Bitcoin works. Hmm... not really.Take for example some of the bigger personalities here. They do some fairly scammy things and they don't really care and still operate as if nothing is wrong.Some people have negative ratings worth over -70 but their positive ratings make them net positive.Your little minus score isn't even a scratch. Your anger will come to pass.Other positive votes will counteract it.Don't worry too much - it's a forum account  You've read this whole thread and __that's__ what you find weirdest? I just took a look at the details and I can immediately tell there's no basis for the negative score.What I would look at is your posting history and how you handle yourself.I'd say that was a good indicator of what sort of person you are  As others have mentioned - you don't really need to worry too much about trust.People will check on your credibility and decide whether they want to trust you or not. Not just by your trust indicator. Can you tell us a little about what we're looking at? It seems reasonably obvious but a clear explanation would help any confusion. Having read all of the quotes by him in the Forbes article (linked in this thread), I have to say he sounds like an upstanding chap (were it not for the fact he ordered a hit).We'll see how much of an upstanding chap he is if he tries to make a deal with the prosecution by giving up associates. Let's see if his ideals really mean something to him.Worth reading if you've not already done so:http://www.forbes.com/sites/andygreenberg/2013/04/29/collected-quotations-of-the-dread-pirate-roberts-founder-of-the-drug-site-silk-road-and-radical-libertarian I'd be very surprised if it hit $20.There are a lot of big investors that won't panic sell as their new shiny business depends on having Bitcoin.I'll be surprised if it hits $90.My guess is it'll stabilise just above $100. Probably because everyone there is asleep. Does anyone know what time (UTC) his arrest happened? For those worried about the effect it's going to have on the price of Bitcoin, it seems to have stabilised around 134 and there are plenty willing to buy at that price point.Who knows what 24 hours will bring! If they sell it and cause a flash crash, there are plenty in the wings waiting to pick them up.This is undoubtedly going to cause a significant drop in price. The question is for how deep and how long before it rises back up again. I think I feel dumber for having read this thread. Looks like you're a few weeks behind. I'd say if someone doesn't realise 1millibitcoin = 1/1000th of a bitcoin then they're not going to be smart enough to be able to secure their Bitcoin.
Was the negative feedback given before or after you sent him that PM? Looks like it was before.If it was before, that was a pretty sucky thing to do as there was no proof but I have to say you've kinda shown your true colours with how you've behaved since then.Two wrongs and all. I get that there are some cops that are just out there to be difficult and cause people grief but in this instance, you're 15 over the limit.The speed limit is there for a multitude of reasons. Number one will be safety of others.Are you saying you're so good a driver that you can drive safely at 80 whilst everyone else should drive slower?Are you saying that everyone should be allowed to drive at 80 regardless of the safety issues?It's always annoying to be caught but caught you were and at least on 10 other occasions. Either you need to slow down or you need to accept that you have to pay these fines.Think of it as a charge that better drivers can pay to drive faster than everyone else if it helps you feel better. Was the fine for speeding or something? What was the confirmation? Wait, he's got negative rep for something there's no proof of either way? I can't understand why the mainstream won't get involved with Bitcoin   There are a lot of people who drive dangerously. They believe they're safe at driving too. By allowing everyone to drive by their own judgement, there'd be no way to prosecute those that are reckless. Unfortunately, the good, safe drivers are thus punished.If there's anyone to blame, it's the dodgy drivers.BTW, I'm not making a judgement on your driving just that everyone wants to be 'free' to enjoy their vehicle. If you send money as a gift, can you still make a chargeback? What country are you in and what jurisdiction is the company in? Check with a lawyer before attempting this strategy   That's both a good and a bad thing. You either have very limited experience of banking or have preferential access due to substantial wealth, either way, bank transfer limits are very real for the rest of us. There's no mention of the coins coming from third parties on the site. Do they deposit the coins to your wallet or are you effectively just an escrow/third party? Does this mean you have no Bitcoin of your own and are dependent on sellers for your liquidity? How are the losses split? He is skimming because since the troubles started, the Casino has continued to make a loss which is in stark contrast to the incredible volume of takings initially. Any news is good news.(If you're running the business in the news) Has anyone had any negative experiences with OP since this was originally posted? (Wouldn't necrotise this thread if it weren't for the fact that I'm specifically looking for responses from posters in this thread) So what's the news folks? Do you know anything about Phil Zimmerman and PGP if you don't even know his name?
Is it just me or does anyone else feel this is getting off topic? That feeling will stay with you for a long time but don't worry, it'll eventually fade.  Yeah, I know - one post!Ought to be enough to make anyone run from the site screaming. It's almost as much of a commitment as marriage...Edit: Can't spell site I guess CasinoBit has plenty problems. Is anyone else beginning to feel uneasy with the odd conditions at CasinoBit? Sturle & ZarathustraLooks like you'll have to agree to disagree on this point.We both get the points you're making and some will agree with one and others will agree with the other.This is an issue of opinion and neither one is necessarily correct.Time will tell which one of you is right for this occasion though. Why isn't someone with a Japanese bank account exploiting this arbitrage opportunity? Don't you represent BFL?I guess this confirms the thread title.If I were 10 months late delivering a product I'd be embarrassed rather than on the offensive.Edit: Fixing quote Ahhh, so you're saying being 10 months late is ok though? @CasinoBit - Has betting slowed down over the last three days?There seems to be a different pattern in revenue since about a day or two before your server move.What's changed?(I suspect it's algorithmic but as I don't know betting volume on a daily basis I can't conclude that for sure). Because his current belief is he's identified the hot wallet that contains all/any investor Bitcoin.The address at the time he messaged contained a little more than 6.6 Bitcoin.Assuming withdrawals are automatic, you wouldn't be able to withdraw more.This would prove his theory and explain why your withdrawals aren't working.Edit: At the time of this post, there are only 6.5 Bitcoin at that address.Edit 2: Now 6.4 Bitcoin. Is the return on that not around 0.6% Alas, I'm not invested in anything.I perform an occasional trade so no proper investments.For me, an investment needs to be secure, otherwise it's just gambling. Don't get me wrong - that's a good rate but I won't be going near Coinlenders anytime soon. 20.8% return a year is stupid?What are you investing in that returns a better rate coz I'll be all over that. Their disclaimer doesn't exactly fill you with confidence. I doubt any regulating authority is going to accept it. It's believed that MT Gox. doesn't have cash on hand so people are buying Bitcoin to transfer out. Is anyone else seeing discrepancies between the amount invested, the amount left and the profit made values on the Investment page?Edit: Nope - it's just me reading two separate tabs from different times. My page was showing a 37% loss since closing and that brief moment of access.[/quote]I'm also showing a loss not as high tho but over just over 10%[/quote]Mine is back to around 10% too.No idea how to explain it. Not sure why it's taking so long but I guess it might have something to do with the massive losses it was showing after there was a brief moment of access a few hours ago.My page was showing a 37% loss since closing and that brief moment of access.Also, the huge problem with using JS on the UI is there's no indication if the link is working again or if you need to click the link again but seeing as the page is a toggle, have I now closed the page? The only way to be sure is to reload the page, causing much more server load.
Surely you're saying the implication is it COULD happen and not WILL happen. Ugh! Did you read the newbies post?  All that Bitcoin funded foie-gras and steak are going to add the pounds. That's pretty unlikely. Well folks - I thought I'd investigate whether this site is for real or not as there's too much risk of sock-puppetry going on here.I've put in 1BTC and now have 3.6BTC.I've put in a withdrawal attempt for 1BTC but the site is down due to the DDoS so I've emailed CasinoBit to make sure my transactions are executed (I'm away for a few days).When I get back I'll let you all know if the withdrawal was successful. So does this mean the title is simply click-bait? Next you'll be telling me to invest in 7% return financial instruments. Are these in units of 1000? Sheesh  Any credibility you had before this has just left the station.I'm out! Great work on this graph  Seems there was a lot of evidence against him though. It will be a terrible day if it ever came to pass that we began to punish people for crimes we think they'll do.I concerns me that tmbp feels that he's an 'expert at raising suspicion against people' who may or may not be guilty just because he suspects it.The powers of judge, jury and executioner are separate for a good reason.Whilst some (maybe even all) of the people you list are scammers, with no proof other than "I just sense that they're doing something wrong", I doubt many can rely on that list to be 100% accurate. So you'll 'convict' someone on the suspicion that they'll do something bad? Are you serious?   This investment also assumes you believe Bitcoin price against the £ is stable or will go down. If it rises against the £ then that 10% profit figure is going to get eroded. Bitcoin doesn't suffer from fraud.People's greed causes them to take greater risks. That's what results in fraud.Doesn't matter the currency - it's just simple human greed.You might as well ask "Why is handing over cash to a stranger whom you can't identify nor track down, more susceptible to fraud than spending that same cash in a supermarket?" There's pretty much a market for everything.The problem you have is reaching your target audience and also competition (which will drive your profit down).That being the case, there's no barrier to entry when selling tea and the market, although quite large, is hard to reach especially once you've split it into those with Bitcoin who are wanting to buy tea and those that don't have Bitcoin so won't be interested. There's always going to be demand for tea but it's reaching your audience that's the problem. These look quite cool   What if the law said it's now illegal to fund, say, Wikileaks?What if you need to send money to Edward Snowdon but the government declares that you shouldn't as he's an enemy of the state?Would you want Bitcoin to be able to do that?
It's these 'hindsight' posts that are what's most disturbing.Edited: For clarityEdited: For grammar There are either definitely other people involved or it's just a possibility. Both can't be true at the same time.If there were other people, maybe he'll turn them over for a reduced sentence (if any). I think you mean, wiggle their fins......I've said too much.   Were you just waiting for someone to post the word 'hindsight' so you could use that pic?Otherwise I can't see any sense in your post   That's not true. Even with hindsight, why is that clearly what he should have done?Do you currently own a home that's worth more than $100K? Are you going to move to a smaller one in case the government decides to put a 50% tax on your house to pay for the budget deficit next month? Not gonna lie - I find your post a little unusual too. Not because you're selling an Avalon but because you'll only trade with someone of good repute despite using escrow.If you're using escrow you could be selling to a Nigerian Prince and it shouldn't make a difference. Of course you're a troll, otherwise you wouldn't have posted this.On the very unlikely chance you're not a troll and just didn't bother to read the thread, the person concerned employs Cypriots.You might not run a business but when you do, you need to have a bank account. It needs to exist somewhere so why not Cyprus?Why wouldn't he have it all in one account? Why would he have it in multiple accounts? When you pay your electric bill, do you pay into one account or do you pay into several different accounts for different invoices at different times?If you had all your assets seized by the government, can I find a homeless person that's less well off than you to scoff at you?"He had it coming. Why did he use the banking system? How did he not see the government would change the law overnight? Being a criminal has it's flaws." How does it matter if they're good standing members? Am I right in saying the algorithm works as follows:time = number of two-week periods in which you've posted since your registrationactivity = min(time * 14, posts)Can someone clarify what "number of two-week periods in which you've posted since your registration" means?Does it mean that:1) Only the fortnights which you've posted every day counts as 1E.g.You make one post on the fifth day of the month.You also post every day for the second and third weeks.You make one post on the 23rd day of the month.Only the 2nd and 3rd weeks count because they're the only consecutive 14 day periods you've posted.2)  Only the days you've posted count as a day in those fortnights?I.e. you're registered for 1 month and you've posted 300 posts but all of those posts were made on the first and twelfth day so only 2 days count toward your 14 days.Edited - for clarity Anything but Bitcoin is an alternative crypto currency. Altcoin is a portmanteau of alternative coin.They all derived from Bitcoin so everything else is an altcoin.Litecoin just happens to have better traction so is therefore referred to as Litecoin bit it is also an altcoin. Are you saying the principle isn't the same? No - I've told her to just wait until the price of Bitcoin goes back down to 1 cent.Shouldn't be long now. Just to clarify, you only need to attach a fee if you're in a rush or need your transaction completed quickly, which OP is. How do you stop your network filling up with spammers and scammers?Without any identifying info, won't people with stolen cards/accounts be all over you? Hell no. It's doing rather well politically.It's not perfect but it's still pretty good. You're right - my aunt was telling me how houses used to cost around £3000 where she lived. These days the same ones are worth around £500,000.I'll wait till houses go back down to £3000 before I buy again.Thanks for the tip. Maybe you should hold off advertising the position till you've applied   People are lazy - they'll use any indicator and just assume it's reliable. Very interesting - thanks for the link 
I don't see how this helps or provides much value. Why do you need to buy the accounts? As a scammer you want to spend as little time as possible for maximum gain. I think you missed the point. It would be to scam newbies. You didn't see the stickied thread? Well done for being the reason why the 5 post rule was invented.Good job you've read the rules.You only need one post :/ If you'd registered an account, your time will count towards your minimum time requirement and you'd only need 1 post to get through. Ah - that explains it. People are more likely to buy out of fear than good feeling. I think Luckybit is adding to the discussion - his stance is far more businesscentric than mine. His opinion is valid and one that you should consider.Obviously we have very different ideas about how things should work lolI personally don't think a forum should be the social change Bitcoin needs because that way, the forum will fail as that's not what people go to a forum for but I could well be wrong and it might thrive (in my experience of people and business, I don't see that being the case).You could go to the huge trouble of setting up a business oriented/gameified forum and find it doesn't work or you can go with your original goals of fixing what wasn't working here and seeing how that works out before doing another round of community research and asking if each feature to be added is wanted/needed by the community.At least that way you can start to build a community, you won't alienate anyone and you'll have the option to add all the business features that Luckybit is looking for. That's quite a sad story. The only thing I find unusual about it is how they didn't realise that their costs would go up after the fixed rate period ended. That sounds like living beyond your means to me. Also, is it an essay (fiction) or a real situation? How do you see the consequences playing out?Isn't that elephants? I forget... Very hard to get around this problem but allowing them to be openly sold certainly can't help. They do seem rather sensationalist.Their style feels like they have an agenda as well. That would be acceptable if that was made clear before he opened the account.I.e. ToS: We can cut you off if your activity is suspicious, i.e. if you transfer too much (greater than 10000 in one month)The "We'll cut you off for any reason at any time just cuz" doesn't feel fair. Holy Moses! WALL OF TEXT!  It addresses the problems of the current forum.Also, what makes you think a newbie is going to build a community for you to profit from? Also why denominate things in Litecoin if the ultimate goal is to bring Bitcoin to the forefront of cryptocurrency usage?One of us has missunderstood badly. I hope it's not me.The new forum isn't to replace Bitcointalk - it's an additional forum to promote competition between forums and to strengthen the ecosystem. It'll help each of the forums strive to be better or lose users to the other and that's a good thing for the community.You certainly won't be able to replace Bitcointalk with your current ideas. If anything I believe you'll put a great many people off it.Bounties and incentives don't necessarily gameify a site. It's how those incentives make users behave. For instance, if you have 15 levels of 'experience', you're encouraging users to post as much as they can as soon as they can to reach the upper levels.A bounty in an advert to research something isn't gameification.I don't disagree with any of that.Perhaps I just don't understand your desire to turn the forum into a business. A business with equity at that.I also don't get why people wouldn't answer surveys without being paid if it's to improve the community. I get why they'd want paid if you were lining your pockets from the results/research.You don't think you've gone too far by the time you've paid to sign up, paid to get into VIP areas, bought into the forum with Litecoin shares, allocated shares for the new forum, etc?Or do you see that as balanced?I suspect with your suggestions, the site will never get popular unless you define popular as 200 very rich users funding the site costs and generating a profit for the 'owners'.You'll have fewer active users - your community will simply be smaller due to the barriers to entry you're imposing and also why will newbies feel inclined to help build your business?I think you've missed the point I'm making but if I haven't been able to explain it so far it's unlikely I'll be able to do it now.Encouraging users to start spending is a difficult one but making the forum where they can learn about it chargeable just to be on, is not going to be the solution. The two objectives are independent of each other and in my mind, shouldn't be mixed together. You're tying an activity to a goal to try and achieve that goal.Of course if the forum was 'better' than this one people would go but you define 'better' as 'run like a business' and I'm not sure everyone would agree with that.You also define 'better technology' as 'gameified'. I would describe your 'better technology' as 'different' but not better. I'm sure you don't mean the database will allow a higher volume of transactions or that the motherboard uses a faster bus speed. That's what technology is in my mind.People don't go to a forum for the 'technology'. Also, are you defining an active member as 'non-newbie'?  I feel that your problem will be everyone will run a mile when they see how much of a business the new forum will be. You'll never get to the size of Bitcointalk with all the fees, the shares being handed out (to whom? by whom?).You don't think $1 is easy access for a scammer? If you told a scammer that there's a forum full of pre-validated, high value assests that will cost you $1 dollar to access, you can bet they'll beat a path there.I don't think we disagree here - just where that line is drawn and how high it's drawn.What do you lose helping build a community?Are you saying you'll only help if you're paid?Facebook users don't see an immediate financial cost. They also don't see that Facebook is making money off of their accounts.People will give up their civil liberties because they don't know better.Make the Bitcoin wallet signing one of the 'experience levels' sure, but make it as a barrier to entry and you'll lose a great deal of newbies.I don't have that info.What proportion of spammers don't have a Bitcoin wallet? Without that info, we're speculating as to whether your proposed solution would work against them.I don't see a problem with making it a requirement later on once people can already participate.I might have an interest in stocks and shares but I wouldn't expect to have to deal my shareholdings on a forum. I might like tropical fish but for sure I'm not going to use them on a forum as currency.It's not a finance community - there are people here from all walks of life.I've not made that claim - you have. I simply have no interest in making money off the back of the community I'm trying to build, if for no other reason than a conflict of interest. If you don't see that conflict, you soon will once people begin to ask questions.Perhaps this is where some of my confusion comes in. You use the meanings of things slightly differently to me. A spammer is anyone who posts junk and that can often be things like selling services (to make money) or just posting rubbish to troll etc.A lot of people here are here to make money - absolutely. I don't think anyone has a problem with that. The hoarding issue is a problem but you can't make people spend if they don't want to, otherwise you're as well using a fiat currency where if you don't spend, your value is inflated away.Forums don't need to scale like Mt. Gox. They have raw power issues, a forum doesn't have the same resourcing issues. There's no way the new forum will have too many users - not for years. There's no point in over-engineering for a situation that'll never happen.Even with all the inactive/troll/sockpuppet accounts, we only have 135325 users here.I don't think people come to Bitcointalk for the content. I think they come here for the community.I guess we'll need to agree to disagree.50 minutes a day spent on replying to each other's posts lolAnyway - good discussion   How odd. I've just been sent a link to them about the UK financial situation and I remember seeing them before but thinking it wasn't a very reliable source.Does anyone know anything about them?Here's the link I was sent:http://pro.moneyweek.com/myk-eob-tpr123/PMYKP703/ Don't know if you're a troll as such but that post has surely got to be one.If you did that in a bank we'll all be hearing it in the news by dinner time   I have no problem with that as it's free choice.Sounds like you've got your forum strapline 
Absolutely it can be left up to the OP but we're drifting from the original goals.The new forum was never about making money, nor was it about providing a high quality paid for service. I'm not saying any of that's bad but that never appeared to be the intention.If that's what you're trying to build that's fine but it's certainly not what I'm trying to help build. I'm not doing this to make money off the community but if that's what you're after that's ok too - I'll just stand down.I think you're confusing the properties of a currency with the properties of a forum.I want the new forum to be the following:All inclusiveTrolls bannedScammers bannedNew method of graduating newbies (still unresolved)Fair environment where users feel they're not being ignored/disrespectedAreas which require higher levels of experience to reach (perhaps only 2 tiers so it doesn't turn into a game of volume posting)I don't think we're looking for an entirely new forum - there's little wrong with the existing one. What we don't want to do is create a forum too complex and 'gameified'.Sure, there will be a few smaller paid areas (like for advertising or services) but on the whole, the place is free to use.As for the running costs, Viceroy has already kindly offered to fund the place initially. I'm sure advertising and possibly donations would cover the rest.I hear what you're saying and it's a good point but I'm still against pay-to-play. Most services these days can't survive on that model - notice how almost all games on mobile phones have a free and a paid version? The free gets them in, which all the other forums are so they'll go there first.If you're looking to build a community of 200 users, you're going about it in the right direction.I don't get it. Did I not mention that $1 isn't going to keep spammers and scammers out? Looks like you agree too if you think they'll still spam the newbie section having paid their dollar but at the same time, you'll have excluded all the other newbies who thought they weren't going to pay a dollar for a community they've never heard of. The reason why you won't have scammers is because they'll see a small community and realise the return for their efforts isn't worthwhile - it definitely won't be because they can't afford a dollar.Viceroy was looking for some community input for how it should work. I'm sure he's heard your opinion and he's heard mine on the matter by now.Now you're confusing the new forum with the real world. The goal of the new forum isn't to rebuild society with Bitcoin as the basis. Originally it was because Viceroy was frustrated and felt persecuted by the current forum.I agree that everything on the forum should be Bitcoin denominated but I don't think the new forum will make more than a fraction of a dent in the Bitcoin economy. I'll be impressed if there's more volume than 1 Bitcoin a day.What makes you think we need to encourage this behaviour? It's already present in people. People don't care what currency their store of value is. We don't need to foster that feeling in people with propaganda.Ah, how little you understand scammers. If anything this signals to a scammer - here are your high value targets. Sure, these high value targets will be significantly more wary of scammers but there will be scammers none the less. Money isn't a barrier to entry for successful scammers - I think I've said this about 5 times now so I won't mention it again.Because we were all newbies once. A lot of the original community here didn't spend a dime buying Bitcoins yet they'll have dozens of them. A lot of people don't have money from other countries.I get you want to build a better community but excluding the less fortunate won't help with excluding scammers.Because we're a community and we help each other. I for one am not trying to make things better for me - I'm doing it for the community. If you're doing it for yourself and those already with Bitcoin then that's up to you but again, you can count me out.My point was that people who aren't members will take one look and go elsewhere.It's becoming quite clear to me that you're looking to make money out of this. I don't have a problem with that but it's not something I want to do off of the back of a community I'm trying to build up.There's a reason why we have separate sub-forums for that kind of thing. If you're not interested in it, you don't have to read it.There's a spam/troll/scammer issue on the current forum, not a lack of earnings problem nor a, I'm-more-privileged-than-other-people-so-I-should-have-better-treatment-problem. Not sure that helps with anything.Also it would mean someone like me who visits the forums twice a day would take about 45 minutes to reply to a busy thread. You're right, there's no evidence against scotaloo so that account shouldn't be banned, however, you've also admitted to being a scammer.I've also noticed you're very specific in the way you phrase things. It seems to me you don't like to lie. It's actually not something you want to do so in that sense you're honest.What also seems clear to me (and this is merely speculation) that you'd be happy to return any scammed funds if there's evidence against you which means that you have scammed but you feel you're clever enough that you can't get caught.Summary: An honest scammer with integrity but a scammer none the less? PayPal is awful and OP knew the risks of using it but blaming him for using 'a criminal enterprise' is a bit harsh. Wait, isn't this just illegal rather than a scam?The two words have very, very different meanings. How high will you make it to deter the hardcore sock puppeteers (and thus also punish the innocent)? Are we saying this forum is for the 'elite' of Bitcoin? Absolutely - existing software.There should need to be no discussion about this - not because you should be a dictator but because it's a fools errand. Did you ever find out about this, WiW? If you'd read even some of the thread you'd have seen that there was no reason to do so. We all started at "Four legs good, two legs bad!"Sort of like a two tier society where we can keep those who have and those who don't have, separated. An apartheid if you will. That way people who have Bitcoin can air their more valuable opinions.The scammers that cause the most damage are the ones that are successful. I.e. the ones that already have Bitcoin or find it trivial to obtain some.Your barrier to entry is going to hurt more people than it helps.Yes, the rabble should have their own section.A 'VIP' section would be ok as it's optional.You're going to make it annoying for genuine users and only make the cost to a scammer $1? Downloading of Pirate Bay or ripping a DVD is simple too but you'll find most home users buy DVDs and sit through the FBI warning and adverts time and time again. To a determined scammer/spammer your barrier to entry is too low. To an ordinary user, the barrier to entry is too high.Sure, you might have eliminated all but the most harmless of scammers (which aren't the ones you need to worry about) and a large chunk of new users who decided to go elsewhere.You'll have a lot of issues like people currently do here where they want to participate in a discussion immediately but can't.I don't have a problem with your suggestions - I just think it doesn't solve any problems. It just seems to exclude newbies and very low end scammers. No because the bank are then going to be held responsible for the existing transfers so they'd need to be investigated.As a business (the bank) - it's far better to be seen to do something against money laundering than only allowing a small number of transactions through.Don't forget, for money laundering, you might only need to make one huge transfer and be done. If the bank just said, don't do it again, then most money laundering would pass by unchecked. Drugs have become legal/legitimate? I know weed in some states has but it'll never happen for ecstasy, heroin, cocaine, etc. As mentioned already by someone else, it's already been posted.Healthy scepticisim is good but just because you've never heard of it, doesn't mean it doesn't happen. Not sure if troll I wonder how difficult it would be to orchestrate bad reputation for a very well respected and well known non-scammer?I guess it would start with a list of 'just my opinion' scammers and a group of committed people. Best advice ever. If only there were a way of voting on a person's honesty with a +/- score system. It could go green for good and red for bad... It doesn't hit home other than I place a great deal of value on justice and if someone is wrongly accused, that's pretty unjust.I don't have a problem with people giving someone trouble if they're 100% the guilty party. I wouldn't stand for an innocent person being persecuted though and that could be me, you, your family, their friends or anyone else.If you cause injustice when you seek justice, what have you really achieved? Personally, I don't care what price it goes to so long as it remains stable.Stability is what gives merchants rise to panic or not adopt Bitcoin.Once these ups and downs are over then things will get better.
And before anyone says it, yes I know "beyond a reasonable doubt" is for criminal prosecution, not civil. This is my problem right here.What if you've got the wrong person? Your version of "beyond a reasonable doubt" will be much stricter than the person who's just lost 1000 Bitcoins.Also, people trying to discredit Bitcoin or make a quick buck won't care if the correct person is identified. They'll just want to tarnish Bitcoin's name and/or collect a bounty. What does it say about this forum/Bitcoin that a market could exist for hunting down scammers?Also, what legal recourse is there to extract Bitcoin debt from someone?I'm sure you're not suggesting illegal modes of operation  I don't think there's any point in fighting this as they don't have to provide you service but you can always tell them that buying Bitcoin isn't illegal nor is it against their ToS (unless it says you can't do that which I highly doubt). As long as you have legal documents that prove you are who the account says you are then I can't see them being able to hold your money after 180 days, especially if you pay a few hundred dollars to get a lawyers letter written with a threat of legal action.You just need to wait 180 days though. I'm not trying speaking for DeathAndTaxes (lord knows he's more eloquent than me) but I think all he's trying to say is that the Japanese guy has (correctly in my mind) misunderstood your intent when you said 'illegal' because it isn't 'illegal' to buy Bitcoin, it's just against PP's rules.That being the case, your buyer is actually correct, it's not illegal so that's why he felt he could tell PP, not realising it's against PP ToS. Help me out here as I'm trying to work out what it is you're trying to do.Am I right in saying, you're a self confessed scammer and hacker BUT you only scam and hack those that deserve it so you're on the moral high ground?Despite this, because there's no evidence of you doing anything wrong with this account, you shouldn't be banned?So technically they shouldn't ban you but morally they can? If they do decide to regulate you, you're going to be sol coz they don't accept registration after the fact  You forgot, prevent scammers from offering bounties for work done  Not sure how he can blame you if you already explained the consequences of telling them it was for Bitcoin.He said it was legal for him so you should tell him to take it up with PP. He can't hold you responsible for his own beliefs. Ah but you do  Looks like he only has himself to blame if PP hold onto his funds.As for your funds I guess you'll likely need to wait at least 90 days till your funds clear although I have no experience of how long they can keep a hold of your money. Perhaps he didn't know. It's possible his English wasn't good enough to understand what you meant byI had to read that a few times before I realised what you meant. I'm not saying you're to blame - just that he might not have understood what you meant nor the repercussions of saying it was Bitcoin he was selling. Can't see it being legal for them to keep your money though. Didn't you know the risks when trading Bitcoin with PP?Also, I'm not sure where Bitmit is hosted but it'll be down to the country's laws as to whether releasing your information is illegal.Sure, ethically it's bad but legally there might be no issue.To be fair, it's a bit of a dodgy business that just gives away it's customer's information on request. Have you registered with the FCA yet? Cliff Notes:Accused and self-confessed scammer goads mods into proving that he's a scammer.Offers to refund everyone scammed if Mods are 'smart enough' to link him to his crimes.Mods ban him regardless so he tells them he's moving to one of his many other accounts. I know. It's a ridiculous suggestion.Next they'll be telling us someone spent 10,000 Bitcoin on a pizza lol What do you mean? Not really.I the UK, there's almost no chance of recovering this legally.
Oh, he does own his own money. It's just that the capitalists have agreed that rather than make them pay for their wrong doings, it's better to make everyone else pay instead.Think of it as the application of the Golden Rule. He who has the gold, makes the rules and in this case, the new rule was that his money was to be 'borrowed on a permanent basis'. It's not the minimum balance that's the issue.It's the fact that they have to acquire them at all.It could take days -> weeks for someone to do that.Even if it's for $0.01 worth of Bitcoin.You're in the lucky position of already having a bank account. What about those that don't?There's nothing wrong with promoting higher-level discussion but are you saying that users of this new forum should have a minimum level of understanding (and ownership) to even participate? $0.18 due to bad press and a major sell-off caused by being declared illegal in the US. And for that reason, anyone owing debt would be excluded from bidding. Not sure you can say this is a 'socialist' policy.It's definitely a capitalist policy where the people who currently have the most capital are making the rules.Also, if you want to call it a socialist policy, it would seem capitalists are happy with capitalism until they're made to pay for their mistakes, then it's socialism all the way... I hope you've been withdrawing your maximum allowance every month. Should improve your chances of not getting another hair cut. Not sure it's easy to prove you don't have financial issues.I could have 10 Bitcoin and still be in Dollar debt up to my eyeballs. Ooops - I replied to an earlier post without reading all the new posts first so I've repeated some of your comments later.Having no advertising sounds like a bad idea unless all running expenses are to come from donations which can be quite scary if you're the one left holding the bag. What if someone wants to find out more about Bitcoin or is looking for investment but has no Bitcoin themselves?So for them, no matter how small the amount of Bitcoin, they would need to have a bank account (not everyone does), they would then need to transfer fees to an exchange, then buy some Bitcoin.Sounds like quite a barrier to entry. Shame they're not from New Zealand - could have just sent the FBI after the kit and had it confiscated. So to participate at the peak, it could have cost $520? To ensure you getting a refund is as painful as possible and to get themselves out of any legal difficulty they've left themselves in.Cost/benefit analysis should make a lawyer very worthwhile by now. How does having a significantly older account help with your signature? For some reason I had the impression you lived there   Now you're being silly. 4 is well past prime for trading insight. They can afford lawyers now. They only have around 10K Bitcoins. Ah, I see - I thought you meant things like bandwidth, IP addresses etc.What do you consider fair engineer time costs and what minimum time increments would be fair? This is pretty awesome.I'm sure his prediction will be as good as any other analyst.Can you thank him for the tip for me  For personal trading it'll be fine.You might still get flagged for the volumes you're putting through but if you can show how the money was legally earned (i.e. your take home pay goes into the same bank accoun) you'll be fine.The discussions on this forum about accounts being closed down are for when people open business accounts and use it for transfer in/out of thousands of people's deposits/withdrawals.
I've noticed that there are several thousand-Bitcoin walls that magically vanish before prices quite reach them.You don't know how much of that wall is real.Edit: Hyphen for clarity I don't follow - can you elaborate? What price point would be considered a rip-off on optional components? I'm very interested to know why people like seeing "unlimited"?Do you anyone actually use unlimited?Is it just appealing for those with low budgets?Is it just because they 'promise' you unlimited?Would a service that tells you exactly what you get not going to be better?I'm genuinely curious about this because I actually want to understand.I see a service offering unlimited anything attracting those that need a lot of that resource causing bottlenecks for everyone else.I'd prefer a high quality reliable service than one pegged with resource hogs but that's just me. Is this not a risk with any company? I might have misunderstood but how is counterparty risk just a gold backed currency problem? I think you're right - you can't produce the same hash for the same IP without using the same salt so it does seem useless at this point. Well played. I believe this makes you the winner of this thread. Be careful though. If too many people complain and/or do chargebacks, Paypal might close their account down   Well that's fraud and is illegal.You could say this of any company/organisation.If they're playing by the book then you have no argument. PayPal are the ones that end up losing money. You can bet that they'll close your account down if they lose any money on you. Also, it's all automated systems and staff that are paid as little as possible.No one is going to pay any particular attention to how old your account is. At best it'll be based on how much money you make them but beyond that, your loyalty doesn't mean anything to them. How the hell else are they going to afford all those luxury yachts and playboy lifestyles?Now if you'll just sign here, here and here I'll get your loan approved for you. I'm not sure I am. I think I'm in agreement with a lot of what you say.I completely agree with what you say here...Right - I'm in agreement with you here but we're getting to the issue now.If given two planets and the goal is to make a bigger, more productive society and one of the planets is using fiat and the other some resource based standard, which would do better given that the same time limit (say 2000 years - almost half the age of the Earth*)I think we agree here too. Corruption and greed is what's holding the world back. Assuming that it didn't exist or could be properly corrected (not on our planet) could fiat work better?Perhaps I should develop a game called Sim Currency. You get to build a society based on one or the other options discussed...*I'm so kidding. That's not what I said and not the question that was asked. I'm not an economist so I'm not entirely sure what the Keynesians say but are you saying that never can this system work, even with proper and working (if somewhat imaginary in a 'real' world) checks and balances? (I.e. not as it is in the world today). Can you do a chargeback? Very nice work Flying Hellfish! It's this artificial ability to expand the money supply that allows the fiat economy to grow quicker. Properly managed, could this be beneficial to society? A random salt would be better - then you don't need to depend on 'secret sauce' It would help even more if you were to have read the stickied thread made specifically for you.
This is fair if you expected delivery in several months. Something most people ordering now should expect or have been told.Only the people who ordered months ago and were continually promised "soon" have any grounds for a refund. How would you befriend someone to vouch for you? You might want to let Paypal know that if they have no intention of dealing with it that you're left with no alternative than to contact your credit card company.You should be aware there's a strong possibility they'll suspend your Paypal account permanently. Perhaps I was unfairly being negative to the gold standard (completely unintentionally). I didn't mean for it to sound so negative.I've just been wondering recently if having a larger (and thus more productive) society is a fair cost to having fiat. Sure, better controls to prevent massive fraud and theft would be good.Wouldn't a society that can expand faster and grow faster be a better one than a smaller although significantly more economically stable society be better? It's backed by the American government and population. The problem for UK debt collectors will be the lack of an address and also the fact that it's second hand debt.It's fine if someone wants to personally collect but legitimate debt collection agencies aren't going to want to take this on. An address would be the minimum I'd need to be able to see if the debt was recoverable at all. It would also likely need to be denominated in GBP but with the rapidly fluctuating value it would be really difficult to pin down. Oh, I see some of it is from others.As second hand debt, I'm not sure how easy it will be to recover. Have you bought this debt off Patrick Harris? On these forums, there's much debate about gold backed currencies vs fiat backed currencies.I'm a believer that you should only spend what you have so instinctively, I'm in the gold backed currency camp, however, I'm as yet unsure what is better for society.Sure, gold backed currencies might be more fiscally responsible but would we have a society much less developed/advanced as we have today were we still stuck on the gold standard?Which is better, to have a solvent world with half the population and technology of the 70s or today's world with defaults happening left and right?*If we were each in charge of a world, which world would you prefer?*Figures plucked from my proverbial and are used as an illustration only. Please do not base your world economy on them as I take no responsibility for the final outcome. Past performance is not an indicator of future performance. Your house is at risk if you do not maintain payments. Terms and conditions apply. See reverse for details. I'm not apportioning blame anywhere but a project is likely to fail without a good spec document with clearly defined requirements.If you have that in place then things ought to go very smoothly Good luck! It's disgusting. 95% of that was probably speculators buying on the news that Cypriots might use Bitcoin   I'm of the same way of thinking.I can't see that Cypriots rushed to Bitcoin as their solution. Someone already feeling cornered isn't going to take on additional risk with a cryptocurrency that they've never heard of or likely don't understand.Even if they were to come across this 'solution' I can't see them keeping money in it due to the massive fluctuations in value. They would sell their Bitcoins as soon as possible either in a different currency or in a country where they could open another bank account and deposit their Euro. Not sure how easy it is to open an account in the rest of the Eurozone but in the UK it requires a great proof of address and photo ID. Rules soon to be changed to:Newbies must be given at least 10 free Bitcoins before joining.Newbies will be emailed with the top answers to whatever questions they might have (Bitcoin related or otherwise).Newbies will be given admin privileges so that they can ban anyone who doesn't agree with them.Newbies will be allowed to set the price of Bitcoin once per day.I suspect this might not be enough to keep all newbies happy though. That might limit discussion too much.The most agreed with sounds like it would need a lot more thinking about like how to age a thread. Can you say for definite that this was caused by the stopping of USD transfers? If so, what did people do once they sold their BTC?They now have USD they can't do anything with.So if USD isn't resumed and they sell, they still can't mitigate that risk. The only thing they can do is transfer out and sell at a different exchange which does allow USD transfer.I can't see anyone thinking "I'm going to sell my Bitcoin for a currency I can't receive." rather than "I'm going to take my bitcoin to sell elsewhere and I better do it quick before the price falls further". I think it's the other way around.If Gox resumes USD transfers then prices will go down due to people cashing out to USD.If Gox doesn't resume, people will convert their USD into Bitcoin (pushing prices up) and then transferring out to an exchange that can give them USD. Nice call   That's really quite cunning.I think you need to come up with a new procedure for escrow so that people know that each instance is a real escrow instance.E.g. a website you own and publish with a list of escrow amounts, dates and for whom. It can then be up to the users to verify each other's identities.
Perhaps if we discussed what the UK group would do and how it would achieve those goals there might be more of an uptake? Seems to me that the long downward slide as predicted by others is happening.There are momentary highs and lows but overall it looks like a repeat of the previous crash. Looks pretty stable at 90 just now. I think we're on a long slow downtrend for a few more months yet. This is the true value of Bitcoin. Seems as if price is recovering now - I guess 90 isn't a great psychological barrier. English might not be their first language.Nonsense might be though. Do you know who they're selling them to?My guess is the trust they're stetting up so no BTC will hit the exchanges as such, thus no immediate price fluctuation. His crazy indeed... If ever there were news to drive price speculation, this surely is it. I suspect prices are going to go back up tomorrow morning when the Winklevii news gets out. Did you press Post too early? This might be a good thing.It'll force BTC transactions to remain denominated in BTC. I've thought carefully about your analysis and I think you're saying......it could go up or down or stay where it is?  Unfortunately the option to post in other forums has been removed.This feature may be brought back when people learn to read but it's unlikely. Don't panic, it's going back up   86 here we come!Plenty of resistance just above 86. Looks like some panicking is going on. This would only be true if your merchant didn't cash out to USD at time of sale. It would be great if we could say for certain that these things are what caused price changes with hindsight but even with hindsight it's not so easy to tell. You think it'll be a steady sell-off to 50?
190 Bitcoins just moved the market by a dollar.That's shallow. Personally, I don't see it because if I've got a lot of money and I'm it's imminently going to be ceased I'm not going to risk my already risk prone money on a risky crypto currency that I've never heard of before.I'd need to research and in that research I'd find so much info on scams that I'd need to find out which companies are reliable/honest.All this takes time and time is not something I'd have.I'd likely have a business to run, assets to decide to liquidate or not, new home to find, etc.If I had small volumes of money I'd need to assess which risk I like more - not something that smaller investors a likely to want to deal with in amongst the turmoil. Anyone else think that 90 is a psychological barrier that people well start panic selling at? I'm not convinced that Cypriot money in March caused much of the price increase. It's absolutely certain that if you put a chargeback through against Paypal you'll lose your Paypal account.No one's saying you would lose your paypal account if you disputed a Paypal payment with Paypal. Then you lose your Paypal account and any future opportunity to use it again (some might say that's a good thing). I agree with Jackjack - there should be priorities as there's never enough time in the day to implement all the wants.Things like mobile could be left till later. So long as we're not all helping you build a new fiefdom   Be wary that decision by consensus isn't a good idea. Ahhhh, the Internets. Do you see the problem here?Even you don't know if it he intended this to happen.A jury is unlikely to convict if there's a reasonable doubt that he did it on purpose.I assume he knows about the allergy?Have you spoken to him? Does he seem remorseful?Sure, it's negligence but if he truly didn't intend this then punishing him will further punish your mother and potentially your other brother.If your other brother also has the same allergy then I understand why you're doing this.Hopefully anger isn't clouding your judgement. I'm assuming any standing you have in this case is because it's your brother?If so, I'm sorry for your loss.The problem here is you'll have difficulty in proving intent. We should remove all restrictions then and let everyone have at it. Jeebus people!You need to make 1 (ONE) considered post and read for a few hours   These are great points although I'm sure it would be easy to solve the "I'm new here" threads issue. Doesn't seem like a good strategic move to me unless you just have some irrational dislike of Bitcoin. I don't imagine some of these will affect user signup dramatically but all useful.Also, it seems that additional competition to Bitcointalk would actually strengthen the community and it would certainly speed up development here too.My additional questions:What is the policy on moderator choice?Is there recourse against moderators?Who pays for costs?Who would own the domain name? Four legs bad, two legs good... I agree that some degree of exploration will be required but I think there are some big issues that need to be discussed first e.g. payments, what justifies a ban, etc. Right now I feel like I'm writing your paper for you  
For you to be able to read and not post questions that are already answered... oh, wait, too late. Haven't you heard? It's now been reduced to ONE post. I suspect even that's too much for some users. Unless everything is defined upfront (before the new forum begins) it'll lead to discontent and then disillusionment.Sounds like we'll be swapping some pros and cons with a different set of pros and cons. None of these other things are 'scarce'.The person who accepted the Bitcoin believed that it would become valuable one day. You're looking to get served   Alas, the mom and pop shop just aren't profitable anymore. Every week, hundreds go out of business.Once you've factored in keyboards, training and all the reading you have to do, there's just no money in it.It doesn't help with H1B visas flooding the market with cheap trolls.We should lobby for stricter controls on quality trolling.We only need 100,000 votes to get a governmental response. If they're casual investigators then they'll be interested in reading. They won't bother to register and ask a question.If they do prefer to ask a question, it'll be one that's been answered a million times before so it seems the restriction serves existing and new users equally. These are the facts.The hopes were in the eye of the beholder.He might have wanted to mine some Bitcoins but to him, it was more convenient to pay for a pizza for 10,000 of them instead. It saved him all that time setting things up and reading about it. To him it had at least a value of $14.See my earlier example.Take a squirrel to a billionaire in the US and ask him if he'd like to eat it for $1M. He'll tell you to get lost. Starve him for 2 weeks and ask him if he'd like it for $1M and I'm pretty sure he'd snap it up. To you and I, that squirrel is still worth nothing.Something's value is dependent on the person and at the time. What would be better?What would be done differently?How would it not end up becoming another clique of power hungry dictators? There was nothing you could do with Bitcoin at the time.There was just the hope that it would become something bigger and useful. Well that's the thing isn't it.You ARE guilty.You didn't read the Newbie thread - takes less than 3 minutes to read and yet you've not read it.These rules were designed for YOU. You specifically.The insinuation is you won't read before you post and it looks like you've proved the admins right.Well done. I kill a squirrel. I try to sell it to you. You likely wouldn't pay anything for it.I try to sell it to a starving man on a desert island. He'll be willing to give me everything he owns.Different things have different values to different people at different times.The guy who ACCEPTED the Bitcoin as an exchange of value is the person who had a need or a belief of Bitcoin.He didn't believe it was worth much, hence 10,000 for one pizza. His value of a Bitcoin at that time was a little less than a fifth of a cent. To be fair, he was probably doing it for entertainment reasons.Regardless, this put a real world value on each Bitcoin.Someone believed that each Bitcoin was worth approximately $0.0014. And here comes the downward financial pressure due to the low barrier of entry.I suggest someone set up a school/academy/institute of trolling so that qualifications can be earnt.Perhaps some sort of professional body that can oversee the quality of trolling?There will be an annual mandatory joining fee.If that doesn't raise the standard and cost of professional trolling, nothing will.It's a dying industry - the glory days are behind us. <conspiracy>I wonder if he didn't do it and the government is trying to scare the Bitcoin believers by discrediting them. Pick a high value, high profile target and lock them up.</conspiracy> I'm sure some finance guy will turn this into a tradeable security for us   I sometimes do wonder what would happen if they just let the banks/countries default. There would definitely be a domino effect but what would be the outcome? Would it be better or worse than people getting massive haircuts? You don't think?Some people here could post a hundred posts a day. In a month, their account would look as trustworthy as someone who makes 10 posts a day but has been here 10 times longer.Do you trust someone who's been here a month or do you trust someone who's been here 2 years? Just wanted to give him the opportunity to explain. It's a better system than just post count alone though. Why are you only looking for newbies...?
He was the agent that 'lost' them... If you've not registered with the FCA you'll likely be shut down  One of us has misread this story.I hope it's not me. I guarantee if you can troll this post you'll receive accolades for your trolling prowess:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=243464.msg2594862#msg2594862 I've just updated the main post. Barclays bank is to close down it's currency account with Dahabshiil, one of Somalia's biggest money transfer companies.Other banks have already shut down facilities to Somalia.This sounds like it would be a great way to get Bitcoin adoption......if only there were a Somalian exchange denominated in Somalian Shillings.Edit: Additional information:Source: http://www.channel4.com/news/somali-families-lifeline-under-threat If you can successfully troll this thread, it would be a great indication of your skills and would serve to promote you well:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=243464.0 Do you feel OP has a good and realistic chance of making a success of this? And belief enough that you would be willing to put your own time/energy/resources into it? This is why dogs make better pets.They're loyal, honest and a best friend.Cats on the other hand? You can't trust em. I guess whether they have grounds to stick with their terms depends when you ordered your rig.If you ordered it months and months ago I guess you might have a claim but if you ordered it in the last month or so you might well be out of luck. There wasn't an issue with BFL refunds previously.What gives you reason to believe there's an issue now? Perhaps someone should start a sweepstake for the date of the next bubble to pop   We should make a whitelist thread or something... [I semi-replied to this in another tab and forgot to submit hence the reply being out of order]It's only a ridiculous request because he didn't realise you were building a business. I don't know what you're referring to here. I don't recall the Open Source community objecting to people making money with their software. From what I understand, it's actively encouraged.I still don't know what this mutually-beneficial goal is. What is that goal? Who benefits? I can see how you benefit and again I don't have an issue with you benefiting. I don't think anyone does. I just don't think your motivation is clear and if you need to keep that motivation hidden, that's also up to you but you can't then complain that people are complaining.It's not prohibitive... if you're getting $310 of value. Right now I'm not sure anyone sees camping and helping you refine your product so that you can then sell it is worth 3 of any type of coin.You don't need to beg me. I'd only be interested in coming and supporting you if I knew what you were doing.I don't think anyone expects you to run a business for free and I don't think anyone wants you to lowball your prices. If it's worth it, you could even charge more. Bitcoin is a currency, not a commune.So if someone can't afford $310 they're an idiot and you don't want them on your island? Charmed I'm sure.Edited: For clarity Pretty shameful really. Are you sure that applications with incomplete reports are listed? I really don't know - I just want to be clear.If it's true that they should be listed if they've applied then isn't this fraud? I think you've misunderstood the sentiment about this thread.It's my belief that there's a feeling you're trying to make a quick buck off the backs of the people you're trying to get to go to your camp.There's almost no information on what this boot camp is all about.Are the people going testing your equipment for you? Are you using the results of this test to refine your product which you'll be selling to people? In which case why are people paying you to test your equipment?This combined with your other thread regarding buying an island makes it look like you're wanting people to just pay for things for you.Don't get me wrong, if you're running a business, that's great but because there's no clear intention, it's really hard to know where we stand.Noble efforts to build a community and building a business for yourself are two vastly different goals and it seems like you're building a business under the guise of building a community to me. That's just the impression I get. I might be completely wrong and I'd be happy to be corrected but right now it's not entirely clear what your motives are other than lining your own pockets. You know what, I do pay pretty good attention when someone is trying to get something off the ground but I've lost all desire to give you the benefit of the doubt.Good luck with the social, economic and legal issues that you face. I just know you're going to be a valuable member of the community  
I can understand why you're doing this as it recreates the environment that the hacker had but if you give everyone a copy of your source it'lla) prevent duplication of effortb) make it easier for people to debugc) other bugs might be identified for youd) will get you a much better response as you're only providing $5 for what amounts to penetration testing I have a lot more questions about this project but I get the feeling my questions aren't going to be answered so I'll gracefully leave this thread.If I can't ascertain whether OP's intent is good or not I can't in good conscience pretend that it's a good idea.For anyone else still on this thread, good luck but make sure you do your due diligence. Is this proprietary technology that people will need to buy to 'settle' in the community you're building? When you say technologies, what do you mean?Also, isn't an NDA/non-compete against the open nature of Bitcoin?No-one begrudges a Bitcoin business it's proprietary business methods but Bitcoin Island seems to be about building a new society that uses Bitcoin at it's core; one that embraces it's openness. Is it ok to ask why it costs so much? I think the point everyone is missing is that the PHP file was altered.Not something that's easy to do from the database. Well that fills me with confidence that this is legitimate.What admin/expenses do you have that costs $300pp!? I suspect you'll be a great asset to the community   Is this how you got up to 91 posts so quickly? By duplicating everything you say?   If your financial circumstances have been affected by promises made by a company, you may have redress.It seems to me that everyone that ordered and didn't receive their product within the timeframe promised have had an opportunity cost.They could have purchased elsewhere instead but didn't do so because of continued promises of delivery that were not met.Had you been provided information at the earliest possible opportunity, you might have been able to reassess your situation but that doesn't appear to be the case.It looks like you've been given multiple promises of delivery but they have never been met and on and on it goes.I'm not a lawyer and this is not legal advice. You know what, a lot of people claim they've been on the forum for years but just never registered. Well I guess none of you read about the 5 post + 4 hour limit, otherwise you'd have created an account so you could avoid the delay when you needed to post.What does that tell us? You're too good to read about how this community works? You accidentally missed it? If you missed it, imagine what else you've missed.Just think of the 4 hour limit as your opportunity to now find out how things work because up until you registered, you didn't fully know. It must have cleared about an hour of your wait time You should try the Pirateat40 thread - that'll take up another 2 hours of your time.Before you know it, you'll be able to post everywhere! I still don't see how it's a scam though. Can't tell if this is sarcasm or not but the impression I'm left with is you're not good with nuance or subtext. Who's dwelling and who's relying on anyone else? I'm suggesting that I doubt anyone would be particularly upset if a commitment wasn't kept to someone else who seems to not understand what a commitment is. Why doesn't someone who doesn't keep their commitments not bother you? Phinnaeus, was a date set for the payment date? I can't see how awarding you with a scammer tag would be of benefit to anyone. It would just devalue the scammer tag.Not keeping a commitment, now that's going to take a hit on your integrity. Are you suggesting that people should read and understand how the community works before posting?I hear pitchforks sharpening and torches lighting.
This sounds like a lack of integrity rather than a scam.As someone else said, for it to be a scam, they'd need to take a material benefit at the cost of someone else.For example, if I offered to sell you a product and didn't deliver it after taking payment. President Obama issued a new directive to block your access for another 5 posts. Are you PR? lol Assuming you're not a sock puppet, can you explain why you want to donate? I think I've missed your meaning.The law only states that a donator must declare themselves, not that they have to donate. It's law of the land that requires donators to reveal their identity.Also, there's nothing to say that he's a Bitcoin enthusiast, just that he's happy to accept funding from you in that format. So you've come here to ask for money?Any indication of why we might want to donate?For all we know, you'll use this money to shut down our roundabouts or use it to support your downtown and waterfront projects. And yet you can confidently predict a flash-crash tomorrow? Did you not get past "hi,"? Unless you can find information on the forum which suggests otherwise, why wouldn't you believe me? Please contact me with further details. Never - newbies are no longer allowed to post in any other forum ever.This new policy has been introduced because newbies refuse to read the newbie information thread... And we don't want to waste our lives reading your repeat questions because it's too inconvenient for you to spend some time reading.As for what I know of you, you seem impatient, aggressive and rude. Is that accurate?Looks like you're just here to take from the forum and give little back.Speaking personally, I don't think miss you. For those not in the UK, the Daily Mail is a bit of a trashy newspaper. It's not been proven to be a great store of value - the price volatility has seen to that. This will sound rude but it's not intended to.Those rules are there to actually keep people like you out.I know that sounds harsh but quite often, newbies haven't spent the time to read up on how this community works and then they make life annoying for people who have been here for a long time.From your post, it's clear you've not spent a moment to read the newbies post. It would take you 3 minutes and it would explain why those rules are there.The very content of your post suggests that if you were given free access to the forums you'd post a question that's been asked a million times or you'd post in the wrong sub-forum (because you've not taken the time to see which forum you should post in). As it is, the questions you've asked have been asked several times a day and yet you still need to ask it... It could be just as easy to say you work for the accused, competition. It would be a great way to drive traffic to those other sites.Discrediting the competition has been used for decades."I'm not saying he's a thief or a liar but why would he hide his full identity and home address otherwise? I just find it very suspicious that an innocent person would do something like that." It's coz it's the end of the lunar cycle.Bitcoin value has historically always weakened towards the end of the cycle.You'll notice if at the start of a new moon the volume is low, it almost always ends up a lower price at the end of the cycle. Great post Crumbs  You must have mistaken me for someone else.I'm not defending them. I have no idea if their businesses are legitimate or not, much like I don't know if you're legitimate or not.I just don't see why you shouldn't have to do as you do seeing as you're asking everyone for their trust that you're legitimate.You're making a claim that these people are scammers.You kinda need to stand behind that or I would trust you as much as I trust the organisations you're accusing.What you fail to see here is that you're in the same camp.Edited: For clarity
By that argument it'll mean you're a scammer if you don't provide identification.Please identify yourself so that we can confirm your accusations are legitimate and aren't the work of a competitor/troll/someone with an axe to grind against these companies.Don't worry, you don't have to identify yourself. I wouldn't want you to have to play by your own rules. Hi there - Fedex delivery for you. Where do you want me to put your oil refinery? If only someone would create a thread for people like you so they could get engaged and converse and before they know it, they'll be out of newbie prison... So you want support from a community you don't want to abide the rules of?If only you'd read enough about the community to know it had these rules... If you knew about the 5 post limit and 4 hour wait, why didn't you register earlier then for when you eventually needed to ask a question in a different part of the forum? Nice algorithm - the implementation is going to be a bummer though lol And what was it that needed figuring out that wasn't in the Newbie readme? Or did you not spend anytime reading? This - a thousand times this!Wait, what? Do you mind vouching for learnmore? If you're wrong about him you get banned though Cue 100s of newbies begging you via pm for an invite... You also have to assume that people aren't geographically separated. I guess reading 4 sentences for you was too hard.In all the time you've been on these forums (including your time in newbie prision) you couldn't spend the 20 seconds to read beyond the 3rd sentence of the Newbie Readme?It doesn't surprise me that 4 hours is an eternity for you. I suspect that 5 posts and 4 hours won't be sufficiently long enough for you. I notice very few people are willing to get whitelisted and instead would prefer to put the burden of work on the mods. OP, is this sufficiently negative? Painful to read You make some great points.The energy and excitement is all very good for driving the project but as frank1 points out, it's missing a lot of social, economic and legal sophistication suggesting a degree of naivety.If you built a team of people to support your project you'd get much further.Maybe a lawyer, a sociologist, an architect, nutritionist, a farmer etc. What do you need explained, young Padwan? If only there were some way to make people read   Floods in central Europe are causing lots of people misery and some are even having to move out of their homes. One pensioner is believed to have lost all her letters from her dead husband in the flooding and my not make it through the week. Anyone advocating a donation/payment upfront doesn't realise how much of a barrier this would be to newbies.I reckon most would rather join an alternative forum. You're being accused of being a scammer just like you've accused others of the same.I guess if you don't get it then you're left with hypocrisy as your remaining position.
I think you might have missed the sarcasm in his post. Haha! That was almost as funny as the last guy   I lolled a little. Thanks for that. Unfortunately, the 5 post limit was made for users exactly like you  Good on you You really should read the Pirate thread - it's huge, entertaining and will give you an insight on what to watch out for so you don't get scammed. SHA-256 and SHA-512 are novel hash functions computed with 32- and 64-bit words, respectively. They use different shift amounts and additive constants, but their structures are otherwise virtually identical, differing only in the number of rounds.That being the case, please name and explain the 2012 update to the standard and how it improves security. Please use no more than 3000 words and provide your mathematical working on the graph paper provided.  I'm not sure I follow. Their standard of proof is pretty similar to yours it seems.Not enjoying the accusation any more than the accused on your list are? We need more viable Bitcoin businesses for sure and as Yona said, the money wasn't spent on Bitcoin itself but on Bitcoin businesses. BTCBuyer, your reading comprehension sucks  It already has - it's been mentioned every 10 posts or so. Perhaps making newbies read up on some of the scam threads in their entirety would do it.The Pirate thread ought to keep them entertained for at least 4 hours lol. It seems to me the people most desperate to overcome the posting restrictions are the ones with least patience and desire to read and understand.Sure, there are people who already have good forum etiquette, but I assure you, you're in the minority. Gosh - it's almost like you can read between the lines... The limit is 5 posts.My 15 post limit comment was sarcasm. Or rushed in without fully researching the marketplace. Quite possible considering the complexity. A nice sentiment but it only works if all actors are fair.It only takes one person to think only of themselves first and then everyone will do it so with the likelihood of there being at least one person doing this, the best course of action is to get whatever you can because it's possible you might end up with nothing. I guess if you're new around here, it couldn't harm to do some more reading  Haven't you heard? It's now been increased to 15 posts!  lol - wall of my posts. It's due to leaving the forums for days at a time and then having to reply to everything all at once.I'll try and spread it out a little  You probably run your billion dollar empire much more efficiently than he does, thus leaving you the time to indulge on learning about anything that comes your way. But seriously, he probably has ideas pitched at him all the time so he probably has a team of people that filter everything out that seems whacky and is left with a short list of 10 hot things to look at every week instead of thousands.
No wonder a license will be needed! Even if you successfully sue a debtor, don't you still have to collect the debt if you can't get an attachment to earnings? I think what OP means is that he himself doesn't need the license but the people/companies he outsources the actual collection to will. Whether that's legally sound or not I don't know. Hi Vladimir - May I ask why you'd be against a responsible debt collection agency? I believe you're a businessman yourself. If you had a legitimate debt, wouldn't you want it collected? The contract is public. It's part of the filed complaint. The coding required for this would be too expensive.Also, a pure democracy is tyranny of the majority and that's no good. There's already a thread to get whiltelisted on. I can see Hero members not inviting anyone lol Why stare when you could be reading about what's new in the Bitcoin world? What about all the drama sideshows that go on?Not interested in what people are speculating on?What about how Bitcoin is gaining acceptance in the political stage?There's got to be hours worth of reading there. Does that mean all new members must know a hero member in real life? Or is there some other way to vouch for a newbie? The quickest way around it is to get stuck into this discussion and help out.Once you've proposed a few solutions and discussed it, you're magically let out of newbie prision.Don't just take my word for it. Try it! It's coz they're all trolls and spammers anyway......I kid! I KID! Not really the point of the thread... We were all newbies once  Without a 4 hour limit, a bot could post 5 spam posts and then be free to post on other subforums.Personally I blame all the spammers and people who won't read before posting. And I see you've hit your 5 post mark already  I hear you.The unfortunate thing is all those other users who aren't as knowledgeable as you or as responsible.The aim isn't to cause inconvenience but to to limit the inconvenience of the people that aren't as sensible. It's frustrating but that's the cost of membership here due to all the other users who can't be bothered to read. If this policy didn't exist, you'd find that trying to post an ad to buy hardware would be swamped in junk posts.This very policy is what makes this forum a place where you CAN make a post and ensure it be read by people who are interested in what you have to say. Someone should start a thread where all the newbies can pitch in and discuss ideas... That sums it up nicely.Typical engineer - requires a massive engineering effort to solve the problem  - I'm kidding. It's a good idea but sounds like it'd take a long time to implement and unless the 20 questions comes from a bank of questions, this is also easy to overcome with a bot. I'd also say if you fail it, your requirements double.Again, great idea but needs development work to implement.I wonder if we can get Thymos to implement these?
It's not broken but people don't seem to get why it's there. The ones that whine about it have no better solution either. Congratulations  Pretty sure you can buy captchas for hundreds to the dollar.Also, how does this prevent users from asking the same questions, over and over again that have been answered a million times? How do you come to this conclusion?If I were a spammer I'd just sign up 100 accounts and wait 24 hours. You've just made life as a spammer much easier.This doesn't work because any spammer is going to automate signup and just wait, go away and do a weeks worth of spamming and come back to hundreds of new spam accounts.You'll need to do better than this. I understand your frustration, but what alternative solution can you suggest? That's probably because you understand what that limit's there for  He now flies above international waters to avoid being in any jurisdiction: ...it's so simple!All you have to do is join in this thread and provide a better solution to the 5 post + time limit. If it works, it'll get implemented.Please note, you have to fully explain why it's better than the existing system and explain how it'll work whilst being no more time intensive for Mods to implement.Good luck everyone![Other newbies should feel free to discuss any solutions - pitch in, it's a community!] Trendon doesn't live in the UK so it would be a really difficult place to start. When newbies can't understand this, I think their post-count and time requirement should be doubled.The inability to understand this one simple concept suggests to me that you're going to ask a question that's been asked thousands of times......much like the question "why do you stifle newbies?". Sounds like it could be a very useful service.My only worry is it could very negatively affect the world perception of Bitcoin if handled badly."Virtual currency sees rise of vicious debt collection" would be the last thing we need for the community.The market for Bitcoin debt in the UK will be quite small so I can't see you making a living pursuing just Bitcoin debt but if your service does well then it could add stability to the UK Bitcoin market which can only be a good thing.Good luck with the venture - I hope you do well and represent us in a good light  Will you only be going after court approved debt?Does this mean this service will only be available to big organisations or will User654321 be able to use it too?80% seems a low bar on proof if you ask me but if you're only after court approved debt I guess that actual percentage will be much higher. The shoot first, ask questions later attitude is annoying.Why not give OP an opportunity to address your concerns before shooting him down?OP - will you be licensed or acting under a license of some sort? Do you even need to be licensed?What steps do you take to ensure a default is real/valid before chasing down the debtor? I know this might sound paranoid but please consider your physical safety, let someone know where you are, who you're with, eat a healthy breakfast, wash behind your ears, etc. It seems like they're not willing to take on that responsibility, hence the acrimonious relationship with Coinlab. I don't get it.OP didn't claim to be a genius.He didn't claim to be the first to think of it - he's just postulating a theory.It'll certainly make him think before posting though lol Don't worry - it means just as much if you'd called it correctly.Edit: Grammar I would agree were it not for this thread:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=140654.msg1497432#msg1497432This looks like repentance to me. I hadn't seen this thread before. Apologies if my previous post came off as condemning you (it really wasn't meant to).I remember the first time I came across your posts from when I first joined. They were so raw with youth and people wouldn't give you a chance.I left the forums for about a year and came back to the whole Pirate debacle.I imagine there's been plenty of time for personal growth since those early posts and it's humbling to see you're still working hard to build a community and that you're doing your best to correct a mistake.All the best  Matthew - I remember the thread well.I remember thinking that you were doing a daring thing and at that time I honestly thought you were going to make good your bet. I would have bet money that you would.At no time was there any indication that you were 'making a point' otherwise you'd not have been so forthright and bold in your statements.Your intent was doubly clarified by many posters saying you'd never pay up and that you'd use a technicality to get out of paying.My personal opinion is that the bet went against you and you panicked. It's just my personal opinion but what isn't opinion is that your integrity took a huge knock.It's unclear whether you should have been given a scammer tag or not as the opposite case can't be proven; that you'd have been happy to take other people's Bitcoins if the bet had gone the other way. From your actual actions people could claim that that you would have (lack of integrity) and thus it was proof enough that you would have but that's just conjecture.So yeah, back to the original point of the OP. When I read the same post earlier today it irked me too. Possibly because I felt like you were trying to re-write what happened but whatever it was it just didn't feel right. (I can't quite fully explain it so perhaps someone else can do a better job.)
Don't listen to anyone here. They're all lying to you.You're not allowed to post on other boards because we don't like you.It's a conspiracy against you and you alone. I'm not sure where you live but if you think your bank won't take your funds if it goes insolvent, you're sadly mistaken.Also, you either don't pay taxes because you don't earn enough or you're avoiding paying taxes.If you're avoiding them, I hope you're also avoiding any infrastructure that's paid for by taxes. Sincere apologies to nycsquire - that'll teach me to jump in half-cocked.FSA - So you're in the UK? I've had a quick look into FSA registration - I couldn't find many expenses involved as a money transmitter but I only spent a few hours looking. The only ones I have come across thus far are for registering each person involved and also for each place of business. You also need to be a fit and proper person. I don't suppose you know of any other costs? TheBankofBitcoin.com - glad you're still persevering Looks like this was mainly a marketing issue - hope it goes well. Maybe I've missed something earlier on in the thread but nowhere do I see franky1 say he's setting up a business so speaking to an attorney isn't useful.Nowhere does he mention evading regulatory scrutiny, in fact, quite the opposite.Are we reading the same post? Dressing as a pirate shouldn't taunt you.Let his material possessions purchased with your Bitcoins do that  SHA256 can't be 'broken' as such.It's a one way hashing algorithm so 'breaking' it is of no use.You can't recover the data by reversing the algorithm (hence the term one-way hash). I'm no quantum expert either but yes, certain parts of Bitcoin will be vulnerable to quantum computing 'decryption'.If I've understood what can happen, you'll only be exposed if you spend anything. If you don't spend then you can't have coins 'stolen' (but that spend would need to be intercepted first). Naturally, not being able to spend your Bitcoins renders the system unusable.I think there may be some maths that can't be processed on a quantum computer but I don't recall the article so I have no citation for that. That being the case though, there could well be a way of protecting the Bitcoin network against this type of attack. Better hide before people start saying you're an accomplice and demanding your ID too Also:a) Photo could have been doctoredb) Photo could have been taken ages agoc) People have held up signs before without knowing what they meanEdit: Grammar A poor design always looks a bit 'scammy' - it isn't necessarily so. A slick website can be a scam too. In fact a slick website is one of the better ways to scam because you then have people's confidence from the get-go.You might accept a photo as proof of identification but there will be around 20% of the people here that will claim it's doctored (Photoshopped). The only way to satisfy these people will be a video which specifically answers one or two questions asked on this forum with today's newspaper and a redacted photo ID otherwise the hardcore will claim a photo of the ID has been photoshopped.Edited: Clarified some details. I think part of the problem your'e facing is that not enough people understand how the paper wallet works.The use of the word 'bank' has got people who react before they read to assume you're storing coins.People are also made more sceptical by the fact that registration details are hidden in the whois info.Sure, you probably don't want to give out your address but I think the minimum people will want is a physical office address where the philanthropists operate from.You'll need to endlessly repeat yourself as more users come online tonight.Take your time. Be patient.A lot of the success of this venture is dependent on you remaining cool and collected. Your patiences will be tried but that's what you'll have to deal with.As I mentioned in my previous post. There are 2 things you'll need to do at a minimum to convince 99% of the people here. There'll be 1% that won't believe you until you become part of their family so I wouldn't worry about them. Apologies oh cranky-one :p Good to be sceptical but even better if you could provide some reasoning for why you think it's a scam. I'm doing it to protect the community as much as I am trying to help you establish yourself.You'll soon see that Greyhawk is actually very kind in comparison to the wolves who will soon be pursuing you for information.The problem with Bitcoin is it attracts the very best of the worst kinds of fraudsters and the most vocal of the cynics won't give you much room for maneuver.There's a lot of money to be made for a successful scammer and you've position yourself as a bank so expect to see a lot of people asking for a lot of reassurance.I would strongly suggest if you're not comfortable handing over a lot of personal information that you might want to rethink whether you're the correct partner (of your associates) to be the face of the organisation.You're going to come under a great deal of scrutiny and you'll have to put up with a great deal of harassment from the more cynical.So yep, decide if providing the following would be too much for you to disclose:1) Physical address of your organisation2) Verification that you are indeed Veronica Kearney (this might go as far as a short questionnaire answered in video format with display of a redacted photo ID).These are big asks but you're asking for a lot of trust.Edited: Grammar I've seen this claim made elsewhere but didn't think to ask for information at the time.What information is available for them actively obstructing the contract? The SSL certificate just says the owner is verified. Unfortunately this doesn't mean much as my neighbour could apply for a certificate and I could use it. Her identity would indeed be verified but it wouldn't link that site with me.I'm not trying to be difficult - just helping you establish your legitimacy  The only thing this guarantees is that they lose control over their own money getting in and out.I think the strategy you're suggesting is that the Chinese will allow Bitcoin to be adopted, possibly even go as far as to promote it. Then they'll hope that Bitcoin does well. Then they'll hope that US citizens will be encouraged by that success alone and adopt Bitcoin as their main form of currency. Then they hope they'll transfer that wealth elsewhere. All the while hoping that Bitcoin does collapse for a myriad reasons.Seems an unlikely and unreliable strategy to me and a very high risk one at that.There's a much better chance that they'll just lose control of their own currency than they will reduce Dollar hegemony by any significant amount.There are lots of more effective and reliable ways of reducing Dollar hegemony that don't require giving their citizens fuller and less transparent control to their own wealth. When you say 'putting your name to this' - do you mean proving who you are?If so, please provide your details so we can verify your claims. I'm not sure I follow you and I'm not sure you've addressed the issue of how the Chinese expect to use Bitcoin to undermine the US. Perhaps you were just talking in general? Wait, he has a chart?Quick, man the life boats!
Surely that's a tenth of a milibitcoin? This doesn't sound like a convincing argument to me. They don't have to fire a shot but they're also not in a position to influence American citizens to ditch the Dollar for Bitcoin also, this would negatively impact the HUGE horde of USD they currently hold.It just doesn't seem plausible.I get that the Chinese government haven't said NO to Bitcoin yet but the implied support for Bitcoin is just that - implied. Just because they haven't condemned it doesn't mean they condone it. Surely they'll have considered this before using this strategy?Personally, I think they've not yet evaluated the dangers. Once they see what a threat it is to themselves, they'll clamp down on it just like the US is currently doing. But do you feel a slightly bumbling incumbent is better than a ruthless and financially motivated newcomer or the other way around? If your implication is that China will seek to use Bitcoin as a tool against US control and influence, I think you (and many others are wrong).Even if it were successful, the end-game would be that the US is left in 2nd place due to Bitcoin but now China has a greater problem of having institutionally accepted a currency they ALSO don't control.Not sure how that would benefit the Chinese authorities in the long run so whilst they're tolerant of it now, I don't see that being the case once it's more widely adopted. It's not a technical reason preventing worldwide adoption. It's a business thing. I think too many people are coming from an Anglo-centric viewpoint.To me, those suggesting anything but SI units might as well be advocating Imperial units. Of course coin generation is going to be determined by %hashing power of the entire mining pool but they're not the only producers of ASICs. Can you explain what you mean by time-value of money in this context? Are you saying they'll make less money over time due to upfront costs? I've already mentioned I'm unlikely to be the first to think of this and no it's not very clever at all. The question is, why do these companies exist.My suspicions are that they exist because the lower value of Bitcoin previously and the belief that selling them would yield a bigger profit but I was wanting to see if anyone had any further information to add.I'm not really sure what you mean by all this. Are you thinking further ahead than the conversation has gone? I can see this being relevant if you're making assumptions like they would build 1000 of these things and have them all running, thereby causing the situation you've arrived at but I'm making none of those assumptions.Why would you do that? Why not bring units 'online' as and when the difficulty increase is caused by other players in the market (e.g. Avalon)? From the Wired article, one of the BFL units produces a Bitcoin every 6 days (less than that but let's be pessimistic here to illustrate a point).The current price of a Bitcoin is around $114 currently. Let's say it's $100 to take into account any minor selloffs.At a cost of $245 per unit, BFL could be mining their way into profit after 15 days. In the first month they would have made $250 of profit and in the second month $500.I can't think of a reason why anyone selling these things would actually do so.I realise this has probably been mentioned in one of the 'BFL are scammers' threads but I'm wondering if anyone else feels that by simple economics, these companies shouldn't exist because it would be far more profitable for them to mine Bitcoin instead.Before anyone things I'm targeting a specific manufacturer, I'm not. I'm just using BFL as an example as the Wired article provides numbers that I can work off. Why the fascination to deviate from a working standard?Do we WANT Bitcoin to have unusual units?Are we looking for unusual units for vanity reasons?It'll be a bit like when we ended up with kilobyte/kibibyte, megabyte/mibibyte.Maybe we should have Bitcoin in base 2 too?If you deviate from the standard, it's going to make it much harder for everyone to use/integrate.Edited: megabite/megabyte? I don't know. If Mt. Gox's lawyers are anything to go by so far, they're probably writing a press release that will jeopardise their trail as we speak. Looks like you've swallowed a psychology dictionary  He said he'd make our Bitcoins worth a smidge more.  Didn't look like they took on BFL. It was waaaaay more positive than it was negative.Heck I almost placed an order myself after reading it. Even as a joke, this will get you plenty of the wrong kind of attention   No, this thread started out with a lot of promise.Someone wanted to take a chance on selling a physical building with Bitcoin.Rather than welcome him and help him out, we called him a scammer.Still, OP took the high ground.Further posting, I joined in to defend our plucky OP only to find his next post is somewhat disappointing.So now we're reduced to calling each other names, this property sale is likely to not materialise and we've had people in floods of tears.Sure, in the grand scheme of things this is irrelevant but personally I thought we could do better.I'm very much a people person so yes I find this all a bit depressing.N.B. OP has never mentioned a wife. Chang Noi isn't playing with them (testing their patience maybe). Anywhere you can set up an exchange that can freely accept cash from other countries without difficulty and won't have your bank account suspended. Wow - just wow!I can't believe how uncivilised people get on a forum.I'd have thought being in the British Army would have been good training to put you above outright name calling and threats of physical violence.I'm ready to give up on humanity.
Very unlikely to be a study on it. No good can come of this thread   The suggestion to conversion to Euro was only after other posters suggested it. That step can be done AFTER missives have been concluded. It's no different if it was cash. The cash is only handed over once the missives are concluded too.I'm not upset (OP might be) - I just want Bitcoin to be a friendly environment where people can communicate/conduct business in a civil manner. Right now we're scaring plenty of 'noobs' away. Everyone needs to start somewhere.No-one is asking you to transfer your Bitcoin/currency unless you and your lawyer is satisfied but if you start by screaming 'scammer' people naturally become defensive.I don't yet think OP's behaviour is suspicious. I think if he's not someone that's familiar with forum culture he's going to be more guarded than we will be.Sure, I agree that there's a need for the address details but instinctively I don't feel I want to post my property address even if I were selling yet logically I know I need to. There's just something uncomfortable about it. Would I be happy to do so in PM? Sure - I guess that's the minimum requirement.Like you, I guess he's erring on the side of caution and you're right - you really do need to be careful on these forums but does no-one consider that it's possible to make mistakes and not be a scammer?For anyone buying/selling online - always be careful. Do your due diligence. Warn others and point out dangers.Calling people scammer so easily doesn't help anyone though. It just makes this a niche community that's intolerant of people willing to take a punt on Bitcoin.Edit: P.S. I have nothing against you (I enjoy many of your posts) - I just don't understand how this thread descended into cries of scammer so quickly after such a promising start. Just so anyone else reading is clear. We both know that OP is happy to escrow. This is just continuation of discussion of the escrow issue.Escrow isn't needed because there are lawyers present. For fraud to happen here the lawyers would need to commit it. I'm not sure you appreciate this so asking for escrow seems a little unusual to me. (This combined with the fact that you think the property owner needs to be present to sell it is why I assumed you'd never purchased property before.)You wouldn't be apologising because he didn't send information. You'd be apologising because you called him a scammer and then realised he wasn't.If you still think he's potentially a scammer, why bid?I can appreciate that if someone called me a scammer I'd be reluctant to provide them with information that could potentially leave me vulnerable.Now you accept that the guy might be a 'noob' and not a scammer so why take such a strong stance from the outset?It looks to me like you're a bit new to buying property too but I would never assume you were a scammer because of it.I get that you're upset but can you see why others might be upset at you? He probably assumed you were a troll much like you assumed he was a scammer. I guess that's fair play.Seems like he has and he's given his reasons. Seems like you've changed your mind too and you've given your reasons.You're both looking pretty similar to me right now.I'm sure he'd pay for your time if you'd entered into some sort of agreement.Seriously?  I get buying a house is big and scary but you seem to be overreacting a lot. If you can't trust your lawyer then it doesn't matter if you have escrow or not - your contracts could end up being worth nothing. You're going to need a lawyer to audit your first lawyer...The OP changing the terms of the deal is definitely bad in my opinion but reading his reasons it's not entirely unreasonable.You kicked up a huge storm and now you're backing down without an apology saying that he was being straight all along but then finally you go back to 'scammer' again? I mean, I've read your posts for years and you come across as a pretty reasonable person most of the time so I just don't get why you're behaving like this. That the Victorians were happy with unusual names and units isn't what I'd call a great reason to continue in their ways. If you genuinely believe it to be a scam you won't be bidding, will you and if you do bit, it'll surely be for at least the reserve amount? It should be called 1 fortnight furlongs per hogshead dollar. @Chang Noi - May I hazard you've never bought a house before? There are but you've got to remember, this guy is probably smarter than average and this is the conclusion he's come to.It's not an unreasonable assumption if you misunderstand key parts and also if you're suspicious of this new-fangled 'investment' vehicle.How typical is he of the average person when it comes to Bitcoin? I think you'll find that most just don't understand how it works. Even to a different (more financially stable) bank in the same country? The portion of it that's not frozen - I.e. the 126K-128K. Ask them to explain to you fully what they mean by this.If they mean selling currency on their website is illegal then they're making a fair point. If their reasoning is......then ask them to explain why that's relevant.If they can't explain, ask them to get their lawyers to explain it to you.I'd be very interested to hear their reply. Can't you move the funds out already?I would have thought you'd be using a different bank now. Not all strangers carry hostages with them. And when they discover you're gaming the system they'll ignore votes from the same IP address and also take this proposal less seriously after all, who wants to be taken advantage of by a group of people presumably doing this for their own benefit?Maybe they'll just assume that everyone was gaming the system and just ignore the votes for this altogether. I'm not sure. I think there's a good chance Bitcoin could see values in the mid thousands. Makes him look stupid but it would be if he just used the wrong term it'd be disingenuous to say that he didn't have a case from that alone.(Personally I think he's missed the point). Doesn't look like their funds are materialising or if they are, they're very small (as many have mentioned).
You'll need to clarify that too unless someone bids 151 and expects you to fly them first class to your home so that they can live with you for 2 weeks at your expense lol. I personally don't think it'll hit till Thursday/Friday.I'm actually not sure what's supressing the price just now. The only thing I can think of is people who were burnt in the last bubble of $260. @molecular - there is no Denkmalschutz on the property as has been repeated by OP several times (to his exasperation).I know you already know this now but just for the sake of anyone else joining this thread:there is no Denkmalschutz on the property What I still don't understand is why both parties can't trust the lawyers.Sure, I get that either one of you could screw the other but the lawyers are there to ensure that nothing illegal happens.Can't you trust the lawyers? (No facetious jokes about lawyers being untrustworthy please).Buyer: Instruct your lawyer to only send the Bitcoins once transfer of deeds has happened.Seller: Instruct your lawyer to receive X bitcoins for the transfer to happen.What have I missed?There's no need for the two parties to trust each other. They just need to trust their lawyers.(Also, could a paper wallet help in this scenario?)  Ooops! That's not how you perform an edit   Edited Not sure how it works in the US, Chaang Noi but in the UK, we use the lawyers as escrow.You have a lawyer, they have a lawyer.The lawyers are the ones who do the exchange.They're not allowed to defraud otherwise they'd lose their license to practice so yeah, you could opt to have an additional escrow service over and above the lawyers but here there's no point.Perhaps it works like this in Germany too, hence the lack of desire/need by OP to use escrow. Thanks for all the info  But of course. How could we all forget that infamous German law that forbids Indians from buying their property. Would $20K be enough to sue someone in court for their Bitcoin losses do you think? (I realise this is like asking someone how long is a piece of string).Their online identity would need to be proven to be the real life person and that some form of 'agreement' had been reached.(Assuming an average priced lawyer was used) You can't be serious.The US is inflating it's money as quickly as it humanly can. It's a very long story most of which I've forgotten.You're best off looking it up. Trendon Shavers - pirateat40.The only relevant detail would be if he falsely represented his dealings (which I think he did). If so then fraud charges are possible but no-one seemed to want to do it. Not sure why. I remember reading a post a while ago where someone said x-amount of monies were coming from x-countries.Is it actually possible to work out/see this data or was this the product of my overly-active imagination? I still think there'll be new money coming in. I just don't think it'll be huge. That's why I reckon $150 will be the ceiling on this one before a fall back down to $130 by middle/end of the month.Why so much rage with everyone? Is everyone on hormones/steroids or something? After the CCTV (Chinese TV station) broadcast their Bitcoin documentary, I believe the price will rise to approximately $150 within the next 10 days.The price rise won't come into effect till end of next week as it'll take time for people to read and understand about Bitcoin before putting money into the system. Putting money into the system will take time too.Despite the number of users signing up from China, the volume of each user will be lower due to lower incomes.See you at the top...Edit: The reason why I don't think there will be a massive increase in price is because the people that bought near the top of the last spike will be looking to exit and might just be looking to limit their losses.Some FunFor China is a country that will bring us to our knees.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58mE7Vy1XrcOr if that's blocked in your country, try this one:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ikOvrPmsYDw (this one was performed infront of the Queen of England) You're doing something illegal so why would you expect to be shielded by law? In my head I see someone being shaken till Bitcoins fall out of him but I suspect this isn't how it happens in real life. Wow! Nice find. Assuming no usury, what are the hurdles to successfully suing someone for the return of their Bitcoins? Thanks for that very detailed answer.
I'm sure it won't be long till the US government takes a similar view (if it doesn't already do so implicitly. With all the legislation coming in regarding virtual currencies I see there being good grounds for it having value.Edit: Put it this way, the government will be happy enough to collect taxes from any proceeds of Bitcoin 'investments'. So if anyone has paid taxes on this, I'd be interested to hear. You never mentioned anything about success (which is debatable). You're making a point about volume. What is required to get a legal judgement of debt against someone for a Bitcoin debt?Assuming someone's online identity could be traced to their real life identity, what legal acrobatics would need to be performed to have a legally enforceable judgement put in place? Worst newbie mistake ever. Sounds like what people said about Bitcoin 4 years ago. Looks like new money has come in from somewhere in the last hour. That's quite novel. How it's written can matter more than what it's written in. I'm currently drinking from the firehose which is why it would be nice to turn off foreign languages and newbie threads. Finding him is probably the easiest part.Getting the Bitcoins out of him legally might be more difficult. Does that make new posts disappear in the "Show unread posts since last visit" link? What's the current total, folks? Sweet Jesus.It'd be worth your while finding the guy and getting them back or offering a bounty of half your recovered coins to someone? Heck, why not create a thread and offer that bounty here. I'm sure someone looking for up to 3000BTC would be happy to do it. Fine, I was a whole Dollar off   Why isn't this a normal thing to do?Edit: Fixing quote He does hold a few hundred million in hopes and dreams though. Peter: Can someone tell Mark to pass the water.Mark: Can someone tell Peter he can have his water in 8 months time after contract details are finalised at which point he can't have any.Others: Awkward stares... Sounds like you've already done well out of it. Well played. You'll reap the rewards if you've called it correctly 
No mention of Pirate? No mention of the forum dwellers that dislike and distrust him? Could that be paraphrased as "I can feel it in me bones"? Looks as if Peter has thought better of his press release and edited out the less professional elements.Did anyone save a copy of the original?Ooops! Looks like I was reading the wrong page. What makes you think there's going to be a mass sell off? Because they control a very large, tasty pie and greed will convince them too. Price has barely budged since news was announced. Yep.If you can manage to make it all the way through the first post, it's on the page that the link goes to.Edited: For clairty Some history there?  Gosh, if only I'd removed the evidence to the contrary!   Is this not appealing to our humanity? A little bit of humility doesn't hurt, does it?Edit: Granted, it doesn't speak of high business. I wonder what fraction of that percentage is CoinLab's? Depends what you define as a crash but I don't think prices will go below $80 What's the significance of the long weekend? At least the folk worried that they could never get in for less than $100 can fill their boots. Quite a convoluted way of destroying Bitcoin isn't it? That's an interesting way of looking at it. Seems like Mt. Gox lawyers were asleep at the wheel. Shame Mt. Gox didn't pick up on that before signing the contract. There's very little trading going on at the moment. When the press gets onto this I'm sure there'll be plenty more damage to come.
I think they have $500,000 funding. Not sure that goes very far once you've paid for your expenses like office space, staff, legal, etc.I'm sure they had private funding too but $500K only buys you 2,000BTC at it's peak. Coz they already have a huge existing customer base and it would take time and money to market a new one from scratch. Posted in another thread about the same issue:http://coinlab.com/status I can see the terrible headlines already. I've only heard people's pet theories that they do by slowing down user access during panic selling periods but I reckon it's just their kit being overloaded. The site is working fine here and it's very responsive too. To be fair I logged in about 40 mins before the news broke. UK I already have and I'm running as I type.Not sure my wifi sign... I'm logged in fine if that makes you feel any better. Europe's in bed too and hasn't all of US just closed (after 5PM)? We can all sell our Bitcoins and run for the hills...? Amazing!This news has helped stabilise the price on Mt. Gox. Isn't this part of the fun of Wild West Bitcoin - The Early Years? What are the tells of this paid shill? In the meantime, maybe someone's trying to pick up some cheap Bitcoins. Trouble with that document is it's hard to verify it's authenticity. Are you looking to buy cheap Bitcoins? That's what I said   Mt. Gox had plenty of cash to grow.There may have been legal issues coming down the pipeline that they felt a US based organisation would be better suited to deal with.
CoinLab have already said they haven't been served yet. Wonder how many times this story is going to get posted? I predict a 25% loss in value by this time tomorrow evening. A lot of value was taken out from the previous collapse so there might not be as big an impact as you believe. This ought to flatten the price a little. Making great progress aantonop Didn't see a reply to this but are you running this all by yourself? (Only curious if you're unavailable for a day or two or you're ill etc.) I can do this for you.You'll have to send me your processing fee first so that I can get the paperwork in place. I suspect you're going to need to show a bit more leadership at least initially.Whilst canvassing ideas and suggestions is a great start, there'll need to come a time for solid action in a direction that might not appease all camps.You'll unlikely be able to build a working organisation on consensus alone. You've won me back. That's too far.I quit. Thousands of users eventually but initially it might take a year before you have enough members to incorporate. I'm just thinking that not being setup might discourage users from participating (i.e. those that will wait till everything's set up). The Pirate Bay were also prosecuted and convicted. Not sure if you knew that. The problem with alternatives is you then have to spend a lot of time and effort looking up details in those jurisdictions.At least in the US you're familiar with those laws and better understand the nuances.For a non-profit organisation local laws should have far less of an impact.It's not like you'll be issuing shares or protecting IP. You've not thought it through.This method makes the effort required to spam much, much harder. You need to waste 15-30 minutes of time for every 1 minute wasted of a moderators time.It's a balance between making it not worthwhile for trolls yet not inconveniencing newbies too much that they'll be discouraged from posting.Also, in 4 hours, most newbies have found the answer they're looking for by doing some reading.Look at all the posts where newbies go "Oh, I didn't see the thread which explains the rules and why they're there - thanks!". These controls were designed for those exact same people."Where can I buy/get/make Bitcoins...?""How do I escape from newbie prison?""I've done 5 posts yet I still can't post in other parts of the forum..."etc. Of course but there needs to be some mechanism in place to avoid the problems if it wasn't in place. This just happens to be the best current solution. If there's a better one that would solve the same issues and cause less inconvenience for genuine newbies then it would most likely be adopted. Probably because OP is from the US and most familiar with the US legal system.He's happy to accept alternative suggestions though. I think you need some structure in place in order to achieve the secondary goals you're talking about. Already you recognise that you need an organisation to coordinate crowd-funding efforts. This could be a duty of the Bitcoin organisation. So you'd be happy to wade through all the forums and sub forums looking for troll posts, issue warnings and then keep an eye on them until they make their next troll/spam post before banning them? Sounds like an awful lot of work for someone just so that a new member doesn't need to wait a few hours and make some sensible posts. This could be a problem as far as financing the setup of the group is concerned? You'd need thousands of users to join in order to have the funds to incorporate in a foreign country?
If you have a better suggestion for how to keep trolls and spammers out, the forum mods would be very interested to hear.You'll find spammy people will always make spammy threads/posts. It's just their nature to not read and value their own time above others. Hmm... I didn't have a problem with the size of donation to begin with but now that you mention it, it could be very exclusionary to a large population of the community. You're the reason why there's a 5 post + time limit on newbies. What is it everyone's so desperate to post that it can't wait 5 posts?Even once you've made 5 posts, you still can't post outwith this area until after 4 hours.That'll give you plenty of time to read other threads and stumble across the answer you're looking for. Shame Bitcoin doesn't guarantee it would be filled with friendly folks. If anything it guarantees there will be scammers close by lol Thanks, info added  This sounds like a good idea even if bitcoin.org weren't having transparency issues.It could be said that this is a 'fork' of one of the management groups.Diversity is important and hopefully, ultimately, a plurality of organisations will serve the community better than one. I think you're both in agreement.It just looks like you're both missing each other's points.Am I right in saying franky1 thinks having a video is a very good way of weeding out weak candidates and would have no problems if it applied to all candidates?Am I right in saying aantonop would only accept this additional qualification so long as it's applied equally to all candidates?I don't think franky1 is suggesting that it should only be applied to new candidates and I don't think aantonop thinks it's a bad idea (to the contrary, he probably things it's a good idea).I'm just posting this so that you can both move on from it as you seem to have gotten stuck on this distraction of a debating point. It's the only way to make sure this better version of Bitcoin succeeds. Without a strong and well financed leader, the whole thing will fail just like Bitcoin has. That's what I've been doing. So far I've sent in 14,200 applications... Thanks to Seleme for the latest update  My vote for this question too.Is there anything ordinary users can do to help encourage the developers to be more transparent and fair? Maybe I don't understand your post but to me it sounds like a eh, complete scam. That much I see but I'm curious if there's any hint of sour-grapes here too. Much better to see both sides of the story. Not gonna lie. I kinda grinned when it came to mind  How does backstopping work? In my mind I see one very unhappy Chancellor shoring up the value of Bitcoin as the likes of George Soros bets against Bitcoin (a la Britain being forced out of the ERM). I've been trying to build some info on the waiting list but getting info from people has been like getting blood from a desert baked stone.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=170068.0Do you have a time for this value? You could use Bitcoin as an additional currency but then people would be less likely to be used day to day which pretty much defeats asking a small country to make Bitcoin it's official currency.The only way you could do it is to have everything on Bitcoin Island dynamically priced so that all your goods prices vary from minute to minute. It is indeed that video.I find this video very interesting though.For once, we're on the other side of the 'conspiracy'.I imagine everyone here at some point in their life has believed in a conspiracy. If you have, the mindset is, "something isn't quite right but I can only back it up with circumstantial evidence". This feeling is what makes us look for the conspiracy. Sometimes there just isn't one but it's hard to explain the nuances that cause these 'circumstantial' aspects to appear.This video lacks understanding in so many areas but I feel that if I were to try and explain things to him in more detail, his own ignorance would actually prevent him from accepting anything I say.So I'm just wondering if I'm like that on the things that I believe are conspiracies. How do you mean? Whooosh?
No offence taken.It just seems a bit odd to me that people want to get their 5 posts in (don't forget you have to still be at least 4 hours old) so that they can do what? Post.The rule is there for a good reason. It prevents thousands upon thousands of repeat questions and it helps keep trolls out.IMHO, 5 posts and 4 hours is too short   I think everyone is putting the cart before the horse.There's no country in the world that will be willing to take up Bitcoin as their currency because their financial interactions with the outside world would be at the mercy of the volatile market prices.Sure internally they're fine. They can price as they please.Let's say it's 1BTC for a loaf of bread (keeping the numbers simple). Everything is going fine and people on Bitcoin Island do their own thing. All of a sudden, the price of Bitcoin crashes and I decide to pick them up at 500BTC per US Dollar.Now I can buy up all the bread on Bitcoin Island for a few Dollars.Note the inverse of this situation isn't true and the islanders are insulated from the outside world unless it's dependent on tourism/exports, in which case those businesses will suffer from being too expensive (to the outside world).It's not possible to run your country on a currency you don't control without value stability against other financial actors. How about a scan of your passport, a recent bill and your mother's maiden name are required before you can buy the client? As luck would have it, you're one of the unlucky 5% Please send me 10000 SCC as soon as I've transferred you the $1,000,000 (one million) processing fee. Sure, I take CRC. It's fine in the UK You should have a paid-for, closed source, mining client. @aantonop - I take it you want to be on the press team? Does nobody have an update on their queue position? Not really.There's a rule about useless posts too. Why join a community if all you're going to do is put in the absolute bare minimum?There should be a rule that has your post count reset if any of your first 5 posts are just junk to try and make up your first posts :/I mean, are 5 posts really that much of an effort?Edit: Grammar If only you had the Internet.Taobao is the Chinese ebay. Unfortunately no.I'm having a hard time getting people to give me an update on their queue positions. Not sure whether anyone set him up to be the fall guy. They just stayed silent throughout the whole affair and just let him take the flak. A 17yr old boy/man was doing his best to resolve matters whilst they tied his hands. (that's just my interpretation of events - not fact)His age wasn't all that important at the time, other than the fact that dozens of people were beating on him without making that consideration. Trouble is, it's not been possible to clear up this mess. The parties in control have never commented. From the numbers of 'not gonna happen's, I'm guessing I've worded my post badly.I just wanted to know how people would feel if a bunch of late adopters upped sticks and started their own thing having had us Bitcoiners pioneer e-currencies.It wasn't about inflation or voting rights. Hopefully this puts an end to the circus.Hold on, I hear Donald Trump still doesn't believe he was born in the USA - oh wait - wrong person.There'll always be just one more hurdle... The age issue is definitely a distraction but not an intentional one.No need for pitchforks and torches yet   lol - I'm sure he'll be over the moon to hear that Did I not say it wouldn't change a thing?  Now you've swung too far the other way lol He does block out half the credit card numbers and yes, you need the CCV number from the back of the card. Damned if you do, damned if you don't huh?He was asked by members here to create a vid. Posting it into a separate thread is hardly egocentric. Also, you'll find that many people know and many people care.
This new thing, say it were to be exactly like Bitcoin but it were to have a limit of 900 million and mining was set to start on a set date so 'everyone' could get in on the action. I could see the late adopters going for that instead. I would appear to give them the same opportunity as the early adopters of Bitcoin but in reality, the ones with money will have the most hashing power. You could have made your fortune right there! lol - I think the only point of the video was to verify your age.You're definitely young!For the love of God I hope no-one needs to verify gender  What FUD?It's not inconceivable after all, the Bitcoin population will currently be tiny compared to the a country the size of the US. Something like that  Don't worry - a brief sell-off is coming......I can feel it in my bones. You don't think that if a large portion of a sizeable country, e.g. the US were to get interested in Bitcoin, it wouldn't be in their own self interest to start a new blockchain for themselves under the guise of 'fairness', 'patriotism', etc?Edit: This is nothing to do with inflation btw - sure, inflation occurs but my point is the self interest of a larger body of people than the current Bitcoin population. Existing stakeholders will obviously want to keep the status quo.Late adopters, especially those with money to effect change, will undoubtedly want to level the playing field (until they have a sizeable stake) at which point it's time to make alt currencies illegal. Don't get me wrong. He's done plenty to put himself in the firing line. I'm not saying he should continue to do that though. It's not worth the effort because it'd be easier for him to do a Skype with someone instead.Can't disagree there.The forum once had something like stationary or hardware that he paid for out of his own pocket but I believe it was before the fiasco. You're right though, to avoid any possibility of impropriety it should be someone not connected.We should exclude Pirate. I know how you feel. I found other websites that have me shocked, just shocked!http://www.elvis-is-alive.com/ I don't mean a balloted vote. I mean by your adoption of their client and thus your hashing power. Run 10 clients on 10 pcs if you like but you're limited by your total hash rate. My theoretical situation is the bulk of people are unhappy with the fact that early adopters own the bulk of the currency.In this scenario, they own the bulk of hashing power (let's say by 10%) and even if they don't, as a majority, they could create their own e-currency now that it's been proven to be useful/necessary. lol so you want to put him in the firing line?I've never disagreed that doing a Youtube video would verify his age. I'm just sceptical as to who this placates and what exactly it'll prove.Will people believe the rest of his claims if his age is verified? I doubt it.So the least interesting thing about this whole saga is verified and nothing else changes. I'd say that's almost not worth the effort.Additionally, if I were ZT I'd go for the Skype verification via a moderator. There are crazy, angry people out there who could use that video for any purpose :/ Perhaps I wasn't very clear in my initial post.People would either fork or start their own blockchain.So in that sense, the analogy would be to standardise on Bitcoinium instead of gold. You'd be left to trade with gold whilst everyone else starts up with Bitcoinium.(Or it would be like everyone agreeing to bring down a giant gold asteroid and adding it to the existing gold supply but everyone would get a shot at mining that thing). How would they control 50% of the vote if one person gets one vote (through the use of a particular client)? Mob rule, democracy by majority, 5 wolves and 1 sheep voting on what to have for dinner... call it what you will but if enough people like the idea of Bitcoin but feel they've missed out because they weren't early adopters/are jealous etc., that's pretty good motivation for them to start their own blockchain.Just imagine a room of 100 people. They all like the idea of Bitcoin. 10 people hold 90% of the wealth. Why wouldn't the other 90 people start their own blockchain and conduct business amongst themselves?They see it's a good idea. They know they're screwing the other 10 early adopters but hey, the vast majority benefit themselves. They'd probably see it as fair because the majority benefit. He just seems well educated to me. He hasn't said anything that isn't capable of coming from a 16 yr old.His naivety is what gives away his age. His behaviour is that of someone who wants to earn your trust and will do things that put him in the firing line by doing so.Since his return I've noticed he's being a little more assertive and much less of a walkover which is good.Call it projection but he reminds me of my younger self - always thinking the best of people and always hoping for the best of a bad situation and always expecting the other person to reciprocate in kind if you submit first. This attitude works only if the people you're dealing with have the same behavioural pattern but in reality, most people are out for themselves and will paint you into a corner quicker than you can turn your back. It would definitely prove his passport is the one used in the travelling claim as there's no opportunity to doctor it as it's live.I assume the questioning session is to attempt to 'catch him out' in his 'web of lies'.I'm not sure that proving his age will do anything. It'll quieten down some who believe if you lie about your age, all other claims against you must therefore be true but that's not really valid.The best thing to do is to just let him prove himself in his future conduct and be wary, as you should be with all things Bitcoin. When the majority of users have fractions of a coin and they hear that the playing field will be 'levelled' with the adoption of the new protocol. Let's say it'll be called USCoin but the protocol will allow 900M coins - update your clients now!
It's the year 2020. Bitcoin has gained major traction.Less than a tenth of a percent of the world's population holds 90% of all available Bitcoins.A democratic vote is made across all Bitcoin adopters and they vote to bring the total number of mineable Bitcoins to 900 million.Your options are to let them fork and be done with them or simply go along with it, knowing you're going to be diluted to a fraction of your previous value.I see this as a very real possibility, especially once a large country decides to get the hump that it's not calling the shots and will start it's own alternative e-currency which can be easily (no artificial barriers here) converted from their own issued fiat and all under their own control. ninjarobot - this is an excellent post. Perhaps we could use this as the basis of a definitive, factual story if you and ZT agree? It would save countless retellings filled with bias and emotion and it can be linked to so people can read up on the story there when they inevitably ask for the details. I'm not sure that's conclusive evidence he didn't lie about his age and registration date isn't a reliable indicator of trollality. There are trolls here that have been registered for years lol Whatever happened to the Fund managed by Patrick Murk? Did he ever distribute any of those funds to the creditors?Do people still trust those guys that ran Bitcoinica during this saga? I see they're running new businesses but I for one won't touch them with a bargepole. By this reasoning, can we assume you'll accept have no credibility if he turns out to be 18?Skyping a moderator would probably the way to go but video evidence would satisfy 99% of people.Explaining on a video would serve no purpose other than to re-hash what he's already written with the added penalty of any accidental mistakes made being used as 'evidence' that he's lying. If he reads a script then that's as good as what he's already posted.The only use for an explanation on video is if someone were to ask him questions at time of recording in hope of tripping him up. Not sure why anyone would subject themselves to that liability. An amazing find repentance!I remember this post but I believe there was another one. The poster attended a meeting with ZT and was a respected forum member too.Still, this is easily resolved by the video/Skype idea. As intrusive as it is, it would help ZT re-establish his credibility. I'm pretty sure there was someone that met him. He runs a Bitcoin business of some sort. Might be a coffee seller? I don't recall. Can anyone remember him from the previous Bitcoinica thread? That analogy doesn't work.Satoshi has no credibility issue, nor does Bitcoin because it's Open Source and can be independently verified. It's not a hunch when you've stated you KNOW FOR A FACT that he's lying about his age, his travelling, his passport, etc. That's a claim, not a hunch.What you then put forward is an intrusive way for someone to prove their age. It just makes me think of the times when Obama was accused of not being born in America and all he had to do was show his birth certificate. When he did that, they all claimed it was faked.Personally, if it were me, I would Skype a reliable and established forum member (one of the moderators or the forum owner).Honestly, you'd get a better response if you didn't come from this from a "he's guilty" angle. I'm pretty certain you won't get a long explanation on video - it was 12 months ago, it was complex and it would be easy to remember something incorrectly. It would also be too easy for him to make a simple mistake for everyone to hang him with.He ought to be able to talk for a minute or two and show his passport though.The unfortunate thing is that all this does is prove his age. As someone said, it's the least interesting thing about this case but I agree with you that if he's lying about this, it's a good reason to doubt everything else he's saying, however, you do seem to be coming from a position of "guilty". Hi Pangia,That would definitely prove his age. (He'd probably want to mask out his passport number though.) Not sure he'd want to have a video of him talking about this incident though - certainly any lawyer would tell him not to but if proof of age is one of the issues, this would definitely sort it out.I believe a credible member of Bitcointalk once vouched for his age and his word was good enough for the masses the last time this came up but I don't remember the username. Maybe someone else does?As far as jumping to conclusions is concerned, you've stated as fact that you know he's older than 18 and through various other beliefs you claimed he was a con artist (it's part of your job to know these things after all). Personally, I don't know if he's 18 or 38 but I remember the last time this came up, I was concerned that he might be a minor and it was a bit too much like a mob after one kid. Everyone was all "well he might be an old man" and I was all like "what if he's not?". Things calmed down after a while but there were threats of physical violence at the time.Anyway, I hope your request for the video works out. Might work better if you don't come from a neutral position rather than that of "I know you're guilty!". You're making an argument from authority with your claim of 20yrs of experience in detecting lies. You kinda need to back it up with some evidence seeing as you're impugning someone else's reputation.I don't know why he's resurfaced and you're right to be sceptical as I'm sure anyone should would be.With your 20yrs of experience you might well be correct (that he's definitely over 18 and that he's the criminal mastermind of the stolen Bitcoinica funds) but I'm just saying that you've come to a definite conclusion based on opinions (not facts) that don't support your position which, to me, casts your other opinions/conclusions in doubt. Not sure if you travel much but where a passport is stamped is not a guarantee of how much a person has travelled. In some instances (a very low rate), passports are stamped chronologically but more often than not, it's random.I had friends at school (16yrs old) who travelled over 50,000 miles a year so being in a frequent flyer band is barely a basis for anything.Looks like your conclusions are all based on your own beliefs rather than hard fact.Edited: Clarifying flying miles statement. So you've verified all that information before making your conclusion or have you just accepted as fact, information posted on a public forum by a stranger?You use these same analytical skills for your 20yr career? My understanding is that someone's met him before and he's also posted pictures of ID as proof.That being the case, you might have painted your credibility into a bit of a corner here.For your sake, Zhou Tong had better not turn out to be 18, eh? I mean, it's going to be very hard for him to pretend to be 18 when he attends other Bitcoin meetings... First of all, welcome back.I still don't know if you're guilty or not because I haven't seen hard evidence either way.My feeling is that you're genuine but maybe I'm a sucker.There's certainly no hard evidence against you and your actions seem like the actions of an honest person.As there's no real way to clear up your past, I guess we'll only be able to tell from your future actions. Let's hope you proceed with caution and in time show yourself to be an upstanding member of the community.Good luck! Updated So a person would do this if they were short of Bitcoins...?  Does anyone have a current queue position number? Ok, so you're a bit volatile so I'll be brief.There was no question about whether Mt.Gox can do this or not.I said it would be illegal for them to do this as they're taking other people's funds to pay other parties. They're still liable for the Bitcoins even if the whole thing tanks. This activity would be no different if Mt. Gox took the Bitcoin themselves and spent it on fast cars or loose women.Just because an activity has no oversight doesn't make it legal.I can only assume your first language isn't English as your posts are really difficult to follow... or maybe it's just me and my comprehension skills aren't what they used to be.Regardless, you need to make your point with a little less anger. I'm sorry for whatever is going on in your life right now that's making you this unhappy but really, taking it out on strangers on a forum isn't going to help at all.Good luck.
Seems like you have anger issues.You're asking someone to prove a negative. It's not possible.This isn't evidence they're doing anything wrong.I'm not saying they're not doing anything wrong. You're making the claim - you need to back that up. Unfortunately I've heard no more from the users that are in the queue.If anyone else has any information I'd love to hear from them. You're saying Mt. Gox does this. It's a bold claim you're making of Mt. Gox. And what's with the name calling or are you just being over familiar? I'm absent from these forums for months at a time, sometimes even years so I don't really know who you are so apologies if I've mischaracterised you but you seem awfully angry at something (you've got 3000 posts to your name so you might have a lot to be angry about - I really don't know).I agree with you that it's circumstantial and I'll agree that you'll protect yourself by being cynical.May I ask, are you pro or anti-bitcoin?Also, were you in another thread where I asked about why Ignore links are coloured?Edited: Removed last question because it was THIS thread  Anyone can make a bold claim.Can you back it up with evidence? At least things have gotten better then.  That can't be legal. I don't understand. How can you issue BTC you don't have? That was my intention but I've just remembered editing a post (the top post) doesn't actually mark the thread 'unread' for everyone.I'll new-post into the thread with each update.Unfortunately I've not heard back from anyone yet.I was hoping to do a daily update to see how many accounts are made daily. Can one of you guys give us an update on where you are in the queue? https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=170068 Everyone sells their Bitcoin.The value plumets to negative values.Investor-noobs go insane and start mass riots.The world economy collapses and the zombie apocalypse is finally realised.Mt. Gox starts trading in rifles, ammo and food... due to incompetence they lose everyone's resources... Wait, so are you or are you not being DDoS'd? Anyone have an update on the current validation count? I'd never noticed some people have gold Ignore buttons.What's the criteria for your link to be 'golden'ed? I wasn't around during the Bitcoinica fiasco so don't really know the details of how they operated their liquidity. I only know that they were hacked and lost a great deal of Bitcoin.Just curious as to why liquidity needs to come from Mt.Gox and not from the market?Isn't it the act of buying/selling from users the source of liquidity?Mt.Gox isn't a market maker is it? They don't have the Bitcoin or the fiat? Can one of you guys shed some light on what's required for a validation?I'm just curious what takes so long if they have a team of people working on this. Again I seem to remember reading something like a team of 20ish people validating accounts. I guess this means it's likely that the price is going to continue to rise although some will be:1) signing up and abandoning the account2) opening an account to sell their bitcoins3) waiting for the price to drop before buyingso don't expect every new account to be buying.
Is this your queue number?  You've got to wait for 10K validations infront of you before you can use your account? Updated 2013-04-29Edit: Please also provide the time in UTC if you're updating us - thanks.Edit2: Usernames added as additional information.I've read in a few places that the approval queue for Mt. Gox is in the thousands.Does anyone have a source for this information or is it just unfounded speculation?2013-04-29 08:00 13,760 ghdp2013-04-28 21:17 14,420 seleme2013-04-26 14:00 16,720 ghdp2013-04-20 13:53 13,9402013-04-13 25,3002013-04-08 14,500I should mention that the latest value only represents the MINIMUM number of applications awaiting approval. It doesn't give the current MAXIMUM. I don't get it.Why are people blaming the victim?If he'd been punched in the face walking down a street after he'd asked the police and residents of said street if it were safe to do so, is that his fault? Victim blaming is a bit bizarre.No doubt if he'd been raped it would have been his fault for wearing sexy jeans and jumper.Personally, I think it's the bankers fault.Also, Cyprus didn't have to accept the deal so secondary blame lies with the politicians (especially the ones who coincidentally expatriated their own money before this policy came into effect).If I offer you help and it comes with conditions you don't like, you shouldn't take the deal.Someone somewhere assessed that the deal was better than the alternative.If you've got beef, you should take it up with them as they're you're representatives and they made the deal on your behalf. If only someone would come up with som... hey, wait a minute, I see what you did there. This is what I find most disturbing.Had it gone the other way, my concern is Matthew may have been happy to condemn those that didn't pay up.I'm not saying he would have but it would take an honourable person to not accept all that Bitcoin. "INFAMY! INFAMY! THEY'VE ALL GOT IT IN FOR ME!" Wait, wait!Is it too late to place a bet? Wow! How utterly disappointing  It's the writers intention that you should dislike him. By the end we're meant to not like him at all. Who's Onya Matthew? Sounds like a great guy though. lol - not seri0s dude   Maybe because he's promised to tell the truth and has no reason to lie?Why are you so cynical?This is Bitcoin, not the real world - we're a better class of people. I have ~500,000BTC I'd like to invest......I've recently made a killing off of an 'investment vehicle' and need somewhere to 'invest' it......but only if you're legit of course... He's ruined on this forum/community if he doesn't.He's pretty much staked his whole reputation on it so even if he doesn't pay, everyone still gets their pound of flesh. I don't quite follow. I agree it's still a scam but I don't follow the 'lunch' part of the analogy.The scheme being indistinguishable from a ponzi doesn't make it a ponzi. I'm not saying that shouldn't be the conclusion to be reached but in this case, if you've been told it's a ponzi and everyone else participating knows it's a ponzi, I don't see the harm of people joining in. Haven't there been multiple ponzi threads on Bitcointalk where people participated of their own volition?(BTW, did your avatar previously have a photograph of you wearing glasses or am I thinking of someone else?) It's the crux of why we should have seen it as a scam. There are almost no legitimate businesses that can make those kinds of returns.It's the equivalent of someone offering you a £1000 television for £10. Sure, it's possible but very unlikely to be legal. hgmichna & JoelKatzI'm beginning to understand what you're saying now.Your argument is a moral one.Whilst there is a hope that such a highly profitable venture exists, belief in one is naive and almost wilfully ignorant. Is that roughly what you're saying?If that's the case you're making then I can see where you're coming from and I guess all that's left for me to say is that I hope there is some legitimacy in Pirate's venture. Sorry - re-replying because I didn't answer one of your questions directly.I don't believe payb.tc paid Pirate to fraudulently transfer other people's money to them. Personally, I hope that the money is generated in some high, risk, high reward scheme. 3400% is just too good to believe and that's where we differ. I believe it's more likely to blow up than to work out. I've made some high risk investments (run by me) that if they'd worked out would have made me very wealthy but they didn't work out.I think this lies at the heart of our disagreement. You rightly believe that if someone were going into an investment knowing the money was being used in a Ponzi that they're implicit in the wrongdoing. I agree with you but we differ in our belief that Pirate is a scammer (currently anyway).Because they knowingly participated in a scam and tried to profit from it. Duh.You are a scammer because you knowingly participated in a scam, paying Pirate to make you the beneficiary of fraudulent transfers of other people's money. Sorry, but that's the truth.[/quote]I agree with your conclusion but I disagree that Pirate is a scammer (with the existing evidence).False. I disagree completely but if I did believe Pirate to be a scammer, yes I'm with you 100%. Ah - I think I see the problem.There are two subtle issues here which appear to be being called the same thing by both sides and thus causing some confusion.1) I've been scammed - I don't feel this to be the case as I went into this knowing I could lose my investment.2) I'm scamming - This would only be true of people who went into this believing they would never lose anything (this can't be true either as they will have gone into it knowing what I knew) and me expecting my returns to come from those that invested after me (which I didn't).Did anyone invest believing they wouldn't lose anything?Did anyone invest expecting their payments would come from others who joined later?Neither of those are true of me but I can't speak for everyone else. I'll bite.I 'invested' in this scheme.Was I aware of what I was getting myself into? Yes.Am I going to blame someone for the current outcome? No.It's not like I didn't read payb.tc's warnings. It's not like he didn't say you stand to lose your entire gam...er...invstment.Everyone's saying "a 3400% annual return rate - it's got to be a scam" - well I agree with you. Did I still take a chance, sure.I don't think anyone who can think rationally could believe that there wasn't something fishy here, especially with no information as to how these returns were being generated.I'm also as suspicious of people who are calling people like payb.tc scammers, for exactly the same reasons.If you're a rational person who can think for themselves, how can people who operated passthroughs be considered scammers?Some have said that they're scammers because they helped legitimise Pirate... how? Am I a scammer because I gambled? Did I legitimise him?
Instead of a free magazine, you could pay my costs for doing Bitcoin conferences like the ones going on in Japan (in the UK).I'd just be looking for costs for travel, the conference room and whatever is available for advertising.We could set up a Ltd company called The UK Bitcoin Foundation and we'd build a consultancy.Over time the business would expand and some of the revenue could go towards sponsoring/creating/venture capitaling Bitcoin businesses in the UK.It's just a shame you're in Korea. Then a 'whoosh' on both my houses! Of course you can. You just need to find 100BTC when it comes time to pay......or be labelled a scammer. This is simply too funny lol  Mem, what's wrong with Matthew's bet?Are you saying that he won't pay out?I'll agree that you could argue he might not pay out any winnings but as you don't have to send your bet in the first place, you also have nothing to lose.If you're arguing that he's going to take bet deposits and run then you've misunderstood.If you're arguing that he's going to not pay out then as my personal opinion, I think you're wrong.What Bitcoiner is offering you is an opportunity to prove that you have conviction of your opinion rather than just making cheap accusations. If you honestly believe that Matthew is dishonest, you should take him up on his 500BC bet, otherwise you're just making unsubstantiated claims.Methinks you've misunderstood the way Matthew's bet works... First of all, whatever happened to one post per person?I believe MNW will pay if he loses.He might be a lot of things but he doesn't appear to be dishonest.Does he rub you up the wrong way? Maybe.Is he vocal about things? Sure.Is he passionate about his beliefs? Absolutely.There's little to suggest he'll default and a default would cost him more than 10K of Bitcoins longterm.You could also consider he may know more than you or I know (this is pure speculation before someone jumps in with some conspiracy theory*). This is what I believe to be his reason for betting but I have no proof of this. The only other reason I can think of is that he believes a person is innocent until proven guilty BUT - this isn't the same thing. This bet is saying that not only is someone innocent until proven guilty but that Pirate will indeed pay out and to be so confident about it would require additional information.* MNW is Zhong Tong so can afford the 10K as soon as his friend Lord Lucan has his assets unfrozen from the AML investigation. He currently resides in North Korea with Kim Jong Il who is not dead as many believe.Edited - Provided what I believe to be the motivation Each account has approximately 440 Bitcoins (very roughly). I'd like to tell everyone how professional Vescudero has been operating this business.I would happily do business with him again and I'm glad to have found an honest Bitcoin financial service.Many thanks!(And I'm sure all those that gave you bad press will have the honour and integrity to publicly apologise to you). Please return all funds to my withdrawal address - thanks. Bitcoin technology is going to be used to start a government sponsored block chain run by Blackwater. He'll be announcing that his relic collection will be being exhibited at The Guggenheim Museum in New York. Bitcoin is going to be regulated as a currency. That was really informative - thanks.It sounds like it may be some time before we find out if ZT's Singaporean friend is real, which is a real shame as it'll delay payments to the affected people. Is there a maximum amount of time someone's funds can be confiscated for an AML investigation?I.e. can someone's funds be indefinitely held, potentially causing financial hardship?I'm asking in relation to the Zhong Tong affair. Just wondering when we'll hear news of if his funds are really from a friend. I disagree that it's a plea to anyone's emotions. I can only speak for myself but you wouldn't hear any arguments from me (emotional or otherwise) if others wouldn't make arguments stating as absolute fact that he's guilty. And what about the people who are convinced that you were the one that did it and will do as much as they can to damage you, your family and your career off of the forums? Probably because it was the cheapest capital he had access to. I'll admit I had a chuckle at this  Are you referring to the donations that Matthew referred to? I think Vladimir said that it was to BitcoinTV. If not, what evidence makes the shilling 'clear'?I personally don't see any shilling because both sides make good points (except those that somehow know ZT is lying and that his friend doesn't exist). Shouldn't ZT have been given an opportunity to respond to the accusations first? Without that opportunity to respond, don't you think AX ought to be held responsible for the result of publishing the information that was published?Imagine how this might have turned out if ZT had been given an opportunity to respond to the accusations? Wouldn't AX have used AML laws to determine if he was telling the truth or not before publishing? And once that had been determined, I still think publishing would be a bad thing to do but at least the outcry would have been just.
It is interesting. It's at the very heart of the whole controversy.If the information hadn't been released or if ZT hadn't been incriminated BEFORE he had a chance to at least reply to the accusations then we wouldn't be in this situation.None of us would know whether ZT was the main suspect (well there would be theories on the matter but nothing conclusive as AX wouldn't have substantiated it) until a full investigation had been done.At that point, ZT would have either been proved a liar or the investigation would have determined that the money really did come from a friend.There is nothing else to do whilst the investigation is ongoing. I'm sure the AML investigation is going as fast as it can because until it's resolved, we won't find out if ZT is telling the truth or not.This is really the whole problem here. I don't know if ZT is telling the truth. You don't know if he's telling the truth. The investigation will though. Those that say they KNOW he's lying already - I can't see how they could possibly know that. I'm not saying he isn't but how could I conclusively decide that with the information I have?How can logic determine if ZT is lying or not? Doesn't this also mean you believe he's guilty? How have you proved that his friend doesn't exist? Again, I'm not saying you're wrong but how did you come to that conclusion?I would have done everything AX did except I would withold all information until an investigation had been done. That's the way it's meant to be done.Lawsuits can still be brought because the information effectively painted ZT as guilty without giving him an opportunity to reply to the accusations. See how the news media goes about news items - they give both parties the opportunity to address the matter and they publish both sides if it's to be published at all.This implies he's already guilty. Or are you literally just wanting to know how he would feel in that scenario? Is this not the exact same issue we have with you releasing ZT's information?I think everyone agrees with you that information already in the public domain shouldn't be covered as that had already been published though. You don't feel it's punishing to have the community turn on you and treat you as if you were guilty?Seems to me it pretty much is.I don't know if you've ever written any software (and I don't assume you haven't) but they're hard to secure. I can't believe for one second you're saying he deserves to be treated as if he's guilty just because he wrote bad code. Other websites have had security issues too, do you mean to say we should treat them all the same way?You're right. You can shout as loud as you like and that's also why we have defamation laws. If you're wrong and you're taken to court for defamation, I suppose you'll accept the damages, no contest? Ah, I see the issue.You've already concluded he's guilty. You know, fundamentally I don't disagree with you. What I disagree with is I don't feel we ought to be judge, jury and executioner. I also disagree we've conclusively caught the thief.If ZT isn't the thief, the real thief goes free whilst a valuable member of the community gets punished for a crime they didn't commit.That to me isn't justice. I'm not sure I follow here.First of all, what inaccuracies are there?You did make a considerable amount of personal information publicly available. It appears to me it was done because the information you had seemed pretty conclusive in light of the information you had. In your position I'd have come to the same conclusion, however, I'd have kept the private information private and left it to the police to decide what charges to bring. As it turns out, there might be a legitimate reason as to why $40K was in ZT's possession and this will come to light at some point.Secondly, I think you're conflating Matthew's integrity with what was published. The two aren't the same thing. The only other meaning I can make of what you're saying is that the information is biased because he once received a donation from ZT and I can't imagine that's what you mean because as you know, the article wasn't written by him.So you're either saying that Matthew applied editorial influence over the article (which I'm convinced you're not) or that it's a lucky coincidence the writer and Matthew have the same opinion?I could believe that there's some malice if the inaccuracy you mentioned was indeed inaccurate but the information provided seems to have no further malicious intent than what you published regarding the whole incident (unless your meaning when you published was that you'd already judged ZT to be guilty). Also, in regards to financial incentives, it would make more sense to say that the limited, one time donation that ZT made would be nothing compared to the future advertising revenue available from aurumxchange. Does the community accept Tihan Seale as an upstanding member of the community? If so I guess we can accept that ZT is indeed who he says he is?If the community does accept this, then do the people who believe ZT not to be who he says he is have anything to say to the matter?Trading the day after the hack suggests that he either didn't know there was a hack or that he thought he couldn't be caught. One would be quite ignorant and the other would be quite arrogant.Not sure confronting the accused would be considered a warning but I have to agree the information they had seemed pretty damning. Again though, what happens if ZT can verify that the money came from his friend (e.g. police check bank records)? I'm just saying it's still a possibility and the existence of his friend will be very easy to verify now that AML regulations have kicked in.Don't warn - simply call the police. That's what they're there for.Was the hack known about the day after? If not then that's why he traded the next day (i.e. didn't know about it). If he did know about the hack then he's far more stupid than we've been led to believe, especially if the amounts were known. Gosh! But has anyone actually made mention of a hitman? After releasing so much information at the start, is there a reason why you can no longer be so open?I can think of two people you might have in mind when you make this comment. If one of them is who I think it is, I can understand why people might feel there's a conflict of interest but all I can see is they've made no plea other than wait till something conclusive comes in. If they were saying that ZT is absolutely not guilty then I could see your point but otherwise are you saying that the person is being reasonable and rational because sometime in the past he's received monies from ZT?  - I call it Bitcoin maths Very gracious of you A public announcement is quite right under the circumstances. Disclosing the personal information was a step too far (certainly until it had been fully investigated).Me neither. Perhaps I should have stated this earlier.Hear, hear!I can't tell which are lies and which are truths simply because I don't think the evidence is present to say that ZT has lied (quite possible I've missed it).There's certainly a lack of evidence to back up his defence but that isn't proof of guilt or lying.Correct me if I'm wrong but wasn't it AX that forced ZT to respond in a public forum because they were the first to make mention of any of this (even before filing a police report for what they believed was fraud/theft)? (That's not meant to read snarky, it's just my understanding is the opposite of yours).Have you seen the other thread that this thread is a response to? I'd forgotten about it too (despite it being only a week old). Here it is for your convenience: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=95738.0It seems to me that ZT was forced to respond publicly, no?ConcededI wouldn't say he's innocent either. He created the system, he promoted it and then he sold it. I would debate the amount of responsibility he has though.I haven't seen where he's lied about functionality and the returns or his abilities but I've been away from the forums for quiet some time but I accept that this might have happened. If so it certainly weakens his position.I don't know whether he's a minor or not either. I just feel it would be quite a feat of planning to expect to use it for some form of criminal defense in the future in case he got caught out. I accept that at some point he'll be 18 (probably soon if not very recently) but then if he is due to turn 'adult' you're accepting that he's 17 then? If by adult games you mean steal from the community then that presumes he's guilty. If by adult games you mean by creating Bitcoinica then I don't see why you have to be an adult to create it.Associating yourself with criminals isn't a smart thing to do. Any adult would know this, especially in the business world. It's certainly something you'll learn from experience but that's the thing, he's a minor. He might not know better.Also, I'd like to add, ZT hasn't ever mentioned that he's hiding behind the defence of being a minor. I'm the only one that's brought that up and the only reason why I do is because if he is a minor AND he's innocent then he doesn't deserve this.1) Any belief that he's using his age as a cover is completely fictitious (because I'm the only one that's brought it up)2) It requires you accept that his age is really 17/18If you don't think he's a minor then claiming he's using his age as a cover doesn't make sense (but I'm not sure you are making that claim, rather, just debating the point).I'm not entirely sure what you mean here. Are you saying that he should just do as the criminal wants because he could otherwise face real danger? Personally, I think ZT only has two things to worry about.1) Losing his friend's $40K2) Not recovering 100% of stolen funds for Bitcoinica users3) Being known as a grass by his criminal associates1) If he's innocent, the $40K can't legally be used to cover the losses. If the $40K is actually his, there might be a moral duty to do so.2) If he's not interested in recovering as much as he can for Bitcoinica users and clearing his name, he should just go to the police. Someone might force his hand and just call his local police station but this would mean taking responsibility for delaying and reducing payments to the victims.3) I guess that's the price you pay for dealing with questionable characters (unless you didn't know before hand).* Edited: Removed local police station details It was a genuine mistake on my part. Apologies again to mlawrence and LoupGaroux. Ooops - copy pasted the wrong tag - corrected now, thanks. I don't think he's wanting to protect his privacy. He's simply playing the best strategy to ensure his $40K isn't under threat.Scenario1 - He gives up the ID of the thief. The thief naturally won't return the funds because he's going to face consequences regardless. ZT stands to have the $40K (which is still in his name as it's in his account) used to pay back the stolen funds.Scenario2 - He waits until the funds are recovered and then allows the community to wreak it's revenge. It sure does look like he's trying to protect Chen's identity but in fact is also operating in his own best interest.Why waste time and money hiring a PI? There's enough information here for the police to find him easily. If the local police are involved it could be done in a day. I'm surprised those with a stake in this haven't already called the Australian police. I can only guess that they haven't called the police because they would prefer to recover 100% of their funds in a few weeks rather than 45% (or whatever it would be once the police are involved) in a year or two when the case is finally wound up.For certain, ZT will have to hand over Chen's info. It'll be the proof everyone is looking for. However, it means that those with a financial stake in this stand a good chance of losing financially for that immediate proof. For ZT, he might feel that he would never see his friend's $40K again and then he'd owe someone else $40K.You're right about one thing though - it would definitively prove which side is bullshitting. Either the angry mob are lying (that they know for certain ZT has stolen their funds) or that ZT is a cunning linguist**stolen from James Bond*Edited - Copy/pasted wrong quote tag. Apologies to LoupGaroux and mlawrence You're right - no reasonable business would release that kind of information at all because if they're wrong they're going to get sued.If you've lost a lot of money in this, I can understand why you're so angry but what you're saying right now is you're absolutely, 100% certain he's done this. Without a shadow of a doubt, you know he's a liar. You conclusively know that he's stolen all the Bitcoins and cash. If this is the case, why don't you call the Australian police yourself? They would be able to locate him within a few days, possibly a day considering the sums at stake here.This isn't true even if he's guilty.I wouldn't go as far as to call exchanges gambling systems any more than I'd call a kitchen knife murdering equipment.Whilst I accept that you don't believe there's even the remotest possibility that anything ZT has said is true, imagine for a second if you will that he's eventually cleared of all these charges and it turns out that Chen does exist, how will you feel about saying all these things to an innocent minor? I can't disagree. ZT really needs to provide evidence or at least explain why he can't.I accept that too. ZT - you need to at least acknowledge the tough questions.Who else can help clarify? So far all we've heard from is ZT in this thread.This is why ZT should have listened to everyone telling him to shut up and get a lawyer. By only selectively answering you give the impression that there's something to hide. By not even acknowledging the questions, it seems like you're trying to avoid things. I agree with what you. I'd add that I don't think it's quite as simple as that for ZT. There might be a multitude of reasons why he doesn't want to go to the police (I could speculate those reasons but it would just be speculation).I would agree too except if I were to assume he's making that up, it would be on the basis that I assume he's a liar which would mean I'd be as well saying he's guilty.Instead, I'd rather say that this isn't any reasonable defence against why his accounts were used until he can prove Chen's existence.The onus is definitely on him to prove that this person exists. Whilst a police report would provide the necessary proof, it certainly will prevent him from obtaining the rest of the stolen funds. Thing is, how else can Chen be proven to exist without turning Chen against him?In terms of strategy, it's a case of what is the most important outcome?1) Retrieving the funds only - keep Chen sweet2) Punishing the thief only - Report to police3) Both of the above - Keep Chen sweet, then make a police report once the funds are recovered1) seems to be the route ZT wants to go2) would result in fewer funds being returned but justice would be served3) It's likely the bargaining chip in this would be that no police report is made if the funds are returnedNaturally this assumes that Chen exists. I can't believe that was only a week ago - seems like a month ago when I first read that.It is a bit unusual to release so much information without first speaking to the accused first. Doesn't seem particularly sensible either as it leaves them very exposed legally. Regardless, I can see why you think it's a case of double standards.The $40K friend and Chen appear to be two separate people is this definitely the case or have I made that conclusion up in my own mind? I've been looking through the thread but I don't see anything conclusive that says they pointed the finger. I've probably missed it as there are 50 pages.Did they do the finger pointing first? I.e. they made it public first AND also disclosed private information.Can I also clarify that this isn't AurumXchange we're talking about here but Bitcoinica?
Always good to be sceptical. I'm not trying to spread FUD. Any uncertainty and doubt already exists and if you read my posts, I'm neither for or against ZT so I'd be poor value as a paid sock-puppet.It would be foolish to accept anything I say as fact because I've no more credibility than the next person but I've not made any claims and I'm unlikely to as I don't have access to any new information. This is a fair point.I suspect that if there is any additional proof it would only be available from the exchanges. It's unlikely the exchanges are going to make this public any time soon. That being the case, can ZT give us some indication as to why you've not gone to the Australian police? (If your reasons would make you vulnerable to the angry mob you could at least acknowledge the question).Agreed that police involvement would appear to scare 'Chen' into co-operating. It's actually also part of the reason why I have doubts as to whether Chen exists. That being said, I believe ZT has additional leverage on Chen (e.g. knowing other information on him/family). It's fair to say there's very little info here and what there is could conceivably be made up (i.e. Chen doesn't exist). Sure.Absolutely - it's just that some people aren't just questioning. If people had only questioned and voiced their doubts, we'd have a whole lot more information from ZT. Right now he's probably keeping information to himself in case police involvement prevents him from getting his/his friend's $40K back. It would be a bad idea to release those conversations even with ZT's permission if it would negatively impact recuperating the stolen funds.A police report from China really isn't what you think it would be. If like me, you live in a Western country and have a decent police force you might be mistaken in thinking that this would be a good way to go about things.In China, you can 'influence' how a police officer sees things with something as simple as a carton of cigarettes. If you don't want to deal with a strong headed police officer then you can see the political head of that region and explain to them why the matter should go away. Also, when you're not present locally, it would be very hard to make a report, especially for something so complex.It's one thing for the local police in China to deal with a local theft of physical goods but it's quite another for them to deal with a crypto-currency with multiple international jurisdictions.My personal opinion is that going to the police before funds are recovered for those with a financial interest in this case would be detrimental. It would also hinder ZT from recovering the funds from his business associate.Also, if anyone were to file a claim, shouldn't it be Bitcoinica? Am I right in saying that this attack happened after the sale? Hadn't realised there was a picture of him available.It would be enough for most people but I doubt it would be sufficient for the hardcore.If he's already known then a Skype call would help things for a lot of people.It's unlikely he will if he's finally gotten some legal representation. The mistakes were amateur and although ZT is a smart guy, I'd say that's weak evidence of his innocence though.If only ZT had done the same. Instead he was transparent and vocal. Seems to me that a lot of people believe they've already been able to prove his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt...The only reason I'd have any suspicions of who he says he is would be if I believed he'd intended to steal everything when he started building his exchange. It seems to me that it'd be counter productive to claim you're a 17yr old when trying to build a business that requires credibility.I think it's a little more nuanced than that now.1) If you already don't believe he's who he claims to be, it would be just as easy to dismiss the person on the Skype call as an actor (paid or otherwise).2) A video call won't actually prove his age, only an approximate one and if the stereotype that Asians look young is to be believed, he might be 30 but look 22.3) He could be putting his/his family's physical security at risk4) Some people will only believe it if they have the skype call themselves and even then, see 1) and 2).Not difficult to do at all but would it prove anything to the hardcore? When something is being investigated legally, they can't comment on the situation. Even if they weren't investigating legally, it would be really unprofessional and irresponsible to share that information in a public forum.I'm not entirely sure but from what I understand, it was ZT that made the situation public that AX had withheld his funds however one thing that puzzles me is it seems that AX released additional information regarding the account without ZT's permission. In the UK that would be against the law but I'm not sure what jurisdiction AX is in so I can't really comment on that.I'm not sure they did - do you have a link/source?They'll only be allowed to share a very limited amount of information which won't be sufficient to expel/confirm doubts.Only once the investigation has finished will they make any comment and even then they might only be able to say the funds have been released but nothing more. Absolutely but at the same time you also have to accept you did business with a minor. This in no way absolves him in any way of his responsibilities but at the same time, some consideration must be given to his youth and inexperience.I agree that everything here is purely verbal but there have been a lot of cruel things said too. It's more of a witch hunt than anything else. Imagine being 17 and having to deal with people threatening you? There's a real chance that someone who's lost a lot of money could do violence towards him if they found out where he lived, simply because others believe he's guilty.Voicing their opinion is not what everyone here is doing.If I'd lost $45K I'd be raging - it's a huge amount of money to most people. I'd do everything I could to get that money back but without real evidence of someone's guilt, I wouldn't accept going after the next best thing (which in this case is someone with circumstantial evidence).I really feel for you. I really do. I've lost a similar amount of money in the past (still paying for it now) and I know who the culprit that took the money, I'm just not in a strong legal position to recover it.Without an official statement from the people responsible for this disaster, it seems to me that ZT is doing more to resolve this situation than others. This doesn't mean he's innocent. It just leaves a lot of explaining from the responsible parties (seems like they're on holiday?!!!)Right - and you've got a huuge stake in this issue. May I ask you why you think he's innocent because from where I'm sitting it sure does seem like he's more guilty than he is innocent?I agree. Why is everyone's efforts aimed at ZT? Is it because he was silly enough to try and help everyone? Shouldn't more be asked of Intersango? Shouldn't they at least release a statement saying what's happening?If I were ZT and saw the disproportionate level of attacks against him/Intersango then I'd be wondering "Well stuff-it, I'm innocent - let them spend years trying to sort it out for themselves".ZT: Don't give up. Remember you're helping the people who have been hurt most in this drama as well as clearing yourself. Sure, it's a lonely and scary time for you but your responsibility is to clear this mess up and move on.*As ever, this post assumes that ZT is innocent until proven guilty.* I've been reading this thread on and off for a while now and I can't hold it in any longer.Shouldn't a person be innocent until proven guilty?To me, it doesn't seem like there's enough proof to confirm WITHOUT A DOUBT either way, although there is more evidence against ZT than for him.It seems to me that there's more information the exchanges have but aren't able to release just now and until that happens, it's not possible to decide one way or the other.If he's guilty then hang him, but let's say that he's cleared of all crimes. What will those who are baying for blood do then?Will some of the accusers then admit that they've no integrity and that their word should count for nothing forever more unless ZT agrees to forgive them?I don't think a simple "Oh, I'm really, really, really sorry!" would cut it after all the things that have been said but I guess integrity is only something some of the accusers expect from the accused.If he turns out to be a 17yr old CHILD, can you imagine what it must feel like to have the whole community that you've been working with, turn on you? You've gone and lost a friend's money ($40K), you've been instrumental in damaging the community you helped to build and you have no idea who to turn to for help. I'd be pretty scared.Someone of a more mean spirited nature might call it child abuse but it would certainly be no less than hateful bullying. Are you saying those moderates should consider some slavery/some women having no rights/some racial segregation being allowable to be true moderates? Or are you saying that that a moderate's position is untenable if they hold any absolutist views? What of a situation where someone needs to steal to feed someone starving to death? Or steals medication to prevent imminent death? (e.g. anaphylactic shock)In both cases, the thief is destitute and has no means to pay. Wait, what do you mean parody? I've given this man money! Bravo Rassah, bravo!*golf clap*  I'm not sure that's true. Bitcoin would be the currency and that has moved. Reserved Reserved I just read a thread created by JackH and it gave me an idea.I'd like to do two things:1) Create a group of community created companies that provide products/services for Bitcoin2) Start a Bitcoin stock exchange for companies denominated in Bitcoin that trade in BitcoinThe CompaniesThese will be community created companies. For instance, 100 users get together and put money, time, resources into a company that will provide, e.g. products from China or services such as, commonly, web hosting, etc.They can only trade in Bitcoin and they can only pay out in Bitcoin.A portion of shares will need to be allocated to initial investors of resource thereafter a portion will be listed for the stock exchange.The idea of these initial companies will not be to make people rich. It's to kickstart the economy. People looking to make a quick buck can come back later when there's something for them to leech off.The ExchangeThis will simply list a company that has stock for sale.In terms of the law, I'm not sure what the legalities are of setting up an exchange or of selling publicly traded shares but that might not be an issue as we're not listing on NASDAQ or FTSE it'll be 'Bitsy' (or somesuch) for Bitcoin only companies.For now this is just a quick post to get some feedback, see what interest is like and to find out if it's viable or if it's simply impossible due to legal constraints. I don't mean to list on a traditional stock exchange but an exchange we would create ourselves.
Looks interesting but I'm curious, how does this not come under money laundering laws in many countries?Say I want to transfer $100,000 to Russia - wouldn't this go against both countries laws?Legally, I can't see it being different to taking a bundle of fiat notes and flying over to Russia with them. JackH - Sorry if this post takes this thread slightly off-topic but I'm happy to start a new thread if you think it better.The shutting down issue is a major problem but I'm not sure how facilitating people to hold shares of exiting companies denominated in Bitcoin really helps. From the perspective of traction, who would be interested that isn't already a Bitcoin 'believer'?From what you said though, would this be a more grassroots way of achieving the same goal:1) Set up a multitude of companies with hundreds/thousands of Bitcoin users2) Articles to require shares to be denominated in Bitcoin and transactions to be done in Bitcoin3) List shares on a stock exchangeAll products and services would be traded in Bitcoin. These companies could then be traded on a Bitcoin stock exchange for any investor to buy from (plus all the other financial instruments that can be derived from a stock trading platform).Could this not be economically more feasible in order to get to your scenario? Bitcoin is meant to liberate people. It's all about freedom.What does it matter if someone is spending their hard earned coin on porn, attracting women, stamp collecting, hentai?It's this sort of ridicule on others that brings Bitcoin more damage than what it's used to trade for.We all have our opinions about what's right and what's wrong but the one enduring fact is that over time, morals change and the direction they're heading is that if it doesn't cause me or anyone else any harm, let them be.It doesn't actually cause harm to use the same toilets as a black person.It doesn't actually cause harm to let women vote.It doesn't actually cause harm to smoke pot.It doesn't actually cause harm to watch two girls play with their own excrement.It doesn't actually cause harm to attract women in an odd manner.Next you'll be telling me that spending Dollars on Bitcoins is a ridiculous notion - I mean really, a currency based on maths? Pull the other one... Ouch - couldn't you have just asked where it went instead of going on the attack so quickly?Just sayin' I guess this is the most telling aspect of it all.What is the reason for not opening up the source if you say you're going to do it?It just screams of something going on behind the scenes that he doesn't want anyone to see.And yet people will still mine. I guess for some people it's all about the money. It certainly seems that way for Coinhunter.I wanted to give SolidCoin a chance. I've gone far to give Coinhunter the benefit of the doubt but at this point I can only say something isn't right and it's time to just ignore anything Solidcoin related just as he has done with many of my questions.Good luck the rest of you mining! I don't think it's been bad for you at all.As you say, it's increased your profile, demonstrated trust and it's created a much more secure site.It has cost some coin but then all good testing does.I look forward to seeing the completed site  So the last person to play is the winner.They'll get their stake + 49% of their bet + the jackpot which is 75% of all bets? I've never really understood the rules to this ponzi game.ROI: 49%Jackpot: 75%Losers' Jackpot: 0% of total jackpotFees: 1.0%Minimum Deposit: 2.9000 BTCMaximum Deposit: 50.0000 BTCConfirmations Required: 0Expiration: 23.98 hours of inactivityTime Remaining: 23.76 hoursDecay: 0.01%So someone sets up a game, with say 50 Bitcoin.Is some of this paid as commission to bitconduit?Then people come along and deposit some bitcoin. They get 49% of this back?What decides a winner?What happens if no-one plays?What is the decay? This has been an expensive testing session  For the rep of Xenland - I received my 2 bitcoins - thanks! Sorry - I should have been more clear - was in a bit of a rush yesterday. Basically, no limit is checked on the shopping cart so an overflow at some point will be reached.When purchasing an item, add 9999999999999(etc. until an overflow is reached) as the quantity. Maybe put a limit of 1000000 for quantities? If you add enough stuff to the shopping cart - it stops loading. Is it down for anyone else? Using this as an email address: slfjddlkjfdfsihfishfhskfhdsjahfkjafgkasfgkd@slfhslkfhslkfhliwhfiubwdiflubsdlifhfoiuwbflisbdflisbfusbdfjsdfsufsudfbjh.sdfhdihfidfAnd entering 'sgsdfwersdfsdasd' as a password breaks the form and results in a blank page after post. Bitcoins to: 1Ha3gRrGgxqwvsfMpzwVwheo3j2esqzzFs Bearing all this in mind, I can't for the life of me understand why anyone would run the SolidCoin client.Do we have a guesstimate of how many users there are? If this is the case then he really needs to release his code whether he likes it or not.That's a claim that'll be very hard to prove unless he's willing to release his code unmodified. It'll be possible to prove that the code released isn't the code that created the binary if he ever does release it modified though. Would you be able to run the client through a Hex editor and see if any plaintext strings still say Bitcoin? If so there's a good chance SolidCoin is based on Bitcoin but if that were the case CH would have been awfully silly to not have done a search and replace. I guess only Oracle can attest to that. I ask because there's this persistent argument about the source being released.He's under no obligation to release it if he's written it all himself.It's up to the users if they want to run his client.Changed title by adding "(Calling Coinhunter)" Coinhunter - Can you answer these questions please?Is what DeathAndTaxes true?Does 5 to 10% go to your personal wallet or a wallet you have control of when it comes to spending those coin?What is the total collected thus far for the CPF?I only ask because I want to know if DeathAndTaxes is being critical for good reason or if he's waging war for another blockchain.
Ooops - my first use of 'traders' I meant merchants. I used merchants afterwards because I realised using traders would be confusing but forgot to change it there.I agree though, 'day traders' love volatility.I also agree that no one can (or ought to) control speculators.I disagree that speculators driving up the price of Bitcoin will encourage merchants to use it. I would agree if I thought merchants felt the price would be stable or only go up but we all know this isn't true.I don't begrudge speculators at all either but I do understand that speculation is going to slow down Bitcoin adoption for traditional merchant transactions and if adoption for the sale of services/goods is the primary basis for the value of Bitcoin, I can understand from that, that Bitcoin will never have value (or so limited that it'll be irrelevant). Have you invested everything you own into Bitcoin?I'm not complaining - I'm holding Bitcoin myself. Not sure he's against gambling.Looks like to me he's saying that traders are having a hard time accepting Bitcoin for trading due to the wild fluctuations and if Bitcoin doesn't get traction as a currency then it'll never succeed.I can see why merchants would have a problem with the volatility.I can see why speculators want to speculate.In the grand scheme of things I'd say if you let the merchants do their thing first, Bitcoin gains traction as a currency, everyone wins. If you let the speculators do their thing first, there might not be anything left. So are people still mining SolidCoin? I'm not clear on your position here.Do you agree that there is taxation/inflation going on here or are you saying that this isn't happening? Do you know if they're still unspendable if transferred to CoinHunter's wallet?DeathAndTaxes didn't say there would be inflation/deflation. That was from a question I asked but I can now see that inflation/deflation isn't an issue from his answers.From my reading, he's not spread any lies but given factual answers. What is 'SC2 diff'? Not sure if you're exasperated at my confusion or if you've got my username mixed up Ah, right - I did have that mixed up, thinking there were 12 nodes of 1m.Thus there are another 8.9m coins available to mine? So when people talk about a '10% tax', they don't mean the miner loses that but instead (as you previously explained), an additional 5% of what was mined comes from the Trust Node and an additional 5% from magic?The magical amount - will this increase the total mineable SC or is this part of the 18.9m?Sorry for all these questions but it's very interesting to find out how it's all working and your answers are very easy to understand. Yep, I am referring to the 18.9m from SC1.I'm inferring that SC1 and SC2 are not the same thing?Is SC2 not SC1 with a few tweaks or are they two completely separate entities? (E.g. coins mined in SC1 are not the same as those mined in SC2) Thanks for the excellent explanation.I read that the Trusted Nodes each have 13 million pre-mined.If these funds can be transferred to CoinHunter's wallet then there would be an additional 13 million available to spend. If there are a dozen of these nodes then there would be 12 * 13 = 156 million more SolidCoin to spend.Also there doesn't seem to be anything preventing more Trusted Nodes being set up unless that too is hard coded into the client (which can be changed at any time by CoinHunter). My understanding is that the security wallets can't spend money without first going through CoinHunter's wallet first.Ah, right - with no limit on SC2 then I guess that's why CoinHunter will get paid forever.Not sure a 5%-10% on the system would fly but I guess for others, that's an acceptable cost for the benefits of SC. I guess someone should let Butner Federal Correctional Institution know that Bernie has Internet access. Ah, that makes perfect sense. Thanks for the answer. This is really the first time I've read up on SolidCoin so apologies for the daft questions but:1) How does CoinHunter get SC1.2M every year forever? Does it not stop when the 'security wallets' have released all their coins?2) Does each of the 12 or so Trusted Nodes pay CoinHunter money? (I.e. he gets this 12 times over)3) Can the Trusted Nodes money be spent like ordinary SolidCoins once transferred over to CoinHunter's wallet?4) Does he really get 10% of everything that's mined (SC1.9M)?5) If the Trusted Nodes monies can be transferred to CoinHunter's wallet, doesn't this mean the SolidCoin economy is massively larger than SC18.9M? You're doubling the number of available shares. Will the dividend payout be halved or will you be doubling production?  lol - I had to read that twice to make sure I hadn't read it wrong. Don't think you can. It's specific to the trading application.There's no reason not to give a person the benefit of the doubt... if they're being upfront and transparent.No one's stopping you from giving Maria the benefit of the doubt despite her unwillingness to answer questions and to explain her previous behaviour.I'm all for giving someone the benefit of the doubt but of all the situations to be cautious, where bitcoins are involved it's always worth checking every last detail.Good luck. I did ask MtGox to not execute the transaction days before they fixed the problem.I don't blame them for not hunting out my transaction and stopping it before executing all transfers but I'd still say the problem is MtGox's to fix, after all the other exchange didn't cause the problem.Sure, the other exchange holds the money but why should they have to deal with a problem not caused by them? It was only by their good grace that it was resolved as they don't have to sort anything outwith their terms.Regardless it's all resolved now but yeah, missing out on trades always suck. Luckily it was a tiny amount that I sent in the first place. So let me paraphrase..."Hi my name's Maria - I'd like you all to trade in the opposite direction that I am please. This way I can make the most profit.Seeing as my posts on the forum have been transparent thus far, it would be far easier for me if you wouldn't mind installing software on your systems that will trade in the opposite direction automatically for me.My algorithm trades normally as expected earning me commissions but when a specific and unique sequence of trades is made in 4 weeks, my algorithm will dump all your coins and I shall buy them all at firesale prices.Any questions? (Please no questions about my past, potentially manipulative posts which might throw some credibility on this thread as these are all off-topic) No? Then let's begin.Please go ahead and install my compiled (so you can't see what it will do) algorithm."As the wise philosopher Cartman once said, "Would you mind loaning me some of your lipstick Maria? Because I want to at least look pretty when you decide to f*ck me." I think what bitrebel is saying is you can quote from text and base your writings on other text but RandyFolds is saying that if you didn't write it yourself then you must have copied it.Seems you're both correct based on what the other has said, oh, until it descended into name calling.Soon there'll be hair pulling and screaming.
Would be great if you could give us some idea of what the sources were for some of the statements you've made.The source material may not be very good and thus any conclusions drawn from them would also be in question. The funds were sent FROM MtGox.The situation has been resolved now. The other exchange went and transferred the coins back to me  Thanks greyhawk! Great, more tail chasing.I'm sure there's going to be a charge for recovering these coins from the 'expired' address.Will I be able to recover this from MtGox? I need to contact the person who runs the Solidcoin exchange https://scexchange.bitparking.comThe latest MtGox outage lasted longer than the expiry time on the deposit wallet address.I have the wallet addresses but no way to access the bitcoins.I'm told that there's a way to recover these coins but I would need to speak to someone at the exchange and there doesn't appear to be any contact details.I know the person who runs the exchange is on these forums but I don't personally know his username. So the issue of transactions not being process on August 26th resulted in some bitcoins being sent to an expired address at an exchange.Whilst transactions that were destined for my own wallet were processed eventually, so were these time sensitive transactions.I've opened another support ticket at MtGox but it's now been 4 days since I've heard anything.I know I'm small fry but I'm more than majorly peeved that I've not heard a peep from them regarding this issue for over a week.It's like they think that just ignoring it will result in me going away, well bad news. I'm not going away until it gets resolved. That was pretty harsh.All good points though.Perhaps you know how old MagicalTux is. I don't but until I do, I'll gladly give him benefit of the doubt that he could be quite young and inexperienced. As such, he could either be doing a fantastic job (bar the password leak) or he's much older and a few strokes under par.It's hard to know what the best thing to do is without experience. You definitely sound experienced and maybe MagicalTux needs some guidance (I don't know) but your post seems to suggest he shoulders some huge responsibility for taking Bitcoin in the right direction but I'm not sure that's true.To me it just sounds like he's getting on with business the best he knows how and isn't attempting to pioneer the best path for Bitcoin. Maybe he does have a higher duty to us and maybe he's never realised this until now but with the info in your new post, maybe he'll make that consideration.Also, I don't agree that he's trying to force a bank to provide him banking facilities more than he's saying they're being discriminatory.Who knows, with more people providing guidance like yours, maybe we can all take Bitcoin to a better place. I can't believe this is still not completely resolved :/ I'll bite - I've just read the whole thing. The WHOLE THING!The spelling mistakes give it a very unpolished feel and the lack of any citations or proof that any of this is true gives it a slightly dry novella feel.It was entertaining in places and some of it sounded familiar but what it lacked in brevity, it more than made up for in unsubstantiated claims.The narrator lacks credibility due to the extreme lack of facts and some of the plot lines seem a little far fetched but suspending disbelief did allow me to get through the entire episode without feeling like I was completing an assignment.The plot is the familiar conspiracy theory where many centuries ago the beginnings of an empire or secret society is formed. The narrator takes us through to the present day, highlighting the events that have led to our current banking system.The literary style is somewhat rushed and definitely not proof-read but as it's a Bitcoin, premier I guess I can't be too hard.*****----- 5/10Overall a 5/10 - not something you'll want to shout from the rooftops about but family and friends who are interested in this genre might appreciate a heads up. Here's hoping the sequel has more polish and includes a quick trip to the spell checker. Only some of my transactions have been fixed.The ones that went to expired addresses are still outstanding because they've since processed all transactions, even ones to addresses that no longer exist.I'm still waiting for a reply from them. It's not been processed as it never turned up. I told them to cancel it but I doubt they will.As far as I'm concerned, it's still their liability.I'm just giving them time to sort themselves out and see if they'll make good of the situation.So far it's been pretty unprofessional. Apparently fund withdrawals may not be cancelled - well that's no use if the receiving address no longer exists!What happens to bitcoins that get sent to an expired address? Can these still be recovered? That's no use to me now as the addresses that coins were being sent to are no longer valid.Mtgox will need to make good on these transactions. It's been over 24 hours so far which isn't in itself a problem as things take time to fix but two of my destination addresses aren't going to exist in less than 48 hours so I'm a little worried :/ I'm currently on block 142722 in my Bitcoin client.I had another transaction placed after my MtGox transactions and they've come through with 203 confirmations so far.6 transactions were placed.2 Went to another exchange and 4 went to my personal bitcoin wallet.None of the 6 transactions have shown up yet in either location.The ones to my own wallet obviously won't be a problem as there's no time limit on those. Another problem I'm having is that two of the address that I sent the coins to expires in around 72 hours.I'm beginning to worry now. My bitcoin client is running.There are still no deposits showing.I've received other deposits to the same address just fine. They really need to let people know that it takes a long time to get funds out of MtGox.Any trading opportunities are rapidly vanishing! I'm not sure I should be joining this thread but I'm having the same problem.Fri 26 Aug 2011 01:53:26 AM GMT    Withdraw    Bitcoin withdraw pending (to 13metUBSG8YJh2ttYNKe8zXL6T8odLXGB8)Still nothing - anyone else having problems? Unless it's a pump and dump scheme  
Why does it matter if OldMiner is all of these people? This suggests that it's trivial to work out what was stolen.Is it therefore possible to return the 'stolen' coins to their rightful owners or are they just lost for good?When you say those coins will lose their value, is there an implication that they might be worth a fraction of their original value or will it simply be lost completely (as above)?Let's say it's not possible to separate out transactions with fees from those without. Does this destroy the basis for transaction fees?I'd rather know that the time and energy I invest into Bitcoin now will be worth something in 20 years time.Not worrying about it now seems pretty short sighted to me. That's a fantastic explanation - should be required reading Thanks matsh! I've probably misunderstood what you've just said or you've missed my point.At some point there will be no more Bitcoin to mine.Regardless of whether that happens in a split second or happens over a period of decades, at some point it will happen.At this point, I see a smaller proportion of available CPU power being being spent on processing transactions. (e.g. 800GH reducing to 100GH as people decide it's no longer profitable, move onto mine alternative currencies, decide to sell their rigs, etc.)With a much reduced volume of processing power, isn't Bitcoin vulnerable at this period? The amount of money required to perform this attack now is significantly reduced and could be performed by a determined attacker.If it helps clarify things, as we near the end of the availability of mineable Bitcoin, people will leave so the amount of hashing power will decrease gradually. Additionally, computing power per dollar will also increase. Overall, this leads to a scenario where mounting an attack will become cheaper and cheaper.Have I missed something you've said or have I fundamentally misunderstood something? Also, if this has already been explained in another thread, I'm happy to go read it if you happen to know where it is (I did Google for an answer first but nothing seems to quite address the issue - possibly because I've misunderstood something - lol) Oh, thanks - when I did a search on Google, that thread did come up but I hadn't paid enough attention to realise it discussed my question. That doesn't really address the issue but wouldn't mining on another alternative currency also devalue the one you've just finished mining?It would certainly confirm the theory that there'd be a huge drop in processing power. Once all bitcoins have been mined and only transaction fees are available, I'm guessing there'll be a huge drop in processing power in the network.Won't this allow someone with enough resources to then attempt the 51% power attack?I see most miners shutting down their rigs and selling off their Bitcoins once they see there's no profit to be made making this a perfect time to harm Bitcoin. You should be able to get 3.1kW on one FUSE (in the plug in the UK). In a modern home, the cabling for a double socket will accept up to 26A.You shouldn't be able to cause damage to wiring in the walls as these will be protected at your fusebox. I was going to put this in the Development section but I decided it was too small a fragment to be directly relevant to Bitcoin so I figured I'd post here instead.I'm trying to get a unicode regular expression working but I think it might not be working properly.Currently I'm testing with:Code:<?php$pattern = '/[\p{L}]*$/';$check = preg_match($pattern, 'Testing èggs');if ($check) { echo 'matched';} else { echo 'no match';}?>This matches fine but as soon as I change the $pattern to:Code:$pattern = '/^[\p{L}]*$/'It stops working.My understanding is that the ^ at the start of the pattern means to search from the start.If so, why does it stop working? It works so long as it's not multi language, e.g. using the \w shorthand.Is my understanding wrong or is this not working on my PC? Sorry for the ignorance but what's a 'corner' (financially speaking)?Google was no help except to explain the 'cornering' of a market which I don't imagine is what you're referring to. I'm trying to build your rig but I can't find a frog like this.Where else can I find one? Can I substitute it for a toad? Is anyone else having a problem logging in with their username/password? You answered whilst I was writing my last post  How could it have been a password by email reset hack? You said you logged into your account after coming back form holiday. If this is true then I'm assuming you used the same password as before you went on holiday and the only way that can happen is if the hacker knew your password to set it back... in which case, would they reset your password? To make the game more interesting, if you could also post the last IP address that accessed the account, your email address (bonus points if you can provide that password too), account name your old password (as that's now useless) and your full physical address, age, date of birth and your mother's maiden name, we can make a nice graph out of that. What do you say chaps?(For those without a sense of humour or sense that is common: DO NOT TAKE THIS POST SERIOUSLY!) I'm not sure that this is true. I suspect you might well need a license as you're transmitting money.It's an interesting idea though as the delay on mtgox is quite large.I'd be interested in helping with funding too so I'll PM you too. So would the world stop all transactions while a patch is developed and put into place, then once that's done, ask everyone to recreate their transactions from the point of discovery onwards? Let's say it's a large organisation and they put through 10,000 transactions an hour - that could be a lot of work to redo.Let's hope quantum computing theory doesn't become reality then. The idea sounds plausible but in real life, who would buy that asset if everyone is too busy holding onto their BTC?For this to work well, the loan to equity value of these assets would have to be very, very small indeed. E.g. a house with a current value of BTC1,000,000 might only be enough security for a BTC300,000 loan in order to cover worse case scenarios.Also, housing is probably very poor collateral in a nose diving economy - who's looking to buy a house? It would only be investors keen for a bargain but with enough capital to hold onto their investment until after the economy recovered. Perhaps this might help:I you go it alone, you are competing against a massive amount of CPU power. If you join a group, the combined CPU power gives you a greater probability of getting coins.E.g. Go it alone0.001% probability of getting a larger number of bitcoinsJoining a group3% of getting a share of any bitcoins.What this means is that if any bitcoins are generated, you'll get a share (I would think proportional to the effort you put in). Sure, it's much smaller but at least you get something.So your choice is, a very tiny probability of getting a large amount of bitcoins or a small amount of bitcoins for any work you put into the group.That's the difference.Some say there is no difference and if you generated for long enough (proportional to the total amount of CPU going into global generation) then the outcomes will be the same but I suspect that bitcoins will hit the 21M limit well before we see that statistical situation arise. Maybe one day in the future when plentiful bandwidth is ubiquitous, the escrow company will also be the delivery company but the delivery person will have a live camera to show what is being picked up and can spend time checking things to the purchaser's satisfaction.With this in place, there wouldn't need to be a burning of any monies as the product and monies are always safe with the delivery/escrow company.Anyone want to start Delescrow Ltd. with me?  
That sounds promising.Am I right in saying after step 3, both parties are committed and if either defaults, BOTH parties are on the hook for 2500?Let's assume it's B whom is fraudulent. Although B has gained nothing more (in fact paid 500 over the asking price), he's still managed to defraud A of 4500 - a great way to put the opposition out of business if you have the capital to do so. This is a definite improvement over no escrow. It's just a shame there's nothing that can be done to mitigate malicious intent by offering to sell something, only to 'burn' the payment and never send the goods (assuming they even existed).This would just be a case of spite but a very real threat none the less.E.g.A offers to sell laptopB offers to buy and escrows 2000 bitcoinsA confirms that item is sent but never sends itB never receives it so never release the bitcoinsA doesn't care because their intent was to make B 'spend' their bitcoins with no recompense If you knew my English teacher you'd think that was a good thing...:p There once was a coder named SatoshiWhose BitCoining antics abhorred meBut now I've got threeBitCoins that I got freeI'll be down at the mall for a spree! To keep it simple, you could think of it like backing up your email folder. I you backup, send some email and then restore your backup, you're not going to have your newly sent email.Why you'd want to spend your coins and then restore a backup is beyond me (except for fraud reasons but someone committing fraud wouldn't be asking on a public forum).I believe the more accurate answer is because BTC are spent in the chunks they came in.E.g. you have 150 BTC which were generated by you. This gives you 3 x 50BTC chunks.You decide to spend 125BTC on something super shiny. All 3 of your chunks get spent BUT 25BTC are returned as change.Your wallet now has new data saying, all 3 chunks were spent but you now have a new 25 BTC amount (your 'change' if you will).If you overwite this wallet, the system will know you've gotten rid of the 3 chunks (of 150BTC) but it won't have the new key for your 25BTC change, thus you lose it all (except you still have your super shiny).That's my understanding of it - can someone more experienced confirm? This does make sense but it also reinforces for me the fact that more resources = greater chance of finding a coin because more power = more hashes/s.Every 'lottery ticket' has an equal chance of 'winning' a coin but each persons chance to find a new coin is not the same for one person to the next - is that a fair conclusion? My understanding of BitCoin is perhaps wrong then. I accept that 'finding' the next BitCoin is unrelated to what has happened previously but what I don't understand is why my chance of finding the next BitCoin is the same as anyone elses.With your lottery analogy, is it possible for more than one person to find the next block? I.e. the 50 BitCoins are split amongst the lottery winners? If so, I hadn't realised it was like that at all and so I can accept that having more computing power doesn't affect your chances.Thanks for the clarification. You'll want to make sure that wherever you copy it to, no-one else can get access to it. From what I can gather, it looks like it might also appear when you put through a transaction. If payment were made for inspirationMy efforts and all my perspirationWould still be worth noughtLike a kick in the botA BitCoin for all my libation? Hopefully someone playing the Lotto would know to fill in the From box.  Bitcoiner, before someone does delete this thread, do you know if my debug.log should have "proof-of-work" in it. It only has a log of khash/s.Is this correct or is my client/setup borked? I ask because in the thread you refer to, it would appear that it should be in my logs but isn't   I say "y'all" too but I'm far, far from Twexas! Oops - sorry! Redundant thread - a mod is welcome to delete this one at his/her pleasure.   I'm currently doing a total of 2600 khash/s on two computers. 1050 on my laptop and 1550 on my desktop.What's your count?   knightmb - I'm just trying to work out how to create an automated Lotto and was wondering if you know of a way of identifying which account a payment comes from? For instance, if someone pays a fraction of a unit for the lotto, it can be returned and also so that the winner is automatically paid. Laughter and humour contagious,Nenelod's BitCoin balance outrageous.If spam were a coin,Viagra my loinsIt helps not with calculation hardness. Does this mean there are also an unlimited number of BTCs to be found but once 21M are found, no more will be accepted? I will look into writing an automation system for the 0.01 BTC lotto. Could you perhaps make a lower value BitCoin lottery for those of us with less than one BitCoin? Us smaller users are having a hard time generating anything. 
