This raises a good point. I keep hearing in the Wall Street Journal and other news sources about how the strength of the dollar is increasing. What they don't say is that it's increasing *relative* to other currencies. Overall though, the world currencies are weakening compared to the bitcoin, gold, etc. The dollar is actually weakening, it's just weakening slower than the other currencies. I think blockgenesis has the right idea. Disinformation and undermining the integrity of bitcoin is the only way I see the governments effectively going after bitcoin. Going after exchanges would create a hydra - chop off one head and another would sprout. After all. Any single person willing to exchange bitcoins for an establish currency is an 'exchange'. Just like our personal computers are a 'server' for the bitcoin network. In my mind, bitcoin is even more robust than Mega or Pirate Bay because it is inherently distributed. Mega and Pirate Bay were able to survive because of their distributed nature, but bitcoin is far more distributed than either of them. I guess what I really meant to ask is: has anyone tried these different options? What worked best, in your experience? Hey all,I want to implement a checkout feature on my blog to allow people to purchase my San Juan Island field guide with bitcoins. I've heard good things about Bitinstant and I also saw the Mt. Gox has a checkout API. Rather than going through my own trial-and-error I thought I'd solicit advice from the community.Can you guys point me to a good place to learn about the pros and cons of existing merchant programs? I use Wordpress, so ideally, I'd love to install a plugin that can handle bitcoin transactions.I also plan to sell several other things off my site, like fishing lures and electronics. My book is just the first thing for now.  Cool! Anyone want to speculate on what is driving the increase in bitcoin price over the last couple days? My guess would be people turning to Bitcoin for fear government/money mismanagement of the USD. What do you think? I ran across this topic on the forum concerning the hording and melting down of US coins in the future:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=128502.40Does anyone have experience with actual melting of coins? If someone was to horde physical coins with the expectation of trading them in for their base value in the future, how would one go about it? Who would buy the base metal?Chris I came across this thread on the discussion board about bitcoin prices going up or down with stocks:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1493.2560Does anyone know if any cross correlation has ever been done and shared between bitcoin prices and other tradeable securities, like stocks, bonds, and foreign currency? Anyone ever done this to look for leading indicators?Chris I just realized that the candle sticks are the price. I was looking at the solid blue line, which represents volume. Now I see that there is no discrepancy between the data.Chris Hey all,As a newbie, I couldn't post anywhere but here. I wanted to reply to the thread on historical data:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6193.0I compared the live graph provided on the Mt. Gox homepage with the data downloaded from bitcoincharts.com, and noticed that they don't look at all similar. Here is a screenshot of the Mt. Gox live-graph of their home page from 11/20/12 to 12/20/12:http://sanjuansufficiency.com/images/mtGox_graph.jpgHere is a graph of the data downloaded from bitcoincharts.com over the same time period:http://sanjuansufficiency.com/images/mtgox_data_graph.jpgAs you can see, the Mt. Gox graph shows a pretty much flat trend, whereas the data graph shows a clear upward trend.Does anyone know why there is such a discrepancy between the two graphs?Thanks for your input!Chris
