Have you tried asking WisePass for help? He claimed to he was going to refund BTC to the person who had complained to him. If you are dissatisfied, I'd recommend that as a first step. So you are saying the tag line for BitCoin should be:BitCoin: It's the Ripple for illegitimate business. So you are saying the tag line for Ripple should be:Ripple: it's the BitCoin for legitimate business. This is a key feature of Ripple. Transparent relationships between parties, public visibility of trust and balances, and public verifiability of transaction.It is absolutely everything the traditional banking system isn't. Once the public gets used to transparency in their personal financial dealings they will begin to demand it of banking institutions as well. Ripple was born in this forum, so it seems appropriate to discuss its future here. Bitcoin without miningRe: Distributed Bitcoin ExchangeNOTE: This post is idle speculation. Please treat it as such. I do not work for OpenCoin. I have no privileged information that doesn't come from forums or OpenCoin web sites --------So the other day I was trying to explain how OpenCoin might not actually be XRP speculators (as is the common wisdom). My basic guess was, maybe OpenCoin plans to just sell XRP to other companies so they can use XRP to activate their user's Ripple accounts. Seemed a plausible expedient way to see some substantial ROI. Then ahbritto posted something that has been nagging at me ever since.  Re: XRP Ripple money what advantage ?Later while reading this thread, virtual currency trading wars bitcoin versus ripple xrp I run across a web article that concludes:Normally I would just dismiss that out of hand, EXCEPT I noticed a comment by JoelKatz on the article.--- Begin Idle Speculation -----So maybe, XRP and Ripple Accounts aren't designed for us after all. Maybe OpenCoin is starting to see Ripple as simply THE GLUE between other financial services providers. Basically, a peer-to-peer international version of the Automated Clearing House (ACH). Please note that in this vision, we (currency users) are NOT the peers in BitCoin's sense of P2P. Nor are currency users even necessarily Ripple address/account owners. We might simply be Google Wallet users sending money to users of (China's version of PayPal). Or Dwolla users buying Zynga freemium upgrades. The actual Peers would be "federated" companies like PayPal, Google Wallet, Dwolla, FaceBook, Zinga, XBox Live, etc. Basically anyplace where users can have accounts and any type of currency or credits. The Ripple System just handles the inter-company exchanges and currency conversions. (Send $10 from google/sourceID to dwolla/destinationID.)This concept substantially reduces the scalability issues inherent in Ripple ledger maintenance and consensus building. It also creates an pretty substantial business model for OpenCoin's XRP stash. They become the inter-currency market-maker by using their XRP as intermediate currency. Note that being a "market-maker" doesn't require speculation. OpenCoin would make money on the ask/offer spread. Notice that if you want to exchange $1,000,00 USD for its equivalent in OTR (other) and you use XRP as an intermediate currency. Then there needs to be $2,000,000 USDs worth of XRP liquidity in the marketplace in order to determine a price. USD/XRP (OpenCoin sells $1,000,000 worth of XRP at "ask")  XRP/OTR (OpenCoin buys $1,000,000 worth of XRP back at "bid")Big companies exchanging currencies don't have to care what the actual price of XRP is. They only have to care about the overhead inherent in the spread. Normally, market speculation keeps the market spread small. But conversely, if OpenCoin keeps the spread small on their own, it reduces the incentive for other speculators to even try to compete.------So I see two possible Ripple Systems.Ripple 1.0 - The Ripple I presumed was being built. An improved version of BitCoin, with faster transactions, low volatility and much improved usability. But one that kept BitCoin's essential P2P vibe. "We users, are creating, owning and trading currencies AMONG OURSELVES."Ripple 2.0 - A Ripple that seems much more appealing to venture capitalists. One where increased interoperability and reduced costs provide a, hopefully, compelling new feature to an existing user base. "This company I'm funding can inter-trade with these other companies you're funding. Our users will pay extra for convenience."I guess the open question is, "Should any of this matter to me?" Does it matter to you if Ripple becomes version 2.0 instead of becoming 1.0 first? Understood. This may be needlessly long.TL;DR Summery: The KNL/UNL should optimally be the "non-anonymous" subset of non-malicious nodes.See below for details. Especially the end where it mentions "fidelity bonds".------In my original "known-nodes-list" concept the KNL served more as a sanity check. If all your friends disappeared, you are probably forked (5b). Stop transacting and figure out where everyone went. Possibly even notify the HUMAN operator.The role of UNL you describe, is actually handled by the validator "candidate set". That's where every time you add someone to the candidate set it splits the pie into smaller slices. Theoretically, it should have a set of well define rules that all other validators are required to follow. (i.e. 1) If they've been present, and 2) they are randomly chosen, and 3) their block validates, then 4a) everyone has to accept it.) <-- BitCoin style consensus.So, if more people show up to validate you, theoretically, have to accept them. Those who don't accept a valid block are supposed to be presumed MALICIOUS (badly written 4b). The trouble of course is at the edges. What about transaction mismatches. Are those accidental (5c3-4) or malicious?. Certainly, if someone doesn't included a "slam-dunk" previously missed transaction (5c6) it should be considered malicious.Here you are talking about the (4b) malicious node case. You are certainly right, my description is hand wavy on what to do about deliberately non-compliant nodes. Believe it or not I was attempting to SIMPLIFY the description. The set of non-malicious validating nodes is the "candidate set of validators" minus your personally known malicious nodes. (4b, 5c6) Your KNL/UNL should optimally be the "non-anonymous" subset of non-malicious nodes.The set of anonymous validator nodes needs to be policed using a forfeitable fidelity bond. In this case a fidelity bond is a transaction that sends a predefined amount of a validator's coins to an output claimable by "ANYONE". No non-malicious node should allow anyone to claim those coins, except for three specific circumstances.1) The sending validator can claim his own coins. This results in him taking himself out of the validator candidate set.2) If the chosen validator (2) produces a non-validating or DoS block, the next-chosen non-anonymous validator can claim the FAILED validator's fidelity bond.3) If a validator fails to come to consensus and "announce" within the next (Y) blocks, the next-chosen non-anonymous validator can claim his fidelity bond.There is no automated mechanism to anonymously reclaim a lost fidelity bond. The bond can only be claimed by a human personally appealing to a human consensus of non-anonymous validators. Thank you for the offer webr3. Actually chapes on the Ripple forums trusted me with some Canadian Dollars to help me though my learning process. I've got a pretty good handle on Ripple now. I invite you to look me up on the Ripple forums. I'm about to launch a project you might be interested in. (Busy typing about it now.) OK, so now the whole process makes a lot more sense. I misunderstood the direction of coin send you were testing. I setup the trusts, re-sent 1 XRP and successfully received your three IOUs. Awesome!You've created a really cool system.  Hi TTBit,You called this "beta testing" so I want to give you a test report. I'm a noob with these coin clients so feel free to tell me to check the nut behind the keyboard. That said, here is what I see on my end.1) Dividend Ripplerhttps://www.dividendrippler.com/account?_=rHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2Your site shows "failed payments". You said above that those can be ignored.2) BitCoinI'm using Electrum 1.7.3 but it shows that I have a zero balance.BlockExplorer report my address as "Never seen"http://blockexplorer.com/q/addressfirstseen/186ZJv7Bm1ydrsVxPDuVtdJNZZUwAXL2jH3) LiteCoinMy LiteCoin client is still syncing the block chain, so I can't take its opinion as authoritative.However, the litecoin explorer reports "Address not seen on the network."http://explorer.litecoin.net/address/LP5KRWi12LaKvNX2G1JMwrLFuQm26wYr8W4) TerraCoinNotice that on DividendRippler I didn't configure a TRC account. (I'm on a Mac and I couldn't immediately find a Mac client.) https://www.dividendrippler.com/account?_=rHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2However, your system attempted to send me TRC anyway. THIS MIGHT BE A BUG. I'm not sure where those TRC would go if successful?Anyway, that's my report. I hope it is helpful!Red Sometimes I think you are taunting me...I actually came up with an algorithm for this when discussing [SteadyCoin] consensus building. It's somewhere back in my post history. Ripple's consensus building is slightly different but I can summarize my original logic. Maybe it can be modified for ripple.The validation/consensus logic was a variant of BitCoin's block consensus absent the PoW calculation. Each node executes a sequence of deterministic steps: 1) Generate a "candidate set" of validators.2) Choose a primary validator from the set using a distributed random number generator.3) Broadcast the primary validator's block to the other validators for confirmation.4) Each confirming validator broadcasts an "Announce" transaction signaling they are now building upon this new block.5) Each validator listens for Announce transactions from others on its personal known-nodes-list (Ripple's UNL) to confirm consensus has been reached.---1) A validator is in the candidate set if its "Announce" transaction is present in the current building block and in each of the preceding (N) blocks. [Good validators are consistent]2) At each block interval (X seconds), each node chooses its primary validator by:  a) Ordering and hashing all received transactions since the previous block.  b) Comparing that hash to candidate set nodes using a distance function.  c) The closest node becomes the primary validator.3) If a node calculates itself to be the primary validator, it completes its block by generating any coinbase transactions and broadcasts its signed block hash.(Theoretically, if every node was well connected and persistent they would all receive the same transactions, calculate the same primary validator, and be able to complete the final block according to pre-specified coinbase rules.)4a) If the proper hash arrives from your expected primary validator, then "Announce" your confirmation by issuing a signed transaction that builds upon that block.4b) If the proper hash doesn't arrive (or is invalid) presume the primary validator to have FAILED in its duties. Remove its "announce" transaction from your current building block set [(N) block candidate-validator penalty] and repeat 1-4.5a) If a majority of the nodes on your personal known-nodes-list "announce" on the same block as you, all is well.5b) If a majority of announcements aren't receive, then you are partitioned from the main network. STOP external trading.5c) If, however, a majority "announce" on a block you are not expecting, then you must presume either you have FAILED (missed some transactions) or something malicious is happening.  c1) Request the majority block and validate it.  c2) Identify transaction differences between yours and the majority block.  c3) If you missed transactions, announce on the majority block and continue.  c4) If the majority block is missing transactions, announce on the majority block, re-broadcast the excluded transactions, and continue.  c5) If there a double spends or conflicting transactions, Broadcast malicious user WARNING and halt any related external transactions.  c6) If re-broadcasted transactions (c4) fail to confirm in the next block, Broadcast validator DoS WARNING.Because of its (UNL) equivalent the system converges similarly to Ripple.---CoinBase reward/mining transactions can be assigned to validators using any pre-agreed upon rule set. [StableCoin] dynamically adjusts the generation amount and distributes new coins to combat price instability. It doesn't have a default reward for validators.BitCoin could use its "winner take all" rule to award all 25 BTC to the primary validator. The randomness of (2) above would spread the coins around over time. Alternately, each new block reward could be spread among all the candidate validator nodes mining pool style.Sybil validator attacks could be mitigated by either 1) requiring candidate validators to be non-anonymous (i.e. Ripple's UNL), or by 2) requiring candidate validators to put up a forfeitable (4b) fidelity bond.   @chrono.v, I do appreciate your taking the time to comment on my thread. I understand your view of BitCoin. That has been the dominant opinion since I first came to this site in 2010.The [StableCoin] topic however is not a debate over which ideological currency is better. It is merely a discussion of the ways an immediately value-stable currency could be created. This thread gives an introduction. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.0So by definition the [StableCoin] topic is about creating a non-speculative currency. One where, if you save the value of 1 loaf a bread in stable coins today, in 50 years those stable coins will be worth 1 loaf of bread. Hi brenzi, welcome to the [StableCoin] topic. As you mentioned Ripple I wanted to link you to another thread where I was analyzing Ripple from a [StableCoin] perspective.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=188266.msg2026191#msg2026191  @several,Anyone fixated on who owns how many XRP doesn't understand the Ripple System. Inside Ripple XRP isn't intended to be used as money. That is purely a projection of BitCoiners onto Ripple. It also has absolutely nothing to do with the [StableCoin] concept. Even when implemented inside the Ripple System a [StableCoin]'s value will have no dependency on XRP at all.  Price is a measure of instantaneous supply vs instantaneous demand. Demand for a currency will always grow over time. There will be more people creating new types of valuable goods and services in the future. products and people that don't even exist today. More available goods/services chasing the same amount of available coins means currency prices will change (not be stable). To preserve stable prices the amount of currency available to be traded must scale with the amount of goods/services seeking to be traded. Occasionally then amount of goods and services available for trade will fall compared with the amount of currency available for trade. That will need to be compensated for as well. My pleasure. Glad it was useful to someone. Once the contracts feature of ripple is a little more fleshed out, distributed issuing of custom currencies inside of ripple will be a real game changer. (I hope!) Monday Bump. It was a sleepy weekend. Here goes. You have some pretty cool ideas TTBit.rHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2 Thanks! Was hesitant to send XRP when it said offline.It looks like a cool service. ]The processing system is currently offline, data may not be up to date! [1046]Is this system still functional?Can I sign up when it is offline?Is the Giveaway still active? ]The processing system is currently offline, data may not be up to date! [1046]Is this system still functional?Can I sign up when it is offline?
However, I believe there is still a practical need for and demand for a [StableCoin] type of currency. One that, like BitCoin, intrinsically holds value inside the system, rather than just representing extrinsic value (an IOU) held by a trusted counter-party. (Exchange or Gateway)I think such a [StableCoin] can be built either (as an Alt-Coin) by modifying the existing BitCoin source code rules. Then it could be launched as a Merged-Mining COMPLEMENTARY network/blockchain. (See my postings on why BTC speculators should welcome STC.)Likewise, once the Ripple server is open sourced, a [StableCoin] could be created on top of that codebase. Something like [SRP] "Stable Ripple" or [XSC] "StableCoin". Such an implementation would inherit Ripple's instant confirmations and obviate the need for environmentally-unfriendly mining.A third, (perhaps more interestingly) possibility is that a [StableCoin] might be created by building a distributed P2P "currency issuer" and generating the StableCoins directly into the existing Ripple network. The P2P issuer network would programmatically monitor STC exchange rate changes, then reach a distributed consensus on "mining issues" (How many new coins to issue and who to assign those coins to.) Once issued the new STC coins would exist independent of the P2P network's (and OpenCoin's) control and would trade inside Ripple as an equal peer to XRP.Any thoughts?P.S. I have a particular stability algorithm in mind. It takes advantage of the "buy low" (below target), "sell high" (above target) nature of speculators to quickly drive STC's exchange rate back toward its inherent SteadyTarget value.Note: This is NOT the same algorithm I wrote of elsewhere. So it is pretty clear to me that Ripple's XRP is not a [StableCoin] nor is it intended to be such. XRP's volatility will always be related to supply and demand similarly to BitCoin. However, XRP and BTC have opposite causes for their volatility.BTC has a bounded supply and varying but potentially unbounded demand.XRP has an unbounded supply (OpenCoin's cache), but bounded demand. In other words, it simply doesn't take many XRP's/person to use the Ripple system for its intended purpose, trading non-XRP things. (Approximately 75 XRP right now) If OpenCoin could give away 75 XRP to a billion new users for free without exhausting the 80 Billion they plan to giveaway. The idea is to create a StableCoin that is complementary to the volatility of BTC. The initial primary users would be BTC speculators. STC gives them a stable, safe counter position to trade into when BTC values are falling. When they think BTC will rise again, speculators will trade STC for BTC. Such a complementary coin doesn't exist.Most of the other alt-coins have fixed monetary policies similar to BTC. While they don't rise and fall in perfect sync, coins like BTC and LTC do seem to trend together. This makes them competitive rather than complementary. No sense trading out of BTC and into LTC when both are falling, nor when both are rising.So what makes my StableCoin stable? The BTC speculators' themselves. I'm proposing a coin with a dynamic minting policy. Let's say we start the system out minting 50 STC a block. Then during each block building period, we let STC owners vote to raise or lower the minting rate of subsequent blocks. STC owner vote by irrevocably burning coins. A vote to raise the minting rate requires burning 1 coin. A vote to lower the minting rate requires burning 1 coin. The vector sum (positive up votes plus negative down votes) sets the direction and magnitude to change the minting rate. So 10 positive votes and 8 negative votes gives a net +2. This means subsequent blocks will mint more BTC per block than the current block will mint.Consensus on policy can be determined by comparing the vector sum to the magnitude of the vote. So in this case there were 18 total votes that summed to +2. Mostly disagreement. So we should raise the coins/block rate, but not by much. If however the up or down vote was nearly unanimous then we should change the rate much faster. The ratio of (net votes) to (total votes) describes the external market for coins.Minters will vote up when they think their personal benefit will exceed the cost of their up-vote. STC hoarders will vote down when they think inflation might eat into the value of their hoard. The "social contract" of the coin is to keep its value stable. When minters and hoarders work together, monetary policy can be adjusted quickly and cheaply. When they work against each other both burn money accomplishing nothing.Here is how a sudden demand increase for STC might play out as block votes progress:0:0 = Exchange price is at the StableTarget. Everyone is happy with the current minting rate.1:1 = (Initial Detection) Exchange price is slightly above target. Increase minting some.10:10 = (Consensus) Exchange price is way above target. Open the minting flood gates.6:10 = Exchange price is correcting. Slow rate increases.0:10 = (Disagreement) Exchange price is correcting. Don't change rate.-2:10 = Exchange price is over correcting. Reduce the minting rate.-1:5 = (Growing ambivalence toward change) Exchange price is recovering.0:2 = (fading disagreement over rate change) Exchange prices is converging to StableTargetSomewhere in the deltas of those two values is a non-linear function that describes how to change the minting rate. I'd have to look it up, but I'm pretty sure this is directly related to balancing an inverted pendulum.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inverted_pendulumIt is of course possible for speculators to "drop the pendulum". In this case that would mean: 1) Run away deflation. (zero minting in the face of growing demand) Or 2) Run away inflation. (continued minting during falling demand) Letting either of these cases happen runs counter to BTC<->STC speculators' best interest. 1) creates a useless BTC clone that nobody will buy into. 2) creates a crashing STC that speculators can't sell out of.So the "experimental" nature of this coin explores cooperation among self-interested parties sharing a common goal. Anyone interested? Did you get anyone yet Sweft?I want to implement an interesting coin that can inflate forever and adjust its inflation according to demand. It is different from what you are proposing but it will be a lot more interesting of an experiment than any other alt-coin.I wrote the gist of the concept here.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.msg1942413#msg1942413If you are interested, a 3 coin bounty might be a fun reason to actually implement it. When Ripple goes into widespread rollout I don't expect there to be any "community" of general users. No more than there is a community of PayPal or Visa Card users.There will be a community of peer ledger validation nodes. I think that community will be smaller than bitcoin's mining POOL community. But probably about the same size as the bitcoin transaction validation community. Its a bug. a regression. They are working to fix it. Your ideas are very well reasoned and elucidated. Again, I encourage you to:1) Introduce yourself here.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.02) Create a new thread that puts forth the ideas you've expounded here. Also, include the parts you think are infeasible. All of us are doing that. Perhaps an odd combination of each of our ideas will turn out to be feasible. Please put [StableCoin] in the title of your new thread. That way like minded forum users will be able to find it when they search for the topic. It wouldn't and Ripple doesn't have consistent "ledger" time either. Simply the fastest transaction confirmation time possible. Block time tends to be bounded by time to reach consensus.HOWEVER, what this does do is help synchronize peer clocks. With "peers" meaning those who validate and reach consensus on ledgers. In a perfect world, each ledger would have a time stamp after the previous and before the next. Ripple can enforce this much more tightly than a PoW block chain. Since every consensus build peer agrees what time the previous ledger was created. One of those peers can't put forward the proposition that they created the NEXT ledger at a clock time before they validated the PREVIOUS ledger. Think of ledger (block) creation times in Ripple as "notarization" times for the transactions they commit.Note that BitCoin (and likely FreiCoin) relies on the block timestamps as well. It uses that information to adjust the difficulty rate. To do this reliably, BitCoin must presume that more than (X%) of the block creating nodes are not colluding to falsify block times. Ripple requires 80% to reach consensus. Seems like having more consistent block time stamps would be a good thing for a demurrage currency. Right?Did you see the gateway demurrage idea on the Ripple wiki?https://ripple.com/wiki/Gateway_demurrage Ding Ding Ding! We have a Winner! Linked it. Thanks markm @wingding, You might want to check out this post.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=190030.msg1972784#msg1972784Not exactly what you want, but a potential source base to start from. @markm, Which GRouPCoin thread would you like me to link at the [SteadyCoin] Introduce yourself thread?I'd forgotten GrouPCoin was still running. Someone else was asking about a LinearCoin like that. Except one that forked off the existing BTC chain. I'll point him your way if he still wants that. @sweft, You might want to consider prefixing your title with the term [StableCoin]. We are using that to help associate related threads. If you search for it, you will find people who share your same interests.The other day there were guys creating their own coin just to learn how "NoobCoin" I think is what they called it. They also have #noobcoin on freenet IRC if I remember correctly. Most of them were young. They would probably jump at the coins.I was considering LinearCoin (<-- search for that) myself as the same kind of learning project. I've changed my mind and decided to spend my time on another project. You might talk to the guy proposing "LinearCoin". I think he would like your even better.Edit: I linked your thread herehttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.msg1878011#msg1878011 It can't be done with self-referential code alone. Something needs to be able to observe changes in external demand for the coin. Inputting the "market price and depth" as it changes is one possibility. However, that initiates a cascade of design questions. Which market? Who inputs the data? How often? What if the dominant market changes? Who decides when to change markets and who inputs that data...Ripple makes this closer to a possibility since trading happens INTERNAL to the Ripple system. However, there are still lots of other issues to consider. I encourage you to create a thread with your ideas on 3a. I'd love to hear them. If you do please put [StableCoin] somewhere in the title so I will notice it when I search for new concepts. Look!... I deleted all the stuff irreverent to my following comment and left only the link for those who care to look up it's context.  I totally agree with you're logic. Been thinking about this problem for almost 4 years. That is what the [StableCoin] topic is all about.Your "(b) is likely a naïve suggestion" is probably true in terms of fiat currencies and the world at large.However, I do believe it is possible in a Coin based ecosystem. In fact, I think I have a stable & practical solution to "(b)" (in terms of an alt-coin) worked out. Thanks JoelKatz.You just saved me asking you a lot of questions. That was related to what happened between me and my friend. I asked for his secret rather than his user/pass because it is rude to ask for user/pass. Too many people use reuse passwords on different services.It's all good. He has his wallet back now. I funded him enough XRP to create a fresh new wallet. Just thought it was rude to leave (now-useless) ledger spam. Thanks dchapes!But it's Saturday and my bank is closed. All I want is a few USD IOU in my account to test with $10.I'm going to make this a quick personal project. I'm going to look someone up on https://localbitcoins.com and try to convince him to help me. That means I can add DividendRippler.com to my list of possibilities.Anyone have experiences with DividendRippler.com OK, thanks! Such is life.I am interested in how it breaks the wallet security model (slightly) though? Thanks! Just posted the same question in the "let's test it" thread. Oops.
I have a friend trying to active his wallet. I sent him 250 XRP but he says his Ripple client is reporting "Offline". He sent me his secret key and I can open the wallet from my machine.Any idea what that might mean?EDITHe managed to get it to work from his laptop. But not his Galaxy Note 2.How do I send the entire balance to another account and close that ledger entry? The wallet is not useful anymore now that two people have the "secret" right? Thank you! I did not know that.Anyone know what bank WeExchange uses? Thanks for the great info! Anyone else have any experiences? @joelkatz, I have a friend trying to active his wallet. I sent him 250 XRP but he says his Ripple client is reporting "Offline". He sent me his secret key and I can open the wallet from my machine.Any idea what that might mean?EDITHow do I send the entire balance to another account and close that ledger entry? The wallet is not useful anymore now that two people have the "secret" right? Yes, we get it. You've said that enough it sounds like a childish tantrum.I'm fine. YOU cannot establish trust without that. Good for you! Off I go now! Bye bye. I need to choose a Ripple Gateway trustworthy enough to hold $10's of USD for me while I test out Ripple. I have no experience with any existing BTC exchanges/counter parties.So my open question is? Who do you trust? Tell me your GOOD experiences? No flame wars please. How is it hand wavy to recommend you only TRUST OpenCoin enough to ask for Ripple's equivalent of an "invite to their closed beta"?That is exactly how much I trust OpenCoin. I don't. I trust a currently centralized currency that is not distributed at all yet.I trust it implicitly because I have ZERO at risk with OpenCoin. They gave me all the XRP I'll ever need. If they shut the whole project down tomorrow I would lose nothing. The same will be true of the majority of their potential customers/users.These facts cannot change for me over time. My only risk is in choosing to trust a particular Gateway to hold my USD. Right now I have enough XRP to make 1,700,000,000 PayPal like USD transactions. However, now I need to find a Ripple Gateway I trust to hold USD for me. That is where my worries lie. (my counter party risk is here) Not with OpenCoin.Does anybody have any personal experiences with any of the current Ripple Gateway operators? Just to be clear bitchess, I DO NOT recommend you or anyone else buy XRP and hold them like you hold BTC. I also do not recommend that anybody EVER buy XRP to speculate on its price. Ever. Period. That is not what XRP is for. Speculative trading in XRP will not make anyone rich EXCEPT OpenCoin founders. It should be clear to the casual observer that OpenCoin can manipulate the exchange price of XRP at will by rapidly adjusting/constricting supply. It is also clear that they will be GIVING AWAY XRP FOR FREE for a long time to come.I do, however, recommend you personally *acquire* enough XRP to activate two addresses. Then send some XRP back and forth to yourself. I think the minimum amount of XRP required to test out those features is about 150 XRP right now.What's the best way to *acquire* XRP? Make an address and add it to OpenMarket's Free XRP thread. That gave me 20,000 XRP but it took a day or two to receive them. I was impatient so I asked an OpenCoiner for some in order to test. He gave me a few hundred. FULL DISCLOSURE: I don't expect to EVER buy XRP to use for saving or for spending directly. I will keep some around to use to pay transaction fees. From my experience, the current transaction fee is 0.00001 XRP/transaction. This does not seem to change relative to the amount of XRP send in a transaction. Technically, what you propose can be done. I imagine it will be done (with appropriate warnings) once the server software is released. Read my post on eDonkey2000 (above) to grasp the potential consequences of easy/automatic upgrading.As for why not now. I'm presuming this is OpenCoin's beta period. Beta is a time allotted for potential real world customers to bash on the system and report bugs. This allow OpenCoin to make the system as stable as possible for it's actual P2P FULL release. Thank you for answering! That sounds quite sensible to me. @bitchess, there are a group of us discussing similar ideas under the concept name StableCoin <-- not a real coin. That is a site searchable term we've coined for #2 with an option of #1. You might want to introduce yourself in this thread. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.0 https://github.com/rippleFoundation Do you write code?When you run a Ripple peer, every transaction gets copied to your machine just like running a bitcoin peer. If you have the code, and the data. You have total control. Unless the data is somehow encrypted by your secret server. But that would be detected as soon as someone ran their own Ripple peer.What you are suspicious of, technically, cannot be done. Unless you are presuming that Ripple will never decentralize their system. (Ripple will own EVERY node) In that case this conversation is pointless. The concise answer is: it is impossible to maintain control through the code, when someone else possesses physical control of their own code. They could write some kill switch into the original code. Source code hackers could just comment it out and re-compile.You can only maintain a "kill-switch" kind of feature if your product is closed source. There is not a chance in hell that Ripple would take that chance.HOWEVER, my explanation requires a non-concise story... Oh! That question. Give me a minute. And I will respond directly.Edit: My response will probably cause more controversy than the OP. FATAL ERROR! I didn't mean to slander Liberty Reserve. I meant to reference Liberty Dollar! Iedited the post above to correct my mistake. My apologies to everyone at Liberty Reserve.http://www.nytimes.com/2012/10/25/us/liberty-dollar-creator-awaits-his-fate-behind-bars.html?pagewanted=all&_r=0 Such is life.But let me point out that you should find my, a random stranger's, opinion less trustworthy than a founder of Ripple's opinion.I really can't be offended by that. FATAL ERROR! I didn't mean to slander Liberty Reserve. I meant to reference Liberty Dollar! I'm changing this post now... Changed. My apologies to everyone at Liberty Reserve.Yes, I am 100% convinced, 1) they will release the source code, 2) they will not be able to *manipulate* the rules once they have done so. The rules will always be changeable (as they are with bitcoin). But it will require near 100% community approval (as with bitcoin).The main reason I'm so certain (i.e. the Satoshi reason) is because the less the formal control Ripple has over the rules of the system, the better the chances they don't get prosecuted for forgery like the Liberty Dollar guy. That is the beauty of their plan. They don't need to manipulate the network ever. I'm going to answer this concisely in this post and I'll give an extended answer in my next...Owning all the XRP (as they do now) implies that they can manipulate the market price of XRP at will. I presumed that they would do so in order to preserve a SteadyCoin like value for XRP. I just had no idea of what steady target value they saw as their StableTarget.To me it seemed "intuitively obvious" their goal was to be able to have *external* USD/XRP exchanges, along with euro/XRP yen/XRP rupee/XRP ... etc.  People would physically give or electronically transfer USD to their preferred gateway and that gateway would exchange it for XRP that you would hold in your Ripple address (a la bitcoin). Then when you would send the XRP to another address (a la bitcoin). Then the person you send it to could convert it to euro, yen, rupee... etc. using their preferred gateway.Duh! Right?To make that system work pretty much REQUIRES keeping the value of XRP stable (SteadyCoin). Otherwise, people wouldn't be able to PERCEIVE their XRP as being EQUAL to USD. Again, Duh! Right? The *evil brilliance* of that plan is that maintaining the perceived stability of the system REQUIRES them to sell their boundless stash of XRP as necessary to compensate for increased demand for XRP as Ripple user base increases. Right? Brilliant! Right?Wrong. It turns out thats how morons like me and Liberty Dollar would implement the system. They have a name for that in the USA. We call it FORGERY. The government has secret agents to put a stop to that. They're called "The Secret Service". Ask the Liberty Dollar guy.No. What a truly F...ing, genius level, Satoshi level, BRILLIANCE would do.... would be... wait for it...Convert from USD/XRP at market rates *and* XRP/euro, yen, rupee...etc. at market rates... wait for it...INSTANTANEOUSLY! All in one, F...ing, single transaction. Holy Shit! as they say. It's Madness and I'm One Step Behind! That way Ripple (the company) doesn't have to give a flying F... about what the market rate for XRP is.Better still, Ripple owners holding so much XRP give the perceptions that they can manipulate the market price at will (They can). Thereby reducing most people's urge to speculate in XRP (a la bitcoin). The fewer people who perceive XRP as equivalent to the USD the better for Ripple (the company) and its founders. The last place they want to be standing is next to the Liberty Dollar guy. The more people who perceive XRP as inflationary the better as well. Being guaranteed inflationary means that selling XRP can't possibly be perceived as an investment scam (except on this web site) nor as a Ponzi scheme.There! How's that for CONCISE.They don't. They don't have to care. To Ripple BTC is just yet another externally issued currency. Inside Ripple you can have as many of those as you want. I could be a Cheese Burgers gateway in Ripple if I saw a market. Someone in Russia could send 500 rubles to me in Cheese Burgers and I could take delivery in the USA.Ripple changes F...ing everything.
That's really f***ing clever! At least to my sleepy brain. The specifics are available on the Ripple wiki. If you understand the internal design and mechanics of BitCoin you will see that the design and mechanics of Ripple are superior in every way. It is like BitCoin (the code base) 2.0. It would be trivial to make BitCoin (the coin) better, faster, cheaper by converting the existing BitCoin block chain into a new Ripple (the code base) ledger.That is the obvious next step for BitCoin once the Ripple code base is released. Most everything important on the BitCoin Hard Fork Wishlist is already done in the Ripple code base. Doing so would have one really interesting side effect.Ripple (the code base) has zero use for the "mining" part of current BitCoin miner's expensive rigs. It would be trivial to mod the Ripple code base to distribute 25 BTC among those who helped validate transactions in a given 10 minute period. However, the validation chore can be done with the power of a cell phone. (maybe a little exaggeration, but certainly with the old laptop you recently upgraded)Goodbye, GPU cards, FPGAs, and ASICs. But really... Would that be a bad thing? @turtlepower, I linked your topic here. The thread is intended to help gather everyone on this site who is interested in a potential stable valued coin. When you get out of jail come join the conversation.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.msg1878011#msg1878011 Thanks for adding [StableCoin] into your list even though it is a discussion topic and not an actual coin implementation. I'm thrilled to have so many new people to bounce ideas off of. Please send me more! Ripple has made an interesting design departure from BitCoin. One that I actually agree with given Ripple's broad-adoption goals and trivial-to-use message. A Ripple "Wallet" is basically (with one clever exception) a SINGLE address and its associated private key. By contrast, BitCoin wallets contain multiple addresses and private keys.By philosophy, BitCoins encourages you to use a new address/privKey for every transaction to increase anonymity. Ripple, on the other hand, discourages ledger bloat (very important!) by requiring a minimum balance be maintained in every address.The side effect of this (very important for broad adoption and fast transaction commits) design decision, is that most Ripple users will have one and only one Ripple address. Thus making it trivial to associate a real life identity with a particular address.Sure anyone can create alternate identities at TRIVIAL cost in XRPs. But most people won't see the need to do so. At least for a while. This has certain positive and negative consequences.Positive: It will become the new and better captcha system. No need to give away your personal information and email address and then click a confirmation email. WOOT!Negative: Everyone will know who your are anyway.However, it also has an obscure and twisted side-effect...Giving strangers a very random looking ripple address makes them feel more anonymous than today... But they aren't.Will this cause any significant behavior changes in the general population? Their new code base and trading models really are "that good". In fact, it may be possible to build a whole new StableCoin INSIDE Ripple. One that can trade against XRP just like Fiat does. Ripple has the "colored bitcoin" notion of a custom currency issued by a trusted party.Still investigating whether such a custom currency could be issued automatically, over time, based on a particular rule set. Certainly, that could be allowed by modifying their server-side code to implement specific Alt-Coin rules. (i.e. award 50 BTC every 10 minutes to every node operator that validated ledgers over that 10 minute period.) However, it would be F***ing Awesome if new experimental rule sets could be issued externally in some general way. I doubt that will be plausible, however, because it would mean that every crack-pot with an Alt-Coin idea would spam the ledgers with worthless new coins. What a fatal way to compromise Ripple's "simple" payment message. This is a very interesting coin philosophically. It's in the class of "Redistribution of Wealth" coins like:FreiCoin - Demurrage based coinUDivCoin - Universal Dividend based coin  (see: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=796.0)Those two coins are polar opposite implementations of the same basic idea. "Spending money encourages growth."TrueCoin is like a twisted version of to Universal Dividend. It represents a "Miner Only" Dividend coin. I guess that's for people who invest their time and efforts in making the coin possible. The only rational name for the coin I can see is the obvious.InvestorCoin - Takes value from everyone. Gives it to mining peer node operators.To turn this coin into Universal Dividend would require every alive human to run a mining node of approximately equal hashing power. That could be done, but it sounds a bit redundant, heavy on bandwidth, and wasteful of resources.EDIT: I linked this thread here. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.msg1878011#msg1878011Trying to build an index of people working on coins they hope will have a stable value. [StableCoin] Exactly! Etlase2 and I have been saying the same thing for years!Yup, Ripple has an equally brilliant solution to synchronizing time. Set the default block creation time to ZERO! Seriously, as soon as there are any new transactions. ANY node can declare a block/ledger created. Then they start the consensus cycle. Once consensus is reached if their are any new transactions someone declares a block and they start again! Brilliant! The also included a (per address) transaction sequence number DUH! That way its trivial to tell if a circulating transaction is old or a double spend attempt.I discussed this very point with satoshi himself as it related to bitcoin. I thought keeping the old transactions at all was a curious decision for an "anonymous" p2p system. We kicked around several ideas, but none really played out. You can all agree to "forget" but you have to presume someone is lying and saving old transactions anyway.Yup! Now you are totally in sync with Etlase2 and I. The Ripple web client is not saving my contacts between sessions. Is it supposed to?I'm using LocalBrowser mode. Is this why it initial wanted to store my blog on a server somewhere?Or maybe I have a browser configuration option wrong somewhere.I'm using Safari 6.0.3 on a OS X 10.8.3 I've been researching Ripple. It's ledgers (blocks), transactional model, INSTANT commits, consensus building, scalability, etc...If you read their wiki it should be obvious to the casual observer that Ripple is *Coin 2.0. There is just no question. I has every desirable bitcoin system/code improvement we've ever discussed in a StableCoin/EnCoin/GEM/Decrits thread. In the future every new coin will be a fork of the Ripple codebase. It's just better in every way.On top of that, OpenCoin has built a business called Ripple. In that business they use XRP to control spamming the blocks/ledgers. See Ripple "Reserves". They also use it for internal accounting. They also it for things that other threads have called "Colored" bitcoins. In ripple you can have IOUs, keep track of your Dollars separately from your Euros. Send Dollars from one address to Rupees at another address. The transaction creating system (client) finds the best rate in the ledger. Exchanges denominations in the ledger. Delivers the money in the ledger. Everything is completely 100 percent distributed, secured, anonymous and trustworthy.The one thing that's not really their primary use case, however, is storing stable value in XRP. Those values are intended to float around. XRP are not StableCoins in the sense that we've been using that term. But it doesn't matter because the system trades from dollars to XRP to rupees in a single transaction. It doesn't need to "hold" XRP over any period in which the value can change. Their is no reason that we/anyone couldn't build a StableCoin monetary policy using a fork of the Ripple codebase. (When available) But it's not completely clear to me if there is a long term reason for doing so. If you think the dollar sucks and is going to fail. Just send your money to Europe and store it there. Or China, or anywhere you trust a bank.Don't trust a bank? Well I guess that's StableCoin's primary audience now.Any thoughts? You know what's a scam about Ripple?It won't save the names I put in my address book?   I mean WTF! What a total Scam!   You are pretty f***ing CLUELESS!https://github.com/JoelKatzSeen that name lately? Might want to scroll back a little bit...  Laughing my ass off at the irony. Let me sell you that Clue. Maybe you should go to the Ripple website and look up the name he posts under here!!!Rolling on the Floor! Laughing My Ass OFF! I was begging for XRP on this day before yesterday! That's when I learned about Ripple!I have 20554.9999 XRP555 from a Ripple founder, because I asked him nicely. I was impatient.My free 20000 from the free XRP post came a day later. The founder of Gox was previously the founder of eDonkey2000. Hey's paid his dues in P2P systems.You can't use Ripple to do anything without having ripples in your account. That is exactly the same as with BitCoin. There is no place convenient to buy Ripples yet, so they give some out free. They don't want to sell Ripples to YOU. They want to sell Ripples to Amazon.com in exchange for them benefitting from instant free payments from you in Dollars, Euros, etc.I can send you some Ripples and maybe you can Buy a Clue. Is it really unclear to people why brand new accounts can't participate in a free giveaway? You really have no idea who this guys are, what they've done, or why do you?1. These are P2P veterans, long term members of this site, and guy who built the foundations for what bitcoin is.2. They've built the reference implementation (code base) for BitCoin 2.0. Moving all the transaction data and rules for BitCoin to the Ripple codebase will make everything about using BTC better, faster, and cheaper. And have no doubt they will release the server code open source. It's in their trust model for the entire P2P system. The highest level of trust is "I built the server from source". 3. They don't want XRP to be the next "coin". They want Ripple to be the next PayPal and MtGox combined. They built for scale and for speed. The code is brilliant. Buying XRP will NEVER be a get rich quick scheme for speculators. But that is pretty much the point. Sure you can try to use it as a "store of value" but that's not what its for. That's what BitCoins are for.Ripple will make BitCoins better. Easier and faster to use. It's servers cheaper to run. Make the data that needs to be stored smaller.And it will increase BitCoin's accessibility. People will BE ABLE to buy/sell BitCoins in every neighborhood corner store. Now, you just have to come up with a REASON for people to WANT BitCoins. Hey, let's take the arguing out of the "Welcome..." thread!Make another thread that starts with [StableCoin] so everyone can find it.I'm still coming to terms with Ripple. I'm going to make a new thread about that too. Thanks for the link. I was presuming there was earlier discussion on this forum.It's all good. I've been researching Ripple technical specs and it is f***ing awesome. Ripple has already implement most of BitCoin's wish list.No I'm not referring to monetary policy. Just the technical under pinnings. You could fork the ripple code base and recreate the existing bitcoin transaction tree inside it. You could create exactly the same BitCoin rules with added internal exchange trading. No more MtGox. Oh yeah, and you wouldn't need to burn up CPUs, GPUs, FPGAs, ASICs. You could just award the mining transactions to the nodes validating the transactions. rHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2Thank you! been having trouble testing Ripple without any.
I've come up with an idea for the simplest (for me to create) InertiaCoin I can think of. I'm going to write about it in a separate thread. It is based on the "complementary currency" idea (a la NameCoin). It will use mixed-mining so there is zero extra PoW to be done.It will use BitCoin's transaction fee to reward miners and discourage chain bloat. BUT, there is no preset mining reward. Over time mining rewards will vary with monetary policy to create price stability.Monetary policy will be set in a completely distributed fashion. It will use a proof-of-stake "Vested Interest Voting" system. In other words, users who don't vote are presumed to be OK with the status quo. Those who want a change in the current coin creation/destruction policy, Vote. Voting can be done at any block change. Creating/destroying coins will be done similarly to my GEM proposal.Any initial thoughts?By the way, this is the Cheap and Sleazy version of my plan. I have a much more stable version. And a PeggedVersion. But before we get lost in details, I want to see if there is any interest at all. I think if I don't act on the idea immediately, Ripple will run the table on Coins. @wingding, we've "imagined" that coin a number of times. See my GEM proposal linked in my introduction post. Etlase2's proposals are based on that concept as well.@Etlase2, been looking at Ripple's underlying mechanics. They've implemented a lot of the stuff we've wanted to do.1. Keeping a balance sheet instead of separate inputs and outputs. (Encoin style)2. Distributed consensus building. For this they used the personal trust rules I described somewhere.3. Instant irreversible commits based on that consensus. (Encoin)4. No mining rewards. Peers validate the ledger because they have a long term self-interest in doing so. (My assertion)5. No cpu power wasted on POW at all. (My assertion)Edit: WRONG! Ignore this presumption6. (unconfirmed presumption) Every Ripple peer is a stakeholder with a vested interested in stable valued XRP. They will use a centralized LETS-like process to "fairly distribute" some initial  XRP among early adopters. With the goal being to drive the initial XRP exchange price into a pre-planned trading price relative to some Fiat benchmark. After that Ripple will release XRP from their huge reserve in order to meet demand. This will be OK with a consensus of users because stability is a quality of every user's social contract with Ripple.Neither of us was a proponent of the number 6 implementation. However, we were both in favor of the stability social contract idea. Can you link me to this discussion please? Want to see if they do it the way I presume they do it. What is Rippin? Is that a project of yours?Weren't they paying people in XRP for likes?Where's that link?Edit: http://slickdeals.net/f/5963306-300-Ripples-XRP-free-with-Like-on-Facebook-page-Ripple-is-virtual-currency-similar-to-Bitcoins?Damn, I don't have a facebook account either. Oh, it turns out that problem is pretty easy. They've already solved it. You will never notice a single consensus problem with Ripple. That's what the XRP are for. Way back in 2010 I proposed that BitCoin's intention was to be a Global kind of LETS system.Now, Ripple is proposing itself to be THE global exchange trading system. I think that has significant consequences for BitCoin. What do you mean? On price? Or on transaction history? It is not speculating in the sense that BTC is speculating.XRP's already have a pre-planned *FIXED* value. We just don't know what it is. That is why I was asking for somebody to send me XRP. Then we would see how much is MISSING.In other words, what is their transaction FEE in XRP.They already told us their transaction fee in USD ($0.0001).If I could see the the transaction fee in XRP, the FIXED rate is simple division.If anyone is interested. My ripple address is:rHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2I'll send the coins right back. That is indeed the point of the exercise. I'm pretty sure most people don't grasp what Ripple is. It's not money in the sense that BTC is money. It is not a store of wealth at all. Their is really no point in speculating in XRPs. That's not what it's for.If there is a scam it is that OpenCoin used the "Coin" suffix to confuse BitCoiners. It's a self-promotion scam. I think you are right about Ripple's niche. "Community credit creation" seems to imply that you think my LETS analogy is appropriate. That pretty much makes Ripple the LETS clearing house right? LETS by design is a pure facilitator of exchange. Storing personal wealth inside a LETS system is actively discouraged. The same will become true for Ripple as well.So that relegates BitCoin's primary function to storing personal wealth... Point taken. You've posted pretty darn intelligently on this subject. Would "rolling-up" all a new LinearCoin user's address into a single new address be any better?Personally, I think that would be even less popular.Even if I changed the rules to wave that potential transaction fee, it would affect transaction privacy ON BOTH networks. Creating Etlase2's "Open TX Only" approach would avoid accidental transactions, but it wouldn't change the privacy issues.That's a shame. I wanted to do that automatic roll-up block work and and donate it back to BitCoin. It's on the future features list.This is sounding like a dumber and dumber idea. Amazing how hard it is to give out FREE COINS! :-)------------------Again, if I undertake this it is just for the practical experience of working with the codebase. I don't really think the LinearCoin philosophy is logically any better than BitCoin's. After all for most of the time I've been watching BitCoin it has been a LinearCoin system. It wasn't till late last year that the mining rate dropped. In fact, for the next couple of years BitCoin will continue to be a LinearCoin system. And the 4 years after that, and after that...Giving away coins linearly didn't stop the repeated Bubble and Bust cycle over the first 4 years. In that regard things haven't changed in the second 4 years. Isn't that what makes Coin speculation fun for so many people? OK, so begging doesn't go over well. I updated the original post to expand on my intentions.I propose that left unchecked, Ripple has the potential crash the BitCoin market. Anyone want to argue about it. Those are really smart guys FFS! Yeah, I tried that first but they are not responding quickly.If I wanted to test it tomorrow, I'd have asked tomorrow! ;-) I'd like to test out ripple just for the hell of it. If you are wondering why...Way back in 2010 I proposed that BitCoin's intention was to be a Global kind of LETS system.Now, Ripple is proposing itself to be THE global exchange trading system. I think that has significant consequences for BitCoin.So just to keep an Eye on the competitors, I'd like to push some ripple back and forth.If anyone could send me some ripple, I promise to send it right back.I've got a lot of posts on this site. Nobody has called me a scammer yet!Thanks a lot for the helpRedrHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2 An amazing amount of date is stored but rarely fetched. Your approach might not know until too late. Also, it requires needless (slow) network traffic to test. Since I'm supposing your proof-of-stake is related to (number of blocks stored) * (time stored/block). Gaming the system might be to a malicious node's advantage. Thank you! rHUipvsbBKagmU5qxFYCVfRoHKkBaYztm2 That is an interesting concept. Thanks for the reference to a Bloom Filter!The problem I see is that while you know the stored a data. You don't know if that store displaced something else. (They deleted the data afterwords)Would you know on the next store? Does every byte stored need to go through the Bloom Filter each time? Article was TL;DR; (yet)An alternate solution is just to pose a proof-of-storage piece of work. Obviously there would need to be redundant storage of each data block. Just ask each redundant node to re-hash the block using a random seed that you choose. They should all match. I don't currently hold BTC but how do I get a Ripple account/address? The web site just put me on a mailing list. Do you have any invites? How do I get a Ripple invite/account?I signed up on they're website, but that just put me on a mailing list.Did I miss something?
Newly created address will be different from the other chain. However, since LinearCoin will copy BitCoin's database of addresses. The same wallet (public keys) you use for BitCoin will also work for your LinearCoin "free-premine".EDIT: NO, your coins will not be able to be STOLEN under any circumstance. The necessary LinearCoin client would warn you about your pre-fork coins. The easy solution is to just send your coins to yourself. This will push them past the fork on the LinearCoin chain. At worst, someone could copy that transaction and re-submit it to the BitCoin network. That would have the effect of sending your coins to yourself there as well. The BitCoin move will not be automatic. Moving BitCoins effects your "Coin Age". Some may not want that.I think it is only fair to call this bootstrapping method a "pre-mine". Some people get coins before the p2p network even launches. Those people are current BitCoin holders.HOWEVER, there is NO ADDITIONAL pre-mine by wingding or I should I choose to help him. I would be doing this purely for the technical experience of creating an alt-coin. I don't want to speak for wingding. He has already made his philosophical reasons known elsewhere. FULL DISCLOSURE, I am not a BitCoin holder.I do not know if wingding is a BitCoin holder.I have made my reluctance to purchase bitcoins known elsewhere as well. However, if you read my old posts you will see that I have a long history on this site. I am also a 100% supporter of BitCoin's use in making ANONYMOUS purchases over the internet possible. That is why I (might) undertake this project. @wingding, Have you started trying to build the code? Are you a software developer? I'm guessing the BitCoin developers would suggest the TestNet for that... I agree that makes more sense long term operation. The first solution "seems" easier only as a first step towards your proposal. Thanks for the thoughtful response Stephen. That makes perfect sense. That makes sense. In fact, I just read that in the transaction validation logic last night. Duh!But they do relay new block announcements. Even if they are off the current chain. Right?So option (2) requires BitCoin developer buy-in even for a plausible test.I'm not an advocate of that path. I just mentioned it because I presume that is what wingding was initially thinking.1. Download source2. Change the mining parameters3. Checkpoint a particular forking block4. Compile, run and "Away we go!"Could do option (1) by:1a Download source1b Download block chain2a Change the mining parameters2b Change the port2c Tweak the genesis to change its hash2d Re-hash all the other blocks at trivial difficulty3. Checkpoint a particular forking block4. Compile, run and "Away we go!"At least that would get to a stable TestNet configuration to mess with.Now I'm not Pollyanna. I don't expect this concept to be popular despite the free coins. Without significant mixed-mining support people are going to treat this chain like Indiana John's whip!I just want to compile the client and dink with it for practice. I've got my own Alt-Coin ideas. I just need a simple shared goal as motivation to get started.  Have you already started work on this? Or is this your pre-project brainstorming?WARNING: I am not an expert on this but I have a software engineering background and reasonable familiarity with the block chain and transaction graph data structures.There are two ways to approach the problem.1. Create a new LinearCoin P2P network entirely disconnected from the existing BitCoin P2P nodes.    This would require copying the entire BitCoin block chain to your new nodes before they could start relaying     transactions independent of the BitCoin P2P network. Theoretically, this keeps LinearCoin transactions from     spending BitCoins. HOWEVER, new LinearCoin transactions accessing these pre-fork blocks would be bitwise     copies of transactions that COULD spend on the BitCoin Chain. All it would take is for ANYONE to copy it and     submit it to the BitCoin network. You have to presume some malicious node WOULD.    Merged mining is theoretically possible in this case. Search for NameCoin they invented the concept.    Merged mining does NOT imply that LinearCoin block creation would be synchronized with BitCoin nor     that its difficulty be the same. It doesn't come for free though. You have to convince existing BitCoin     miners to support your chain as well. If they saw LinearCoins as valuable, supporting merged mining     would be as easy for them as supporting NameCoin.2. Attempt to "peacefully" use the existing BitCoin P2P nodes for relaying transactions.    In this case your fork might be able to coexist on nodes along side the bitcoin fork. I think nodes do this by     default. However, long term support would require BUY-IN from the existing BitCoin developers because at     some point they will lock-in a block CHECKPOINT outside your fork. At that point BitCoin nodes would likely    stop relaying your transactions.    Mixed mining is this case should be even easier. However, again, it requires BUY-IN from the BitCoin developers.  Really interesting ideas blogospheroid! The group is really getting larger!Just for your reference:Impaler is working on Freicoin. It is demurrage based. He is also kicking around ideas on locking coins.Glad he mentioned it. I'd forgotten Etlase2 was fleshing those ideas out as wellI'm glad you mentioned incentives. That's one of my favorite topics! Nobody ever wants to discuss "manipulating" the users. It's still a pretty big quirk but I guess you could fix the client to warn about and correct the issue. You pointed out the fix...But I think it's easier than that. You just need to send all of your coins to yourself first. Doesn't matter which chain you do that on. That will split all your coins into their appropriate forks. From there you can spend them independently. The client could do this automatically for you the first time you use it. That would destroy all your coin age and maybe cost some fees.Fortunately, even if that happened "lost" LinearCoins coins would still be spendable. The BitCoiner would just have to come looking for them. Theoretically they still have valid keys. Actually, he has a pretty solid point. I missed it on first read.Any spendable BitCoins that existed before the form are spendable LinearCoins on the new fork. Stephen is pointing out that spending the LinearCoins from address "ABC..." creates a transaction that is bitwise identical to the one needed to spend the BitCoins at address "ABC..."Is that an intended feature or an issue?It means that your ostensibly pre-distributed LinearCoins exist in a strange state. If I send my BTC to Fred, my LNC goes with it. If I send my LNC to Fred, my BTC goes with it. On the other hand, Fred receiving the coins post fork WILL get two independent coins to spend. That's twisted Yes I would!   Hi wingding! Thanks for introducing yourself in my thread. I read both of your threads and agree with your "why" logic. I have to admit this is one of the more interesting approaches so far. Specifically forking off the existing chain.How far along are you? I might like to help out.Technically, it doesn't seem particularly hard. Are you going to set it up to use merged mining? That seems logical since you are giving the people already mining bitcoin free coins.I think the word "forked" in the topic is confusing people. It makes it seem like you are trying to create duplicate BitCoins. I'm pretty confident that is not your goal. It might be useful to adjust your description to one that parallels what other AltCoins have done.You should also make it clear that LinearCoins are not BitCoins and will never operate as interchangeable (value equivalents) with merchants or existing exchanges. Might also make it clear that BTC to LnC trading will have its own market determined exchange rate.Just a suggestion. wingding would you post about you and your plan in this thread?I'm trying to keep an index of all the on going efforts.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.0 I know I'm lame but I can't read Russian. Is their an english summary? Or can you tell us the basics? Despite what it seems, I'm in complete agreement with you. However, I agree what I wrote was confusing. If only you would read what I MEANT, instead of just reading what I WROTE. :-) I can make the case for incentives and disincentives too. But that is really a separate discussion from mining.  Now that I've read yours and Etlase2's ideas again, I think you are both on to the same principle.As I read him, his ideas is more like investing in a temporary mining company that may or may not end up being profitable for you in the near future. Before any mining can start, sufficient people must put at risk sufficient (A) stake. If enough people (B) don't buy in, the venture collapses before it can start, and the organizers loose what they've staked. Once the venture launches, an varying amount (C) of gold is mined each month investors get paid by they're share.I read yours more like free-range berry picking. (X) number of berries grow in a field every month. But if nobody pays a picker to go gather them then they're eaten by birds. Investors contract with pickers by the month. But there are only (Y) number of pickers available and each can only pick (Z) berries/month. If you have contracted with a picker but no longer want the berries, you can sell the contract to someone else. Awesome post Etlase2!I learned more of your basic principles from this post than I did from reading all the other pages! Thanks!So a the number of coins a Minting block creates is dependant on recent transaction activity? Do I understand that correctly? This is where the 5X the activity (or fee? I forget which) comes from? I know you hate hearing this but, yet again, but I'm having trouble grasping the big pictures, because I keep getting lost in all your details.I know you have a preoccupation with making sure P3 CPU miners can still generate coins along side new ASIC miners. But for the sake of an overview I really don't need to know.I'm really most interest in knowing:1. How does the system know that ZERO new coins need to be created at any given moment?2. What needs to change in at next moment to tell the system to CREATE new coins?3. What needs to change to tell the system to DESTROY unnecessary coins?4. What metric tells the system HOW MANY coins to create/destroy?5. What incentives and disincentives are used to encourage or discourage spending at appropriate moments? Damn, I've been putting off reading his new proposal because the two of us always end up arguing!I wrote about this in other placed, but I concluded that:1. If you are creating new coins, because the coin price has gone above your stability target, then2. The only effect you are trying to achieve, is to IMMEDIATELY reduce the coin trading price.3. The only stimulus that can cause this effect, it to give the coin to some one who will IMMEDIATELY sell the new coin, FOR LESS than anyone else is currently offering.4. Who are these people? The ones with coin addresses on the SELL side of current/recent transitions. Giving them to hoarders will have zero immediate effect. Neither will giving them to current buyers. You can argue giving them out might have future effect. But that just makes over shooting the target (and oscillation) much more likely.Damn there are so many important topics being mentioned. Perhaps the optimal GrailCoin is one that targets X% inflation. Boy that thread is going to cause flame wars! Want to start it? Are you listening Freicoin folks? Hi Adrian-x. Welcome to the discussion.I do appreciate your wanting to preserve bitcoin's "hard money" philosophy. And I agree a better initial distribution function is a key to increased "stability and greater and faster user adoption."However, personally, I don't know how to predict the initial adoption curve of a new coin. I'm pretty convinced that the rate of actual user adoptions is, very likely, directly related to the proposed initial distribution function. For me that means solving simultaneous non-linear equations and I suck at that.However, way smarter people than me have written volumes I'll never read unless given a starting reference. And that is the whole point of this thread. I'm actually reading your references in between typing. Thank you very much for the links.A concept that intrigues me is, say for discussion, a Gaussian based initial distribution DOES IMPLY a Logistic Function based adoption curve. Let's also postulate that the "natural" public adoption logistic curve tends toward a 15 year period. BUT, in coding, we guessed the wrong timescale. Say we chose 30, or maybe 10 years instead.Have you written or posted about how the "actual" adoption curve would be affected?
Yay! The first ever post to get the point of the exercise! Woot!It was just intended to an example starting point for discussion, not an ending point. I wanted the concept to be reasonably easy to grasp. And I wanted to make the limitations readily apparent so everyone could learn from the exercise and suggest improvements!Did I write that? I don't remember being that insightful.I did try to clearly point that out as a limitation. But curiously, back then when we looked at the jump from CPU to GPU and GPU to FPGA (no ASICs to analyze) what we noticed was that while hashes/sec took a huge jump, hashes/kwh didn't jump nearly as much as we expected. Koomey's law was pretty darn close.Those quotes are both him. I'm still looking for the next step. OK, I think I totally miss read what you intended.Paraphrasing, You want to scale the reward as a function of difficulty. A 2X difficulty increase causes a 2x increase in block reward.This was the starting point of both EnCoin, GEM. Dynamically It creates an InertiaCoin rather than a GrailCoin. It is also a MordorCoin. I was fine with finding an InertiaCoin but I wasn't satisfied with the amount of inertia it had. It tends to drift with processor efficiency improvements. It also drifts with changes in the cost of electricity.This is a direct derivative of that InertiaCoin idea which attempts to increase inertia and decrease energy use. Nobody else understood it enough at the time to generate a decent discussion. I'll start a new thread if you want to discuss it now.GEM is also a direct derivative, it was really just a second go at explaining the basic stabilization concept. GEM is a MordorCoin that also attempts to be a GrailCoin by controlling for changes in electricity cost and processor efficiency improvements. Tee Hee Hee! Etlase2, where have you heard comments like that before!  timhuge, that was exactly why I wrote the GEM proposal. It was just a thought experiment to concentrate on stabilization while changing BitCoin as little as possible (mostly to avoid tangential arguments).In the spirit of changing as little as possible. Here's how my conclusions in GEM differ slightly from Etlase2. I spend a little while reading up on Friecoin, Demurrage currencies and Gesell. It gave me a bit of an epiphany. Sorry, I'm not a true believer... But it did give me added clarity. A while back a guy was advocating for a new COIN with a concept he called the Universal Dividend. I thought the concept was so naive and stupid that I'm pretty sure I ran him off the site.EDIT: Found this Universal Dividend Currency link. http://wiki.openudc.orgNow, however, UD, Demurrage, & BitCoin all make me realize that there are orthogonal dimensions to coin design.Code:                   Fixed #       Unbounded                   Coins          Coins                ------------------------------                |             |              |laissez faire   |  BitCoin    |  Red's Coin  |   <-- my ideas for a StableCoin fit here                |             |              |                ------------------------------                |             |              |Redistributed   |  FreiCoin   | Universal Div|                |             |              |                ------------------------------I've noticed two other related dichotomies.Facilitating Trade vs. SavingSpeculative vs. Value PreservingAs Impaler pointed out, all these seem directly related to time."Likelyhood of a coin owner's wanting/needing to spend coins during a given period of time." Is an external force that acts on human behavior. Human behavior affects exchange value.There is another human dichotomy that drives different peoples behavior in different ways. It seems to involve the emotional want to be rewarded for...Work Performed           vs.    External Value Created"I did what I was told"         "I created a new *good* that can be traded"As services become increasingly important in our economy, this dimension becomes increasingly emotional. This emotionality also seems to be related to the perception of time as an actual *good* that can be saved and traded."I performed a service so someone else wouldn't have to, so they could..."Work Performed           vs.    External Value Created"Rest on their laurels"         "Create additional new *goods* that can be traded."I think all of these dichotomies will end dictating what kind of "StableCoins" each of us thinks should be created. Hi alex_fun,Thanks for linking this from the StableCione thread. I'll add it to the list of ongYou plan has an unexplained price stability weakness. You are creating your own exchange to enable your foundation to sell their coins at the stable target price.However, everyone will compete to sell their coins for less than the foundation. That way their coins will sell first. After all, at the beginning, there is nothing else to spend their coins on except to buy USD at the exchange. Even if there were something else to buy, its seller would need to convert back to USD by selling coins for less than the foundation price.The net effect is everyone will either receive or buy coins for less than the foundation price. And speculators will buy up coins at near zero prices, and use those coins to undercut sellers who received the coins as payment. Forcing them to drop their price even more.As far as I can tell, unless you mandate that everyone must sell at a higher price than the foundation, the foundation will never be about to sell a single coin. If you make that mandate, nobody else will be able to sell a single coin. So what it the point of buying or accepting them?To make this kind of system price stable at the beginning, your exchange would have to hold enough reserve enough USD to equal the target value of all distributed coins. Unfortunately, most people who received free coins just sell them back and take your USD. This puts you a worse place than just trying to sell them in the first place.Now that I think about it. I don't know how to bootstrap ANY StableCoin. I guess I'll have to look into that... Impaler this is a really awesome post. I'm sorry I didn't reply to it sooner. Actually the first time I read it I didn't completely understand your concepts. I had to read up on Freicoin and Demurrage to get the right context.Exactly! I'm still wrapping my head around the "futures" concept too. But in this case, if I was a speculator predicting deflation, I would want to... "Buy the OPTION to purchase someone else's coins in the future at TODAY's prices. So I could sell those coins at the FUTURE price along with my own."An option purchase = skin-in-the-game. A speculator gambles a small amount of money in advance. Against the chance for a leveraged profit in the future.Every time I try to make the system work using coins only, I run into the "frozen" money too.In the above situation, to guarantee the seller still owns the coins when an option is executed, the optioned coins must be frozen until the option expires. That make perfect sense.But, how do I guarantee the seller gets paid at option execution time? He can't be paid in coins. The point of exercising the option was to immediately sell as many coins as possible. I see 2 possibilities:1. Either the seller gets paid in FIAT now. Or since this is intended to be StableCoin...2. Once the coin prices returns to the target, the speculator re-buys coins using FIAT and pays with COINS.In both of these cases the system needs to be able to guarantee FIAT payment. That seems unacceptable.Now that I think about it, I see a third possibility... but I need to think it through. That was hilarious! Woot! Philosophically, that used to be true at the beginning.Right now all of the proof-of-work effort has much less effect than you imagine.Shhhhh! Don't tell anyone! They'll be very disappointed! Actually, increasing or decreasing the supply of coins attempting to be exchanged is all that is required. You don't have to "haircut" the total number of coins in existence. In any StableCoin, as soon as the value falls below target, its no longer "rational" to continue non-essential coin exchanges. Better to wait until the value inevitably returns to target. Hoarding, in this situation, is the behavior you want to encourage. No sense punishing that. My proposals only tax/destroy the coins of the "irrational" actors. Those who knowingly sell their coins below target. They already know they are taking an irrational loss. Making their potential loss bigger discourages some from doing so.This is an insightful concept I've never seen discussed in the context of creating a StableCoin. Would you consider expanding on your thoughts in the StableCoin discussion thread? I started a new directory thread so people interested in a stable valued currency can find each other. I'd also like it to serve as an index to all the ideas happening in other threads.Posting the link here because lots of interested folks have posted in this thread.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.msg1877951#msg1877951 I started a new directory thread so we can hopefully capture more newcomers interested in a stable valued currency. I'd also like it to serve as an index to all the ideas happening in other thread.Everyone, please link your cool shit here.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=179918.msg1877951#msg1877951It's the pimp'n my cool thoughts thread. ;-) Hi I'm Red!I came here first on July 19, 2010. I'm a fan of P2P distributed system and anonymity. Back in 2010 it occurred to me that privacy was disappearing as everything we did became tracked transaction by transaction. I'm a big fan of physical cash. It always gets you the best prices. Has the least overhead. And nobody asks for your name, drivers license, phone number, zip code, or other personal information when you spend it. That is superfluous and generally considered impolite.However, physical cash doesn't travel well over the internet. And as more and more transaction took place over the internet. Less and less would be anonymous cash transactions. That seemed HIGH RISK to me from a social perspective. I'd been thinking about ways to create internet digital cash when I ran across a slashdot article on BitCoin. It got me really excited. I'm a software developer by trade, so I dug in to see technically how BitCoin worked.Like most people I was blow away by Satoshi's genius. Sure I was disappointed by some details, things weren't really as anonymous as I would have liked. But I could live with everything except the monetary policy. That seemed (to me) to doom BitCoin niche status over the long term. Maybe a big niche, but not a replacement for physical cash.I started these threads to hopefully begin discussion about possible StableCoin alternatives.BitBucks - a discussion starterBitcoin as a GET SystemThe StableCoin concept wasn't very popular. I gave up and left the site for while.----In September of 2011, I got a PM from Etlase2 calling me back to this site to look at his EnCoin proposal. He claimed you could get stability by requiring the generation of 1 EnCoin to ]REQUIRE expending 1 KWH of electricity. I thought I was misunderstanding him because that concept seemed stupid. There's clearly not enough information... At least I thought at the time. And nobody would waste so many posts on so stupid an idea.I decided he must be trying to say, "1 EnCoin is equal to the COST of 1 KWH of electricity." That still seemed impractical and stupid but at least the units of the equation matched. Both were measures of value at least. That had to be what Etlase2 meant. At least, that's what I thought.So even though I thought it was impratical and stupid I decided to explore the concept. Surely Etlase2 wouldn't allow so many people to call him an idiot, over and over, if he wasn't on to something? It didn't take long before I had some plausible ideas so I posted them in the EnCoin thread. Etlase2 kept calling me an idiot who couldn't understand his most basic concepts. So I'd look at what I wrote, find a flaw and fix it...After about a week, I found a solution that created a StableCoin. It used the cost of electricity to discourage over production of coins. But it didn't actually need to peg the price to the cost of electricity. Instead it used non-linear equations.I thought it was genius. I'd proved that a StableCoin could theoretically be created. Etlase2, however, still thought I was an idiot. My presumption wasn't what he was saying at all. I had failed to understand his most basic premise. He was proposing that it always on average required 1 KWH to generate 1 Coin.I thought the concept was silly, but just as an exercise I decided to see if I could make his concept work. I could! He was correct a stable coin could be created using his principles. So for the sake of having another concrete example of a potential StableCoin, I wrote it up for discussion as GEM.Now when I wrote it up, I still thought burning so much energy was stupid. It SHOULD NOT require so much energy to create a stable currency. WTF! the Federal Reserve and Bureau of Engraving and Printing combined don't use that much energy! But at least three people were discussing the concept so I decided not to derail the discussion. I figured that if I could convince 10 people that a StableCoin was plausible, then I'd work on convincing them we could make the whole system more electrically efficient.Unfortunately, we never got more that 4 people to believe that StableCoins could be created. Everyone presumed a central exchange was needed to directly make monetary policy decisions. We'd PROVED the opposite at least 3 separate ways, but it was a hard sell to a hostile audience. I got bored and left this site, again.----I came back a few days ago on a whim. I figured that after a huge spike and a crash, more people might see the value of a stable valued electronic currency. Surprisingly, a thread called StableCoin started to gain a little traction. As did another thread I tried to be interesting in.In one of the threads I suggested we create an index thread so we could all find each other now. No one objected, so here we are... Hey that's a start! I started this thread a very long time ago. Nobody ever took me up on the offer.But I wonder...Now that there are a lot more BitCoin geeks, does anyone collect BitCoins numismatically? I'm going to link active [StableCoin] threads here. That makes them easier for new arrivals to find. PM me any active threads you think should be added.StableCoinNew alt idea, way more stable and widely used. Ideas welcome.Has anyone proposed a coin that adjusts its supply to stabilize prices?I will create a forked bitcoin chainTrueCoin <-- coin with moderate inflationStableCoin: please criticizeLooking for inflationary cryptocurrency devGRouPCoin a currently running LinearCoinHistoricalGoldcoin and Stablecoin proposals To aid discussion, I'd like to propose the following definitions.StableCoin - An abstract class of COINS which have the shared property that their monetary policy (coin creation/destruction bounding algorithms) will never allow the coin's future value to "tend toward infinity" or "tend toward zero" given the case of unbounded adoption and unbounded increase in external value traded.GrailCoin - sub-class of StableCoin whose value attempts to always tend toward the value it had on the day the coin was first launched. It should retain long term value stability even if every reference its value can be measured against varies independently.InertiaCoin - a subclass of StableCoin whose value is intended to deliberately resist change. InertiaCoin may be pushed off its initial price by extreme external conditions. But it will always re-stabilize to some appropriate value. (non zero, non infinite) Any coin with infinite inertia IS A GrailCoin. But not all GrailCoins need be InertiaCoins. Grail coins always move back to their initial value when pushed off. InfiniteInertia means the value can never be pushed off.PeggedCoin - a subclass of StableCoin whose target value is dependent on some outside value.GoldCoin - a specific PeggedCoin whose value is pegged to 1 troy oz of gold.CPICoin - a specific PeggedCoin whose value tends toward a particular measurable consumer price index.FiatCoin - a specific PeggedCoin whose exchange rate value tends toward a particular fiat currency.DollarCoin, EuroCoin, YenCoin, etc. - A FiatCoin intended to always trade 1 to 1 with USD, Euro, Yen, etc.MordorCoin - a sub-class of StableCoin requiring a fixed expenditure of electricity to mine. Recent bitcoin price volatility has sparked growing interest in creating a "coin" designed to remain price stable over an extended period of time.For speculators, it can be best thought of as a complementary currency to Bitcoin. When Bitcoin's value is rising, speculators want to hold Bitcoins. When Bitcoin's value is falling, hold StableCoins. Why not just let a "trusted" exchange hold on to your fiat currency while Bitcoin values are falling?... Really?... No sense enumerating all the posts on exchange fraud, hacking, closures, account seizures, etc.IF a theoretical StableCoin existed, it would be possible to trade between BitCoin and StableCoin at will. All while remaining completely anonymous, even to the exchange that facilitates your trades. In addition, you wouldn't need to "trust" an exchange to secure your fiat, your coins or protect your personal information. Both sides of every trade could be done while keeping your coins securely in your wallets, in their respective chains.At least that is the vision...Currently, no stable bitcoin-like currencies exist. Over the past four years many individuals have kicked around promising ideas, but no social moment has every formed in support of a stable coin.---------------The point of this thread is to create a gathering place for people who SUPPORT the concept of a stable-value COMPLEMENT to bitcoin. This thread is NOT the place to bash the StableCoin concept or criticize its supporters. Nor is it the place to bash any particular BitCoin attribute or its supporters.SUPPORTERS, Please post a message introducing yourself and please LINK any papers you've written or insightful posts you've made on the subject. Many people have hidden many insightful things somewhere on this forum. I'd like this thread to serve as a quick reference for any new supporters that might arrive. Wow, so many thing to respond to. I want to write one coherent post so that is going to mean replying to several of you out of order. I tried to keep the quote references pointing back to their respective complete posts. In general this post reverences posts by.@herzmeister, BubbleBoy, Impaler, Etlase2BubbleBoy,I can't stop MY MIND from jumping to conclusions, and it has jumped to generally the same conclusions as you. So DON'T consider any of this post an attempt to refute anything you are saying. My current best guess is that you are exactly correct. However, sometimes thinking about things that seem completely impractical leads to a certain clarity. A long while back Etlase2 proposed what you call MordorCoin (EnCoin). He claimed you could get stability by requiring the generation of 1 EnCoin to REQUIRE expending 1 KWH of electricity. I thought I was misunderstanding him because that concept seemed stupid. There's clearly not enough information I thought at the time. Nobody would waste so many posts on so stupid an idea.I decided he must be trying to say, "1 EnCoin is equal to the COST of 1 KWH of electricity." That still seemed impractical and stupid but at least the units of the equation matched. Both were measures of value at least. That had to be what Etlase2 meant. At least, that's what I thought.So even though I thought it was impratical and stupid I decided to explore the concept. Surely Etlase2 wouldn't allow so many people to call him an idiot, over and over, if he wasn't on to something? It didn't take long before I had some plausible ideas so I posted them in the EnCoin thread. Etlase2 kept calling me an idiot who couldn't understand his most basic concepts. So I'd look at what I wrote, find a flaw and fix it...After about a week, I found a solution that created a StableCoin. It used the cost of electricity to discourage over production of coins. But it didn't actually need to peg the price to the cost of electricity. Instead it used non-linear equations. The logic went, 1. When the system is in equilibrium, it should cost exactly as much in electricity cost to generate a coin as that coin is worth. Therefore ZERO people would rationally choose to generate a coin.2. When external demand increases the value of a coin will move above equilibrium. Therefor EVERY rational person would choose to generate new coins. LET THEM! Then increase the difficulty of generating coins in proportion to the number of coins rational people chose to generate.3. The speculators must then RACE to the exchanges to sell their coins before the exchange rate falls back to their personal cost of electricity. Otherwise they can't pay their electric bill.4. Increasing the supply of coins AT THE EXCHANGE puts downward pressure on the price.5. Increasing the difficulty, increases the cost of generating new coins, pushing the system back to equilibrium.6. (Tired of typing. Pretend the logic for when the value falls below equilibrium is here.)I thought it was genius. I'd proved that a StableCoin could theoretically be created. Etlase2, however, still thought I was an idiot. My presumption wasn't what he was saying at all. I had failed to understand his most basic premise. He was proposing that it always on average required 1 KWH to generate 1 Coin.I thought the concept was silly, but just as an exercise I decided to see if I could make his concept work. I could! He was correct a stable coin could be created using his principles. So for the sake of having another concrete example of a potential StableCoin, I wrote it up for discussion as GEM. (the link is above in this thread somewhere.)Now when I wrote it up, I still thought the MordorCoin concept was stupid. It SHOULD NOT require so much energy to create a stable currency. WTF! the Federal Reserve and Bureau of Engraving and Printing combined don't use that much energy! But at least three people were discussing the concept so I decided not to derail the discussion. I figured that if I could convince 10 people that a StableCoin was plausible, then I'd work on convincing them we could make the whole system more electrically efficient.Unfortunately, we never got more that 4 people to believe that StableCoins could be created without REQUIRING a central exchange to directly make monetary policy decisions. We had PROVED the opposite at least 3 separate ways, but we couldn't overcome everyone's preconceived notions.That said...You are absolutely right, we couldn't write a program to do all that.It's also pretty clear to me that someone or something has to have some relationship to the external reality in order to create any meaningful stability. The functions CANNOT be only self-referential.Who observes the external world, and how they do so, are the open questions. If you want to stabilize a ship on the open sea, you don't need a reference to stable land to do so. You don't need a reference wave height, period, or relative sea level. You need external information to "leak" into the system. In this case the information leaks in through MOMENTUM. A change in position requires movement. Movement has a velocity. A change in velocity requires acceleration. Acceleration of a known mass equals implies the external force applied. (Not a great explanation) But the point is that while the inference chain may be long... computers calculate really fast! As long as we figure out where the appropriate information leaks into the system, we can stabilize it.I think Impaler might be on to something to. Again I'm not exactly sure how the information "leaks" into the system, but it sure seams like it might.I think you are saying the same thing. But just to be clear we need to understand where EXTERNAL REALITY leaks into our system, before anyone or anything can determine the proper forces to stabilize it.Speculating through futures IS VOTING. Importantly it is voting by people who are ACTUALLY OBSERVING the external world rationally. Voting by people who are thinking "philosophically" like fixed-coin bitcoin fanboys doesn't leak any useful information into the system.I agree that SOMEONE somewhere needs access to this information before it can "leak" into our system. However, I'm not ready to jump to conclusions that it must be measured by a trusted authority or deliberately injected. In fact, as with my ship stabilization example, and my initial StableCoin example it might already be measurable based upon a derivative value. In both cases observation is done by measuring "acceleration". In my StableCoin example, I measured the change in coin generation velocity. From that I could infer what speculators had observed in the external market.And yes I agree, using a reference point we don't have to calculate makes this conversation and system design easier and faster. It might make the conversation much less fascinating!I agree with this logic, but I'm not ready to commit to a decision yet. I'm reasonably convinced that if we can prove we can stabilize to any CPI particular proxy, we could just as easily stabilize to any of the others as well. While the choice of with CPI proxy to use makes an interesting debate. I don't think that choice is on our "critical path" at the moment.We'll probably have to standardize on some terms. I propose the following definitions for discussion:StableCoin - An abstract class of COINS which have the shared property that their monetary policy (coin creation/destruction bounding algorithms) will never allow the coin's future value to "tend toward infinity" or "tend toward zero" given the case of unbounded adoption and unbounded increase in external value traded.GrailCoin - sub-class of StableCoin whose value attempts to always tend toward the value it had on the day the coin was first launched. It should retain long term value stability even if every reference its value can be measured against varies independently.InertiaCoin - a subclass of StableCoin whose value is intended to deliberately resist change. InertiaCoin may be pushed off its initial price by extreme external conditions. But it will always re-stabilize to some appropriate value. (non zero, non infinite) Any coin with infinite inertia IS A GrailCoin. But not all GrailCoins need be InertiaCoins. Grail coins always move back to their initial value when pushed off. InfiniteInertia means the value can never be pushed off.MordorCoin - a sub-class of StableCoin requiring a fixed expenditure of electricity to mine.CPICoin - a specific StableCoin whose value tends toward a particular measurable consumer price index.FiatCoin - a specific StableCoin whose exchange rate value tends toward a particular fiat currency.DollarCoin, EuroCoin, YenCoin, etc. - A FiatCoin intended to always trade 1 to 1 with USD, Euro, Yen, etc.For reverence, my initial coin (described above) was an InertiaCoin.GEM was a MordorCoin. Einstein talked about standing in a free-falling elevator. It helped him visualize what was truly necessary and what was superfluous to the problem at hand. I don't think he ever intended that people actually stand in free-falling elevators because it would facilitate their epiphany.:-) Philosophically, I'm not trying to stabilize against fiat currency. I want to be able to always drive a coins value toward any particular stable target value. In the best case that means the coin's target value tomorrow equals its value yesterday and the day before and the day before.My best definition of StableCoin means my salary this week buys the same number of StableCoins as my salary last week and it will buy the same next week. (Given I don't get a raise) That lets me price my work effort in StableCoins. It lets me agree to a year long lease priced in StableCoins. It lets me put products priced in StableCoins on LayAway. Or even take out a loan in StableCoins, for a car priced in StableCoins, with interest bearing monthly payments in StableCoins. Try pricing, leasing, LayAway, or lending with goods/services priced in VolitileCoins. It is simply infeasible to draft/agree to contracts.Practically, when writing examples, I don't know how to convey meaning without saying what I'm measuring against. Above target and below target start to get vague without real numbers to show how examples play out. Also saying 1 loaf of bread, 0.2 loaves of bread, "higher than the price of a basket of goods yesterday" starts to get tedious. Formula get much more concrete when I pick example numbers. $1 is the easiest thing for me to type. My keyboard doesn't have any other currency, goods or services symbols.However, the whole point of my prior post was to see if the process can happen WITHOUT reference to external markets or fiat currency. I don't know if it can. I do know it can happen WITH those references. Hence my example.Personally, however, I'm becoming intrigued with the idea of creating multiple StableCoins and pegging them to existing fiat currencies. (i.e. DollarCoin, EuroCoin, SterlingCoin, YenCoin, RupleCoin, RenminbiCoin, etc) Why?1. People "get" their native currency. It is easy for them to use on a day by day bases for pricing and contracts.2. Anonymity. All I really want is Anonymous Cash that works over the internet. Is that too much to ask?3. Fluidity. I want to be able to anonymously move value among currencies as it suits me. It's trivial to create an anonymous currency exchange mechanism when both sides of the exchange are digital coins. This lets me anonymously speculate in BitCoins (Ha Ha). Or lets me "logically" (and privately) move my money to China, Europe, England or whichever currency seems more stable than the Dollar. It also lets me trivially repatriate my money as I need it for day to day local spending.I think any StableCoin would obviate the need for BitCoin. However, I think it will be MUCH easier to get widespread adoption if people are using something that seems like their local currency. While one unified StableCoin for the world seems simplest to promote, I don't actually believe it is very usable in practice. Say StableCoin was actually perfectly stable in practice. But We all presume that no other fiat currency is really perfectly stable along with it. That makes it DIFFICULT to write contracts in StableCoins in EVERY country. Because everybody's weekly salary buys a different number of StableCoins each week. It all depends on the whims of their respective Governments. This also leads to constant repricing of every day to day item that people are used to buying. Sure, since your salary is being repriced along with it everything is relative. But who is going to constantly do the math to make sure everything is repriced correctly. All of this extra work and frustration for day to day transactions would just make StableCoin look DEFECTIVE to the casual currency user. I'm beginning to thing this is actually mandatory. But I'd love to hear your thought on this. I'm going to comment in detail on BubbleBoy's posts (Very Impressive!) but Impaler got me thinking about futures markets yesterday. I want to write down a few ill formed ideas before they start to slip away.----------Starting in the future and working backwards, presume that we have a functioning stable coin. Further presume that its monetary policy (coin creation & destruction) is guided by speculating futures traders trying to maximize their personal profit. So what might that mean? In traditional futures markets, speculators look at the share price today and guess what the future price will be. Then they purchase the OPTION to buy or sell a certain number of shares before a certain time. Buying options always requires cash out of pocket. (skin in the game) but the amount is always less than the cost of the shares specified in the option contract.So an option to [buy 100 shares at $10/share before May 1st] it might cost you only $20.The point is that if the share price goes above $10 anytime before May 1st, then the option holder can purchase the shares for $1,000 and immediately sell them for their market price netting the difference. If the shares never break $10, the options expire and the purchaser is out the $20 option cost. It's a fancy way to gamble a little money on the chance to win a lot of money.----Purchasing options on stable coins are similar, but with a slightly different twist. Everyone knows what the future price will be! Since we are presuming our medium term monetary policy is correct, the future price should always be the target price. Along the way to the future the coin value may diverge temporarily (above or below) the target prices. But the goal of our system is that it always converges back to the target.To me this speculating scenario seems analogous...Today the stable coin prices is at the ($10) target value <-- just for analogy sakeOur speculator thinks demand for coins will rise in the near term which will tend to drive up the price above target.So for (2 coins) he purchases an option to buy (100 coins) at the target price ($10) within the next (10 days/1440 blocks).If he's right and demand does drive the price above the ($10) target, then he:1. Exercises the option by paying $10002. Receives his 100 coins.3. IMMEDIATELY races to liquidate the coins on the exchange for (>$10) before the price falls back to the target ($10).4. The buying speculator profits in DOLLARS or loses in COINS5. He must wait for the price to return to target, before converting dollars back to coins otherwise his profits will evaporate.To make this work, someone has to take the opposite side of the option. In other words, the option seller is gambling that the coin price WILL NOT go above target for the length of the option. Or if it does, it will not go far enough above target to net more than the option cost. So to be an option seller a speculator has to:1. Set an option price (X) to sell (Y) of his coins @ the target price within the next (Z) days/blocks.2. Finding an option purchaser earns the seller the option price (X)3. It also OBLIGATES the seller to:   a. NOT SELL his (Y) coins to anyone else before the option expires. (These coins are otherwise hoarded/locked)   b. SELL his (Y) coins to the option holder at target if the option holder exercises the option.4. The selling speculator earns COINS for selling the option. Receives DOLLARS for selling his coins.5. He must wait for the price to return to target, before converting dollars back to coins otherwise he will incur losses.----------Yes this seems crazy complicated to implement. But that is not my question. My question is: Can this process be done WITHOUT directly referencing an exchange and WITHOUT transferring fiat between parties? For example, instead of "receiving DOLLARS," the option seller might receive coins back only after the price returned to target.Or for example, you might get a similar effect by changing the option definition to: "$20 buys a 10 day LOCK against you selling 100 of your coins. This allows me time to sell my coins instead."All I want is brain storming. The whole construct might be a non starter. If it starts to seem promising, there are lots more questions to answer. Like, "Does this attenuate the oscillations in the near term?" and "Does this give us additional data we can use to set coin generation/destruction rules for the medium term?"
Thumbs up on all the new voices and the well thought out posts.But let's try not to get too defensive at the moment.I was pretty convinced it was impossible to map coins directly to electrical consumption, Etlase2 convinced me it was. (It took 2 weeks)Currently I don't think demurrage is ever necessary for monetary policy, 2 weeks might teach me otherwise. Some proposals use competitive mining others use non-competitive mining. Some proposals don't use mining at all. Some use a block list, others don't. Some use algorithms to adjust monetary policy, others require human speculators to watch external variables.I think its worth canvasing all the different ideas before we try to get too assertive about why each particular plan is impossible. I'm pretty confident the actual workable solution will steal ideas from several people. That's the meaning of stable I generally mean as well. I normally phrase it as "if one coin buys a loaf of bread, it will always buy a loaf of bread". However talking about dynamically stabilizing supply vs demand does require something observable to stabilize against. It also requires some mechanism to do the observing.Those things are worth discussing! Hi timhuge,Welcome to the dissuasion. I just read your other thread. It's pretty much the standard thread you get whenever you try to start this discussion. You say "what if" and everyone else says, "can't be done", "you're stupid", "bitcoin's model will make me rich!" etc.But in reality, you are right. I can be done. It can't be done in a way that bitcoin fanboys will love. But it can be done in a way that the majority of people will love. I think you are both saying the same thing. Either way it's insightful! If the sub-forum idea gets adopted, I'd like to propose creating a [Stable Value Coins] discussion forum. No stable value coin currently exists but many of us are kicking around ideas of how this might be possible to achieve.In exchange for this new forum, we agree to let everyone else transfer all the annoying NEW threads that begin with,"Bitcoin will fail because...1) The initial distribution of bitcoins was unfair...2) Early adopters are the new landed gentry...3) A fixed number of bitcoins leads to over speculation...4) Speculators are "greedy" and/or late adopters are "jealous""to our new sub-forum. See, It's a win/win! Right now there is no sub-forum for discussing possible stable coin ideas. I'm not even sure there is enough interest to justify asking for one. However, quite a few of us have already written intelligently about the topic in various other sub-forums of this site.I propose we create a [StableCoin] directory thread in which we can all link our respective ideas and prior writings on the subject. That way we can all get a broad overview of how others are attempting to solve the problem.Perhaps after that we can prefix new discussion threads with [StableCoin] or some other tag. If we accumulate enough of them we might even ask for our own sub-forum?Either that or we could all go hide in IRC! Any thoughts?[Edit]Perhaps I spoke to soon! Other are asking about creating Alternate Coin Sub-Forums at the moment.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=178849.msg1864083#msg1864083 Wow! I thought this thread would be a bust like all the others. But it seems to be collecting a bunch of people who've thought about this subject a lot! Last time I was here posting about it there were exactly TWO of us! (Red, Etlase2)Last night a couple of people separately PM'ed me to discuss this out-of-band. (I promise I'll reply shortly!)Now dacoinminster shows up as a new evangelist. Woot!Can you link your paper and the other thread you mentioned?Can you link this paper as well? At least a couple of us want to kick this futures market idea around a bit.I think I can make a solid argument about why any reasonably popular self-stabilizing coin will quickly obviate bitcoin. (Shhhh! Don't mention that here!) Actually, I wrote briefly about it a couple of days ago. Anyone else agree? Ah! You are right. Better to separate the two concepts. I like the term haircut.I guess I should read more of what you've written lately. Are you still equating 1 coin = X joules? This is a really insightful way to phrase it. I was kicking around a similar idea that involved "gambling" some coin you have now against generating new coins.I agree with you that measurable human behavior needs to be the sentinel to determine when new coins need to be generated. I don't think an algorithm using a derivative value (like block difficulty) will be reactive enough to avoid oscillations. And if a system can oscillate there will always be speculators to attenuate the oscillation. I think using speculators to dampen oscillation is a better use of the resource.Then here you come and point out the obvious with your insights about time. It's a "futures market." We speculators who trade in bitcoin futures. Genius!I was having the same structuring problem with my "gambling" idea. How do you gamble in coins and pay off in coins, when the variable you need to make the decision is external to the system (fiat/external value per coin).I'm not sure I know how to do it with a futures market either, but your insight about the ability to gamble time as well gives us one more variable! Woot!So how do we do it? :-) That's a nice concise write up Etlase2. I like it. But when you said:Do you mean a demurrage style tax where you remove hoarded coins as well? Or is this just on the current transactions?I'm pretty confident demurrage doesn't do anything to affect exchange rates. The clearest example of this I can give is to point out the case of coins in lost wallets. These coins theoretically exist but they never circulate. So when it comes to pricing lost coins can affect neither supply nor demand. Therefore any demurrage that destroys X% of lost coins does nothing to effect the coin supply EVER. Likewise, any demurrage of hoarded/not currently circulating coins does nothing to effect immediate supply. What you write is very similar to what I wrote in the GEM thread.It is too late at night for me to verify your math, but I think you are on the right track.The first section you wrote is very similar to what I wrote here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=47628.msg569053#msg569053I used a constant tax as part of the ration you propose.I rebated the tax when monetary policy should be neutral.I destroyed the tax when monetary policy needs to reduce the availability of circulating coins.There are some differences. I let anyone who thought they could profitably generate coins do so at anytime.As such I didn't have a variable difficulty over time. I had a monotonically increasing difficulty.I compared the number of coins generated to the tax to calculate which of the above monetary policies was appropriate.This is very similar to what I wrote here:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=47628.msg566657#msg566657We are on pretty much the same page.In another thread I also worked to try to minimize the amount of energy needed to keep the whole system in balance. I'd have to dig that up to remember what I did. It just seems silly to burn so much CPU time when it isn't actually necessary at all.I wrote about the lack of necessity a couple of days ago. It took a lot of posts to explain it to people. Here are the best: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=175676.msg1832843#msg1832843https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=175676.msg1833134#msg1833134https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=175676.msg1833246#msg1833246It kind of freaks people out when you tell them that mining is no longer necessary.Your point about the correlation between mining difficulty and exchange price is an interesting one to think about again. I'll revisit your actual equations again tomorrow when I'm fresh. YES! Exactly correct! Since this is a noob thread let me reinforce this one very important concept.Transfer the coins you want to store into a NEW address. Then print out the private key to that new address and store it ONLY offline. Delete it COMPLETELY from your online computer. If anyone suspect has ever had access to a particular private key (wallet), never again consider it safe. Move the coins to a new address to be sure.Don't presume that having an offline backup means your coins are safe. That only keeps them safe from your system crashing. That doesn't keep your coins safe from theft, hackers, viruses, trojans, etc.If you want to keep some coins safe and some available for purchases or trading make sure you have them at different addresses. Keep one private key ONLY OFFLINE. Keep the other on your computer but print out a backup copy ALSO. I know this post was from a few days ago but can anyone explain to me the logic in it?I don't see the drug trade being very supportive of the bitcoin price at all. Tear apart my logic and show me where I'm wrong.Presuming a drug dealer sold $1,000 of (X) per day when coins were stable around $30/BTC.That means that on any given day drug purchasers were buying $1,000 of new BTC on a market = (-33.33 BTC)AND the drug dealer was selling yesterdays $1,000 of BTC on a market = (+33.33 BTC)As long as his sales stay flat the drug dealer exerts no pressure on BTC price at all.In fact if the the BTC price goes up then the drug dealer needs fewer coins to transact his business.Only if the price goes down does he needs more coins. As such, the support level that drug dealing lends must be less than $30/BTCIf the price oscillates around $30/BTC slowly the drug dealer doesn't have to care.If the price moves faster, drug dealers are very likely to become day to day speculators and amplify the oscillation. (turn over BTC slowly while the price moves up, turn over BTC quickly while the price moves down.In no way to I see how the drug trade could possibly "support" a BTC price at the $550 level. You would have to presume that the drug trade had grown crazy exponentially since the $30/BTC level. I'm fascinated by this math but it doesn't seem logical to me. I don't think the break-even prices you give are constant. Now I haven't thought about this a lot so there's a strong likelihood I'm wrong. Please show me where.Manfred says currently he mines 6.3 BTC/month at a cost of $150/month or $23.80/BTCAdrian-x says the same (I'm guessing) calculation gives him $17.76/BTCIt seems to me however that at current BTC prices similar rigs must be profitable for everyone else as well. This encourages more people to mine raising the difficulty.As the difficulty goes up, your constant hash rate rigs generate LESS coins at the same energy costs. RAISING what you see as your break-even rates. So say the hash rate doubles and difficulty doubles. Now aren't your break-even rates $47.40/BTC and $35.52/BTC respectively?Do you simply recalculate your particular rigs minimum break-even every time the difficulty changes?Can you do this calculation in advance? Or are you simply doing it retrospectively. <Irony>I find humor in the advice to store bitcoins printed in ink on arbitrary bits paper! Isn't that the kind of money we're all trying to get away from? (Sarcasm)I recommend you have your private key engraved onto a bar of gold. Only then will your value truly be safe!</Irony> The problem of course is if you are trying to create a stable coin there are extended periods of time when the appropriate thing to do is to generate ZERO new coins. That makes mining unprofitable for everyone,so everyone stops. In a bitcoin style framework that means that block creation gets seriously delayed and transactions don't get confirmed. After a while difficulty drops to speed the process back up, but the supply&demand exchange value hasn't necessarily fallen with difficulty so coin creation starts again. Even though the correct monetary policy may be to still create ZERO new coins.As far as I can tell this doesn't produce a stable currency. It osculates tending toward a zero coin value. (continuous over production of coins) It also tends to drive the difficulty level down along with the coin values. Welcome to the rationalists club! But you're right that kind of talk doesn't go far here. We should start a sub-forum for everyone that likes bitcoin as a concept but thinks most of the people here are certifiably insane. :-) Actually, you are right. I retract some of my smugness from before.Mining difficulty is related to total hashing calculations / time. So mining difficulty is also related to fiat through hashing efficiency * electrical cost.It is hazy because average hashing efficiency is an unknown variable. Over time it converges to the most electrically efficient miners. However, its value is further obfuscated because the "future value" of bitcoins is considered unbounded.That leads people to consider wasting "dollars" today by spending more than a coin is worth. While hoping to make that up over the long term via appreciation.Stable money removes some of the unknowns and makes solving that calculation MUCH easier. Keep in mind this is exploratory thought. I could be chasing a red herring.You are right, having an monopoly trusted oracle is the simplest solution. But, it doesn't actually need to be a monopoly. You do need non-spoofable access to both halves of an exchange transaction. But, there could be many trusted parties all recording coin-exchange data into the transaction list. This could be used to deterministically calculate monetary policy decisions.The real problem, as always, is anonymity. Someone has to be non-anoymous to someone else to make the system work. The question is who and when. (Aside) The same is true of bitcoin. The system functions because miners are NOT ANONYMOUS to their respective electric companies. They have to pay the piper when they spend $1 to generate 50 cents worth of BTC. Also buyers and sellers are NOT ANONYMOUS to the exchanges on which they trade. There needs to be a process for them to receive their non digital goods (fiat).Current exchanges are by their nature non-anonymous. They can be audited, sued or arrested. They can be trusted or distrusted. They have to behave to a higher standard than a random anonymous party. But history shows the standard is not much higher! :-)Ripple is being reworked so I'm not an expert on it at the moment. But it looks like it depends on trusted central parities to validate transactions. Not sure how it handles anonymity.The advantage of shadow-fiat over real fiat is anonymity and security. Every time a speculator trades in and out of bitcoins, an exchange makes a record of it. They also hold their trader's fiat in their personal accounts. As history has shown they often fall prey to hacking, fraud, incompetence and gov't auditors. These accounts could also become subject to Cypress style seizure.However, if you could trade between bitcoin and shadow-fiat both parties to the transaction could be anonymous both to each other, and to the exchange. The exchange itself might even be pseudonymous to all parties while still providing verifiable trades. No one knows how much profit your speculation has wrought you until you want them to know.Of course when you trade shadow-fiat for paper-fiat you would have to be non-anonymous. But in this case that is almost always a brainless 1 for 1 transaction. Any convenience store on the corner could do that. With face to face exchanges like that, no personal information need change hands or be recorded.Again, for those who don't know me. I'm a fan of anonymity. I'd like a stable digital currency that is as anonymous as cash has always been.
I'm not saying it would be an "inevitable disaster". But you are using AI to mean "some magic algorithm" does the math. I'm just discussing what that magic algorithm might be. I think I'm 80% to the right answer. I don't think measuring coin value against electrical usage is (in general) a good idea. It was however the first proposed way to create stable currency. I did not create that concept. Another guy did with EnCoin. I just attempted to research and document what simple mechanisms could make the concept work.Currently I like the idea of "shadow-fiat" coins pegged to the value of their base fiat currencies. These would be anonymous trading currencies with medium term predictable values. They could be used in contracts (like rental leases or installment plans) where you wouldn't currently use a volatile currency like bitcoin. They aren't intended to serve as a replacement for bitcoin, but as a complement to bitcoin. Think of it as a place to keep your anonymous speculation gains. If bitcoin is rising, hold bitcoins. If bitcoin is falling, hold shadow-fiat until it starts to recover again. If you need to pay rent in 5 days, hold shadow-fiat just-in-case.However, I haven't worked out the math of pegging to a fiat currency without using a trusted oracle (like Mt Gox) that sees both sides of the transaction.My current chain of thought is to "introduce risk" through a para-mutual gambling incentive. The mining equivalent would be to put your existing coins at risk against receiving a share of the new coins created. However, it needs to be done in a way that doesn't tend toward price oscillation.I don't expect that pegging a coin to fiat will be popular. But I keep watching these threads to see if anyone has a better idea. Really, I watch to see if anyone is discussing math that will work. It's amazing how many false relationships people see. Hash rate has nothing to do with exchange rate. Neither does the social dynamics of a popular vote.Stable currency can be created but all the incentives need to be pointed in the correct direction. In the GEM proposal we solved the problem by introducing monetary risk. A person only attempts to create new coins when it is profitable to do so. He risks the cost of creating a coin against the current exchange value of the created coin.In GEMs case the "risk" was actual electricity cost. If the exchange price of a GEM coin is above the cost of electricity needed to produce it, then there was profit to be had in minting new coins and IMMEDIATELY exchanging those coins for fiat currency. This immediateness is important. Coins minted and then hoarded do ZERO to change the exchange rate. Only coins attempting to be exchanged can do that.And yes, there does need to be some downward pressure on the coin supply in certain circumstances. Demurrage doesn't really work. Destroying coins that aren't in the process of circulating has no effect on exchange rate. The only way to raise the trading price of coins when their value has fallen is to discourage people from spending them (at that moment). In GEM we introduced a "panic" tax. When the price of GEM coins falls below the target, an extra tax is imposed on spending the coins. The farther the price falls, the higher the tax (non linear). The tax is destroyed.There is more to it but the above should give you a rough idea of the minimum concepts necessary to create a stable currency. The hard part is doing it without a trusted oracle which can supply external trade information. I've been kicking around ideas for this sort of solution. I used to be repulsed by the idea of a "center-of-the-coin-universe." But as I've explained in other threads, bitcoin already has a center-of-the-bitcoin-universe and it seems to function adequately enough. We kicked this idea around for a while. We came up with a couple of ideas for pegging the value to Electricity. I know it seems like it can't be done. But curiously, it can.GEM - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=47628.0EnCoin - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=49683.0Decrits - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=91183.0 This is a fascinating read. (As you said) I'm through about half of it so far.I'm sure the clearinghouse model is used in big business to this day. One of those magic techniques that make real business men smarter than me! :-)However, I'm struck by how close it is the the Local Exchange Trading System model referenced above. Had no idea its foundations went so far back!Thanks for the link!Velocity is awesome. It mitigates the need for large amounts of actual coinage. But that's really the inverse of my question. The gold in Fort Knox hasn't circulated in my lifetime. However, it has appreciated in value along with the high velocity coins and gold directives in circulation.I'm asking how many bitcoins are in cold storage? (metaphorical Fort Knox) There was a scandal in the 70's were people started to believe Fort Knox gold had been secretly sold and was circulating. I'm wondering the opposite. What if fewer bitcoins are circulating than we presume are. We don't notice because the velocity of the circulating coins is so high. That's a nice derivative. Especially the filtered versions. Obviously people are already trying to figure out when the coins in "cold storage" start to move. This is not a troll. Just really curious.The premise of this thread is dependent on the inverse of the statistic you give above.We know exactly how many bitcoins currently exist. Does anyone regularly calculate how many bitcoins DIDN'T trade over any given period of time. I'm sure may of your $1 million coins traded hands multiple times.Someone crawled the transaction graph a while back and found that a huge number of coins had never traded EVER. They still sat in exactly the same outpoint they were "mined" into. I guess the question is, does anyone graph the total coin age of the system? They might. I've been gone a while. It's not fool proof. People often move their coins from one personal address/outpoint to another. But it would show what percentage of the coin base is in cold storage. This argument has gotten repeated on this site since its founding. That doesn't make it logical or correct.Suppose Satoshi had decreed that their shall forever be only 10,500,000 bitcoins instead of 21,000,000. And instead of deciding to spread the generation over multiple 4 year periods he decreed that all coins would be distributed in the first 4 years. Or in other words, what if the initial distribution of bitcoins was already finished. Everyone in the world had to work with the bitcoins that already exist today.Now what mathematical law will forever dictate the value of each bitcoin? It's pretty simple and not at all rhetorical. Each bitcoin's value becomes proportional to the total value of external goods/services that humans wish to exchange among themselves using bitcoins to facilitate that exchange.Current bitcoin owners want to exchange a certain amount of external goods/services among themselves right now. These same people likely have the potential to exchange more external goods/services among themselves. (They could sell each other their cars and houses.) But that group has a finite upper bound. Taking the group of bitcoin owners as a whole, they only own so much stuff. All the upside comes from people who DON'T currently trade their external goods/services using bitcoin.So say I have 1,000,000 BTC today. That's $100 million today. Say I want to spend $1 million a year. That doesn't mean my BTC will be exhausted after 100 years. The more noobs I convince to use bitcoins the more value my coins have. If the value of BTC goes up exponentially then the number of BTC I have to part with is reduced from linear to logarithmic. In other words, I couldn't spend them all if I wanted too.That is why with Gold as a currency and land a property Royal families could say Royal for generations. Just to be clear, I consider anyone on this forum today an "Early Adopter". Even if you don't own a single bitcoin yet you have an opportunity that 6 Billion people don't.This logic only makes sense, right? We are slightly more that 4 years down a timeline that goes to infinity. Because if you consider this "the middle" then bitcoins only has a practical lifespan of 4 more years. If that is the case, why should 6 billion people care? In fact if you consider the timeline anything shorter that infinite, then the only possibilities are zero or more "next coins". If zero, BTC was a failure. If there is a "next coin" and you grant its "early adopters" the same blessed status..., then isn't it in the best interest of 6 billion people to wait for the next coin?  Xiaoma, I agree completely with everything you've written. But allow me to concentrate on these parts.That is exactly the conclusion I came to. And philosophically it doesn't seem important which currency is considered primary. But you are correct is only makes sense for a stable value coin to be used as actual currency. If I owe my rent on the 1st of each month, I can't really agree to a 1 year lease priced in volatile coins. Imagine if I agreed to a one year lease priced in bitcoins this past January. WTF!So if the people who want to use coins to exchange for goods/services have to price and pay in stable coins, what are the volatile coins actually for? They can only be for pure speculation. But speculating on what? It can only be for speculating on how many people want to speculate on volatile coins. But if the only use of volatile coins becomes exchanging for stable coins isn't it fair to call it a (Ponzi, Pyramid, Matrix, Queueing, etc) Scheme? :-)It has been my contention since the beginning (almost 4 years) that this thread's topic will be what stops bitcoin from going mainstream.So let's talk about this...If there were a value stable COMPLEMENT to bitcoin (something like GEM, EnCoin, et. al.) which was created as stable "swap space" for speculators when the bitcoin market is falling,Would that stable currency eventually gain dominance because it alleviates the need for bitcoin in the first place?Specifically, would "stable coin" become the primary "currency" for setting prices, measuring value, making loans and paying off debts. While relegating bitcoin to "scarce commodity" status. Furthermore, would there be any point in speculating in a "commodity" with no particular use except as a currency? Ssssssh! Don't tell anyone here that... :-) Exactly! Like having both a checking account and a savings accounts. That's what I've been pondering for longer than I care to mention. But I think I have an answer now.Clearly there is no way to convince the crypto anarchist, libertarian, gold lover, "saver" of the fixed coin bitcoin model that a variable coin/fixed value coin is BETTER than bitcoin.However, clearly, there is a need for a COMPLEMENTARY fixed value currency in addition bitcoin. What for? The other half of speculation. When bitcoin is going up, speculators want to own bitcoins. When bitcoin is crashing they want to own anything but bitcoins. However, all the stable alternatives are currently fiat "accounts" within currency exchanges. These are subject to all the non-anonymity, seizure, hacking, fraud risks that regular (cyprus style) bank accounts are subject too.How might you make a value stable non-fiat currency? This is one potential way. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=47628.0All the cool bits you love about bitcoin. None of the price instability. Xiaoma hit on what I think is the fundamental reason bitcoin will never go mainstream. Some 6 Billion people in the world are much like him. They've never heard of bitcoin, or they've never heard of bitcoin until today. When they show up here they are all going to ask this question over and over again. "Why should I waste my time and money making you guys really rich? I've got that problem already."@Xiamo, I can answer your question directly if you'd like, but it would cause a flame war. Probably better to do it in a new thread.Hint: Bitcoin is not a currency. It is the first commodity ever created by mathematical fiat! When I discovered bitcoin it was 5 BTC for $1. I thought it was overpriced because the previous week it was 200 BTC for $1. That was the difference one slashdot article made. I ran the original client for about 20 minutes but it made my laptop hot enough to be uncomfortable on my lap. Never bothered to generate a block. Instead I got a bit nickel from the bitcoin fountain. A week before the fountain was giving out 5 BTC to anyone who asked. The slashdotting emptied the fountain so they reduced it to nickels.Lost the nickel somewhere. Still think BTC is overpriced. So I was completely convinced revans was right and bitcoin would never reach widespread adoption. Then I read this.http://qz.com/74137/six-reasons-why-chinese-people-will-drive-the-next-bull-market-in-bitcoin/The third point was my favorite:3. Insane speculation schemes arent so crazy to many Chinese people.Who knows, bitcoin may have a couple of years left before its final crash! :-) See it is your fault not mine! :-)A smart man once wrote: "If there is something that will make Bitcoin succeed, it is growth of utility - greater quantity and variety of goods and services offered for BTC. If there is something that will make Bitcoin fail, it is the culture of naive fools and conmen, the former convinced that BTC is a magic box that will turn them into millionaires, and the latter arriving by the busload to devour them."I never said that. I said the problem with the initial distribution of a fixed set of coins was:"Because to potential new adopters, after that point Bitcoin is going to look like a new a 21,000,000 coin currency with a 10,500,000 coin pre-generation that went to the creator and his "friends". Certainly people will stop caring about Bitcoin long before they show up on our doorsteps with signs saying, "We are the 99.9932%!""https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=48521.0LuckyBits, Please keep us straight! :-) Now you get it!See, that's the problem I think I have a solution to! :-)Better yet, it reenforces anonymity!
There is no bitcoin problem. Just me pointing out that all the pooled hashing is just an elaborate way to:1) Generate a random number. The random number is used to arbitrarily decide whose transaction list to use as the system consensus for which transaction have actually taken place. (Random number between 1 and the number of validating peers)2) Decide roughly when 10 minutes have passed.It is basically a timer to help sync the global system consensus.It no longer has anything to do with transactional security. The rest is pure marketing. So the point of my ramblings is...1) Given that the exchanges can never operate on different chains. And 2) They can't allow invalidation of confirmed transactions to ever occur. So3) If the exchanges decide that a particular chain is the only chain they'll all trade on. THEN4) The mining pools MUST follow their direction. and5) So MUST everyone else.So how can "Accumulated Hashing" protect the chain, if the exchanges can throw it out willy nilly and everyone else must accept their decision?QED. Gee thanks. I'm a noob... (sarcasm) Ironic isn't it. Given trust no one banter that goes on here.But what I'm saying is really more basic than that. Bitcoin logic says [roughtly] the longest chain with the most computing power is always the valid one. That leads to what is called a "chain fork" attack.So say yesterday the block chain looked like this:[A-B-C-D-E-F-G-H-I-J-K-L-M]-N-O-P-Q-R confirmed blocksFurthermore presume that every block up through and including M has been considered confirmed. That means that exchanges have taken in and payed out hard fiat currency based on these confirmations. Merchants have parted with goods based on these confirmations.Now way today, out of the blue, the block chain starts to look like this:[A-B-C-D-E-F-G-H-I≠T-U-V-W-X-Y-Z-a-b-c-d-e-f-g-h]-i-j-k-l-m-nwhen it should look like this given the time that has passed.[A-B-C-D-E-F-G-H-I=J-K-L-M-N-O-P-Q-R-S]-T-U-V-W-XNow both are valid block chains and the new one is longer so clients PRESUME it to be the true chain and everyone switches over. But the exchanges and merchants have already payed out on confirmed blocks that have now disappeared. Their bitcoins were STOLEN.Now the only way that can happen is for someone to have more than 51% of the computing power and plan this attack. But still that is NOT ENOUGH.Because the exchanges and merchants CANNOT let this fork stand. Real life police can come and arrest them for fraud. So they HALT TRADING get on the telephone/IRC/email and start calling each other. Together they decide the last common confirmed block was "S". So each of them calls their respective programming team and says restore from backups and refuse to accept any block chain that does not contain "S". (That is called a Locking a block into the chain. Last I checked there were a half dozen or so blocks locked into the chain.)At this point the all the exchanges can begin trading again on their agreed upon chain.Now keep in mind all of the miners might still be extending the other chain but THEY HAVE TO CHANGE FORKS or their mining work will have no value on the exchanges.Of course most of the conversion will happen on this sight so everyone knows what happened and can decide that following is their free will. But really, following is inevitable. No, I'm saying that even with 51+% of the computing power, you CAN'T decide which fork is the valid one if the wizards don't agree.Take for example the current situation."If you are using Bitcoin-Qt/bitcoind version 0.7.2 or earlier, you must take action before 15 May, 2013. If you do nothing, you are likely to be left behind and will be out of sync with the rest of the Bitcoin network."Notice it doesn't say that if 51% of the computing power decides not to upgrade... never mind.It says, we've decided. Come along or not.[edit]So the significance of what I'm saying is that, if a handful of people already make these decisions. And the rest to the bitcoin users already trust these people to make these kind of decisions, THENthere are trivial ways to create a distributed consensus among a handful of known individuals.It doesn't require an ever growing amount of computing power. We are using the same context. And yes, beyond "wanting" everyone to be on the same block chain, it is a socially and economically mandatory. Their can never be a viable second fork.For example notice again the wizards speaking here.http://bitcoin.org/may15.htmlI'm sure there was discussion among "actual peers" but there was no popular vote on the topic. Your node can't veto the decision. Nor can you decide to continue down the original fork by yourself.I'm not saying this situation is a good thing or a bad thing. I'm just saying that's the way the bitcoin ecosystem works. You can trust the  "actual peers" or you can avoid bitcoin altogether. But you don't get to be a full peer just for showing up anymore. Good we're on the same page!But do you realize that the exchanges as a group CANNOT ever be forked from one another?I mean hackers could physically try to isolate one from the rest of the network. But after 20 minutes or so the exchange must notice and stop trading before anything is confirmed. At that point it is not a coding problem. It's a humans figure out WTF is happening problem. No exchange can ever willing decide to be permanently forked from the others.Agreed? LMAO! I didn't do it! I've been gone for a couple of years.I'm just the kid saying that guy over their in the Emperor's Clothes... He's the Emperor.Why are you people naked? Thanks for all the replies. Yes I intimately understand the block chain and the point. I personally exchanged PMs with Satoshi on some low level technical details.Qoheleth's paraphrase comes closest to what I'm trying to say.At the beginning bitcoin was a philosophical problem. How do we do all these things in complete anonymity with everyone being an equal peer. Today, bitcoin and its ecosystem isn't the same beast.I'm not saying trusted bookkeepers aren't so bad. I'm saying they exist and you discuss them everyday. The Bitcoin community is just pretty pnambic.http://jargon.net/jargonfile/p/pnambic.htmlEver considered what happens when a block chain fork actually occurs? This:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=152030.0The wizards spring into action! I wrote on that earlier today.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=174378.msg1829444#msg1829444 It turns out that's not really true. The calculations are pretty pointless now. Except as a really expensive random number generator.[EDIT]I wrote on this last night.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=174378.msg1826040#msg1826040 Are you interested in contributing to the solution to that? What you write here seems quite fair, but the suppositions that follow don't really follow...Some people are more productive and others less. What you describe above restates that fact.However, bitcoin inequities don't follow from the same principles. Very productive people have zero bitcoins because they are busy building houses with their time. Other chronically unproductive people chose to burn cpu cycles instead. It seems like all cpu work was valuable, but it really wasn't. If one tenth as many people has burned one tenth as many cpu cycles... the same amount of work would have been done. Thanks for the link and clarity. I remember discussing the concept way back.It's a clever idea but I'm thinking more like chodpaba now.I do love your sig! It basically restates the thesis of this thread. This thread is moving so fast I can barely keep up!Wow, brilliant insights! (My confirmation bias is showing! :-) )I've been having similar ideas. That's what brought me back to this forum. If you're interested we can talk offline or start a new thread.Qoheleth, Is this statement related to chodpaba's?And could you like me to a reference on Colored Coins? I'm only recently back here. It turns out the the computing power to coin relationship is a red herring. More people doing something completely unnecessary doesn't create more value.Currency value must be bound to real world economic value. A loaf of bread today needs to trade for pretty close to a loaf of bread tomorrow. Otherwise, as you pointed out at the beginning you get into a hoard and dump mindset. Not exactly the point of a "currency"If a million more people want to trade loaves of bread tomorrow you're going to need more coins to enable the transactions. If they eat all the bread, you may need less coins to rectify the glut. The real interesting questions are where to do they come from, and where do they go?There have been some really interesting an maddening threads in the past. A french guy proposed what he called the Universal Dividend. Everyone should get coins every year just for being alive. He argued it evened out the early adopter problem. I argued against him!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=796.0(UD is a proposed real world solution that goes way beyond bit coin!) Thanks Coincrazy.Of course bitcoin's transaction graph is the implementation of that central party. However the task of recording entries into the transaction graph is distributed via random chance.The major difference between LETS and bitcoin is that LETS usually presumes that everyone is non-anonymous.I mention LETS not as a possible replacement to Bitcoin but as a concrete example that stable value (or unbounded coin) implementations are indeed within reasonable possibility.I've written threads on stable money before. There have been three possible implementation proposed that I know of GEM, EnCoin, Decrits.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=47628.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=49683.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=91183.0I'm partial but I like my GEM discussion best. I think it's easiest to follow.But in general I think stabilizing currency values based on energy use is un-necessary. I've been working on some new ideas for stabilizing values while preserving the anonymous nature of bitcoin.NOTE: I'm not a crypto anarchist. I came to bitcoin because I want to preserve the anonymous nature of physical cash, in an internet environment. Privacy is under greater threat than my money will ever be under. Interesting post chodpaba. I've been arguing for a long time that the deck is stacked against Pareto Efficiency. Do you actually see a path from the here and now to there? Meaning using the current Bitcoin implementation and user base.I think that kind of efficiency will be a possibility of the the next crypto currency. I have serious doubts there is a coherent path from here to there utilizing bitcoin. LMAO! You wrote your post as if you were trying to make a rhetorical point.It turns out this is no longer true. Keeping an impeachable ledger is pretty trivial. Lots of industries do it with much less computing power. Preserving the illusion that all that computing power is important, is the primary use of that computer power now.The problem is not that they got "a lot of coins". The problem is that they got a large percentage out of a fixed set of coins. Had they gotten a large number of coins out of an unbounded set of coins there would be no problem at all.Most of the "steady value" models involve generating and destroying coins on an as needed basis. None have been implemented yet (as far as I know) because there isn't a ground swell of interest in creating a currency in which the early adopters don't get rich.However, for insights you might consider learning about Local Exchange Trading Systems.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_exchange_trading_systemSuppose Alice grows Apples, Bob grows Beans, and Charlie makes Cheese. But none of them have any money.Now if Bob wants an Apple, but Alice doesn't want Beans, then in a LETS system they agree on a price $1 and Alice gives Bob an Apple. The transaction is accounted for using double entry book keeping. Alice + $1, Bob - $1. With LETS it is OK to have a negative balance (within limits)Now Alice wants $1 worth of Cheese so Charlie gives it to her. Balances now are:Alice = 0Charley = +1Bob = -1Finally Charlie wants $1 from Bob so he gives them to him. That puts all balances back at zero again.No currency exists at the moment, because no currency is needed.When currency is needed again, it is simply created. A flexible currency supply is indeed a magical thing!Compare that to Bitcoin.Say I have a Ferrari and you want to buy my Ferrari but neither of us have Bitcoins.It should be a transaction that only involves us, it shouldn't make anyone else richer. But with bitcoin, of course, it does. How do we know how many Bitcoins is a Ferraris worth? Early adopters get to decide. Something about that seems fishy. :-)
This gave me a big grin!Well put revans!Trust me myrkul, most early adopters called it jealous whining the first time around!  Hey revans, nice post. I generally argue that your conclusion will prevent its own cause. But the point is really the same.I started a similar thread a couple of years back. I think I got a little more support than you did. It's a shame to see that sort of critical thinking has faded.If you are interested...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=48521.0 So it is! Been away too long and typed to late.Transaction validation is absolutely essential and critical. However, it has nothing to do with the so-called "mining" calculations. In fact the trial and error process of calculating hashes cannot even begin until each transaction in a trial block has been validated. That is the necessary work to prevent a double spend.All of these validations are done redundantly by each peer. The individual results are never compared. To avoid the combinatorial explosion of comparing the work process of each peer and arguing over a consensus about which transaction actually took place in a given 10 minute period... Satoshi in his brilliance (not sarcastic! real brilliance!)... chose to just throw dice and pick one of the nodes completely arbitrarily.This means that each block doesn't actually even try to represent EVERY valid transaction that happened in a 10 minute period. Instead it contains the transactions that were declared by random fiat to have happened. That is why there are "mining-only" blocks in the list that contain zero other transactions even though  every other validating peer knows transactions took place during that period. That is hardly necessary to prevent double spends.If no one did anything the block generation difficulty would fall back to the level that a dozen-ish exchanges were willing to spend hashing. But even that is not necessary. Things are not as they were in the beginning. Satoshi solved a "philosophical problem." In a world WITHOUT super-peers how do you 1) reach consensus among anonymous peers 2) build a distributed clock 3) allocate initial coins 4) promote bitcoin. He created a brilliant solution to a hard philosophical problem.Today, bitcoin exists with non-anonymous super-peers. We call them exchanges. Exchanges are already receiving broadcasts of every transaction. They don't have to build blocks to validate transactions, they all get them first-hand in order. Reaching consensus among a dozen non-anonymous peers is technically trivial and requires no advanced philosophy at all! Do I now? Perhaps you should try thinking beyond the press releases.In the beginning there were no miners. Just peers. Everyone validated every transaction and each hoped that their block be blessed by randomness.Now people are ordering special ASIC chips that don't even validate transactions. They simply compute hashes. That is superfluous.  I have no formal economics knowledge. But I have decades of programming knowledge. Most of your criticisms have been made before. They will be made again long after you've given up trying to make the point. :-)Yes, that is quite plausible if bitcoin ever gets wide adoption. Think of how many transactions a billion people make in a 20 minute period. Then imagine them all as peers validating every transaction. Each of those transactions has to be transmitted a billion times to be validated.Which brings me to Red's axiom number 1:Bitcoin is a peer to peer system. But you are not a peer. Most mining pool participants don't validate a single transaction. They wouldn't have a clue if others were allowing bogus transactions into the block lists. Even if you try to run your individual node as a peer validating every transaction, you actually have ZERO effect on the bitcoin transaction graph until you actually win the block generation lottery.It's bad for a lot more reasons than you mention. But you are correct in pointing out that bitcoin's adoption will be limited by its monetary policy.Which brings me to Red's axiom number 2:Few here care that the finite number of Bitcoins is a flaw. They consider it a feature.There are several good threads on this subject going back four years. Check my post history if you're interested.Curiously, from an economic point of view, mining pools are a red herring.Currently more then half of all total bitcoins (11 mil out of 21 mil) are already generated.http://blockchain.info/charts/total-bitcoinsIf we doubled all existing bitcoins in place today we could be done with all the "mining" once and for all and ABSOLUTELY NOTHING would change. Easier yet, we could just stop generating all new bitcoins and continue on with the coins that currently exist. There is more than enough "satoshi" units in existence then we'll ever need. (According to bitcoin standard logic)Which brings me to Red's axiom number 3:Mining is just a needlessly expensive way to generate a random number roughly every 20 minutes. Yes, I see the beauty of what satoshi did as a promotional mechanism. But other than that it no longer serves a necessary purpose. I can expand on distributed random number generation and distributed clocks if you are interested.Which brings me to Red's axiom number 4:Mining pools are not peers either.If all miners and their peers quit tomorrow, nothing catastrophic would happen. Bitcoin transactions would continue to be validated the block chain would not fork. Bitcoin life would continue as usual.    11,000,000 BTC * $100/BTC = 1.1 BILLION Dollars!!!That's a lot of incentive for the ACTUAL PEERS to prevent block chain forking.You propose generating an unbounded number of coins but you base generation on hashing power. I agree with your unbounded number of coins but the hashing logic is a red herring. I can point you to more threads if you are interested.----Oh yeah, before someone asks, "But who will stop the chain from forking without ever expanding hashing power?"The answer is: Gavin and his coding team in conjunction with the bitcoin exchanges.Which brings me to Red's axiom number 5:Bitcoin exchanges are the only true bitcoin peers. Everyone else get over yourselves.There already exist multiple "bitcoin to fiat" exchanges. Every exchange must always operate on the same bitcoin block chain. They can NEVER be forked apart. It is economically infeasible. Any exchange that allowed itself to be forked from the others would in reality GIVE AWAY 1.1 billion free dollars in free BTC. Existing BTC owners could cash out their BTC on the forked exchange and while still continuing to own them on the dominant chain. POOF! instant bankrupt exchange. No more forked exchange.The same holds true for everyone else as well. If a pot dealer on silk road allows himself to be forked from the dominant exchange branch, he in effect GIVES AWAY 1.1 billion free dollars of pot.Which brings me to Red's final axiom. Number 6:Bitcoin exchanges are the only entities that MUST check every transaction. Everyone else is redundant.Exchanges must guarantee transactions EVEN if they don't benefit from "mining" new coins or benefit from collecting "transaction fees". Guaranteeing transactions is their WHOLE BUSINESS! They are public entities. If they allowed external "hashing wars" to unroll previously completed transactions REAL LIFE lawyers and police would round them up.QED: All exchanges and the bitcoin programmers WILL ALWAYS work together in an orderly fashion to prevent block chain forking. It has happened before. It will happen again. All the other machinations are just for show. chris200x9, What you write is actually quite logical and sound. I said the same thing when BTC was 5 to the dollar. What you'll find however is bitcointalk is not the forum to discuss such topics. Try for a little while and you'll run away screaming like the rest of us. Is is worth reading? Maybe worth rapidsharing? Wow that blog disappeared fast! This Krivit guy is an interesting character. Not really sure what to make of him. But that is neither here nor there. This is the part I found interesting from the above blog.He goes on to link some other news and/or posts, that seem interesting.http://blog.newenergytimes.com/2011/09/28/nasa-advances-evaluation-of-piantelli’s-lenr-research/http://newenergytimes.com/v2/news/2011/37/Report2-372-EnergyCatalyzerScientificCommunicationAndEthicsIssues.shtmlhttp://newenergytimes.com/v2/sr/Piantelli/PiantelliGroupPapers.shtmlNow I really don't want to get into the question of whether or not Rossi stole Piantelli's work. The question I have is much more basic.Is there something there worth stealing? Yes, there is free care available to every American. However, not in an analogous way to how Europeans use that term. In the US this level of care was created as a safety net for "the poor". However, without attempting to sound too sarcastic, the group called "the poor" has a very low barrier to entry. I know plenty of folks from upper-middle class families who decided to rebel or otherwise become dysfunctional. They simply go down to the county agencies and declared themselves "in need" of assistance. There is no judgment rendered about why your "wealthy" family would choose not to help you. Nor is there judgement about why they might choose to become dysfunctional. The British have a term called "going on the dole" which carries similar connotations to what I describe above.So these programs are not entirely free in the European sense. It requires you to declare yourself as being "in need". Some would say whose in these programs are required to pay with their dignity. Rather than strict regulation, a dignity barrier keeps these programs from growing exponentially. Interestingly, many states have extensive advertising and out-reach programs to try and convince "needy" people to sign up for these programs. As for the programs themselves, Medicaid is the most commonly known outside of the US. However there are a multitude of state and locally managed programs in every jurisdiction. Originally these started with "county hospitals" and emergency rooms like you mentioned. However, that mechanism of service is needlessly costly and generally silly. As such the programs expanded away from the hospitals to county and community "clinics" that serve the same need. Keep in mind that these programs only start the process, they also arrange many medical procedures outside of their programs. These extended procedures are often provided pro-bono by private doctors and for-profit hospitals. (Or maybe for tax write offs. I don't judge motivations. I just watch care happening.)As others have already pointed out, every child qualifies automatically. Mothers qualify automatically as well. This does provide preventative care, vaccinations, checkups, and especially pre-natal care. Even illegal aliens qualify. Where I live county clinics make every announcement in both English and Spanish. If you sat in the clinic you would be proud of how "progressive" this all seems. The biggest obvious "gap" though is in automatic coverage of working age males, especially the white ones. These folks are expected to take care of themselves. If they can't they are expected to ask for help before receiving benefits. They can qualify of course, however, society tends to charge them a lot in dignity for doing so.---The other tiers of health care are "Medicare Insurance", "Private Medical Insurance", and "Self Pay".Curiously, those who demand the absolute best care aspire to pay for it themselves. *The Rich* never ask, "what is the best insurance?" That question seems entirely silly to them. Obviously, the best care is what they need (or demand) at that moment. Optimal care means, care unconstrained by others who would have them receive less.---NOTE: In no way am I declaring our current system as optimal. I'm not even declaring it better than anyone else's system. But before we can improve it, we must understand what it currently is and how it got to be that way. That helps us see what could make it better, and what has already made it worse. I'm pretty sure I already acknowledged the payment system was horribly inefficient. However, we pay that 2 or 3x you refer to for health care, not for insurance coverage. People get care, whether they are covered or not.I can only presume you live in one of those six countries. Otherwise your argument about quality of care would be moot. Which one?The point wasn't of scale. The point was our "costs" you keep referring to include paying for free healthcare for illegal immigrant populations the size of the countries you are referring to. But you knew that. We are obviously such bastards that way.We have universal care in Massachusetts. The other 49 haven't expressed interest. But if it works out there others may take notice. Interestingly the folks in Massachusetts were pretty strongly against the latest federal plan.We eat more then you smoke. And curiously, smoking seems to kill people less expensively than obesity. (tongue in cheek)But curiously, have you looked at our birthrates by demographic group? Unlike Europeans that simply don't breed at all. In the US the poor out breed the rich by quite some margin. And if you saw the kids you would see that many are indeed born fat or at least get that way remarkably quickly. But even so you may find that is not such a scandal as you are led to believe. Cool Graph The lines are actually all pretty close together. If you figure that many of our births come from recent Mexican immigrants, the numbers start to make a little more sense.By the way, I'm quite certain you will find we die in more car crashes (because we drive 10 fold more than Europeans). We also have many different types of "death by misadventure". Sometimes crazy people drown their kids in cars. Other times teenagers shoot each other. Mostly this excess mortality isn't a result of a poor medical care. It's because lots of us are a bit less "civilized" then in other countries.I'm also pretty happy with my healthcare system, my costs, and the results I receive. I wouldn't switch places with anyone. However, I don't remember calling anything socialist.  You seem to take things a little more defensively than I intended. I'm not calling your system bad. Indeed, I don't even know what system you use. I'm saying the US system doesn't operate as it is perceived to operate from afar.However, no matter what system you use, no one should ever *be required* to give up the right to decide exactly what level of care they want to receive. Sometimes, it really matters. Sometimes those decisions are life and death. Some countries with universal health care do require people to relinquish these rights. Canada prefers one tier for everyone. The UK is reputed to make it difficult to switch counties for care. (I am not an expert on foreign care) Most countries, however, do not require one size fits all healthcare. Most countries allow people to buy "supplemental" insurance or to pay for extra services beyond those automatically afforded to others. However, being responsible for your own additional medical services doesn't make you evil. The US fits into this second category. We call this optional supplemental insurance, "medical insurance" because the initial tier requires no insurance at all. Indeed the US does have a level of care afforded to everyone without cost. We don't call it "insurance" though. It is called mandatory care. Many people want the bar for mandatory care to be set higher but indeed there is a bar. Outside of emergencies, often times to receive this free level of care, you are required to stand in lines with people you wouldn't normally associate with. People often find this demeaning. They argue the bar should be set higher so they don't have to associate themselves with such people. To avoid having to be associated with mandatory care, or to avoid having to pay for their own care or to avoid purchasing insurance, many people choose to go to regular for-profit medical providers then just don't pay their bills. This drives for-profit cost up for those that do want to pay. It is really an interesting statistic depending on how you spin it. That means 50 million people tend to get healthcare without paying anything. Sometimes it comes from government run health facilities. Often times they get care and just decide not to pay the bills. We have no debtor's prisons for such things. (Nor am I suggesting that we should)So if you are suggesting that more people in the use should be responsible for paying for their healthcare costs, I couldn't agree more. It would bring the overhead down substantially for those now paying the bills. However, nothing proposed so far aims to make this imbalance better. That is the really sad thing.Out of 191 countries on the planet. "The United States ranked last when compared to six other countries -- Britain, Canada, Germany, Netherlands, Australia and New Zealand, the Commonwealth Fund report found."Come on New Zealand had 4 million people. The Netherlands has 16 million. California and the US are pushing those respective numbers in illegal immigrants alone.But the study is clear about one thing, we are fat and nobody likes to go to the doctor. We are fat because we are very efficient and productive in feeding ourselves. Even our poor are fat. Our food tends to be good, cheep, and restaurant service is fast. Even Europeans get fat when they come here. Should we take better care of ourselves? Yes we should.I'm pretty much all over these forums saying health insurance is the cause of our problems not the solution. Employer based health insurance is the stupidest concept of them all. I'm quite convinced that nobody should have health insurance. I am however in favor of people receiving proper health CARE. (Feel free to review my other posts on this subject) Keep in mind all of my examples happened in the US. None required extra costs. Most of them involve medicare (public healthcare).I had a friend who was shot in the face. (Not accidentally.) It was treated completely free including follow up plastic surgery to remove a dimple. If I lined up my friends you could not tell who it was. Again, this was done 100% free for someone who has never worked a day in their life. No insurance, no co-pays, no judgement, no threats of lawsuits, no bill collectors. It just gets done.Somehow the rest of the world has gotten the view that the US has some kind of 3rd world healthcare. It is simply not the case. We have expensive healthcare because of rampant irresponsibility and wackko billing systems. But the actual care is top notch. The rest of the world hears about "high infant mortality" but we walk through hospitals where they regularly save 1 and 2 pound pre-mature babies that would die elsewhere and never having been recorded as a "live birth". This sort of pre-infant care turns out to be very expensive and it runs up all of our cost averages. But quite frankly, absolutely no one is interested in average care. I don't know where "here" is but €500/year seems pretty in inexpensive. I imagine that is on top of your normal taxes.Without making an specific accusations, I do want to point out something that you can only learn through experiences. There is a dramatic difference between "good" care and between "great" care. All doctors are not alike.For example, my Aunt is 95 years old, and has a blood disease. She was expected to die 5 years ago. However, she so vibrant and active that her doctor thought he should put some extra effort in her treatment. She got blood transfusions almost twice a week for several years. She still gets them every couple of months now. However, if she needs help when her particular doctor is on vacation, the other doctor's best medical judgement is to treat her very basically. She is 95 years old, they think. Why waste good blood! This cause her to spiral downhill until her doctor comes back and treats her properly. Then in less than a day she is up walking and out in the world again. Keep in mind, both of these "standards of care" come from within the same hospital and are provided using standard government medicare insurance for the elderly. She does not pay extra to be treated properly.I can give you other personal examples of a father in law receiving "good" care in two different local hospitals while remaining near death, but then being "life flighted" three states over to a noted hospital for "optimal" care. He recovered in less than a day. My own father is 10 years past a stroke and 5 years past colon cancer. You would never know to look at him. He went to the cancer research hospital where they invent the drugs and treatment processes. His doctor sees 500+ colon cancer patients a year. The practical reality is a doctor who sees 5 colon cancer cases a career may still be a good doctor. But there are "better" doctors, and there are clearly "best" doctors for any given medical problem. Again this was medicare, not out of pocket premium care.I learned this problem most clearly by sitting on a jury. A guy was injured an a car accident. He broke his leg. His doctor testified that it was the most complication leg operation he'd ever had to do. There were multiple screws and pins. It was a horrific injury and this poor gentleman would be on crutches and in constant pain for the rest of his life. The doctor seemed competent and serious. Then the defense asked another doctor to testify, he said "My name is... I'm the head of sports medicine for...". They asked him if he had seen an injury like this before. He said, "Yes, I do 300 of those a years. It is very common in high school and professional sports." And when they asked him what was the expected recovery rate was, "100%" he said. He was dead serious. I really felt bad for the guy who went to a "good" doctor when he really needed to go to the "best" doctor. And this was just for a broken leg!Most people know instinctively that you should hire the "best" lawyer you can find. After all, your freedom may be at stake. Doctoring they think, "is a noble profession" I can trust them, they all look out for my best interests. After all, it's not like I'm risking my freedom, it's only my life. Canadians are certainly an interesting breed.There are really only two conceptually different types of public health care system.1) Everyone is entitled to a certain level of care paid for by the government. Those who want better care can pay for it on their own.2) Everyone is entitled to a certain level of care paid for by the government. No one is allowed to purchase better care than that received by every other person.The last I checked, Canada was in the second category. They are also very proud of the equality of their concept. I find Canadians some of the most civil people on the planet. I don't find your statistics very shocking. It is clear most Canadians would rather wait in line out of respect for civil equality, than sacrifice that principle even if the additional cost for immediate service was trivial to them.I, however, am a whiny bastard. When I get sick, if I can pay extra to get treated, then get back to bed... Well fuck stoicism.----(Edit) I wonder if there are any Canadian bitcoin users? I would be shocked to find even one who thought their Loonie currency should be abandoned just because it was mandated by fiat. OMFG! You heartless bastard! (sarcasm) I pretty sure you just did something a kin to uttering the name of the lord aloud. And you did in public for all to see! Zeus will surely strike you down with his thunderbolt! Yes, I know that is the wrong god, but all those supernatural deities tend to stick together. They're like evil bankers or CEOs but they don't even have to answer to stock holders. You mean in socialism some people don't have cars? That is pretty rare in the US. Even people without health insurance have cars. (true sarcasm)This is pretty clear to everyone. Except perhaps for our president who decided that making it the employer's problem means he doesn't have to make it his problem.I'm quite certain you will find every American is in favor of improving our health care system. The politicians however keep proposing systems that make, the already clear, problems much worse. We tend to be against that. I mean certainly we shouldn't be messing in other nation's politics. People should be allowed to form what ever kind of government they want. And if they should happen to want a kind of government that, in retrospect, ends up sucking, well then we should all learn from their mistake. If however it turns out to be genius, there is no law against copying productive social structures. I think we are arguing on the same side. I'm saying no one should be forced to trade on either side of the table. If Greece sets out to keep devaluing their new Drachma, no one should be forced to trade in or hold Drachma against their will. Even if they are evil banks or corporations. If South American countries don't want to sell us oranges, bananas or even oil, we shouldn't force them to.But if a legitimately recognized national government says, "Bribes are how we do business!" Then that is between the people and their corrupt government. I don't feel the need to overthrow corrupt foreign governments just because I want to eat bananas. If they say the price is 30 cents per pound plus bribes, then that is what the market price is.Furthermore, I don't feel the necessity to hamstring companies trying to optimize a service for me (like bringing me bananas), by saying they can not compete to the best of their abilities. International trade is the big leagues. If two parties want to make a deal, they each negotiation the best deal they can. Otherwise, there is no deal to be had. Neither side *must* trade if the deal goes against their best interest. So if you are saying that the best thing we (as non-citizens of the target countries) can do is leave countries (and their citizens) alone to work out their own problems. To educate themselves in the ways of productivity and decide on their own rules for civility among themselves, I couldn't agree more. No I actually mean *me* "Red", a random American. I've never worked in banking, or taking over foreign governments. Nor do I want to.
Which ones? It doesn't make a good example, unless you give an actual example.But as long as you are saying, it's not my fault, nor is it my responsibility, then we're good. So let's say the default and don't pay a penny back to those greedy bankers. Let's also say the kill or deport all those corrupt government officials. Let's also say they drop out of the Euro currency so they can do what they want with their Drachmas. A 50% reduction in debt plus austerity measures took them from spending 150% of GDP down to 120% of GDP. Let's say they give up the austerity measures you don't like, but dump the other 50% of debt too. Are you claiming they have a hope in hell of getting by without German/European charity? Should "the Greek people" choose to go it alone, against the advice of every European neighbor, at what point do you think they become *my* problem? I say never. I'm sure you will differ. Just some friendly advice. Don't go to Vegas! Somebody explain to me exactly which "ism" that Greece is.Beyond balking about *not* paying back 50% of their loans. They are balking about austerity measures whereby the government can only spend 120% of GDP each year. I mean WTF!Socialism wants safety nets to protect some from others.Communism wants to redistribute only the actual GDP among the workers.What crazy ass "ism" demands to redistribute wealth that absolutely nobody has created? Isn't this like saying Andrea Rossi might turn out to be right. So we should all get free electricity now to make up for the obvious unfairness of riches given to future generations?  The site says most were military as would be expected. Some *could be* solar cell efficiency related which is related to military satellites not ground based power.But your own source list only 11 "John Doe" Secrecy Orders (imposed on private inventors)http://www.fas.org/sgp/othergov/invention/stats.htmlWhat is the chance that one of these is mystical free energy? Vs say the chance that they are rednecks making things that go boom? You never do. You simply take all the available information and make a wild-ass-starting guess. By for example saying the most efficient advertised GPU (etc) miner is X hash/joule. The most lowest known electrical cost where miners tend to be is Y. We want 1 ENC to be in the $Z range so (do a little math) the starting difficulty is (WAG).At that point minters will mint what they want and stop when they want. If they want to mint ENC for $2 and trade them for $1 we don't try to stop them. However, the electric company eventually will.There really is no "massive risk". The idea is that merchants want to trade in digital money. People want to trade in digital money. How many digital coins do we need? It's a matter of external value and coin velocity. The faster the coins circulate the fewer total coins are needed. If the external value to be traded exceeds the plausible velocity of the existing coins, the coin value rises. This stimulates the creation of new coins.No one has to take the massive risk of generating 100,000 ENC worth of coins up front. Minters can start by generating 100 ENC. If there is a growing demand, they generate more.I have some difference from Etlase2 on how cutthroat the competition should be. I think the most efficient should win. He likes to spread the wealth around a little more. He can explain why. Yeah, Encoin is different like that. People are rewarded for producing/trading goods and services. The coins are designed just to facilitate this exchange. They are not designed to be goods themselves.Encoin doesn't need to collect or even try to deduce this information. The system starts from a wild-ass-guess (WAG) as to what the difficulty should be. Then it stabilizes on an ENC = X kwh relationship based upon the most efficient of competing minters. After that point it should trade in a narrow range. I said a few things to help people understand basic concepts. They might not exactly agree with your latest proposal. I suggest you discuss the two concept below based on how Encoin aspires to be different from my rudimentary GEM principles.This was difficult for me to understand because you mixed intrinsic inflation (variances from Koomey's law) from extrinsic inflation (variances in demand).Can you explain the basics?You care more about leveling the playing field than I do. Perhaps you should explain why you do. And how you compensate against efficiency. The system is bounded by the most efficient producer in terms of electrical efficiency (times) electric costs. So those using efficient hardware in low energy cost areas will run other "minters" out of minting.I can't answer the "what if electricity prices tend toward zero question." In the GEM system I laid out that contingency requires manual intervention. EnCoin handles it differently. Etlase2 will have to explain his concepts there.All alternatives compete, but they have the same bound, electrical efficiency (times) electric costs. Personally, I don't care who creates the new coins. I only care that they get created in a timely manner.However, unlike Bitcoin, minting isn't a continuously running process. Minters will mint until the trade value of the coins is below their electrical cost to create them. Then they stop. When the trade value of the coins increases again, all minters race to create new coins until falling values force them to stop again. Encoin is the opposite of Bitcoin. If you like the idea of a fixed number of coins that grow in value based on population growth, you will hate Encoin. There is no early adopter premium in Encoin. Nor does ENC grow in value based upon increases in the trading economy nor number of users.Supply is constrained by generation cost bounded by trading value. It doesn't make sense to spend $X in electricity to generate an ENC when it is worth $<X in trade. If the demand for ENC increases then 1 ENC will be worth $>X in trade. This will stimulate new minting which brings the value back down to $X.The transaction record is not secured by hashing power. There is no concept of a hidden 51% attack that can change history. Sounds like a Halloween story... He was my neighbor and seemed like a nice guy, then I found out it was all a cover story. He was secretly a Federal Reserve chairman! When little kids came to his house for halloween, he didn't give out any commodity candy! Instead he handed out worthless Federal Reserve Notes!!!! Aaaahhhhhh!I live in a society for which there is no hope. Re-read the bit above about annotated sarcasm. The basic TL;DR description is that EnCoin is designed as a pure digital currency with coins (ENC) that cost a fixed amount of electricity to create. The system-wide goal is to hold this amount of electricity fixed over time. Even though, electrical costs will change and technologies will change. Hence, the slightly inside joke "1 ENC costs about 1 ENC to produce". This means if it cost your grandfather 10 kwh to create 1 ENC, it will cost you 10 kwh to create 1 ENC. This ratio remains constant regardless of adoption rate or demand for ENC. The better way to visualize the goal, is that if 1 ENC bought 1 loaf of bread for your grandfather, it will likely 1 loaf of bread for you even in the face of fiat currency inflation. (pre-inflation) 1 ENC generated at $0.10 kwh = $1 loaf of bread (post-inflation)1 ENC generated at $1.00 kwh = $10 loaf of bread The simplest way to understand the implementation concept is to think of bitcoin but with a monotonically increasing difficulty level. Each day the hash difficulty is raised a little to compensate for Koomey's law. Over time that difficulty will double about every 18 months. That way future increases in processor efficiency are offset by increased computational difficulty.The most important difference from bitcoin is that this creates a stable valued coin that is created in differing quantities base upon demand. So if a million new folks want to trade $20 each worth of eggs, butter and cheese each month, they can buy or generate as many coins as they need to make it happen. There is never a hoarding issue because ENC values spikes are designed to be momentary. It's all bullshit except the one I believe is real!  So you are saying this is so effective that nobody has ever risked the $10,000 fine and 2 years in jail to go for the billions of dollars that magic energy would bring? I mean, even the book rights on the government conspiracy story would be worth millions. But it would only be worth that if magic energy actually worked. The "government is squashing my technology against my will" story only holds if your billion dollar technology doesn't really work.It is like claiming you have a technique for creating undetectable forgeries of US currency. But you can't explain the technology because the government might fine you $10,000. That is circularly silly. If you have the technology, how could the government tell if you paid the fine in forged money.Even this Italian guy is claiming he wants to patent and publish his technology. He claims he is only keeping it secret because he is being declined a patent. In the US you can get a patent even if your idea doesn't work. I say give him a patent and let's see what all the fuss is about. I read those sections. http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/35/usc_sec_35_00000181----000-.htmlThe head of a major government agency has to re-classify a patent every year. The government still has to pay compensation. And the penalty is up to $10,000 and two years in prison. That hardly appears to be a sufficient technique for squashing billion dollar energy technologies.  With Meyer's you don't have to believe anything. There is a perfectly good wiki page. He also filed a patent so you can just build what he made and see if it works.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanley_Meyer's_water_fuel_cellhttp://www.google.com/patents/about/4389981_Hydrogen_gas_injector_system_for.html?id=ihY9AAAAEBAJThat is the best think about patents. Nobody can buy them up and hide them. If it is patented, it is public. Oh, I went back and reviewed some of your other posts. You are that crazy guy who wants the government to monitor every bitcoin account! I had you confused with someone coherent. My mistake. I never should have awarded any of my time to you.You are a Scientologist that believes in centralized control of resources for the supposed good of everyone. Of course you do. You would have to now wouldn't you. Nothing more really needs to be said. This is awesome in its silliness! The site even has its own disclaimer!http://www.rense.com/disclaimer.htm Cool! Fictional Sagacious Ironic Assisted Death of Misadventure...   Thanks!I know! It would be pretty game changing. I really want someone to talk me out of getting my hopes up. I'm usually pretty pessimistic about such things.The odd (talking out my ass) pattern I keep reading is physicists speculating about nano-scale atomic geometries having something to do with these reactions. (Lattices and so forth.) I can't say I really understand any of it at a deep level. But there has already been lots of nano-engineering research lately. (Graphene, nano-tubules, atomic-scale motors) Geometrically, it all seems pretty basic so far. But if someone can come up with a theory of how atomic geometries of nickel facilitate nuclear reactions (or paladium etc.), that ability to push atoms into regular patterns could really start to get useful fast.
Nope. I reread everything you wrote. Pure fantasy nonsense. I stand by my comments. If you can't understand my comments, I find that fact, well... unsurprising.But do keep in mind, you are the one aiming to change the world. I maintain our status quo is better than any fantasy you might have in your head. It is your burden to convince the world. We don't have the burden of convincing you. All we have to do is ignore you to get our way.So, bye bye! Now I'm not saying he is not a scammer. Normally I would say that without a doubt he is. But I keep stumbling on more and more instances of people claiming to produce excess heat using similar experiments.http://www.cbsnews.com/2100-18560_162-4952167.htmlThere was a documentary linked about the inventor. I clearly pointed out that he has done unsuccessful, almost scam like, things in the past. But there are also interviews with others purported to be swiss (swede?) experts in the field. They seem convinced something is happening.I saw your comments on venting heat. You very well could be right. I was thinking of it as a metal box containing 4,700 hundred watt lightbulbs. That makes one hell of an Easy Bake Oven!The following pretty much sums up my feelings on the subject.http://xkcd.com/955/ It very well could be. Most hashes aren't designed to be hard to calculate. They are designed to be hard to reverse. If you can meet that goal and be efficient to calculate, that is a feature for most hashing tasks.I googled but I couldn't find reference to the scrypt algorithm. Is it a serialized version of unix crypt or something? Hash creation is really a black art. That is why the government holds competitions to create and attack them. The biggest potential problem with a new hash is not that somebody mike make it faster to calculate. But that someone might find a trivial way to reverse it or to mathematically reduce its complexity. This is how most hashes like MD4 die. Again, I have zero information on scrypt or artforz, so I'm not making any specific claims. Just curious. Where did you get those figures?I agree with your skepticism, but if there is anything to his reaction, he already claims to have reproduced it 1000 times. (three hundred little cases in that shipping container. Each with three reactors.) repeatability would be the real breakthrough. It is still in the planning stages. I'm learning some of the bitcoin code details.There really is no reason that 10 minutes needs to be enforced. I just wanted to not needlessly vary from the bitcoin specification in the initial discussion. The same constraints apply that apply in bitcoin. Once a block is generated, it needs to be replicated to everyone who cares. Other chains have shown that can be done faster than every 10 minutes but I'm not sure what would be optimal.I have to admit I don't know too much about Script except it was designed to be hard to implement on a GPU. When it comes to depending on the security of hashes, you really want to go with the most tested/abused algorithms. You also want to avoid depending on old algorithms staying secure for too long. SHA-256 is one of the SHA-2 hash series. There is already an open competition for more secure SHA-3 hashes.However, the proof-of-work is really not being done for extreme security. It is mostly just a random number generator burning electricity over time. What GEM would need is an algorithm that isn't going to be easily broken, but also one that is not too easily optimized. If someone could run the algorithm much cheaper, they could theoretically exceed Koomey's law. I'm not sure the best, but going with the Bitcoin implementation assures GEM wouldn't accidentally do worse than bitcoin.Yes, you are correct. It would be trivial to scale generation so that different people could choose to generate 1, 10, or 100 GEMs at a time based upon the hashing power they had at hand.And yes, any initial mapping to dollars would be purely psychological. Any chosen relationship would be mathematically equivalent. I'm curious, did anyone check to see if these coins came out of MTGox? I mean:1) Did someone "redeem" them for actual block list BTC so they could transfer them to someone else?2) Or are they still sitting in a hidden MTGox account?The first case would seem like a large (maybe international) money transfer.The second case seems more like speculation. It agrees with my world view. Andrew Napolitano himself... Meh. I'm sorry you choose to believe in something in the absence of all mathematical logic. Certainly you can't subsidize 50% unprofitable businesses based on the profits of the others. Not to mention that to try to do so is just stupid.I have no idea why. It could be your complete detachment from business concepts and reality as a whole.The word you used was "reward".Curiously, I do speak the language, semantics and all. By the way, semantics means "meaning". If you are not capable of writing what you mean, why should I rewarding you with any attention at all?But if you didn't grasp my meaning, I'm saying directly, the results are exactly what they should be. If you try and fail, I don't care. Don't expect me or anyone else to analyze your failure to try and decide how close you were to not failing. No one gets points for pretending.I'm quite sure I understand your fantasy world. I'm quite sure you understand my reality world.I'm not at all sure you understand your world is a fantasy.So to be completely clear, let me restate your thesis. You are saying:    Because we should relieve the successful of credit for their success, (it was only luck)    Then we should relieve the failures of responsibility for their failures. (it was only bad luck)I am saying unconditionally, that this argument and the self-referential logic behind it, IS BUNK! Entirely content free. It isn't even sound as wishful thinking. It doesn't even provide an intriguing plot line for a fantasy.You are free to live your life following those tenets. I'm quite certain you will find your life filled with unexplainable "bad luck".I assure you, however, that bad luck will not be unexplainable to me or others.[This is a metaphor] If you jump of a cliff, you are much more "in need" of the ability of flight than I am. If as it turns out you don't receive the reward of flight, you are free to consider that as "bad luck". Fortunately, you will only have to ponder your bad luck for a very short while. The reason you jumped off the cliff has very little bearing on the situation. There is zero difference to gravity if you jumped because you were on crack, of if you jumped because you were testing your handcrafted flight suit. If you don't succeed in flying, it is not gravity's fault. And it's not my fault either. Not even if I decide to handcraft a working flight suit. I have to admit I'm still skeptical but it is pretty impressive that actual physicists are still giving him the benefit of the doubt. It seems more and more that there is reason to believe that Pons and Fleischmann were on to something. It is just still not clear exactly what.The way they are going about things does make it seem fishy, but after the fast fall of their predecessors I can understand their sensitivity to early over exposure.And as for the generator staying on... as we saw in Japan, with nuclear reactions sometimes bad things happen when the power goes off! If they really were generating 470 Kwh of heat in that little shipping container something needed to circulate the water and vent that heat outside. The system itself was not generating electricity. It was only generating heat. As luck would have it, the New York Times just published a really interesting article on luck.http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/30/business/luck-is-just-the-spark-for-business-giants.html It tells me they are a bunch of racist bastards! I bet there are no black people at their rallies either!(Sarcasm) [Juxtaposition of the Tea Party and Socialists in order to highlight the perils of using induction to extract motives from arbitrarily chosen examples] Annotated for the thinking impaired. OK, that makes more sense. It was a kind of interesting thread too. Unrealistic, but unrealism permeates this site.The reason I assumed you were trolling is because the terms you use are hopelessly naive. As I linked earlier, more than 50% of all startup ventures fail within 5 years. That puts a huge amount of money at risk. Mostly the money of those who started the venture. This is as it should be.If you are loaning money, a "reasonable chance of success" is nowhere near good enough. Bankers are loaning someone else's money. Those people depend on the bankers not to lose their savings. If the bankers lost the loan money on 50% of the loans, it would be a catastrophe that makes the wall street guys look like rocket scientists.Bankers require basically 100% assurance that the loan with be paid back with interest. They are not business partners sharing risk. They get this assurance by making sure borrowers have skin in the game, and requiring collateral that can be foreclosed on and sold if the borrowers fail to pay back the loan for any reason. If a startup found puts $100,000 worth of cash into his new business and borrows another $100,000 worth from the bank against his home, this is in no way a *reward* for writing a good business plan. If the above startup fails, the owner loses his $100,000 investment. He must also pay back the loan, even if he has to sell his house to do so. I'm sorry if this sounds to you like "punishment" it isn't. It is what grownups call "consequences".Venture capital works differently. These folks invest at risk, but they take the lion's share of the business (often ownership) to do so. This means they get the lion share of the reward even if they didn't have the idea and didn't do any work. Risk takes the reward.If it seems like the above process is kills many ideas before they start, it does. Fortunately, most of those ideas would have failed anyway. Even if the idea was good. Most of those people would have failed anyway. There is a saying in business that goes to start a successful company you need three things: A good idea, balls & money. If you have balls and money you win. Because ideas are trivial to find.The real world really isn't high school. There are no *awards* for turning in good papers. You actually have to take risk and produce salable things to succeed. If you borrow money from people, to which you've promised to pay it back. They don't care why you are failing to pay them back. They just expect you to make good on your word. There is no punishment for "bad luck". It does, however, have consequences. Consequences are what keep smart people from doing stupid things.There is only "punishment" for failing to meet your obligations. Punishment is used to dissuade dishonest people from doing bad things. Like taking other people's money and breaking your promise to pay it back. Those who fail because of "bad luck" are welcome to bring those facts to their investors. They are also welcome to convince their investors they've learned from their mistakes and the "bad luck" is sure to stop. However, those are your investor's decisions to make because it is they that must live with the consequences of their risk.I'm sorry the real world seems harsh. It is. I concede! I can't possibly compete with the superior intellect! Khan!!!!But I have to ask, WTF does "Do you think they just hand them out to anyone saying they want to restore a theatre?" mean? LOL! OK, OK, you got me! I've been trolled by the best. I totally thought you were serious until I read this line.LMAO! You are the master! You called a loan a "reward". I'm not even convinced we speak the same language.But quite frankly you aren't saying anything even remotely interesting. It is like badly rephrased arguments from the standard liberal talking points. I've heard them all. They all fall flat. You just happen to make them even less compelling then reading legal boilerplate.Your philosophy requires the "sanction of your victims" as Rand would put it. You seem incapable of compelling that from anyone. Quite frankly is was amusing to watch your early attempts, but now you just come off as precocious and more than a little tedious. LMAO! I meant your opinions are so ill considered and childish as to not be worthy of rewarding with discussion.But they are not all entitled to consideration. Yes it is!But you are wrong about Atlas Shrugged, it was really interesting as a novel. You should pick up the audio version and play it at double speed. You'll be done with it in only 26 hours or so. There really zero benefit to continuing this discussion. Somethings are so stupid they should be left to die. African Americans lag behind. Granted. I already addressed this.Your conclusion is pure politically correct speculation. In 50 years, black children will still inherit that history. Must they still fall behind? Is it my fault? I will be dead long before they are even born.The Chinese in the west share a similar history but it doesn't seem to be effecting them. I call your self-perpetuating politically correct postulation bunk.No one anywhere is rewarded for starting a business! They are rewarded for succeeding at business.No one gets a decent standard of living because they "deserve" it. They earn their decent standard of living by being successful.Saying you are "qualified to attend" but you are not accepted, is a politically correct way of saying "We don't want you! We've found somebody WE WANT MORE than you."No one is qualified to "be the best" because they jumped through hoops others told them to jump through. Unless you are competing at Olympic hoop jumping.I'm clearly saying, if you dug a whole and didn't successfully pull gold out of the hole, it doesn't matter where the fuck you dug the needless hole. It doesn't matter how smart you were before you made your wrong decision. It doesn't matter how much you believed in yourself or how much self confidence you had. It doesn't even matter how prestigious your upbringing. You dug a needless hole! Tough shit! Exxon doesn't get paid for drilling dry holes either.Obviously, the wilderness disagrees with you. But clearly you are saying, the government should have build a gold miner safety net before it allowed anyone into California to search for gold.I can't say more strongly that, jumping off a cliff doesn't make you deserving of the ability to fly. You need to beg the tooth fairy for that honor.Again, how smart and capable you are results in ZERO VALUE TO ANYONE if you don't succeed. Thinking you are awesome does not make you awesome Stuart.Again, you are an idiot for not acknowledging that others have been or are in those positions and they suck by comparison. And if it turns out they don't suck, you blame them for their own success because they were obviously lucky.What is the point of this? The bad luck of the guy who made glue that failed to stick and didn't know what to do with it?Or the brilliant genius of the person who saw a market for glue that didn't stick very well? Neither seem "lucky" in any sense of the word.This is so circular and stupid I can hardly respond. Steve Jobs leaves an the company fails. Thousands of competent workers jobs go at risk but none of them can stop the fall. Steve Jobs shows back up tells them to stop working on their crappy shit that was going to fail. Then he gives them a direction that will succeed.You dismiss all of that as luck? BULLSHIT!I have no fucking idea, but based on everything I've read about him over 30 odd years, I'd say he would probably have taken over Somalia fired the incompetents and made it profitable. Then he would have improved the lives of the Entrean's and be threatening to reform Egypt as well.Good. Buy their stock.Again circular non-sense Bill Gates wasn't rewarded because his stuff was better, we all just made him lucky. Even if he was never born we'd be perfectly happy with what we got. But you are telling me that everyone isn't happy with what they got. They deserve better.We should give money to everyone indiscriminately because maybe they are "the one" who will change our world.Again I say this is fantasy adolescent bullshit. It is circular and can be used to justify anything. The Unibomber might turn out to be "the one" too! More money for him! We owe it to ourselves to see what he accomplishes so we can all build on it.I am saying clearly that I think people earn what they deserve based on their personal success. Steve Jobs fired smarter people for being unsuccessful, than most companies hire. That is what successful people do. That is where "luck" comes from. This is a mantra not a supported argument. Who should meet these basic needs? Who deserves to have them met?You certainly can't argue that everyone deserves to have their needs met, but nobody should be require to meet them.But you can argue that everyone deserves to have their needs met, but everyone must be required to meet them.That only leaves, some people must be required to meet the needs of others. Who are these blessed people and who are those burdened?I did this in another thread already. I'm not going to do it again.But basically those that succeed are indispensable, those that fail are trivially replaceable. There is an endless supply of people who fail. Effort expended is not a measure of value. Success is a measure of value.People should be scared. The actual odds are horrible. That is why there are rewards for success. Not rewards for risk taking.http://boss.blogs.nytimes.com/2009/07/15/failure-is-a-constant-in-entrepreneurship/Nobody is given what they deserve ever. That is a silly concept. There is no tooth fairy either.You don't have to be taxed! You just have to HELP! Are you telling me Bill Gates fortune would be better spent if he gave it to the government. Better than if he used it to directly help improve conditions among his fellow mankind? That bastard! Having the hubris to think he should be allowed to decide how best to help people! He is not even a liberal! He's a heartless business man. Who put him in charge?
I won't respond to most of that because it is silly, circular and not worth my time. The whole argument is basically a poor copy of this. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6ldAQ6Rh5ZIHowever, if anyone else thinks I'm ducking out of anything other than futility please let me know. I love this! Woot! Woot!You are saying "at stone cold least" everyone should be rewarded for setting an example for others. Especially those who set a Bad Example! Obviously, it is from their self sacrifices that we all learn the most.So the people who strive and succeed are rewarded based on luck.And the people who strive and fail should be rewarded despite bad luck.And people who don't try at all and therefore don't succeed should be rewarded. Because had they bothered to try, they would have deserved an equal a shot at luck as those who strived and succeeded. Nice job Stuart! Awesome story! I have friends from Romania that I helped to immigrate here. They have a very similar story. They came over only about 10 years ago. Now they make more money than me. I guarantee you it is all from their personal motivation and hard work.  Now that is the easy politically correct answer. That doesn't explain why my new to the country friends automatically inherited the same racism. Keep in mind these where the years where everyone was protesting aparteid in South Africa. Being an actual African was very popular among the locals. However, these Africans view being in the US to study as an amazing opportunity. They thought the other students were lazy and using any excuse not to study and succeed.It's not that I want to attack this argument. But really I can't just let it stand without pointing out that it is a self attacking argument.So personally I'm not a Bill Gates fan. But really? You expect me to belief that Bill Gates got ahead on luck and making connections? I'm sure his Harvard connections were awesome when he dropped out to go work with a nobody in New Mexico!But since you brought up the analogy, say I set out across the country to dig for gold in California. You decided that I was a moron and wasting a lot of time. So you decided to forgo the trip and start digging for gold in New Jersey. After all, that meant you could get started six months sooner than me. And lets just say that you dug a whole three times as deep as the hole I dug. And it was through rock that was twice as hard is the rock I dug through.Now say, I found an ounce of gold and you found none. How much of my ounce are you entitled to because through "luck" I struck gold? And through only "bad luck" you "didn't quite strike gold".I say none. Not because you didn't work hard. But because you didn't do anything productive. Meaning you didn't "produce" anything. Just a whole. Maybe that is useful, so go find a market for your hole. Then send me some of the money you got for it because I wasn't lucky enough to sell my hole. Just my gold.Suppose Zuckerberg sold FaceBook off at his first off then retired to a island to live off of his 10 million instead of going on to be worth more than a billion. Are you saying we would all be better off? Ask Rupert Murdock about MySpace then tell me again how everything is just luck.Really, you are going to continue on with the Bill Gates was lucky argument. I suppose Steve Jobs, and Mark Zuckerberg were lucky too!But life has already tested your hypothesis. When Steve Jobs was booted from Apple the whole company crashed. When he returned it went from near bankruptcy to the most valuable company on the planet.Bill Gates left Microsoft to Steve Ballmer (Who really did get lucky meeting Bill Gates at Harvard). But you really want to tell me that Microsoft is the same post Gates? Bill Gates leaving Microsoft to give away his fortune has cost the world trillions of dollars of value that Gates could have created but Ballmer couldn't.The point is we don't get to "judge if Bill Gates really deserves to be richest". Bill Gates created that wealth and value out of thin air. Prior to him you couldn't buy Microsoft Word (insert your favorite) even if you wanted to. We are all better because he helped us be more productive, or better entertained, or (insert your favorite). We gave him the money in exchange for value that we received. He didn't steal from us.Now you want me to believe that we shouldn't have bought the products he created, because some nebulous competitor didn't get the opportunity to build products to compete with him?I don't reward people for "striving for achievement". I pay people to share with me the value they created by actually achieving things. Things either I couldn't achieve, or didn't want to attempt, or chose not to bother to do.Really!? Dianetics!?Your impulse toward sanity, does not guarantee your actual sanity. I'm well aware of the predatory lending that took place in low income areas. That was awful.However, it was dwarfed by the lending that took place in California, Arizona, Nevada, and Florida. Most of those were to middle class, upper middle class, and speculators. They were all made possible because mortgage brokers could make stupid loans, then sell them immediately. My brother worked for one of those companies in California. There business policy was "never sleep on risk". They sold every mortgage by 5:00 the same day they make it. Most of these loans were pre-vetted to be sold to Fannie and Freddie.It was these mortgages that got packaged back into mortgage backed securities and sold on wall street back to banks. They thought they were buying pre-vetted risk with well defined interest payments. Why? Because that was what Fannie and Freddie were invented to do! Originally they bought mortgages vetted by local banks using traditional banking rules. However, when Fannie and Freddie started to relax the rules, they left the door open for lots of unscrupulous mortgage brokers who wanted cash sales with no risk. See just when you think you've said something well. Someone has already said it better. Nice quote. Thanks!I certainly don't claim everyone is even. There are clearly differences but it is difficult identify the true causes and effects.I taught my kids, everyone starts with all the doors open. Then each person shuts doors through personal actions. You break into a store, you shut the door to being a cop. Decide not to study science, you shut the door to med school. Clearly, parents and friends encourage you shut some of these doors as well. But that doesn't make anyone righteous. It also doesn't make the decisions reversible. It is quite puzzling to wonder why some groups continue to fall behind while some do not. Asians became statistically indistinguishable from white people a while back. This is true even though most are relative new comers to this country. Hispanics often have differing success rates based upon their country of origin. This seems true even if we find them indistinguishable. When I was in high school my black friends from successful Jamaican families separated themselves from "American blacks". When I was in college my Nigerian black friends wouldn't even party with "American blacks".It appears to me that the more successful groups tend to value shutting doors more slowly. I saw a Ted talk that claimed the future success of children was easily predictable based upon their ability to delay gratification. The guy had a brilliant video of children trying not to eat marshmallows. How is it that one child comes to have the ability to delay gratification and another doesn't?  I have no idea. I probably effected that in my children, however I don't take the blame for affecting others. Now who is ducking the issues? How does the world work? Why can't these ultra efficient workers compete? I'm sorry that the answer is because the machines do most of the work. And that the remainder can be easily taught to a multitude of other who are willing to replace them at a moments notice.Oh come on, to you seriously not think that cheap loans cause the housing bubble. The flow of money affect prices. (see the bitcoin marketplace)You are clueless if you don't think speculation enters my mind. Commodities markets were invented for a good reason. Some people were meant NOT to play. That holds for Oil, Corn, Electrical and most of them actually. People who can't take possession of a million barrels of oil shouldn't be allowed to contract for it. That doesn't take a vast regulating army. It just takes common sense.But speculation is driven by actual scarcity. People don't pay high dollars for the first ear of corn. They pay high dollars for the last one. The less abundance there is, the easier it is to buy up the last one. That held for California electrical prices, Corn prices, and the Oil spike. Everyone was surprised prices fell when congress announce they were going to investigate oil speculation. It didn't surprise me. People took their MBS speculation money and moved it into oil speculation. These folks weren't supposed to be allowed to play. They cheated. Cheaters like that are bad. They should be hung. Actually, I read a good article on that the other day. I was looking for the link. It was written by a European socialist ruminating on the same question. I can't seem to find the link. I'll summarize his view, then I'll give mine.He pointed out that Europe has more "situational" equality, meaning people are more financially equal as you are suggesting. He attributed this to homogeneity. French people seem themselves a French people and they should be the equal. However, his view was that European countries have very little "opportunistic" equality. Meaning that if you are Muslim new-French you are expected to not try to fit in. You are people, but you're not "our people".Conversely, he saw America as having much more "opportunistic" equality. His view was everyone, black, white, rich, poor, gay, straight, (and he had a growing list of groups we are tolerating, like it or not) is seen as having a chance to succeed. So if someone does succeed, we are more willing to tolerate the "situational" inequality.---Personally, I think Europe blew themselves the fuck up during World War II. The process of randomly destroying people's shit, removed any notion of a mapping between owning property and deserving to own property. Specifically, if a bomb fell on my house but did not fall on your house, that doesn't mean I deserved to have my stuff destroyed more than you.In the end, everyone had to rebuild together out of what they all had left. Or they could stand on arbitrary principles and all die or kill each other. This process left a couple of generations forever changed.However, they are quickly re-discovering that some people are more productive than others. Even Amsterdam tolerates its famous drug users because it is less bother to do so than otherwise. They don't consider drug addicts as living a socially equivalent lifestyle. European countries are also discovering that they enjoy their homogeneity. The French are not keen on giving the new-French Muslims the same social freedoms and benefits. Clearly, the Germans want equality for the Germans, but they are not really saying, "Oh those poor Greeks."---The US has a different philosophy from Europe. I partially agree with the guy above. If you are Herman Cain and come from poverty, you can make it. If you are an orphan like Steve Jobs you can make it. These folks deserve what they earned. They didn't steal anything. The created value.And we Americans see ourselves in them. Sometimes there is envy in our eyes, but still we think, if I wasn't so damn lazy I could be like those guys. I could create awesome shit! I could bring people together to change the world! Now where is that last beer? Speaking only for myself. I know this category of people fits me. Maybe I'm delusional and I'm not as smart or driven as Steve Jobs. But in no way is my personal failing Steve Jobs fault. Him being clever doesn't make him responsible for me being less so. This is not a zero sum game.I worked my job so I could deserve the cool shit Steve Jobs willed to life. He didn't will it to life because I deserve it. He was taking great pains to point out the bottom line is almost flat. I'm trying to take great pains to point out the bottom line is always almost flat by design. The two largest groups of low income people are those making minimum wage and those living off social security. Both are adjusted for inflation, one regularly one less so. There is also another group with low income, those retired and living off their savings. We ignore those lucky bastards.The point is, if in truth, the folks on the bottom line had killed off the folks on the top line, you would still be bitching. The graph doesn't change at all. I hear you saying you want the lines more parallel, because...But this is easy to debunk. If those worker's skills were really so much better, they could simply quit their employer, start their own company, and out compete their previous albatross. Everyone loves to invest in a sure thing.You have to pick. Either it mostly kept pace or it didn't keep pace. If it didn't keep pace then someone who calculates such things at the government can't do math.But surely you can't be complaining that 1) The cost of education was able to rise because government backed student loans enabled student to pay overpriced tuition.2) The cost of health care was able to rise because insurance enabled people to pay for overpriced care.3) The cost of food rose dramatically because the government decided we must burn it in our cars instead of eat it. Hey! Who is the lowest? I didn't know there was room for improvement.Well it is clearly a conspiracy. Obviously, the folks at the top are not competing among themselves. They are all preoccupied with penalizing the folks who work at McDonald's. It is symptomatic of the rich's perceive that the poor spit in their food. Either that, or they are all trying to get back at them because they got picked on in high school.People like me! You mean niggers! You racist bastard! Your statistics display that minimum wage has basically matched inflation over time. Woot! Insightful! Why don't you graph that social security "cost-of-living" adjustments match inflation over time as well. Those are both well know relationships, because they are intentional relationships. These are only earth shattering concepts to the intellectually challenged. But if they amuse you, let me give you some other relationships that will blow your mind. Those five lines can *never* cross! Ever! It's like magic. No matter how you change the world those five lines will always remain in exactly the same order. Not really parallel, but never crossing either. Doesn't that blow your mind!The crazy thing is that absolutely anybody's life trajectory can cross any or all of those lines. But taking together scientifically and statistically that has NO EFFECT at all on those five lines! That is why it makes such a great graph! I told you mind blowing! Even if everyone the bottom line represented became the richest people in the country... There would still be a bottom line! Right at the bottom. And it would never cross any of the other lines! In fact the chart would hardly change at all! That's what makes it such a cool illustration! It's like one of those Escher optical delusions! Obviously he hates the poor... He gave up being one! Really? Come on! Michael Dell dropped out of college not 30 miles from where Atlas is. But if he is not rags-to-riches enough, how about:College Drop OutsSteve WozniakSteve JobsBill GatesMark ZuckerbergCollege GraduatesLarry EllisonJeff BezosLarry PageSergey BrinWarren BuffettHerman CainThose are just the tech folks and others who immediately come to mind. You will find the Forbes 400 is filled with people who didn't inherit their money from daddy. Laughing my ass off! Surprise! The guy who started out poorer than you. More oppressed than you. Then grew, in spite of all that, to be more successful than you. Has a different opinion than you of how the world actually works.I'm sure he hates poor people the elitist bastard!http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Herman_Cain Wow! Could you be more condescending? I don't actually know where you are so I can't make appropriate geo relative comments, but suppose you lived in Manhattan. What you are saying is, "Can you imagine how much it must suck to live in New Jersey? I bet all those people have to do all day is internet porn."Really, if Atlas is the least bit clever he'll start a business and become one of the folks the Columbia students are protesting. I mean no matter what happens, somebody has to be in the top 1%. It is completely clear who has zero interest in being in that demographic. Gosh who knew? Neat graph. It doesn't seem to fit me. And you know what. It is not supposed to fit any body.Taking my example as a real world use case, I started working just before 1980 way below the bottom line. I was working part time at McDonald's making $3.15 an hour. Then I took a job with the same wage but more hours at a grocery store. I did part-time work as a photographer. (No company, just me) Then I worked in a Target using my photography skills to sell cameras. While doing that I taught myself about computers. Then I invented a better job teaching a small business how to use them. But really I'm too lazy for that kind of work so I went to the university. I had no money and there was a recession so I took out loans to get a degree in computer science. I could have gotten a lamer degree with much less work. I know, I had lots of roommates. But I decided not to throw my money away. After school, I got a better job and paid back my loans. After that a better one. Then a better one because my skills kept growing. So after 30 years I fall between the top two lines.I'm not exactly Steve Jobs, but then again I didn't re-invent several industries either.Now, if I was still working the grill at McDonald's doing the same damn thing I was doing 30 years ago, I'd be making about $7.25/hr. That would be more than a 100% increase over those 30 years. Now of course you'll claim that 100% increase hardly matches inflation. Shouldn't I have gotten much better raises over time having 30 years of burger flipping experience. Clearly, after 30 years my burger flipping skills are way more valuable than those of a high schooler starting his first job. I can only reply, No. Indeed they wouldn't be. I was a pretty fucking good burger flipper. There was very little room for improvement in my burger flipping skills. If I was still doing exactly the same thing, it would be worth exactly what it is worth today. But at least the job would be easier. I watch them, their equipment is way better now.----Feel free to tell your own tail if you wish. I agree with you, a year and a half ago this would have sounded dumb. But now juxtaposed against the OWS obscure manifestos, it is positively hilarious. I never knock smart people. I tend to bash those who keep smart and motivated people from actually solving problems. I won't mind! I'll vote for him and I'm a racist tea partier!For anyone who thinks he came out of no where, here is Herman Cain and Bill Clinton.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-WP5dYfBBzU&feature=player_embedded So I went back and read most of the article. It seems like most of the people are getting off easy. They are throwing rock through the windows of public buildings and trying to break in. The penalty is getting locked up for 5 hours? You get locked up longer than that if you piss in the street at Mardi Gras.So last I checked, the English elected their government. Then when some people don't like the actions of that government they decide they can occupy public buildings and disrupt everyone's government. That seems hardly "peaceful". It is a parliamentary system, all they have to do is call for a vote of "no confidence".Soylent Green! Hey at least it's Green! I bet they're tasty!
Woot! High frequency trading for everyone! Woot! Another tax payer! If only we were 99% tax payers!As someone whose worked for more than 30 years. Salaries have gone up. I started working for the minimum wage of $3.15 an hour. I was ecstatic when it went to $3.25.I'm not anti-99%. But clearly I have no idea what the OWS people are asking for. Except to be in charge. I'm not in favor of that.If they want to be in charge, they should build an alternative to banks, or wall street, or whatever. As a famous queen once said, "Let them eat Bitcoins." Has anyone every researched Herman Cain?He has a degree in computer science. He is probably the only candidate capable of understanding bitcoin. Mine went up! I sold off high. Bought back low. It's like bitcoin speculating. Except with money.Ironically, the market is setting new records since the protesters got to work. Maybe wall street should pay them to stay! LMAO at the phrase, "If you have a car!"Yes everyone has cars. Even teenagers! And that is really just a suburb outside of Austin. It only looks flat but it's on the edge of the hill country. There are lakes and rivers, trees, hills. He is a really easy drive to Austin, Dallas, San Antonio, and not to far to Houston.Really, don't fret for him!East Coaster's do have a hard on for Austin. Yes there is some tech there, but it's not like they put men on the moon or anything.But really that was my point about technology. I doesn't matter how intelligent your engineers are, if they can't build anything. Last I heard the "Green" mountain paradise of Vermont had exactly one windmill. And they were complaining that it was too noisy! Massachusetts is busy litigating to see if they can build windmills off the coast.Texas has an open invitation for anyone who wants to build offshore wind farms. It doesn't even require federal permits. This was a really good article on understanding Green Technology and Texas.http://www.popularmechanics.com/science/energy/solar-wind/4338280 http://www.telegraph.co.uk/finance/comment/ambroseevans_pritchard/8844646/World-power-swings-back-to-America.htmlWoot! Go America Go!This is my favorite!It's high praise when the rest of the world looks at you like a bunch of geniuses because you remember how to BREED! Come on smart people of the world! Do we need to teach you everything! I guess that's why they created that industry in the San Fernando Valley. Educational films! Woot! That is awesome! I wish I was that clever.But he's right. Something like 40% of MIT's *engineering* graduates went to work on wall street. It's not quite the "good ol' boy" society people want to think it is. Watched the video. Are you calling that a peaceful protest? Taking things from the police, blocking traffic. Stopping busses.Have you ever considered the police might be speaking for the people on the busses and in needless traffic? Perhaps the public considers the police their way of peacefully protesting against the protesters. I don't really know where he is from. But it sounds like the desert southwest. I know many people from out there. Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, California. All of those places are different, but they are basically filled with people living deliberately. With guns. Also, often with motorcycles and all terrain vehicles. Sometimes they make explosives just for the hell of it. Life is nice when you can make things go boom without attracting needless authorities. Lots have boats and go fishing in a places you'd swear could have no water. Sometimes people grow things where you'd swear nothing should grow. There are few signs to tell you what you can't do. So people come here to find out what they actually can do.The desert southwest is baffling to East Coast city people. They are convinced nobody should live out there. However, they are also convinced that is the perfect place for people to build them the solar, wind, hydro, and thermal power plants they want. In California they call this the "not in my backyard" effect. But to the East and West coast folks, the southwest is really "nobody's backyard". Curiously though it is. And the people in that backyard think, Woot! More shit to build!In Texas we find things especially ironic. After being resented as a bastion of the evil oil (energy) industry, now we lead the nation in wind power (energy). And you'd be horrified to know that the same rednecks that built the oil refineries are now building bio-fuel refineries, solar plants, and now it looks like they can keep drilling holes in the crust for geo-thermal plants as well. In ten years, the East Coast will be pissing and moaning that evil Texas energy companies are manipulating their costs of clean energy. But every moment from now till then, the "intelligent", "educated", "civic minded" people in the "civilized" parts of the country will keep thinking, "What on earth could you redneck morons possibly find to do out there???" "I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it in my next excursion."— Henry David ThoreauIt's like that. Without the woods. Or the pond. But with guns. That was well stated. You should write more longer well thought out posts like this. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/08/15/us/15forage.html?_r=1This one was interesting. But really I'm not attempting to make a particular political statement other than, "go clever people!" Oh, come on! How can you fail to grasp the, "Everyone who disagrees with me is all alike," argument?It goes back to Sun Tsu. "The enemy of my enemies, is me!"  Please don't send them here! Have you seen Montana? There is no one there. Totally empty. Free land for everyone! Neat, but I must have missed that original pict. Is there a full scale meme? The article was the first I heard. Thanks! I was wondering what the connotations were.I really had no idea if it was like, "Joe died in a hang glider crash." Or more like, "Joe died in a horrible Russian Roulette accident."We tend to use the generic term, "overdosed" which left unqualified means they were a substance abusing idiot of one kind or another. Otherwise it might be an "accidental overdose" which would connote some sort of potential tragedy. (i.e. Michael Jackson, ElvisDr's fault defense)  You could easily do a light version that did not try to validate every transaction. After all, a client like this couldn't really generate blocks. It would burn itself up and shut down all other services trying to calculate proof-of-works.All at freedom box bitcoin app would have to do is to receive the latest block in the chain and look for wallet related transactions. It could then generate and send new transactions from a simplified web client. In every case though, it should store bitcoin private keys off of the plug.  I'm not arguing that people *must* make minimum wage and not receive insurance. I've been pretty clear about that.It also seem pretty clear that Costco is on the ascendancy and Sam's in stagnating. I don't know the cause, but most likely it is related to stupid employees at all levels. (Sometimes a brilliant founder dies and leaves the place to idiots.) I imagine Costco employees would be highly offended by your comparing them to Sam's employees. Similar job descriptions do not similar people make.If Costco hirers better people, pays better salaries and out competes Sam's... Yay verily! That is a vote for innovation.If they hire the same people, pay more and go bankrupt... Well that would be less clever.For the record. I'm in favor of the former not the latter. I think this is silly on face value. Of course groups matter. Human groups are fundamental to humanity. On our own a human is easy prey for any random pack of wolves. As a group... well let's just say roving packs of wolves are no longer a problem.It is also clear that differences among groups are important. I would much rather belong to the group of smart people. Does that make the group of dumb people sub-human? No. It just makes them uninteresting. No worries!
Really?How can you not see this as a restatement of my point while calling me an idiot? http://www.futureofcapitalism.com/2011/01/steve-jobs-compensation[/quote]Yes they gave him an Airplane to make it possible for him to become iCEO. That is well known. He was already the CEO of another company so his daily commute was pretty phenomenal. His 5.5 million shares were the result of an option grant of 10 million shares. You are required to exercise options or they evaporate. In order to exercise the options, you have to go out of pocket for the original value of the stock. Normally people do this by selling the stock and pocketing the difference. In his case, he returned almost half the options to the company in exchange for stock. That showed his commitment to the company and avoided needlessly roiling the market. This is why there was a "tax" charge. He never took any cash, so the company paid his taxes.So when did he convert all that stock into cash and start blowing it on cocaine and hookers? Oh yeah, he died never having taken his profits.Yes, obviously he was out to screw everyone. Your main problem seems to stem from your inability to realize that you can't call someone an idiot while restating their premise.And Atlas Shrugged is not that tough a read. Download the audio version if you are lazy. They are useful and compensated for their utility. Do I want to pay $10 for a Big Mac. No. Will I pay $10 for a Big Mac. No. Will McDonald's replace all those folks with a fascinating Krispy Kreme Machine before they ask me to pay $10 for a Big Mac. Well, they had better or they'll be shit out of luck.Will I shed a tear that people can't burn their hands on McDonald's grills like I used to? Not a single one.But I will marvel at the work of the engineers! LMAO! I'm not making the argument it is too complex. I'm only saying, I'm too lazy to put in that much work.  Ask the prick. He will tell you it's not about laziness. Its about usefulness. Hippies that weave baskets work pretty hard at it. Even if they are stoned while doing it. But that doesn't mean I have to give a crap they made a basket. I prefer buckets.---Throws bucket at Hawker! It is folly to interpret any Texan's dismissal of leftist views as a lack of understanding of them. We simply dismiss them because they are silly. Not silly in a good way like Jerry Seinfeld. But silly in the way an 8 year old rationalizes their father buying them a new skateboard.Silly like this current events example:http://www.cnn.com/2011/10/26/politics/obama-student-loans/Way to support the president's argument CNN! But still, I'm hugely in favor of education.OK, the main problem is the cost of education is rising. Granted. Could it be a supply and demand imbalance? No, how could it be possible for college student to have too much money to waste on tuition that is needlessly high. That's Inconceivable!Doh! The government is giving student money to pay needlessly high tuition rates. THEN, we are not even asking them to pay it back. Oh, that makes perfect sense now. Certainly, just like with free mortgage money, free education money will drive up prices.So let's fix the problem!WTF!  We are going to fix the problem of increasing education cost, by having students pay back less of their loans!!!Why don't we just charge science and engineering majors more because they are going to be rich. But give discounts to english and history majors because they are going to be poor.Wait! Universities are actually doing that! You've got to be fucking kidding me. Deliberately penalizing people from learning to be productive, while encouraging people to study what will keep them in poverty. Well as long as there is a plan! Go left go! Anyone else fit into this demographic? I know I do.The 53%: We are NOT Occupy Wall Street Me and the other 1%? Exactly what are you smoking?If you mean geocentrically? Sure, guilty as charged. Where do you fit on that scale, 2%?I am the 53%! Curiously, you know how many stock options Steve Jobs died with?  ALL OF THEM!Every stock option he received came at the expense of other stock holders. None came at the expense of employees. Each option was worthless when he received it. (Options are the right to purchase stock at the current market price.) They only increased in value because he 1) revived a dying company, 2) saved countless jobs and 3) created multitudes more. The value of his options rose 600 million dollars in the past year alone, even though he received zero additional options. He cashed out none of them. Had he chosen to cash out those options, every penny of the money would have come from new Apple investors. Zero of it would have come at the expense of Chinese laborers.Yeah, I'm sure you think he was a insignificant greedy bastard leaching off the work products of others. I just happen to think you are wrong. Still working my way though your new section on how you do this in Encoin. I'm behind on my reading.Koomey's law is the best way I could explain what the goal is. I am still not sure how variances from Koomey's law could be measured of automatically compensated for. I do still think those differences will be swamped by actual economic changes though. This compounds the measurements.The basic problem is that given varying necessity for coin generation, there is no absolute way to resolve network partitioning like Bitcoin proposes. Both Encoin and GEM attempt to avoid the problem, by identifying network partitioning up front. Nodes should know ASAP if they have been partitioned from the main network.GEM does this on a 10 minute block basis using the announcements from non-anonymous nodes. Encoin does it for each transaction independently. Both require a benchmark for how a node can measure if they are in the majority or minority network partition. This benchmark is a very difficult thing to name. Encoin proposals have called it by several different names "Trust" being the most common. GEM also uses the term "Trust" but it does so differently than Encoin. Trust in GEM is basically human to human pragmatic trust. If you don't see your friend, you get worried. Trust in Encoin is more of a mathematical relationship. It is (sort of) a summation of "node compliance to the specification" (times) "node availability over time". Consistency or Dependability might be good alternate terms to describe what Encoin is measuring. But these terms don't work in most of the sentences discussing how a node can "trust" that its transactions have been confirmed.Both of these Encoin and GEMs "trust" benchmarks are designed to frustrate Sybil attacks. In this case that means creating additional entities in hopes of convincing a node it is in the majority partition when it is indeed in the minority partition. GEM frustrates this by requiring trusted nodes to be non-anonymous and trusted in the human to human sense. Encoin frustrates this by requiring anonymous nodes to put in extended effort over time (electricity) to build "trust". If a node violates the compliance rules, their expensive trust is easily revoked.The main drawback with Encoin's "trust" implementation is it requires almost as many words to describe (and lines of code to implement) as is needed for the rest of the transaction processing. This does not imply that it won't work or that it isn't worth doing.The main drawback with GEMs "trust" implementation is that it is difficult to guarantee that it is sufficient to frustrate deliberate network DOS or forking attacks. I tend to think it is. However, it requires acknowledging that when things get deliberately wonky, humans are going to step in no matter how much we hope they won't. I don't have a deep understand of all the Encoin details, but I understand the concepts and what drove the decision making.Basically nothing in GEM is superior to Encoin. However, given the tools at hand (meaning Bitcoin's code base) GEM is easier to implement. That goes a long way when you are lazy like me.A major difference is Encoin uses a balance sheet approach, in addition to recording all the transactions. This means every node does not have to download and keep the entire block chain. It just starts with the balances and runs. However, this requires a bit of "faith" that those you received the latest balance sheet from never lied in creating it. There is really nothing stopping bitcoin or GEM from rolling the old blocks up into a balance sheet for efficiency. However, Bitcoin isn't big on faith in ones peers. A subtile difference is that Bitcoin relies on a plethora of "accounts" to aid in anonymity. I'm pretty sure this is why Satoshi opted not to create a rolled up summary of accounts. If everyone uses a new account for every transaction, and keeps hundreds of funded personal accounts, then the balance sheet would grow pretty huge pretty fast. The block chain tends to grow linearly with the number of transactions but it is agnostic to the number of accounts. The balance sheet in Encoin will grow linearly with the number of accounts but it is agnostic to the number of transactions. This will be substantially smaller than the total block chain. However, Encoin does record every transaction into its own chain. It's just that every node isn't required to keep up with them all. This adds slight historical risk to Encoin. Since fewer nodes keep up with every transaction, those that do not are required to trust those that do to accurately maintain the historical record. Losing historical transactions does not invalidate the current balances of course, it just makes auditing them impossible.Depending on how you spin this, it either adds to or detracts from anonymity. Having fewer accounts detracts and makes it easier for those with every transaction block to profile account holders. However, not distributing every historical transactions to every node removes the triviality of anyone poking through the history. I tend to think it adds anonymity than it takes away.If the destruction of historical transaction records could be automated and mandated, anonymity would greatly improve. It does not appear to be plausible though. OK, now Steve Jobs' salary at Apple was $1 a year. I'm pretty sure that's less than lots of unskilled Chinese labor. I really do love the British, even if I don't even speak their language.Could someone from the other side of the pond decode the nuances of "Death by Misadventure" for me? It has to be one of the best phrases I've ever heard. I've always though American's didn't lead adventurous enough lives. Now I'm sure of it!http://www.eonline.com/news/amy_winehouses_cause_of_death/271628 This is probably your best real world example of how it can be done. An Analysis of Anonymity in the Bitcoin SystemI have some old posts somewhere in these forums that could be considered a primer to that paper.  Folly! Woot! I thought only I used that word. Clearly, Encoin and Bitcoin have different goals. Encoin is in no way designed to become a digital scarce commodity. No one will get rich by becoming an Encoin early adopter. Encoin is attempting to design digital currency with the specific goal of facilitating trade. With Encoin, if you have willing traders but no money to facilitate trading then you have a flaw in monetary policy. To rectify the flaw you simply make more money. However, to avoid price inflation, you constrain the creation of money by assigning it a specific proof-of-work cost to create. That cost must be paid-on-demand to the electric company. As such, in Encoin, money is created only when it is profitable to do so. The makes Encoin creation extremely market based.Bitcoin uses a similar electricity cost constraint, but instead of fixing the proof-of-work cost it raises the cost in scale with coin demand. Each bitcoin now costs about $3.41 to create. But if a bitcoin becomes worth $30 again, it will cost $30 in electricity to create each new coin. So when there is little demand for BTC, bitcoin makes them cheaper and easier to create. When there is high demand, bitcoin makes them expensive and hard to create. This seems like folly in a system designed to facilitate trade.But Yes, Bitcoin makes a much better digital scarce commodity than Encoin. Bitcoin will always crush Encoin in the digital coin speculation marketplace.  Clearly that is a problem with your window. Have you considered taking it in for service? Just to double check, PatrickHarnett and I looked out our windows. It seems highly unlikely that is brisbane, australia. There should be a river. I know! Egocentric terms are so ingrained in us it is hard to imagine any other way. However, when reading on different human languages, I was totally blown away to learn that some humans are much less dependent on the concept. They don't even use relative directions like, "On your right side." They would say, "On your north side" or "On your south side" depending on which way you were facing.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relative_direction#Cultures_not_using_relative_directions---But anyway, "I am the 1%!"  Just not egocentrically.  Face it. It is pretty much your responsibility to take care of everyone else on the planet. Why? Because if you are here on this site you are "the rich".http://www.globalrichlist.com/
Started listening the the first one. Very interesting. Thanks for the link!The one I heard was from the "Big Ideas" podcast series. It's Canadian broadcasting I think. It had a very similar theme. What randomness are you babbling about? I didn't mention a war zone or Hitler.The lecture I heard basically pointed out that if Bono in particular goes around pointing out how fucked up Aftrica is. And when the only pictures we see are starving, pitiful looking, victimized people. Then, no company is going to want to invest an Africa. Why on earth would they? You expect them to do their own research to find out that things really aren't so bad? When every "expert" in whole world is telling everyone these people can't possibly take care of themselves.That means the only money flows in through aid. Which is usually given directly to the government. Which is supposed to represent the people. But what good is representing the people, when if you piss off the aid givers, nobody gets anything. So governments help the aid givers feel good about themselves. And they steal whatever they can when their not looking. Who cares! They're not stealing from the people. There're stealing from foreign governments and rich folks like Bono.The lecture was from a native born African advocate for Africa. She wanted Bono to show the things that were working. And to encourage foreign business to start trading with local business. That way corrupt governments couldn't steal everything before it got to the people. And curiously she advocated Africans paying taxes so they would have a stake in the government. I heard a brilliant lecture about this concept and its relationship to African governments and foreign aid. It basically pointed out that many African countries have representative government without taxation. The government and its salaries are paid with foreign aid. As such, the government tends to answer to foreigners rather the people it was supposed to represent. While I agree with what you write. Balance is good. There seems to be a current lack of balance. It also appears that imbalance is growing. It is a really simple ratio to visualize.Goods traded for Bitcoins---------------------------------Currencies traded for BitcoinsAs this ratio tends toward infinity, Bitcoin tends toward world domination.As this ratio tends toward zero, Bitcoin tends toward a Ponzi scheme.The big damper on Bitcoin adoption is that most non-bitcoin users understand the above intuitively. What they perceive is the above ration is tending toward zero. A predominance of speculation talk only reinforces that perception. Woot! Banks gave loans because they could do so without taking risk. I'd give loans if I could do so without taking risk.Some banks bought loans because they thought they were getting interest with low risk. However, the first group lied to them. Doh, imagine that.Now I made a suggestion but y'all were busy trolling each other so you missed it.Clearly, I could write a function to describe who I think should be bailed out and who I think shouldn't. It is a function of how much cash you put in, how much interest you have payed in, the size of the loan you are asking for, and how likely you are to pay it back. It is really not that hard. Hey, I'm pretty sure I made a suggestion!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=49715.msg591494#msg591494Don't feed the trolls! Awesome! That little dip seems to match exactly the other two you pointed out.Any speculation as to what is causing it? Margin calls or some such? How about in situations where the banks are offering worse deals, that the government offered loans of 80% of the fair market value to people willing to put 20% down. AND the government charged low interest, but added a 20%-10% penalty to those who sold in less than 5 years or 10 years respectively.Vary the penalties and timeframes if you wish, but the point is to discourage free speculation from running the prices up again at our expense.If someone wantd to commit 20% plus interest for 10 years in order to speculate, they are already commiting much more than the bankers and mortgage brokers ever did.Am I sorry the current mortgagees would have to anti-up another 20%? Not really. Most of them didn't the first time around. The second time is a huge discount to the skin they should already have had in the game. People are eventually going to have to buy these houses at fair market value. It is just that nobody wants to acknowledge what that fair market value is. Yes, we would have all been much happier if the market hadn't yet crashed. But pretending it didn't doesn't fool anyone. Except maybe those UNDER DURESS from the worry of homelessness. We normally don't hold people responsible when they are forced to sign contracts under duress. We shouldn't be surprised in the future when folks who signed over market contracts, for these reasons, walk away from them.---As for the banks, they should be welcome to TRY TO SELL the properties for 25% over market. But we (the people) shouldn't be required to buy them. That just relieves the bank of their responsibility for having sucked at banking. Could you post an updated chart?https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=49159.msg586181#msg586181I'd love to see one with an arrow of when you made your prediction. The pattern seems uncannily repeating. Nice job noticing! I'm not really sure I know where I stand on this. Somebody please educate me.http://money.cnn.com/2011/10/24/real_estate/housing_refinance/http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/25/us/politics/administration-proposes-changes-to-mortgage-refinancing-program.html?_r=1Yes, I understand why we all want to help people. Helping people who need help is good!However, if this plan was offered only to upper middle class white folks, clearly others would protests that it was crony FAVORITISM. Why should those people be allowed to borrow more than there house is worth? Shouldn't they have some skin in the game? What if they just take their cheap payments then default? Won't we all be stuck on the hook for their irresponsibility? But this time, stuck for 25% more than they were irresponsible for?However, if this plan was offered only to lower middle class minority folks, we should surely hear protests of DISCRIMINATION. Why are you charging these folks a 25% premium on the value of their house? Shouldn't even poor folks be allowed to purchase their house for fair market value? Isn't it extreme social abuse to require these folks to pay 25% more up-front to own the same house that others can finance for much less?A am truly not sure for which reason to dislike this proposed "solution" to our shared problem. I mean if we are going to help people (and hence ourselves), shouldn't we start by not screwing people (and hence ourselves)? I read the book differently. To me, the primary thrust of what you write about the word "give", was to never allow anyone to use the concept "required to give" as a weapon against you. To use it as a weapon requires the sanction of the victim.However, there are many examples of people making sacrifices themselves for the good of another. But none are required to make these sacrifices. They all do it willingly because to avoid the responsibility would compromise their own self interests.To anyone who hasn't read Atlas Shrugged. Read it. It's huge but there is not a second of wasted time in it. I'm not sure why everyone keeps insisting I didn't write this. You don't seem to be disagreeing with me at all.Again, you don't seem to be saying anything different from me. If people get sick, we care for them. Period.*Why* you want to care for the sick is unimportant to me. It is nice that you care though. So do I.Again, people get sick. People get care. The responsibility of payment for services rendered should be settled afterward.I am not that cruel. However, you quite clearly pointed out that you do indeed know that others ARE that cruel!I know you italicized "my", but in reality these people are not leaching off "your" labor. They are leaching off "everyone's" labor. And conversely, they are paying nothing but lip service to the fact that the "mentally retarded or physically handicapped" aren't being cared for. If you ask these leaches to get a job and pay their fair share to help the "mentally retarded or physically handicapped" what do you expect their response to be? How in all sanity can you expect to convince them that they are "entitled" not to pay for their own care, BUT they are *required* to pay for other's care? If you can indeed make that case, I will bow down and worship everything you write.But obviously you can't, because rhetorically you think those people should be locked up. Locked up but well cared for it seems. I guess that is slightly more reasonable than dowsing these folks in gasoline and setting them on fire.But I myself am not so cruel.You can not fix a system, without fixing the people who make up the system. There is a fix. It is called personal responsibility. Exactly! A government is too big to fail. That is why it should have as little power as necessary. Because indeed it will fail. When smaller organizations fail we a glad to be rid of them and others step into take their place.When governments fail, like I said earlier "community" is always important. But this time it is the European Community they have to rely in to step up and help. There is no world safety net to fall back on if Greece happened to be a bad neighbor. Of course there is a better solution. I wrote extensively about the root causes of the problem. Not a single person is contesting these causes. To find a solution you have to mitigate the cause of the problem. You can't exacerbate the causes and expect it to help.I am sincerely sorry to hear of your health problems. I am glad they were treated effectively. Clearly you are not part of the root cause of our systems problems. You took responsibility and paid for the services you received.You probably payed more than your "fair" share because the root cause (others who felt entitled not to pay) didn't pay for their services. We should all be horrified that you had to suffer unduly for the irresponsibility of others. I am sincerely sorry to hear of your employment problems as well. Again, I think you are likely suffering unduly because of the irresponsibility of others. In this case, it was likely fund managers, bankers, loan brokers, appraisers, title companies, real estate agents who acted against irresponsibly in encouraging the boom which burst into recession.I in no way want you to get sick again. Ever. But if that unfortunate circumstance should arise, I want your doctors to be great. Period. If you are sick, you should get the most effective treatment available. Period.The only thing left to consider is how much of the cost for that treatment should be your obligation. I want to say a few things very clearly. 1. None of the extra overhead that comes from the irresponsibility parties should be your responsibility. 2. None of the bloat that comes from unnecessary procedures should be your responsibility. 3. No excessive markup going to anonymous insurance companies or government bureaucracies should be your responsibility.4. No excessive service provider profits only obtainable because you had to "consent under duress" should be your responsibility.So that just leave the true expenses that you or your family affirmatively consented to. That is the theoretical maximum cost it is even conceivable that should become your obligation to pay.Now, let's say I was god and I could say with certainty that you will live (X) months and will incur ($Y) in above medical expenses. What should your "insurance" rate be?  Would ($Y/X) be fair? If that is too high, who *must* be obligated to pay the remainder ($Y) and why?I can't answer that question for you, because I don't even know you. Say I did know you. I might decide that I personally should carry some of your burden. You are indeed a worth soul and I would be honored to help out. Perhaps you are an awful neighbor who killed my dog and tormented me every waking moment. *Must* I be required to pay so you can return to torment me some more?This is why questions of "community" weight so important. People who spend their lives benefiting others will likely have many people willing to step in. Those who spend their lives maliciously will find themselves among many hesitant to help.Clearly you understand this principle already. Do you think that in a case of your extreme hardship, those people you have been "a good citizen" among will not step up?If that is true. The government can't save us.  I don't really blame you! It's pretty sad people can't get that concept when it's written at the beginning of the law.http://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap1.html#102(b) In no case does copyright protection for an original work of authorship extend to any idea, procedure, process, system, method of operation, concept, principle, or discovery, regardless of the form in which it is described, explained, illustrated, or embodied in such work.http://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/usc_sec_35_00000101----000-.htmlWhoever invents or discovers any new and useful process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof, may obtain a patent therefor, subject to the conditions and requirements of this title.It has to come out of your head before it qualifies. Most importantly, you have to make the ideas available to everyone before they qualify.This isn't going to be any fun! We agree on everything.Even this! But how come the people who so obviously cannot be trusted to govern themselves, always want to govern me? Yes, exactly. General Motors was going broke fast. Chrysler was going broke slower. Are you trying to convince me that Chrysler was setting a great example that GM should be encouraged to follow?Yay! We agree on some thing! There exist proposed national solutions that everyone sees won't solve the problem! Woot!According to a really interesting Frontline documentary on universal healthcare, Germany has a two tier insurance system. The public buys inexpensive insurance that companies are sworn not to take any profit on. Then they make their profits selling supplemental insurance.However, Doctors protest in the streets about making less that taxi drivers. The health care system as a whole runs in the red. There are continual cost overruns and the whole thing is increasingly supplemented by the general tax fund.In fact according to Frontline *advocates* of universal healthcare, not a single UHC program on the planet runs in the black. Not the old ones. Not the new ones. Not insurance based ones. Not single payer ones.Is there a root cause? Yes there is. http://www.miller-mccune.com/health/warning-signs-from-europe-3470/National health care schemes in Germany and Switzerland (and many other countries) rely on the governments power to cut deals with major industry groups, including doctors, to keep expenses down. European doctors who work in the statutory insurance market earn scaled salaries set in agreements with the government.The result is a class of doctors that feels increasingly underpaid and overworked. German hospital doctors earn about one-fifth of their American counterparts  an average of $56,000 per year, as opposed to $268,000 in the states. When negotiations with the government fall short, the doctors behave like any other group of workers in Europe: They take to the streets.The marches in 2006 were the largest in German history, triggered by government reforms aimed at controlling costs in the national health care system.Only part of the problem was pay. Another problem, from the doctors point of view, were the so-called bonus-malus laws, which punished them for prescribing expensive drugs and rewarded them for prescribing generics. The idea was to keep down pharmaceuticals prices, but the doctors felt the hot breath of government on their necks. This ethically objectionable bonus-malus legal gimmickry  akin to bribing physicians not to treat to the best of their ability  was one of the sparks of the doctor protest movement, wrote Alphonse Crespo, a libertarian-minded Swiss orthopedic surgeon.The reforms finally pushed through by Angela Merkels government gave Germany its current system, which uses a central fund to compensate insurance companies for patients according to the patients risk. The government dropped its bonus-malus rules in 2008. But Germanys specific problems with its health care system are less relevant than their cause, which is the same as the cause of Americas crisis: ballooning costs. Doctor salaries are the least of it. The German system is full of administrative corruption within the nations many insurance companies.So is insurance itself the problem?Maybe. I understand this. However, it doesn't matter if they are paying less, when they themselves see their programs as bankrupting their government. Both do.  Following their lead will surely bankrupt ours. You can argue that it will bankrupt us slower then we are already going. But that is hardly a solution to the problem. It is merely pretending to address the problem.By the way, which universal healthcare plan are you supporting here in the US? The one the administration recently passed? Are you claiming that gets us well down the road to 50% savings? Because the administration claims total costs will go up.
Exactly! US law was almost complete plagiarism of this.An Act for the Encouragement of Learning, by vesting the Copies of Printed Books in the Authors or purchasers of such Copies, during the Times therein mentioned.An act for the Encouragement of Learning! That is the whole point of copyright law. It means the people must be allowed to READ books. If you read the act it mandates books be given to libraries, and that reasonable prices be charged. Anyone can bring price gougers up on charges! It means most importantly NOBODY can claim ownership of secrets! Your secret diaries were not originally copyrighted. Nobody can buy up the patent on a magically efficient engine and hide it from the world. Patented means it is already public knowledge.The opposite of Intellectual Property is not rampant freedom of knowledge. It is trade secrets, private licensing and a tangled web of secret self-interested interdependencies kept hidden from the public through the privacy of contract law.Digital Rights Management sucks bad enough. Imagine if people where implementing more Physical Rights Management. "I tried to open the hood of the car, but once I did, the engine melted itself down!" Duh, shouldn't have messed with the tamper resistant seal! Time for you to buy another! You realize that the U.K. recently had a whole government upheaval based upon health care solvency concerns. Hello, Mr Cameron. Here are a few random links from the first google page that came up. There seem to be some current issues.http://www.sourcewire.com/releases/rel_display.php?relid=67094http://www.ournhsinshropshireandtelford.nhs.uk/viewpoint/110224-capsticks.aspxhttp://www.hsj.co.uk/news/workforce/dh-seeks-solvency-assurances-from-nhs-employers/5014860.articleCanada in in the midst of health care reform as well. More random google results.http://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/story/2011/08/10/pol-cma-report.htmlThe majority of respondents said they are not getting good value for money, especially compared with European countries, and they based that assessment on long waiting times for the care they need, the report said.Discussions over private versus public health care were frequent, the report said, and support for a publicly funded system was widespread. Turnbull noted, however, that some expressed openness to private sector assistance to help alleviate some of the immediate pressures on the public system.Participants in the dialogue agreed that Canadians need to take responsibility for their own health, but they said there is a need for "healthy public policy" to help people make healthy decisions. Better health education and support for economically disadvantaged groups were among the suggestions made and some said tax incentives should be introduced to encourage healthier choices. Either you are conflating me with someone else, or you haven't bother to read what I've written above. Perhaps something more that three lines is TL;DR.But to clarify, I think the concept of entitlement is one of the two root causes of the problem. (See above) I don't think healthcare is a luxury. Healthcare is a service. The people who provide the service are not slaves nor are they beneath us. We have no right to compel them to work if they don't feel they are being adequately rewarded for their time. Currently, many doctors are leaving their field. They find their time better spent in other pursuits. If it continues that would cause healthcare to become a luxury. That would be a bad thing.Clearly, I explained why US healthcare is too expensive (see above). And why that is a horribly stupid thing we should all be working to fix. It is fixable.I don't think a mentioned Cuba at all. I did mention Europe. Both should make decisions as they see fit and be held responsible for their decisions. In Germany doctors have protested in the streets about harsh working conditions and low compensation. (see Frontline documentary on universal healthcare) Maybe Cubans are awesome. I have no idea.The only thing I said was, I don't think "universal healthcare" guarantees "optimal healthcare". And when folks in my family get sick, I demand optimal healthcare. You are welcome to not make the same demands for yourself. But you may not deny that choice to me. I am Pro-Choice. You seem to be Pro-Meh. "You get what you get but at least we all get it together!"Any questions? You almost have it right. All those countries that insure their whole populations don't report how many died because their care was substandard to known best practices. Quite frankly, the medical establishment here discovered that problem (in the US) and it shocked the fuck out of them. Some common medical procedures had a 30% different mortality rate among different facilities. However, they all thought their rate was the common best-practice rate. Other countries later discovered the same thing. Choosing a competent doctor is a life critical choice that I wish to retain the right to. Relinquish your right to that if you choose. If you wish to sacrifice your own care to save a buck, you have the freedom to do so. Your bad decisions do not make themselves my responsibilities.Quite frankly I'm appalled if 45,000 people die unnecessarily. However, I don't believe that to be the case. We do have a safety net in this country. I see it work everyday. (see above) It provides health CARE like it should. It doesn't provide health INSURANCE which would be STUPID! (see above for my treatise) Yes, the existing safety net costs all of us too much. (see above for my other treatise)But nothing you suggest seems even an attempt to solve that problem. You just seem to be advocating more steps down the road toward Greece.Health care for all is a solvable problem. However, it does require everyone to attempt to be responsible. You cannot both require me to relieve someone of responsibility for their own actions and compel me to respect their opinion. Cool! will you start another thread? This one is kind of bloated!I'm pretty sure we are going to end up arguing on the same side. What industry is trying to do to copyright law is completely contrary to why people created it in the first place. However, at the time, and quite probably today, the original intent/consequences of copyright/patent/trademark laws was much better for *everyone* than the consequences of not having them at all. What point do you think I was making? How is needing to hold Doctors responsible for being bad at their job, and different from holding pilots responsible for being bad at theirs? I'm clearly saying, "Some doctors are good at doctoring. Some doctors suck at doctoring. You serve no one by making them go to a doctor who sucks. Even if it's for free." I'm pretty sure the head of medicare/medicaid agrees with me.You cannot both require me to relieve someone of responsibility for their own actions and compel me to respect their opinion. There has got to be a fancy Latin name for that logic fallacy? Anyone? "You get what you pay for," Mark B. McClellan, who runs Medicare and Medicaid, told me. "And we ought to be paying for better quality." ...We just are not using the power of incentives to save lives....Joseph Britto, a former intensive-care doctor, likes to compare medicine's attitude toward mistakes with the airline industry's. At the insistence of pilots, who have the ultimate incentive not to mess up, airlines have studied their errors and nearly eliminated crashes."Unlike pilots," Dr. Britto said, "doctors don't go down with their planes."----This is probably the single best explanation of Consequences driving Responsibility that I have ever read!The second is, "An electrical lineman's pencil does NOT come with an eraser."Yes, Bankers should go down with their planes.Yes, Dictators should go down with their planes.No, Politicians should not be issued pencils with erasers. Really, I was going to argue in favor of intellectual property laws. But you guys are so bad at it, that I don't want to be associated with you!It's not like the concept was imposed on people. We willingly wrote it into our constitution. Nobody will even acknowledge why. It was one of the most successful decisions "we the people" ever made. Now you are arguing to let Hollywood turn it into the one thing it was meant to prevent. I refuse to argue "with" you people. As such I will not argue "against" the libertarian views. What on Earth is not curable?  Greece was a perfectly viable country for thousands of years. We still worship their ruins. Europe was the birthplace of a lot of greatness in the years before the great whining. Hell even Russia is seeing benefits in Neo-Fascism over Communism. (Not a good thing, but apparently a less bad thing.)It is all fixable. Even Europe. It just requires solving actual problems rather than addressing fantasy ones. If nobody is willing to deny Insurance and Entitlement are the root caused of our problem, then it's clear we are all in agreement on the cause of our troubles. But somehow, more insurance and more entitlement is supposed to address the problem? WTF? It is clear that Democrats don't think Obamacare will solve any of the problems. They acknowledge it will drive total health expenses up. That is exactly the problem they blame the industry for. But still pretending to address some fantasy problem is better than doing nothing at all! Spare me.The same holds for Greece. Whoever thinks allowing Greece to be irresponsible for their spending will cause Greece to become more responsible for their spending...   I am hugely in debt and I really need to learn self-restraint. Please, each of you send me 100 BTC! I'm begging you! My life depends on it! Please! Send it now! If you don't help me now, my problems will only become much bigger! Think of how much more it will cost you to help me then!!! For god sakes make the right decision! Send me 100 BTC now! The faster I learn financial restraint the better all of our lives will be! Saudi Arabian crown prince dies at New York hospitalIt's funny how headlines tend to conflict with the "common wisdom". When you have all the money in the world, and your life is at stake. Where do you go for the best medical treatment? Europe! So does Greece! Look who's trolling now! I'm certainly not terrified of anyone getting something for nothing. I'm not worried about the rich robbing our country blind.Next week I'm taking a friend to get more free healthcare after getting shot in the face. The health care system fixed him up brilliantly cost free. You wouldn't even notice. Even though getting shot was entirely his fault. You are clueless if you think we are better off we still have him.One of my favorite rich people just died. He was abandoned by his parents as a baby. He built the most valuable company in the world. Yeah, what an evil fuck up he must have been.You are clueless if you think we are better off for his loss.You should turn him in. They pay rewards for turning in fraudsters. If you send me evidence, I'll turn him in. No worries! Yours was a great description. I'm just a little behind on some abbreviations. Ah! http://common-law.net/nap.html I'm a little slow. Interesting! Definately woot worthy. Woot!  But can you define NAP for someone dumb as a stump? Let me be the first to say that slavery is wrong!Except with robots. I will be the first to own robot slaves. Who's with me! Screw digital sentience and whatever moron decides that is a beneficial feature to invent. But trust me, someone will invent it. And he is going to screw things up for all of us!<Honest Troll Post> Just wanting to see who bites! Bitcoin is dead when the flow of new fiat to the exchanges stops. That is easy for the exchanges to measure but hard for most people. It doesn't seem to be a published quantity.Sure you can claim that it's not dead even then. Surely, people could be trading goods for bitcoins among themselves in the absence of fiat/exchanges. Dismantling of exchanges does not directly cause (or logically imply) a lack of desire to trade. However, since the OP specified BTC Price, it is foolhardy to dismiss the correlation. Fiat exchanges were created in anticipation of supporting those who wanted to trade without mining bitcoin. Without desire from those folks, BTC price has no meaning. Exchanges become merely pari-mutuel wagering facilities taking a rake until there are no more rakes left to take. Woot! Thanks, that clears up lots for me. Whenever I saw it the term "operator" popped into my head! I will. I'm not sure exactly when though. It will be the most important next step though.I specifically want to figure out how little of bitcoin I really need to change. Once I have the coherently written down, I'll post it so people can brainstorm about ways to attack it.I have to admit I don't know what "in the OP" means? I've see OP several times. What is it an abbreviation for? LMAO! If I had a sig that would be in it! Woot! I don't think it is really that complicated a question. It is just very hard to get a straight answer!From my view, the bitcoin price is clearly being set by speculators. It's not being "supported" by people demanding BTC to trade for goods. Sure some people are using it that way, but most seem to be mining and donating. That process supports the Bitcoin concept as a whole, but not the BTC price. Those folks are more likely to cash out the donations than to trade them or buy more BTC. Thus donations tend to create a downward pressure on price.You are clearly asking the right question in the right place. I just doubt you will get the answer by asking. Probably better to score each bull post +1 and each bear -1.----Oops! I thought you were in the speculation forum. Ask those guys!
Cool. Another needless pseudo-intellectual renaming of a more commonly known term. "Blaming the victim"But if you'll notice, never one did I blame any victim. Never once did I endorse over paying for insurance.Many financially poor, want to pay their own bills. Most expect to pay their own bills. The concept of entitlement comes as a shock to most of the new immigrant poor. I live in a southern conservative area where many Vietnamese boat people immigrated. (they call themselves that). They were clearly victims before they left. They were victimized many times by folks here. No one wanted the Vietnamese living among them. The world was not just.However, it turns out those Vietnamese people were. They worked hard. Pooled their own money. Loaned their own money. Started their own businesses. Paid their own tuition. Paid their own bill. It never occurred to them there should be any alternative. I never heard of a single case of them begging for a bank loan, or purchasing insurance. (Not in the first two decades) Yet there were never complaints of them "draining the system". They always met every obligation. Their society wouldn't let anyone fuck things up for the rest of them. Now people flock to their neighborhoods. They make great neighbors.I am claiming the root of over priced health care is two fold. 1) Insurance. 2) Entitlement  The two are in fact orthogonal concepts. But psychologically many have conflated the concepts.1) Insurance causes "price increases" (not provider cost increases) for the obvious reason. Insurance companies *must* pay whatever prices are billed. They negotiate in order to avoid this getting out of hand. In the absence of insurance, medical providers must limit their prices to only what people are actually *able* to pay. This is a corollary to mortgage loans affecting housing prices. In the absence of mortgage loans the average house would be priced around $80,000. Or whatever it turned out an average family could actually save in a few years.Both insurance and mortgages were created to help responsible people pay their obligations. Their creation had the unintended side effect of increasing commodity prices. (Not the cost to produce the commodity.)2) Entitlement is the opposite of helping people meet their own obligations. It should have absolutely nothing to do with insurance or mortgages.However, some perverted psychologic concept caused envious people to say, "Hey that guy is going to the Doctor but he doesn't have to pay. His insurance company has to pay. What make him so fucking special?" This was a perverted view of course because, on average, everyone with insurance was already paying more for insurance (or being rewarded less in salary) than they would be if they just paid for their own care.In honor of rainingbitcoins, I'll call this perversion, "Just-World Envy". Envying the victim for getting screwed, and demanding they get screwed too, purely out of fairness.But like going to a hooker, when confronted with the cost of getting screwed they balked. "He that guy is rich! He can afford to get screwed! But what about me? I'm too poor to get screwed honestly! Hence, the birth of the concept, "Entitlement". I'm too poor to get screwed by the insurance companies. So I'm entitled to rape the doctor.This perceived entitlement (of not having to pay) is what began the drive up in actual health care costs. These increasing costs compounded the provider's above dive to increase prices. Thus further raising insurance rates, and further screwing the responsible. Realizing they were being screwed, the responsible began demanding only the absolute best, most expensive, treatments. Shouldn't they be entitled? After all they are paying for all the deadbeat fuck heads?. Hospitals and Doctors are perfectly happy to sell expensive products if there is a DEMAND for them. And of course there is. Who wants to pay for less than the absolute best health care? Even if that CAT/PET scan is unnecessary medically. At least it, psychologically, makes you feel better knowing you absolutely don't have something the doctor told you that you couldn't possibly have.Of course, since you are entitled not-to-pay for basic health care. Shouldn't you also be entitled not-to-pay for the unnecessary treatments the responsible are paying for? It's only fair...------Sure, it's TL;DRBut solving the problem, means first acknowledging the problem. Ask any alcoholic. Cool! A guy who wants to build an "Unjust World" filled with tyrannical people who fail to acknowledge any personal obligations. Go for it! I really think this planet is big enough to try all sorts of experimental societies. Evolution will sort out what works and what doesn't. I'm sure there are many people who want to live among folks like you. Go forth and multiply. Leave the people who want to meet their personal obligations alone. 1) Everyone should be entitled to ACCESS to health care.Meaning there should be no discrimination based on race, creed, color... or any damn thing. People get sick. People get care.2) Everyone should be REQUIRED to pay their own bills. Period.Insurance is what people buy to meet their obligation to pay their own bills.If you don't need insurance to meet your personal obligations, well good for you!If you decide for some magical reason that you are special. You are *entitled* to avoid your personal obligations. Well then, I think society as a whole should give you, and all people like you, a loud "Fuck You!". Does that mean we revoke (1). No. But it means we revoke your access to as much of society as necessary so that people instinctively realize the necessity of meeting their personal obligations. You should be treated at least a scornfully as we do with sex offenders. Your name should be put on a public list.We already went through exactly the same process with student loans. We wanted everyone to be *entitled* to get an education (we still do). But a ridiculous number of people decided they were *entitled* to not repay their loans. These people are/were Fuck Heads. So did we do away with student loans? No. Did we provide free college to everyone. No. We said, you are going to have to pay back your loans. One way or another. Pay, or we as a society are going to garnish your wages and make you pay. The same principle we use for child support, crime restitution, etc. The system isn't fixed yet. But it has stopped getting worse.People often use the requirement to buy auto insurance as their model for health care reform. To that, I give a big, WOOT!, WOOT!, WOOT!!!In my state, we have a requirement to provide "proof of financial RESPONSIBILITY" before you receive the privilege of driving. To people without deep pockets, this means getting a third party with deep pockets to commit to helping you meet your obligations should your need emerge. If you happen to have a rich uncle, you can create a financial responsibility trust fund or some such. Most people just buy insurance.No one in a free society should ever be *mandated* to forgive someone else of their obligations. That is tyrannical.If you choose to help someone meet their obligations out of friendship, compassion, charity or family, you should be praised by society. You can award yourself the personal attribute of "Good Character." I personally will call you *awesome!*And if a Fuck Head denies his obligations all the way to his personal end. If he dies endorsing his tyrannical *entitlement* remain above any societal obligations. Well then, we as a society should posthumously and ceremonially revoke his citizenship. We should carve his name into granite on a monument of ignominy. "Here lists those who in there whole lives, were never good enough to live among us. May God Fuck Their Souls!"Hopefully then, in the future, we will hear stories not of people who were "born poor, but made themselves rich." But we will hear stories that go, "I was born of two Fuck Heads. But I grew up and earned my own Good Character!"---Wow, I just went back and read the first post on this thread. I guess I'll have to mark my post here...<OFF TOPIC>Sorry! Not that I know of, except of course the potential to delay transaction acceptance another block.There is quite a bit of flexibility in some of the transaction formats owing the the script part. I have no idea yet if there is enough room to manipulate the hashes there. But in any case, it is useful to reduce the flexibility and timeframe any node has for hash manipulations. Since we have lots of folks with a strong background in hash manipulation! I don't understand the question. If you were anonymous before, you still are. If you were known before you still are. If you don't have a single BTC you can't announce your prescience. But once people know who you are, anyone can ask you what block you are on. This is bad math, and it tends to be more separated by gender among the young.If you take all the 20 something men over the last decade, tally up every penny that got spent on health care then divide to find the mean. It will be well under the cost of insurance. 20 something men don't get very sick. They do tend to crash cars, get in fights and get injured while drunk. If you are one of those, insurance would pay of big time. If you are not, you are gambling against yourself.20 something women's health care costs tend to differ based upon pregnancy rates. If you are going to get pregnant insurance may be a good gamble. If you hate kids, save your money.It is important to realize that Obamacare mandates health insurance among the young to subsidize the old. Not to protect the young. It is not so much a "fear" but a obvious potential perception among the folks who have not yet adopted Bitcoin. I only say "obvious" because I've seen dozens of posts here commenting on that particular perception. I also ran into random YouTube videos exposing the same sorts of perception. I wasn't even searching YouTube!Not to be flippant, but there is unarguable certainty that the first (X) Bitcoin adopters control 100% of all generated coins. These (X) individuals currently control 35.5% of all Bitcoins that will ever be generated. All future potential Bitcoin adopters will realize this instinctively.I'm not really concerned with how the current 35.5% of BTC is distributed among the current (X) bitcoin adopters.So the perceptions I'm specifically worried about are:1) How do newcomers to the Bitcoin concept perceive the magnitude of (X)? Do they see it as 10, 100, 1000, 10000, a million?2) How do newcomers perceive the ratio (35.5%)/(X) versus the ratio (65.5%)/(population-X) as population tends toward 6 billion.3) How do newcomers perceive the ratio between     the value/$/goods brought into the Bitcoin economy by (X) in exchange for their 35.5%versus    the value/$/goods brought into the Bitcoin economy by (population-X) in competition for a minor share of other's 35.5%.Specifically, if newcomers bring only $1 worth of value, but there are six billion of them, do they perceive their contribution as dwarfing the contribution of (X)?4) Do perceptions change psychologically when the number of generate coins reaches 50%?Specifically, do newcomers see an issue with (X) receiving 50% over 4 years, while (population) has to wait 100+ years to benefit from the remaining 50%.My hypothesis is:If (X) is perceived, by newcomers, as large (say one million) by the time generation reaches 50%. Then Bitcoin has hopes for a geometric growth rate that can lead to universal adoption.If (X) is perceived, by newcomers, as small (say one thousand) at the 50% point, there will be significant psychologic barriers to broad adoption. Bitcoin from that point on best see niche (linear) growth.As Perceptual evidence I submit:1) The Satoshi has 1.5 million BTC debacle. This perception seemed to affect even true Bitcoin believers. It seems likely a generalization of that perception will effect each and every potential new adopter.2) Endless pre-occupation with BTC speculation vs endless references to early adopter Ponzi schemes. Clearly the perception exists.3) The Occupy Wall Street movement. These folks are busy chanting we are the 99%. (X) seems much less than 1%. Rich people and bankers are bad. This is more an extrapolation then evidence. But still I expect skepticism.Keep in mind I'm not saying anything in Bitcoin should change technically, monetarily or otherwise. It is more a matter of how do you generate the perception that, "Bitcoin is the currency of the 99%?" You know... Marketing!  Woot! Health insurance derivatives!It's like gambling on the odds you'll win in Vegas over time! Rework your math. The more healthy friends and family you can gather together in a group, the more it makes sense for that group to "self insure" by saving money and paying for whoever gets sick in cash. If more unhealthy friends and family you have, the more it makes sense for everyone to buy insurance. That is why there is so much fuss about pre-existing conditions. It's like card counting in Vegas. You can't require the casino to allow card counters. They're not being heartless, they are saying it's not gambling if you've got a sure thing.Ta Da! You've just become a Republican! Yes! Employee health insurance has always been a way for employers to reduce payroll. That was the whole point of it. If it increased payroll, they would simply pay the employees a little more, and let the employees buy their own. It has been that way since the invention of employee health insurance. It is a perk to attract a certain class of employees to the company for a lower salary.Minimum wage companies never offered the perk because it does nothing to lower their payroll. It's not that they're cold unfeeling bastards. It's just that they are in business to make a profit, just like the employers who do offer health insurance.It is illegal to say, I'm going to give you $3 an hour but free insurance. It is easy for a company to say to higher level employees, you get 10K less in salary, but good insurance. It's not really a deal, but higher level employees are not really that smart either.If you go to private practices you will find them more negotiable than they let on. It's only business. It's nothing personal. I'm completely convinced I'm delusional for even wanting to try it. My delusions are only supported by about 5 people so far. It is a wacko thing to even propose. I'm just hoping my delusion might become infectious among the masses. But for the life of me, I'm not really sure why I care. I won't directly profit. I'm not trying to replace anything.Really, I just want internet cash that is not easily profiled. It is more a privacy issue than anything. I hate that every company gathers every detail about my life. Then the government/and others ask them for all the information in mass, so we can all be profiled, or targeted for re-education.I buy into that delusion in the same way I buy into gravity. All theories about why it should function seem completely implausible. But it seems invaluable in getting me through my day. Hamming was the first thing that popped into my head. Any function that isn't trivial for individual nodes to manipulate is equivalent.Specifically though,  I wanted a two stage function. Each node's announcement transaction is sent prior to building the block it ends up in. So, the hash of the block becomes dependent on the announcements. Therefore, no node can "optimize" his announcement transaction in order to have the fittest hash. The variable he must optimize against cannot yet be known. (I'm not completely sure I have the specified the example correctly. But that was the concept.)I think we are getting really close too. Especially because I don't think I'm relying on "trust" as much as you think I'm relying on trust.Nobody is really "trusted" in the "blessed" sense of the word. Anyone can broadcast announcement transactions for a given block. Even if they choose to be anonymous. The process is equivalent to sending 1 BTC to yourself. The question becomes, "Why should anyone else CARE what block you think we all should build upon?"That is where non-anonymity comes it. Nodes can become known by choice. This does not automatically make their announcements any more trusted than anonymous announcements. It does however make these individuals identifiable to those who ALREADY trust/distrust them through business or personal relationships.A peer can say, "Hi I'm Red! I'm a GEM speculator, as such I have a personal interest in making sure the system is transactionally secure." Really though, they probably just publish a standard X.509 certificate from a well known certificate authority. The same thing sites do for https and ssl. Non-anonymity is the basic defense to the Sybil attack. Certificates cost money and require jumping through hoops. (And best of all, I don't have to implement that process!) If some known individual acts maliciously his certificate gets a death penalty. If he is a merchant, all his customers see the blacklisting.There is some sense of this and it should be analyzed for logic flaws and potential attacks. But our goals are the same, we both want to make it obvious in advance that forking attacks cannot succeed.The method I've discussed is not so "pure" as yours. But I think I can prove that pragmatically, it has the same effect.Silly Example Bitcoin Tangent:Say the NSA decides to mount a secret chain forking attack on bitcoin. So at the next difficulty change, they secretly begin building their own secret fork containing nothing but empty transaction blocks. Say they borrow one of those new GPU based super computing clusters the national science foundation sponsors. So at the end of two weeks, they have a 2050 block empty chain, to inject in and override bitcoins existing 2016 block transaction fork.So what happens? Momentary chaos. All the exchanges stop trading. Everyone jumps on IRC and decides the new empty chain is a scam. They "lock in" the most recent block from the 2016 block chain, (issue new clients if they have to) and everyone just goes on ignoring the NSA chain. Or everyone decides, No damage done. No double spends. We'll just re-run all the transactions on top of the NSA chain and start trading again once we are caught back up.There really isn't a fundamental 51% issue. There is a momentary chaos problem. But those problems will get fixed, and they'll get fixed by those who care enough to show up in IRC (or wherever) and fix them. Everyone else ends up having to agree.GEM Analogy Tangent:Say the NSA tries the same trick. One fork has zero announcements from known parties. The other fork had a consistent chain of announcements. The basic rule says, "NEVER blindly trust a fork that everybody you know has vanished from." So every client just ignores the NSA fork, and there is zero chaos.----So back to the exchanges for a moment. Keep in mind that exchanges DON'T trust each other. But they do have to monitor each other. Every exchange needs to be notified within seconds if the other exchanges disagree with their opinion of history. It doesn't initially matter who is right and who is wrong. If there is a fork, they MUST take human action. Most immediately it means every exchange. But this trickles down to everyone else.If there are 10 exchanges trading on the same chain, if one exchange sees the nine other announce on a different block, he has to follow or stop trading. That is a human decision. Maybe his node is faulty and made the wrong decision. Maybe all the others are malicious. Either way, it is fool hardy for him to pretend nothing wonky is happening.If 5 exchange announce on one block and 5 announce on another block, everyone has to stop trading until they can figure out what is happening. (Is this a bug? An NSA attack?) But the point is, they get the notice within seconds. The exchanges don't blindly follow each other out of trust. They monitor each other out of DISTRUST and based on a self-preservation requirement to do so.To avoid making needless human decisions every 10 minutes, GEM will have some simple easy to enforce consensus rules:Say:1) Everyone who announced in the previous block, and who announced at the start of this block, is in the starting set.2) Anyone who had been blacklisted is out.3) We use this fitness function.This should serve in every case where nobody is deliberately trying to subvert the consensus. But in cases where somebody is, the exchanges will immediately negotiate their differences, or there will be a nuclear exchange war. However, if there is war, everyone gets advanced notice when half the exchanges drop off a block. When I say "advanced notice" I mean that everybody gets notified there is a discrepancy within 10 minutes. But nobody considers any transaction absolutely confirmed for 30 minutes. So if any merchant sees known exchanges announcing on multiple blocks, they can simply wait till they see exchange consensus before announcing about their chosen block. If no consensus appears within seconds or minutes. Human merchants need to know something wonky is happening. Merchants at a minimum need to stop considering their transactions as "confirmed" until things settle down. They don't have to see 100% consensus in exchanges. Merchants just need to confirm their exchange isn't going rogue. And they need to see that their trading partners and competitors are all announcing onto the same block. It's the 99% strength in numbers thing. Until they are sure, they simply avoid announcing their commitment to any given block.Clients, on the other hand, may not care about exchanges at all. They simply want to know if they can buy something from Apple,  McDonald's or whoever. If they STOP seeing announcements from the folks they have traded with in the past (easy to implement). Or don't see an announcement from a new merchant they want to trade with (also easy to implement). Then they should wait until the system settles. They simply periodically ping the merchants they use, asking each for their latest block announcement. Once they see consensus among their merchants, everything should be good to go. Before that point, client's can still attempt to send transactions. But they shouldn't expect merchants to deliver the goods until consensus is re-established and GEM transactions become irreversibly confirmed. You are absolutely correct. This is true even for *Gold!*That is why companies pay great sums of dollars to run "Gold Exchange", "Buy Gold Now!" "Gold had never been worth zero!" ads everyday, all day. They are maintaining the delusion.Delusion maintenance is very important. That is why, "Refinance Now!", "Rates have never been cheaper", "Home Prices are skyrocketing" were all the rage a few years back. It was delusion maintenance. Now that real estate delusion fever has broken, there is really no point in trying to maintain that delusion. But that doesn't stop lots of people from trying. "This apartment once sold for 1.2 million! I got it for only 800K! I got such a deal!" The rest of us however rest secure in knowing that guy who bought the apartment for 200K and sold it for 1.2 million got "the deal".The point of this thread was that very little is being done in the way of Bitcoin delusion maintenance. Everyone here seems to be saying, "The delusion is strong in me! So screw the delusion resistant. When they finally come around they'll be sorry they didn't listen to me. And anyone who thinks *we all* could become post-delusional at once us... Poppycock!"That is the problem of the moment for Bitcoin. However I don't think that is the medium term existential danger to Bitcoin.The real danger is that the other 6 billion people on the planet go from pre-delusional to post-delusional before they ever actually ever become delusional.That happened for me with housing and with *Gold!* I never even got to participate in those delusions. I just became post-delusional. There isn't the least bit of draw for me to go rushing into those delusions now. This is the most corrupting fallacy.Total medical insurance cost for everyone is a really simple function to calculate. It is total healhcare costs for everyone, plus considerable overhead.Over their lifetimes, the vast majority of people will pay significantly MORE for medical insurance, than they would have paid for health CARE had they chosen to save their premiums and pay in cash.Buying medical insurance is exactly the same as playing the lottery or gambling in Vegas. Sure you might score a big "win!" But in this case "win" means you get horribly maimed or are rewarded with prolonged illness. As Charlie Sheen would say, "Duh! Winning!"Some people like to complain that most rich people don't gamble enough in Vegas. Middle class people can gamble in Vegas whenever they want. But there are lots of poor folks who want to go gambling in Vegas but can't afford it. That seems unfair. If we mandated that all rich people go gambling in Vegas, then we could use the extra revenue to send free slot play vouchers to the poor so they could go gambling in Vegas too! You don't have to convince me. You have to convince the one billion people you want to come into bitcoin next.Their opinion will be influenced by the magnitude of folks holding the initial 10.5 million and the quantity and quality merchants.If Bitcoin hits the 10.5 million mark and a million people are spending 10 BTC each every month at thousands of merchants. Then the next billion, people rewarding the first million a little will seem fair and reasonable.If Bitcoin hits the 10.5 million mark and a 100 people are hoarding 100K BTC each. And one thousand people are spending 30 BTC each month at a dozen silk road merchants. Well then your argument is going to be a really hard sell.That's why a say the next year is Do or Die for bitcoin. All roads do not lead to the Orient. There are dead end paths and gaping chasms.Bitcoin doesn't actually STORE value. It is critical to remember this. Bitcoin's value is based on the strength of a global shared delusion. Currently one BTC is worth precisely zero to most folks on the planet. It is possible, in the future, for BTC to be worth zero to every person on the planet. I really need to draw something. I'll probably screw this up explaining in text. I'm going to explain the issue for anyone else who might stumble in. I know you already understand it.So the issue is, if we have (N) peers all validating every broadcasted transaction. And every ten minutes we want all valid transactions batched up into an immutable block. And we want every node to agree on the same block of transactions, so we all share the same history. How do we reach consensus?In Bitcoin, every node works redundantly, and POW randomness blesses one node's block. This blessing is based on time. Everyone agrees to use the first block they hear about.GEM's doesn't have this timing randomness as a starting point. Everyone's 10 minutes happens at the same time. So to replace the above process randomness, I'm suggesting a "fitness" function. ---Say we have lettered nodes and numbered blocks that increase with time. And say (via magic) that Nodes A, B, C & D are all on the same block chain.1) Contains announcement transactions from A, B, C, D2) A, B, C, D3) A, B, C, D4) A, B, C, D  (this is the announcement pattern everyone expects to see if the network is not partitioned.)----So, the first thing that happens is, nodes A, B, C & D broadcast announcement(4) transactions to tell everyone they are building upon block (4) in the chain.Every node receives these announcements, validates the transactions and places them in the next block they are building.Every node also receive normal transactions, validates them and keep adding them to their blocks.[time passes, 10 minute timer elapses]----Now we have four independent potential next blocks. (5a, 5b, 5c, 5d) We need a bit of randomness that can pick one so it can be broadcast to the others. Before we can pick one, we need to know the set we are picking from.Fortunately block (4) contains announcements from all the nodes who were around 20 minutes ago.Our currently building block (5) contains announcements from all the nodes around in the past 10 minutes.Let's assume that if a node was validating transactions 20 minutes ago and they are in our building block, then they are a candidate to choose from for block (5).So as a trivial example fitness function, let's use the hamming distance between block (4)'s hash, and the hashes of announcement transactions (A-D) inside of block (4). All nodes have that information already. (Hamming distance means XOR two hashes and count the ones digits in the result. So the result will be a number between 0 and 256 for Sha256 hashes.)Say we get the following results:sha(4) hamming sha(4A) = 128sha(4) hamming sha(4B) = 125sha(4) hamming sha(4C) = 127sha(4) hamming sha(4D) = 130That means the nodes in fitness order are: B, C, A, D-- Node A --Since Node (B) is the "fittest" (B) broadcasts his transaction block (5b) first.Every node receives block (5b), revalidates it, diffs it with their personal block (5n) looking for transaction DOS and double spends.If block (5b) fails,     the node removes node B's trust.     And broadcasts a warning transaction, "node(A) failed node(B, 5b) for DOS"    Then asks the next fittest node (C) for their transaction block (5c)If block (5c) passes, and the node broadcasts an announcement(5c) transaction.----Since this all happens in parallel, node (A) receives announcements as the other nodes make decisions.If the other nodes agree with (A) about (B's) transaction DOS, then node (A) will receive:    A's Announce(5c)    B's Announce(5b)    C's Announce(5c)    D's Announce(5c)    "node(A) failed node(B, 5b) for DOS"    "node(C) failed node(B, 5b) for DOS"    "node(D) failed node(B, 5b) for DOS"If the other nodes disagree, then node (A) will receive:    A's Announce(5c)    "node(A) failed node(B, 5b) for DOS"    B's Announce(5b)    C's Announce(5b)    D's Announce(5b)If A receives the latter it can change its mind, switch to 5b and re-announce to preserve consensus.----Anyway I was right. It needs a diagram. But that's the gist of the process.Yes, its almost a nuclear option. That's why I'm so sure nobody will let it happen. And why I want everyone to have advance warning is somebody even tries.I asked in another thread what the exchanges do if a block chain fork attempts to erase/revert a "confirmed" transaction block they had already payed out on. The reply was "they shut everything down until everyone figures out what the fuck is happening!" I'm not sure it was an authoritative answer, but it made perfect sense.That was basically what happened when they forked to bitcoin chain to remove the extra 184 billion coin. Absolutely everything stopped while everyone emailed everybody they knew to stop the old clients and start new ones. Fortunately, few were doing business or trading at that point. But if they were, those trading on the original client would have gotten a hell of a shock when 53 blocks of their transactions magically disappeared! The long and the short of it is that I don't have enough time or motivation to personally do an elaborate implementation like EnCoin. That is not to say that I don't think it should be done. EnCoin should be done and could be great. I wouldn't have spent so much energy on this if it didn't show promise.The one thing that drives me about EnCoin/GEM is the stable currency. That is the part I'm fascinated by and the part so many here go "ho hum" over. I really think most normal people (meaning potential currency users) would take to stable coins much more intuitively than to variable value ones like Bitcoin. I'm quite skeptical, in fact, that Bitcoin can reach mass adoption from where it is. I think it was much more likely to reach mass adoption 18 months ago. I think the boom and the bust will end up consolidating most Bitcoins into the hands of only a few individuals. By next December it risks looking, to new adopters, like a newCoin with a 10.5 million coin pre-generation. I think most potential users will reject the "they got half, we compete for the rest" argument.However, until Bitcoin's failure becomes apparent, I doubt stable coins will get much traction on this site.----I'm in agreement with, and have great respect for, all the stuff you wrote that I'm not responding to. I'm only confused about a couple of things at the end.I'm confused about which system you are referring to? If you mean GEM, I was considering "need not approve these transactions" as requiring a client change (at least on the merchant machines) to know which transactions not to include in blocks. Crap "client" is such a sucky word for me to use. In this case I mean the merchant's peer node, not the human client machines.I was planning to require each peer to diff their own work with the proposed "fittest" next block. This is a slimmed down version of your PB union mechanism. My concept was that since each peer is receiving every transaction, diffs should be very close to exact matches. If the "fittest" block seems to be missing *lots* of known transactions (DOS), that block can be locally rejected and node that produced it marked "untrusted". If everyone follows the same procedure they will all arrive at a common "fittest" non-DOSed block. At that point they can announce their use of the non-DOS block. They will add to their announcement, blocks X,Y,Z rejected for (DOS, invalid transaction, double spend, etc). These serve a consensus flags to warn everyone else.I guess the last sentence confuses me the most. I was presuming there would be lots of merchants and exchanges in different countries and legal jurisdictions. If all the US nodes started DOSing particular transactions, all others nodes would know about it immediately. The risk belongs to merchant/exchanges/transaction receivers. Human clients (transaction spenders) potentially benefit from chain forks. During any chain forking dispute, they have control of twice as many coins. They can simply contact service providers on each fork, or run multiple instances, one trusting each fork. Again, my bad choosing the word "client".I presumed that merchants would switch to visa-compliant nodes. These would keep only visa-compliant balances. Presumably, if you wanted to trade with these nodes you would have to agree to their balances and send them only visa-compliant transactions. Non-visa compliant nodes (merchants/clients) would quickly lose trust in the visa-compliant ones and vice versa. However, the visa nodes are still functioning, self trusting and forked from the rest. That means *any* client sending visa compliant transactions can potentially double spend. Once on the visa fork. Once on the original fork. The renegade fork wouldn't last for very long. I'm not going to worry now, about issues I might not have to worry about at all. If everyone decides GEM/EnCoin isn't interesting because it is not a Ponzi scheme, this thing will fall flat. Right now, I think there is about and 85% chance of failure in that regard.I'm saying as best as I can tell Bitcoin is running 20,000 peers or so. There's not that many transactions, but still nobody is complaining about scalability issues. If I can get there, and transaction rates start to climb, woot! Then I'll worry about optimizing the broadcasts.I think one billion peers redundantly checking every transaction is silly. Any number of peers mining at any level to maintain trust is completely unnecessary.Good word! Woot!But I'm not raging against the man at all. I'm not worried about the government trying to subvert or overthrow my currency. I don't even care if people can avoid taxes, and I certainly don't want to stop the government from tracking down major criminal rings. I just don't want them needlessly profiling my internet cheeseburger deliveries. That is why I called it quasi-anonymous. If I'm a major government nuisance they have ways of tracking me down (as with bitcoin). But it is way too much bother to cross reference every single quasi-anonymous internet cheeseburger purchaser and send the result to the Obamacare administration to assist in re-education.  Quite frankly I thought that concept was silly when the liberal guy mentioned it. I thought it hilarious when he called it a "feature" of bitcoin.But I handle it exactly the way Bitcoin did in the example I posted. If some group deliberately changes the client to outlaw certain transactions others want, it causes a fork. If people want to stay on their original fork they can. Just the way the Bitcoin folks could have locked in the block with 184 Billion BTC had they wanted to stay on that chain. If it becomes necessary the original fork can modify their client to outlaw all Visa registered addresses to invert what was done to them. It's war. Everything is fair.As far as I can tell the situation would be exactly the same in EnCoin. Different clients would begin to automatically trust different peers. The ones running Visa compliant peers would see the others as maliciously accepting invalid transactions, and drop their trust. The originals would see the Visa nodes as maliciously rejecting valid transactions, and drop their trust. How is this not a fork? You have the same original balances, but different balances based on more recent transactions.I'm sure you will tell me differently.  All of those are quite understandable. Aside from the orphan, I've been on both sides of the family and friends issues.It is really quite hard when you have to kick out a family member. I'm not going to go into long personal stories on an open forum, but know I've taken people in when they were rightly kicked out by their family. I've helped them get their act together and go back. I've also had to give family members the boot to avoid them taking advantage of other family members. Sometimes we've even turned to government programs for help. They never helped solve anything. But they did help "our burden" to feel better about hemself, by getting off the family's back and onto the back of random government strangers. The truth is while you were wondering "what if I wasn't here?" Hundreds of folks you don't know took in hundreds of others. All asked themselves the same rhetorical question. It is a great question. It helps us all do the right thing. If you give that rhetorical question a trivial answer you change human character. "Good character" is an award we give ourselves for doing the right thing. When the trivial answer becomes, "See someone in need? Dial 811" we all lose our test of character.There is a rule of the sea that says, "Captains must render aid in times of distress. Unless it puts their crew in jeopardy. Then aid is rendered at the Captain's discretion." It's a really good rule. It has been around for a really long time.You can't blame yourself for not being able to help. You can second guess other captains who worry about their own crew. But you don't get to override them.I have to admit, among myself, family, and friends when one of us is down on our luck, there is a 90% chance we screwed something up ourselves to cause it. This doesn't excuse extreme interpersonal callousness. But acknowledging the problem is the first step to recovery.Quite frankly I watched the Frontline documentary too. At the end they point out that no existing universal healthcare program pays for itself. They all run in the red. And every time they try to raise healthcare rates, the people protest in the streets. So they cut medical provider's pay, cut services, and raise taxes. We are already there.Woot!That's not how churches work. They help people who ask for help. They don't just send random checks.But either way, if his mother paid for his screw up or the hospital did neither is right. If the government mandates that you and I pay for his screwup, that doesn't make it right either.You summarized things quite nicely. But I think the root problem is people all ready feel they are "entitled" to not pay their medical bills. This causes the pricing problems you noted.There is a brilliant guy named John Wanamaker. He invented most everything you see in retail life. Clothing stores had the same credit problems that healthcare providers currently have. It turns out stores invented credit before they invented regular payment plans. Wanamaker fixed the situation by only transacting in cash. That gave him the lowest prices and he ran everyone else out of business. His book will blow you away! He invented price tags, labels on clothing and the money back guarantee for christ sake! Before that retail was a complex scam of salesman bullshit on quality and customer haggling ability on price.I go to the dentist and doctor and pay cash. It is amazing the prices you get and how good the service is. (Shhh! Don't tell anyone!) Once the policy was established that the government must guarantee these "entitlement" loans, absolutely it was game on for the bankers. I don't believe, however, it was the bankers who invented the concept of mortgage entitlement. That is not in their nature. Clearly there were "good intentions" paving the Fannie Mae Freddie Mac road to hell.Me either! By the way, I found a reference to the BitCoin forking I previously mentioned. It was the first example of one group changing rules and long recorded history behind another groups back. They guy with 184 billion bitcoins didn't even get to voice an opinion. Such is the will of the masses.Value overflowOn August 15 2010, it was discovered that block 74638 contained a transaction that created over 184 billion bitcoins for two different addresses. This was possible because the code used for checking transactions before including them in a block didn't account for the case of outputs so large that they overflowed when summed. A new version was published within a few hours of the discovery. The block chain had to be forked. Although many unpatched nodes continued to build on the "bad" block chain, the "good" block chain overtook it at a block height of 74691. The bad transaction no longer exists for people using the longest chain. I respect you for doing the right thing. Everyone should do the right thing. The government should not give people easy excuses to avoid personally doing the right thing.But I also trust, that someone as righteous and intelligent as you, asks questions and evaluates people in the process of taking them into your own home. So I put the question to you, "How come nobody else saw fit to help the folks you took in?" Where were their family members, friends, and neighbors?But realize you made my point. Failing, family, friends, and neighbors. Community members step in. Helping community members is in every community's self interest.I respect you for creating this safety net. I'm thoroughly in favor of the way you implemented your safety net. It was practical and I presume had demonstrably successful results.The same is not true of *any random* safety net implementation. And the broader you make one single net, the weaker it becomes. I propose each individual community should provide their own safety nets. That gives lots of examples to aid evolving toward the optimal configuration. There is a lot to be said for people voting with their feet. Curiously, the net migration patterns depicted in the census seem to show people moving from high safety net states, to states with lower safety nets. Correlation is not causation. But over time, evolution favors what works.I'm pretty sure I wouldn't call libertarians those who dedicated their mortal soul to helping the needy. However, he died in the hospital after receiving proper care. There was nothing additional medically that could have been done for him. The safety net worked.He didn't take responsibility for his bills before he died. He didn't leave money to pay his bills after he died.You are claiming he is entitled to not pay for his healthcare.That makes your point is moot. In your view, he got what he is entitled.My view is that he acted irresponsibly. As such he was a drain on his family, friends, neighbors, and community. Someone did pay for his care. I don't know who. But it was either family, friends, neighbors, community, all of us as citizens, or the doctor and hospital simply donated his care.Curiously, doctors and hospitals are mandated by law to provide this safety net. They don't get the luxury of deciding to only work for paying customers. So in reality, the remainder of the safety net only "entitles" doctors and hospitals to get paid. However, now you have a situation where the government decides both whom is allowed to perform a service AND how much they are entitled to get paid for their services.If this concept was applied to my chosen profession. I would quit practicing and change professions. But I'm just an asshole who thinks I'm entitled to personal free will.Quite frankly there was plenty of corruption to go around, but I don't think any of it originated in malicious intentions. Congress and multiple administrations mandated that people be relieved of the responsibility of having to qualify for a traditional mortgage. Once they created a mortgage entitlement, all the corruption follows naturally. How could it not?Woot! I actually hold a whole lot of people MORE responsible than I do the mortgagees. Curiously, houses do not cost what people are willing to pay. They cost what banks are willing to loan.There are endless experts involved in purchasing a home. They all gave corrupt advice. Banks are supposed to be experts in how much to loan. Real estate agents, loan brokers, title companies, appraisers, inspectors. All of these people hold themselves out as "experts" in the industry. It is impossible for them not to realize that prices were in a bubble. All of them advised against what should be common industry practices.You wouldn't let doctors get away with advising healthy patients to take out healthy kidneys. Then blaming the patient for their stupid decisions because they didn't disregard the evidence presented to them by a series of expert physicians.
I'm pretty sure I've explained myself well enough for everyone else to understand. As such, I'm not going to address each non sequitur.I will address two things though.First, I didn't say there would be "few" nodes. I said whoever wants to be a node will be a node, most people won't.If there are a billion users of GEM there will not be a billion always on nodes burning 200W continuously. That seems silly.If a million merchants see the benefit in running their own nodes, woot! If a million others want to watchdog them to make sure there is no corruption, woot! Certainly in that group of 2 million individuals there is someone I trust. If there isn't, I'm not trading with anyone. I need to trust someone to send me my goods.Second, I'm trying to make a quasi-anonymous, peer-to-peer, implementation of digital currency that can be treated like cash but with the ability to magically change hands over the internet. I'm not trying to overthrow the fucking government. Not even the Iraqi or Syrian governments.Oh well, one more time.When Visa or the Government pries everyone's Bitcoin/GEM/EnCoin client out their cold dead hands, then everyone *must* change to new rules. Until then, the 99% of coin owners rule.If Visa convinces 1% of coin owners run their modified client on a forked history, they give away 99 times as many free coins to the people they didn't convince. If they convince 99% of coin owners to run their modified client, they give away 1% free coins, but those attempting to continue the other fork have given away 99%. This holds for EnCoin as well. If Visa modifies the EnCoin client but forks from an existing Primary Block, they have the same power and risk the same liabilities.In all cases (Bitcoin/GEM/EnCoin), it is probably easier and less risky for Visa/Government/EvilCo to just launch their own modified client on an alt-chain and tout their process improvements to the masses. But if Visa wants to go through all the sound and fury of forking the common history. And they successfully convince 99% of coin owners to adopt their improved client. Then I'll either cash out or go with them. Those are my only two choices. The people have spoken. Yes, some people are poor. What makes them poor is they have less money then the middle class. Who are middle class because they have less money than the rich. I'm in that chain well below rich.If you fall on hard times, your family helps, your friends help, your neighbors help, your local community helps. You do what you can to be productive and help the people helping you. If they seem to be doing well while you are mysteriously unsuccessful you take their advice and quit fucking up. Yes, sometimes you lose your shit. But unless you are a real fuck up, you always have your family, friends, neighbors, and community. If you are such a sorry fuck that none of those people will help you. Then you ask a church for help. And when people who have pledged their eternal souls to helping those in need give up on you. Well then... Why the fuck should I give a fuck about you!Most every argument I've ever had about such things tends to come down to dignity. "Why should I have to lower myself to ask for help?" Isn't the fact that "I'm in need" enough?NO! It's not fucking enough! Ask for fucking help when you need fucking help. If no one will help you, it's not because the rest of the world is a bunch of bastards. It's because no one sees value, for you, in the path you've chosen for your life, AND you are not even attempting to provide any assistance to others. If nobody will help you, then they are giving you advice. Take it. Change your ways. Be decent. Be useful to someone. And quit fucking whining.You know what's great about common people? They can only fuck up in minor easily fixable ways.You know what's scary about leftists who give organizations nationally critical responsibilities? They fuck up in massively catastrophic ways.The fuck ups have ZERO to do with motivation or belief in the right cause. It has nothing to do with absolute power corrupting absolutely.The folks that fucked up the mortgage situation really were trying to help those who didn't own a home to buy a home. Those people were elected democratically by the people to work for the people, and they were. They were honestly trying to do that job in the way they saw as most helpful. They created massive bureaucracies like Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. They promised *all us citizens* would guarantee repayment of mortgages defaulted on by random anonymous needy citizens who didn't have to convince their neighbors of their need or even shared commitment to the community. All they had to do was fill out a government form and "poof" they were in need. It is a dignity thing. People in need shouldn't have to publicize their need. They should just magically get the help "they need". And they did.And how many needy but too dignified to ask people did there turn out to be? A SHIT LOAD! It wasn't wanting to help that fucked things up. It was changing a need into an entitlement solely to preserve the dignity of the potential needy that fucked things up. It was using anonymous bureaucrats evaluating forms by well defined but ill conceived rules. It should have been folks with a vested interest looking other people directly in the eyes. For christ sake people got loans for 9X their annual salary with no money down. Terms that didn't even required them to pay the full interest on the loan! Your folks (leftists/liberals/socialists) made me guarantee these anonymous "sweet heart" loans. Now the needy but too dignified to ask for help are defaulting on their loans. Why? Because without the prospect of others getting even better "sweet heart" loans, no one is left to buy their home and relieve them of the debt that YOUR FOLKS made me entrust to them. And you are asking me to feel sorry for the defaulter you shouldn't have given the loan to. And the builder you shouldn't have started building. And the real estate agent you shouldn't have started selling. And the home depot guy you shouldn't have started improving. Fuck yeah all of these people used to be doing great! You were giving them my money for free!---The moral of the story is, don't trust ANY body or ANY organization with the power to fuck things up for EVERYBODY. Not Republicans. Not Democrats. Not even fucking God. Because whoever is given that responsibility will eventually fuck things up for everybody.Spread the responsibility around even at the risk of non-optimality and non-conformance. Evolution shows that works best over the long term. Individuals will fuck up. We can fix individual fuck ups. Even leftists. But gather them all together and put their brightest in charge... That is a fuck up we cannot fix.---So you want to know why I'm out of work?Because I don't feel like fucking working. I quit. I live off of my personal savings from having been productive and having delayed personal gratification. Now I get to smile and be happy. I do what I fucking want (including trolling web forums). I pay my "fair share" of taxes, which thanks to your folks was actually negative last year. Yes, I quit work out of spite, and your folks gave me an earned income credits. (Woot! Go Left!)And you know what? I'm not going to pay off the loans you made me guarantee. Nope. Not a penny. You see, there's this valley in Colorado... well that's another story. LMAO! Woot! I earned my money. My money is my business. But feel free to feel sorry for me if you want. I'd give you a Bitcoin address for donations, but hey I'm not a leftist!I googled for you.The median annual earnings for a CEO in the United States were $140,350.The Wall Street Journal reports the median compensation for CEOs of 350 major corporations was $6,000,000 in 2005 with most of the money coming from stock options.Notice the part that says from stock options. That means the compensation comes directly from folks who buy the stock the CEO sells. It does not come out of the pocket of employees. Stock options mean, employees have the option to buy stock at the same price as the day the option was granted. If the CEO does well, he benefits. If he does poorly, he doesn't. As for golden parachutes. That is really between the stock holders and the board of directors. They have to pay those bills. That is because there is a lot more ways to be wrong than there are to be right!I didn't say squat about Orwell except that I didn't enjoy reading him. If he couldn't get his own message across in all those pages, please don't mandate I read the cliffs notes as well!Ayn Rand...  Now that was a Utopia in Dystopian clothing!  I hope you read Atlas and are not just babbling on about it.Can you imagine the outcry if we tried to make Atlas required reading! You liberals are really quite lucky Ayn made John Galt an atheist! (Which I am by the way. Yes, that's right. An educated southern conservative atheist. Us Republicans are all the same!)Anyway, It's been fun pushing your buttons. I'll leave you to your dark dreary delusions, and I'll get back to my bright cheerful reality.  The problem I have with Liberals (and I guess Socialists too) is they never ask for anything that solves the problem.Why don't we raise the minimum wage to a level where everyone can pay for their own health care, and can save for their own retirement. Why do we need to build government bureaucracies to get in the way? Certainly you can't think the government saves money through efficiency.I don't have to look at the 9%. I am one of the 9%. But I still pay my own bills. Therefore, I'm entitled to say it.If a CEO gambles millions of dollars of stock holders money on new machinery so that three workers can do sitting down what twenty workers used to break their backs over. And the gamble pays off by lowering expenses and increasing production. And his gamble both pays back the capital investment and returns extra profit. Then who deserves a reward? Who would take the fall if the decision turned out badly?Don't give me abstract CEOs get rich. Workers get poor. Plenty of CEO's got fired. Plenty of workers started their own companies and became CEOs. In between, lots of workers stopped getting chewed up by antiquated machinery. Nobody ever was lazy. But you don't earn what you want. You earn slightly more than what you can be replaced for.It means I deliberately don't live with those people. It is a fallacy that conservatives don't understand the view of the left. We do. We often have the same goals. However, we think the mechanisms you propose for meeting our shared goals, are wacko. Most of us are too busy to talk to wackos.There is a general liberal pattern that goes, 1) we have a problem. 2) find the smartest guy. 3) believe he'll save us. 4) everyone must do exactly as he says.The results are invariably. 1) we still have the problem. 2) the smartest guy was the wrong choice. 3) the left blame the right for the failure because they didn't believe strongly enough. 4) the right blames the left because they made everyone do stupid shit that didn't solve the problem.Really, this is a prime example of the point I'm trying to make.It is not enough that we make every damn teenager in the country read Orwell. Now you want to piss and moan because we are not demanding he be read for the right (oops) left reasons. Trusted nodes like any node, accept all valid transactions. I'm assuming you questioning what happens if a trusted node attempts to deny that a valid transaction happened? That was actually slated for a section I indexed but haven't written yet. But any node can easily spot nodes which are denying transactions. When it becomes a pattern, they simply cease to trust those nodes and broadcast the evidence. They can easily spot double spends as well and broadcast that evidence. Neither of those acts can be kept secret. Bitcoin chooses not to act on either of these actions. If I implement GEM it will. In Bitcoin, everyone is forced to accept transactions because everyone else is accepting those transactions.My process follows the same logic. In bitcoin, a rogue client can run off accepting alternate block chains. No one else will care.My process follows the same logic. Certainly, but the function and process will be agreed upon in advance. Just like with Bitcoin.The trusted parties will be non-anonymous and known to all. No one can be expected to trust anonymously.Evidence of distrust will be published for all to see. Actions are not just denied. Known parties are publicly accused.The major difference is, in Bitcoin, if any random anonymous individual shows up with a block chain that *NOBODY* has ever seen, but it has a greater proof-of-work. Then everyone *must* accept this as the new gospel truth even if it erases a month of valid confirmed transactions. That is just silly.All of this holds for every block chain based crypto currency including EnCoin.If the exchanges and the merchants all decide to do something you don't like. Well, sad for you.Unless you happen to be among the 99% of the clients who decide not to follow them. In that case, they lose.The 99% can take all their existing coins and trade amongst themselves on one fork.And sell the 99% of coins they have on the other fork for goods. Never putting another dollar back into the exchange for merchants to use to cash out. Bye bye evil merchants. Bye bye evil exchanges. It's an OWS wet dream.Trust me. The 1% has to follow the 99%, even if the 1% is all the merchants and all the exchanges. The problem is you see social security and health insurance as mandatory because unlike you, other people are too stupid to save for retirement or pay their own medical bills. What I'm telling you, is my retirement and my medical bills aren't your or anyone else's problem. I've relieved you of the burden of worrying about me. Now either ask for my help in taking care of "you" or go take care of yourself.But don't randomly declare there is an entire class of "special" people who are entitled to me taking care of them. Without need even for them to ask me for help. That is the part of socialism that fucks things up for everyone.Woot! You pay your own bills. But for some reason you feel warm and fuzzy thinking maybe one day you won't have to.Sure it does. They are off protesting to themselves happy as clams. I drove past them the other day. I didn't run them down or throw tomatoes. But I didn't bother to go over and offer them free soup either. They're not homeless. They're camping.The point was not the folks from the most elite highly respected universities run the biggest banks. The point was these folks of the most elite, most respect, most highly educated order, ran them into the ground. The point was those barely educated folks from middle America, turned out a shit load more ethical and competent at banking than the highly educated elite.If we are going to "help the needy" the last thing we should do is but some Ivy League fuck head in charge of a massive government bureaucracy with highly implausible goals. The salvation army will get there faster, the food will be better and they won't require you to believe in their cause is just.I don't confuse them at all. My maternal grandparents left Europe to get away from the Communists. My paternal grandparents left Europe to get away from the Socialists. And my parents left the East Coast to get away from the Liberals. It's really not that complicated. Each time we build something, you folks show up wanting it.Quite frankly I never liked Orwell. Didn't really like Huxley either. Dystopias are for whiners. I'm really not trying to be obtuse. If I have been personally successful trading with amazon.com and apple.com, then yes I know and trust those merchant addresses. If every node I trust is on the same the same branch as me, that is 100% consensus for me.There should generally be no invisible branches. That is true of bitcoin also. The only time an extended branch might exist that I don't know about, is in cases of network partitioning. With my version, everyone gets immediate notice of network partitioning. No one gets a surprise 8 hours later when 80 blocks magically get reorged from a previously hidden malicious chain.The same is true of any chain. If a government says, "You can't use this client or this chain!" Then you either follow the law or break the law. No system can make something illegal into something legal. And no system makes it impossible for altered clients to fork the chain.Branch dying is purely pragmatic. It does not need to be enforced by code.Say there are 7,500,000 BTC in existence. Now say the US government says the American users (10%) *must use* the US branch, but the 90% of the world decides they want to stay on the original branch. So now the US branch has 7.5 million BTC and the world branch also has 7.5 million coins. That means 15 million independently spendable coins if the two forks persist. This is an untenable state.If the US branch continued, the 90% of the folks on the world branch would just spend or cash out their 6.75 million *free* coins on the US branch. That would crash the US exchanges and bankrupt the merchants. They simply cannot continue. They would have abandon the 10% branch or abandon the coin system entirely. Exchanges and merchants simply can't trade on multiple forks of the same chain. They have to pick one and only one. If you want to trade with them, you have to go with their choice. It's really not a hard problem to solve. You maintain and trade on the branch you can see. So does everyone else. Normally there is only one branch everyone sees at the same time. If people disappear, then re-appear on a different branch, then there was an honest network partitioning. You settle it according to pre-agreed upon rules. If a new branch nobody has seen comes out of the blue, everyone simply ignores it. Exactly. Thank you! I should learn to be so concise. I reordered this to put the important question at the top.I really want to be open minded about this. Can you give me a single example of when, as a GEM owner and client, I should trust the anonymous opinions of unknown individuals over a 100% consensus of merchants that I personally know, trust and do business with?Keep in mind, very little of my money goes to anonymous individuals like Guido the killer pimp or Silk Road merchants. Most everything I buy comes from horrible evil corporations like Taco Bell, McDonald's, Amazon, Apple, Safeway and Exxon. I could be biased by the fact that these evil corporations seem to have business models based upon *not* cheating me. I'm not quite as confident in the business models of random anonymous coin users.If you are on the fork with 99% of people, you win. If you are on the 1% fork, you lose. The great mass of humans retain all the power. If the US citizens and the rest of the world chose to follow what the US government decreed then they are the 99%. Should the US Government turn out to be the 1% or even 10%, their branch will die. Otherwise, we all have free coins on both branches and we all win. This is not GEM specific no coin chain can be forked and have both branches continue. In bitcoin, if some anonymous party takes everyone down a malicious branch, you'd have to change code and issue new clients. In my model people just have to say "You are malicious! We are not going to trust you anymore. Bye bye!"It is centralized accounting (there is only one valid block list). But with redundant copies and watchdogs. 1,000 redundant copies and watchdogs is probably sufficient. We don't need one billion copies and watchdogs.See above. I do too. I really can't get excited about coins when speculation is the real focus. I really want to buy things!Thank you!I'm going to work on some simplifications and then see how few bitcoin changes I really need to make to get this thing to work. Fair enough.I'm just concerned with the general Pollyanna view that everything can contract now, but eventually those one billion new adopters will come around. My basic map shows that not all paths lead to global adoption. Between now and next December's 50% coin generation point, if adoption doesn't get significantly broader, it never will. Are you saying Obama and his troops better not cross the Rubicon? Exactly Perhaps I misunderstood what you meant by "core". But the crux of your post seemed to be, "It doesn't mater if the core is small, so long as the core exists."The point I'm trying to make is, this core size does matter. Not to the "core members" themselves, but to the perceptions of those you expect to come later.If your core was say 500 individuals who owned the current 7,500,000 BTC. That would likely be viewed quite hostilely by the majority of the billion or so individuals you wish to attract to Bitcoin.If your core was 5,000,000 individuals owning the current 7,500,000 BTC. Then the next billion adopters are less likely to view Bitcoin as benefitting the BTC rich, at the expense of the BTC poor. It is not so much about "improvements" as it is about marketing spin. The "best" currency is the first one a billion people can (1) understand and (2) trust.To me, only place Bitcoin has issues is in convincing the next billion people they *are required* to purchase their future currency from the relatively view people who got to Bitcoin first. Why that needs to be a *requirement* is what will be tough for most future newcomers to understand.If each of these one billion people brings only $1 each, their billion dollar investment dwarfs all the investments made by all of those who came before. I find people grasp this intuitively. I'm not proposing stability based on interventionism or centralization. I'm proposing stability based on inherent electrical cost in Joules. The cost comes from POW difficulty just like with Bitcoin, but the difficulty is scaled over time by Koomie's law. That means a variable number of coins are created based upon mining interest. That is kept in check (as it is in Bitcoin) by very real electrical expenses. Miners compete based upon the coin price of the moment. If the exchange price starts to rise, they will mint and sell before other drive the price back down. If the exchange price is below cost, they stop minting.Clients only see a price that hovers around the break even point of the most efficient miners. The can put $10 into their wallet and know it will buy $10 worth of stuff in the future. Yeah, I guess it happens. I was just struck by the combination of zero outside transactions, fast generation time, and increased difficulty all at once. I just notice the below block at http://blockchain.info/http://blockchain.info/block-index/786604/000000000000003a857b3d977333cf16276af30d16ada38ac4f838d33ba4a206Is it odd that someone found a block with 1 transaction in 1 minute with a target hash that is almost 16 times (4 bits) more difficult than the prior or subsequent blocks? Or is this just the luck of the draw? I understand random chance, just have never seen it so dramatically. Woot! Exactly! Changing the world, one politician at a time...
I have a discussion thread on creating an alt-currency with value stability. Perhaps you'd like to comment.Endpoint security is a simple mod. Private keys shouldn't be kept where they are so accessible.User Trust (I believe) should be handled outside the system. However there is nothing that prevents parties from turning their address's public key into a full certificate signed by an existing certificate authority. Surely John McCain couldn't have done worse handling the responsibility. But yes, I'm looking forward to a return to paradise! Awe come on! Not a single comment. It was at least worth a smile!Can someone move this to Politics & Society if I'm too far off-topic? I'm thinking about taking a current copy of Bitcoin and forking it into a stable currency model like GEM. Is anyone interested? I actually have the programming background and skills, but I hate to waste the effort if it will only be interpreted as in attack on Bitcoin.------I have to admit that originally the concept of burning 36,000,000 joules to create each GEM couldn't be a more stupidly wasteful idea. But after analyzing http://blockchain.info/ for a few days, it is clear that is what Bitcoin is already doing. Well not exactly, but clearly Bitcoin is not creating coins more efficiently than that. Each Bitcoin created costs, in electricity, almost exactly what its dollar value is. Bitcoin seems to be unique in manufacturing, in that coin manufacturing costs increase and fall non-linearly to match sale price. This is precisely the opposite of most industries, with fixed costs an non-linear profits based on demand & price.GEM won't be more electrically efficient per dollar, but it will be per GEM. It's manufacturing costs will remain constant per GEM, and will scale linearly with GEM demand. Originally, I expected to do much better than that in electrical consumption. However, I think the wasteful approach would be the more understandable to the initial target audience. Woot! I'm in! Fiscal responsibility, drinking and promiscuous sex! I'm quite certain my folks honored that election. And if you don't remember you folk had the House as well as the Senate. Then you fought amongst yourselves like children and failed to follow through on your own campaign promise. My folks then spoke loudly and took the House back. In a year, "we people" will speak loudly again and take back the Senate and the White House. The math already seem pretty clear on this.And if it is hard for you to conceive, look no farther then the census. The people are voting with their feet, by moving to conservative states. Now there is a movement to "Occupy Detroit." My god people! You already OWN Detroit! There are no oligarchs left. All the conservatives are gone, the population has fallen by 50%. It's yours! Now fix it! But don't try to tell me the left can't fix it without the right's help. We are already pretty clear on that. You said, "And the things libertarians advocate in the name of being left alone are tremendously destructive to the rest of society." This pretty much implies that if you just let libertarians be, your society is somehow damaged.What I mean is, the tea party isn't demanding that liberals join in their conservatism ELSE conservatism's plan fails. It means we leave liberals alone to be liberals. Our societal structure isn't damaged by liberals playing there own silly games off by themselves. Never once has a tea partier said, "No liberals! You can't pay more taxes! It fucks up society for the rest of us!"However, every liberal argument starts with, "Everyone must do (X) or there's no chance (Y) can happen." Notice, most liberal arguments don't even imply that if everyone does (X), (Y) must happen. Only that we really really wish (Y) would happen and we are willing to demand any antecedent that pops into our heads.You totally ignored everything I wrote about "properly educated" people failing miserably when given large scale responsibilities. Then you randomly switched the subject to not being "properly educated" as to empathy and that disqualifying people from having "free will". That was the lamest dodge ever. So I trolled you. Duh!Either you tolerate every human's belief in their own free will. Or you don't get the courtesy of people like me respecting your right to declare your own free will. In no case do you get a free pass to declare there is a "proper free will" and a "delusional free will". That is a definition of tyranny. Seriously, has anyone noticed that the "Donate Bitcoins to..." trend is equivalent to the "Sell your Bitcoins now!" trend?What do you think all of these people are going to do with the donated Bitcoins they receive? They are going to sell them ASAP for the fiat currency they need to sustain their (whatever).If you really wanted to build the Bitcoin economy you would be telling people to buy Bitcoins to make use of their singularly unique properties. For example:"Buy Bitcoins NOW! Then use your BTC to untraceably funnel money to your Washington lobbyists!" If you hate lobbyists, how about:"Say F*** You to Campaign Finance Reform! Use Bitcoins!"or"Need a building permit in a hurry? Bitcoin are the ultimate palm grease!"I mean really, the best thing about corruption is there is a huge trickle down effect. You bribe one guy, and he bribes his minions, who bribe the minions of others. No need to rush back to the exchanges with each bribe.You use this promotion plan and every bar and restaurant in Washington DC will be accepting Bitcoins in no time. Once Bitcoin becomes cool in DC, NY and Chicago are soon to follow. There's no form. Just a little kool-aid. No wait... There is a form! Maybe they mail you the kool-aid.But trust me, if really want to spend "less time working for the man." Then when you go to parties, stick to the tea. If your society can't get along without the libertarians, well I think you aught to give them a little more respect.My society, however, gets along fine without liberalsLaughing my ass off at the use of propaganda phrases as if it's his genuine will!http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2010/05/100528081434.htmThey're autistic, fat and read Japanese comic books too. And when they gather in groups they tend to steal from one another as well. So what's your point? It has been no secret since the sixties that hippies don't know how to raise kids.But now with all you've given them, you want to take away their "free" will too? I can assure you this is genuinely my will. It is genuinely the will of the people around me. Quite frankly, most of the people around me deliberately left the people around you. Not because life would be easier out in the wilderness, but because their life would be better without people like you. It is quite disingenuous to question their "education" because they don't agree with you. My people aren't asking to rule over you. They are asking to be left alone by you.You certainly didn't address any of my above comments about "education" above. It sure seems like "the proper education" doesn't correlate to actually being successful at the job responsibilities those bankers asked for. Why do your presume the same education would lead to success in those you wish to rule over me? So are you saying, enacting the will of the people is not so important. What is important is enacting the will of "the right people."  How would you differentiate that from tyranny? I'm quite a fan of Democracy myself. I'm also one of those people with my own will. You, however, don't seem so interested in enacting the will of the people I know. That I find, troubling and a bit tyrannical.Express a point of view and i'll tell you if I'm with your or against you.Personally, I'm not a fan of the Wall Street bailouts. My sentiments are not, however, because bankers are evil. It is because any banker who needed to be bailed out, by definition "sucks at banking!" I think people who suck at their jobs should lose them. However, for every banker that needed to be bailed out, there are 10 more who are actually good at their jobs. If you make a histogram of bailed out bankers vs the universities they attended a pattern will become clear. Those who sucked at their jobs, tended to go to very prestigious often liberal universities. (Harvard, Columbia, Yale) Very few went to Iowa State, University of North Dakota, or other random state universities. There are plenty of bankers doing a good job of managing, loaning, and stimulating the economy using other people's money. They went to go to universities you've never heard of where you are sure that only mediocre people must go.To big to fail banks are a really bad concept to implement. The same is true when it comes assigning power to governments. Smaller competing societies are better and more stable than ostensibly optimized large ones. I'll put my democracy up against your democracy any day. Wow what a fun bit of mixed metaphors!Where does rulership by benevolent unelected bankers fit on the scale? Would that be better or worse than legalized slavery? Negroes are so passé. It's the damn Spics! Hey you kids! Get off of my lawn!  (sarcasm! get over it) I think I'm seeing a pattern here! The crypto-anarchist libertarians reached out to the Occupy Wall Street liberals in hopes of shoring up Bitcoin's cash flow problems.Now the Liberals are directly invading this libertarian bastion! I guess all's fair in love, war, and silly politics! Because a "democratic process" decides, (first everyone must do (X) then (Y) will happen) doesn't make the idea any less folly. Ken Burns has a really good documentary about Prohibition out at the moment.That scourge was much worse than the current banking scourge. The solution was successfully tested locally among the willing. It was imposed on everyone popularly with the best of intentions. And yes, it turned out to be complete folly. Good for you then. Have fun here!For reference I believe that only ideas of folly start with, "First everyone had to do (X) exactly as I say, then (Y) can never happen and the world will be a better place!"If your idea is a good one, start with 100,000 people and completely open accounting. If it makes these 100,000 people's lives genuinely better, everyone else will notice and come over willingly. If the first 100,000 fails to benefit from the wisdom of your idea. Well, that's the definition of being wrong. So are you saying you are a fan of Bitcoin because of its *lack* of anonymity?Means of currency production? You are well aware of the fact that Bitcoin doesn't have a means of currency production right? It just slowly allocates the existing 21 million coins. By the time the government takes notice and reverse engineers who holds each address (say 5 years) 75% of bitcoins will already be in the hands of the bitcoin rich. How are "the people" going to produce more or redistribute existing wealth from the bitcoin rich?I guess a link might be in order.  Really? Suppose bitcoin fell to 10 cents and someone with $750,000 decided to buy up every available bitcoin from the desperate. Of course "the core" wouldn't sell but suppose everyone else did. Now say what is left is a bitcoin community where a dozen guys hold 7.5 million BTC. Doesn't that completely change the character of bitcoin? You seem to be saying that is OK, because certainly everything will eventually bounce back. That seems highly implausible to me.How is your situation any different from starting a newCoin with a pre-gen of 7.5 million out of 21 million coins given to the same dozen individuals? Would you join a newCoin system if it was founded that way? I certainly wouldn't.
Doh! Yes. Edited. I'm curious if that person overseas is now holding $1.05 million worth of BTC? If so, I'd ask for that $15 fee back. I have to laugh at the irony of this post. I'm not laughing at you Rarity. But I'm laughing with... well, I guess with all the folks who started this forum!Bitcoin is the crypto-anarchist libertarian's wet dream of a currency. Its core premise is that there is no way for anyone to force redistribution of wealth. There is nothing particularly egalitarian about bitcoin. Sure the leftist ideologues, libertarians, and tea party folks are all trying to pull down the current system. However, everyone is trying to pull it down from opposing directions. It is all very self defeating and amusing to watch. Actually, yes I can. I have a concept discussion thread here if you are interested.It's not about how far bitcoin has come. I'm interested in how much farther it will go. The initial Darpa grand challenge was very impressive. However, no car got to the intended goal line. The second grand challenge seemed less astonishing after the first. However, cars actually got to the goal.Perhaps you'll consider commenting on my above thread? Actually this is called the iterated prisoner's dilemma problem. If the dozen peers did the mining cooperatively, they could reap much higher profits that mining competitively.Your rule is that prisoners are unlikely to cooperate even if it is in their own self interest. Mining pools show this isn't true. Competing mining pools show it is! [edit] fixed the link!Actually, yes I can. I have a concept discussion thread here if you are interested. Bumping this because I just got asked the same question in two other forums. Pity, that would be great information to know.The fascinating part is how fast the number of miners increases to eat up any potential profit in mining!It is fascinating what the "cost of distrust" is. Technically speaking, if everyone were to trust any single peer to keep accurate records of all valid transactions and settle the consensus. (What every peer has to do now anyway.) That would be the optimum in electrical efficiency.If everyone was to trust one of a few dozen peers, all of whom distrusted all of the other few dozen peers, then that would be a few dozen times less electrically efficient for the same behavior.By requiring every peer to duplicate all the work of every other (distrusting all other peers) we create a system that is maximally electrically inefficient.Mining competition based on price seems to optimize convergence toward maximum electrical inefficiency. I have to admit I think it is retarded that the White House allows random people to post such crap on a site that purports to represent all of us.retarded |riˈtärdid| |rəˈtɑrdəd| |riˈtɑrdəd| |rɪˈtɑːdɪd|adjectiveless advanced in mental, physical, or social development than is usual for one's age. While I'm not as opposed to "fiat" currency as most people, I do look forward to a reasonable p2p alternative. I have been intrigued by bitcoin for going on two years now. However, from the beginning I have thought its monetary policy was flawed. "Flawed" of course is an argument word, but in this case the flaw I saw was that it would lead exactly to this current dynamic.Lots of others saw the same "flaw". There was a French guy here arguing bitcoin should pay a Universal Dividend. It is a fascinating twist of logic. Morality in his view dictates that every living human receive and equal share of all new money created. The money supply itself should grow 5% a year in order to provide this universal dividend. When pressed the logic for this was to make up for the penalty of having been born later than your predecessors. Ostensibly, some people where here when all that money got created. "They got it for free! So we want some too!"I just wanted a stable currency. One that wouldn't inflate or deflate over time. Indeed it looks possible to create. It was just that nobody was interested in such a currency two years back. What would be the point? Everyone was going to get rich on the bitcoin plan. I think this is a fair summary of why I started this thread. I don't think there is any such thing as "fair" in this situation. There is the state in which we start (the current state) and the state to which we want to achieve (universal acceptance). My question is, "Is there a plausible path between the two?"There is no point in telling the six billion people who haven't adopted bitcoin yet, that they are just jealous they didn't get here first. You have to persuade them there is some personal value for them in the proposition of their using bitcoin. The argument of, "Think how rich you'll be when the rest of the six billion people get here," only holds for so long. http://blockchain.info/Bitcoins cost roughly $3.41 in electricity to mine. They sell for $3.67. That is a 26 cent profit if you mine and sell today. But in general the prices have been falling. If you don't sell immediately, you risk losing any profit.With Bitcoin, you are competing against the owners of 7,479,400 BTC. Most of these owners bought there BTC for pennies a BTC. Say for example, knightmb who bought 371,000 BTC for $5,000. That is (1.35 cents/BTC) if you are keeping score. So basically, the early adopters are still making piles of money selling their hoards. There is no solid bottom to BTC prices at the moment.If you mint and sell immediately, you are not really doing much to support bitcoin as a growing economy. If you buy with cash you are basically enabling the speculators and early adopters to sell off their hoards at a profit. (Good for them!) If you hold these coins you will likely lose value (at least for a while). In that case you would be better to hold off your purchase until BTC bottoms. If you spend these coins immediately on goods, you are building the economy. (Go Bitcoin!) Convince enough people to do this and the early adopters will cease selling there coins because their wealth is increasing and hoarding is preferable again. BTC prices will spike and you still won't have any.---Litecoin is the same as bitcoin in everyway, except it is designed for CPU mining so you aren't competing with the big boys. You are also not selling against giant hoards. It is like a "do over" for bitcoin. Might as well test all your theories at your lowest cost, and highest potential profit. I suggested the same thing 18 months or so ago. I was soundly shouted down by the existing folks who thought it was the greatest idea ever. Very Austrian. I turned away because the consequences seemed obvious. I should have bought up a few and held until the boom though. I always see the future too soon! I do, however, still want an anonymous digital cash to be used over the internet and elsewhere. I'm even OK with the quasi-anonymous nature of nakamoto chained transactions. I'm actually in favor of the FBI catching major criminals. I just want a currency that is not broadly and needlessly profiled.Yes this seems to have failed. The major problem was, merchants and goods purchasers should have been the focus of the currency. However, many were turned off by the excessive philosophizing. In all honesty, litecoin is probably the fairer bet for you. If you started today with it, you would be an early adopter. With bitcoin, you are way behind the curve. I think Satoshi picked a fine incentive to encourage early adopters. However, the early adopters didn't manage to translate the excitement outside of the crypto-anarchist libertarian community. If there were 5 million daily bitcoin users today with a geometrically increasing goods transaction rate, then the incentive he chose would have seemed brilliant. It looked like that might be the case earlier in the summer. However, it now appears the early adopters have failed at their promotional duties. If this remains the case, they are really only failing themselves.However, I still don't see why the masses will come around once the early adopters have even more advantage. Everyone seems to be hoping it gets easer to push boulder up a steeper hill. The dynamics of this would make an interesting discussion. I mean who would get to vote? It seems like those with the coins would be the ones granted the vote. However, if the future adoptees don't agree with that vote, then any resolution doesn't bind them. They can either go elsewhere or not-adopt any coin.It doesn't cause a technical problem. It causes a perception problem. However the plausibility of the system becoming widely adopted is based purely on the perception of the potential adoptees.I guess the point of my post was that, from my point of view, the likelihood of "slow steady growth" becomes less plausible as the percentage of generated coins grows. And at some point you need to hit geometrically increasing growth. That should come sooner rather than later. You had to quote my entire post to say that? I didn't mean to cast aspersions by calling anyone Satoshi's friends. I myself spend time corresponding with Satoshi. I have great respect for everything he did. I also have great respect for everything current Bitcoin operators are doing. As best as I can tell, people are investing close to $1,000 a day in electrical cost to maintain Bitcoin's accounting. That is a huge commitment of resources.However, to the 6,000,000,000 current non-Bitcoin users, the lack of broad adoption creates a bit of a landed gentry situation. Even if we were to give the remainder of the BTC out to the masses for free to speed adoption, we still have a privileged class. It is pretty clear that knightmb could live the rest of his life off of his $5,000 investment (371,000 BTC). Then he could leave his estate to his children who could live the rest of their lives. That is the wonder of planned deflation. Each billion new Bitcoin users makes knightmb increasingly richer.It just doesn't seem like the great masses are in a mood to create such a situation. Even if we were to convince them of the wonders of anonymous p2p crypto-currency (which I desperately want), it seems more likely that a general assembly would wave jazz hands at cutting knightmb and the other "more than equals" out of the loop. Thanks for the kind words. I didn't really mean to be a total kill joy.I really think the 14 month deadline is pretty set in stone though.Does anyone see a path to sustainability? I think if the bitcoin community were to throw a couple million coins at the Wall Street protesters. And they were to use them to trade among themselves rather than immediately cashing them out for pizza. Maybe there would be a plausible path. But, I really think that scenario is a fantasy. The protesters seem to be more "on strike" then productively producing goods they could be traded among themselves.  As best I can tell 35.5% of all bitcoins have already been minted. These 7,473,950 coins are all property of existing bitcoin users. There seem to be about 41,280 registered members of this site. I'll be generous and say there are ten times as many bitcoin users as there are members. That means about 410,280 bitcoin owners with on average 18 BTC each. Clearly BTC ownership is more concentrated than this, but lets be egalitarian for the moment.If we pretended all bitcoin owners were all Americans that is about 0.13% of the population. It's not of course. Bitcoin is intended to be a world currency. So 0.0068% of the world population own 100% of all current and at least 35.5% of all possible bitcoins.The view on this forum is that the world will come to their senses, throw out fiat currencies and move to something rational like Bitcoin. This of course means 6,000,000,000 people basically begging to use a resource owned by a relative handful of people. Say we just minted up the remaining 13,526,050 BTC and scattered them to late adopters purely out of the kindness in our hearts. That means about 0.00225 BTC for each of them to use in rebuilding their economy. Sure 18 BTC on average doesn't make us feel very rich. But it is 8,000 times what everyone else would have if we stopped competitive minting today. But we won't stop competing of course. Sometime around Pearl Harbor Day of next year Bitcoin will hit the 50% distributed mark. ----By that day, how many active Bitcoin users and daily goods trades do there need to be to make a sustainable Bitcoin economy viable?----Because to potential new adopters, after that point Bitcoin is going to look like a new a 21,000,000 coin currency with a 10,500,000 coin pre-generation that went to the creator and his "friends". Certainly people will stop caring about Bitcoin long before they show up on our doorsteps with signs saying, "We are the 99.9932%!" I really have to ask? WTF is that?And curiously, Paris Hilton does ok for herself. Forbes had her listed at $7 million a year in product sales in 2006 or so. That probably exceeds the entire bitcoin economy!http://shop.parishilton.com/http://www.zappos.com/paris-hilton/UgLDEFoCwxDiAgILCg.zso Awesome link. That is a staggering amount of electrical cost. The site shows a theoretical net operating profit per day. Market value of mined coins minus electrical cost. However, has anyone totaled up exactly how many Dollars/Euros/etc. actually flow into exchanges each day? I'm assuming electrical costs must be paid in some national currency. Is there enough actual incoming cash to pay all the mining bills?
Clearly the children of the current generation will mine fewer bitcoins then their parents. That's not even up for debate. 35.5% of all bitcoins have already been mined. By December 9th of next year 50% of all bitcoins will have been mined.Therefore, "The biggest indicator for success in a Bitcoin economy is not a level of merit or hard work, but the amount of bitcoin wealth inherited from family members", says Red, a forum troll at bitcointalk.org. Thanks! I'm sure this is lame and off-topic. But why do artist paint on actual canvas? As opposed to any of the other many substrates commonly available? Plastic, wood, metal, cardboard, sheetrock, etc. Just a stupid question, but I don't know many artists to ask. We went through this about a year and a half a go. There is a whole long thread.The short answer is: as long as there are stable or inflating prices of goods vs bitcoins, setting up a bitcoin fractional reserve bank is trivial. However, if goods prices begin deflating vs bitcoins lending simply becomes to risky for too little potential profit.In a deflationary situation, people tend to hoard bitcoins expecting to get "zero risk" interest. Any lender has to charge substantially more in interest than risk free benefit of hoarding. In inflationary situations, hoarding costs goods value over time. People with excess bitcoins are encouraged to lend for low interest, to make up for the natural loss inflation would cause them.  5) Decide how to reconcile multi-interval chain forksThis seems like a hard problem but it really isn't. If two forks come from a common chain, and there was an unavoidable network partition, then none of the transactions should overlap. Even if there is partial over lap, once you remove duplicates all transactions should confirm in either order. So, given the two 4 block chain forks that share a common block X:X, A, B, CX, D, E, FDropping duplicate transactions means the two concatenations below are identical.X, A, B, C, D, E, FX, D, E, F, A, B, CIf there are two different transactions trying to consume the same out-points then you have an intentional double spend. This should be flagged for everyone to see and all the referenced out-points should be locked.The only issue comes from what to do with mining transactions on long forks where transactions from both forks can't be honored. In that case you have to decide which is the major fork and which is the minor fork. The minor fork's transactions get concatenated to the major fork. Decisions like this have to be considered based on the intentions of each forked party. As such they should be human decisions. However they can be easily automated by pre-negotiating and publishing consensus rules listing well known (non-anonymous) peers. Long forks result from a long term partitioning of the GEM network. The fork most "visible" to the pre-negotiated peers becomes the major fork. This partitioning could have been accidental (benign) or deliberate (malicious). If it was an accidental partitioning, everyone on the minor fork would know about the partitioning as soon as they stopped receiving announcements. At that point they would know, under published rules, when their mining would be rejected. That allows them to stop appropriately and to begin again once connectivity is restored.If the partitioning was deliberate, the perpetrators knew in advance their ploy would be rejected. Unless, they had the collaboration of a majority under the pre-negotiated rules. But in that case, the other fork would have noticed the collaborators leave. It would then know in advance it was the minor fork.If collaborators appear on both branches, then there is clearly a malicious attack in progress. Otherwise, the network would never have appeared partitioned. It is in cases like these, that public disclosure, revoking of trust, and renegotiated rules become warranted. Third Order (Social) DynamicsSystemwide, Bitcoin and GEM have to do the same six things:0) Broadcast/receive transactions to/from all peers1) Calculate how many new coins to give out each 10 minute period2) Decide who to give those new coins to3) Validate transactions & build new transaction blocks4) Reach block consensus among all peers on 10 minute intervals5) Decide how to reconcile multi-interval chain forksGEM does the (0) identically to Bitcoin, so I won't be discussing it. GEM does, however, reassign some of the latter five responsibilities.Originally, Bitcoin did all five of these using a single transaction block proof-of-work process. However, pooled mining refactored (1, 2). Mining rewards are detached from transaction processing responsibilities. With pooled mining, the pool operator becomes the actual "Bitcoin "peer". It receives transactions, validates them and builds the blocks (3, 4, 5). The miners themselves avoid these responsibilities and concentrate on hashing (2). This makes pool miners peers among themselves, but not true peers of those who process and validate transactions. GEM emulates pools in this regard. It treats mining (1, 2) as one problem, and transaction processing (3, 4, 5) as a separate problem.Bitcoin relies on an algorithm to decide how many coins (1) per block. It then used the proof-of-work as a system wide weighted random number generator (2) to decide who gets them. The combined process is seen as a reward for providing transactional stability.GEM solves those two problems behaviorally. It lets anyone mine when they see profit to do so. This solves (1 & 2). However, like pooled miners, GEM miners are not required to simultaneously mine and process transactions. Mining rewards answering the "how many new GEMs?" question. It does NOT reward securing transactions. Securing transactions is assigned to those with a self-interest in secure transactions. This generally means merchants, exchanges, and GEM transaction service providers. These folks profit from GEM clients buying and selling actual goods worth real dollars. Their profit depends on their client's unwavering trust in the GEM system. Clients can go elsewhere. They are never required to trust anyone. Client trust has to be earned.GEM miners, however, are in a different class than clients. Miners are *required* to trust the system. But, only for a very short period. GEM miners mine only when there is short term gain to be had. They must immediately trade their mined GEMs for someone else's (dollars/goods) before the stabilizing price evaporates their ROI. When there is no profit to be had, miners lose interest. These are not the people who should be trusted with transactional stability.So who (3) validates transactions? Anyone who wants to be a "full peer" can receive all broadcast transactions, validate them, and build a transaction block every 10 minutes. This activity is NOT rewarded in GEMs. This is done deliberately to minimize the breath of transaction broadcasts. If you care about transactional security/stability you are welcome to join in. You just have to pay your own bandwidth bills.How do you (4) reach consensus? Easy. You throw dice just like Bitcoin does. Every full peer creates their own block on 10 minute intervals. Then they broadcast the hash of their block and a randomness dependent "fitness function" to the other full peers. Everyone selects the block with the best "fitness", downloads it, revalidates it, then broadcasts an "announcement" transaction to the world.WTF is a "fitness function". The best example is the bitcoin proof-of-work test condition. The block+nonce must hash to a value less than the target value. In the above example, the "fittest" block could be the one with the lowest value. Or it could be the one with the shorted Hamming distance to the previous block. It really doesn't matter what function you choose. As long as the block creator can't manipulate it trivially. The function just serves to get everyone to the same starting place. If it turns out the fittest block was created by someone nobody trusts, they can choose the next fittest. Anyone can pick any block, announce their intentions and see who follows them. If nobody does, they can switch to choice most popular among the circle they trust. If nobody trusts their circle, that is no fault but their own. GEM can't make people like you!The goal is for the block chain and announcements to notify every peer and client immediately if something is going wonkey. If 20 of your trusted peers announced in your previous block, and only 2 in your most recent, you are mining or transacting on a fork or stale branch. Full peers should know this within a few seconds of each 10 minute interval. Miners can be sure of the consensus by pinging a few of their trusted exchanges. I don't think I am giving anyone outsized power. No one can force anyone to change to a particular new client. No one can force anyone to trust anyone else *blindly*. I think those are good principles. SolidCoin implemented a trust model where everyone is forced to trust one known guy, nine unknown guys, and anyone who might get rich. That seems silly.In your example, say EvilCo bought off all the programmers and one or two exchanges. Now if they tried to do malicious things, all the evidence is public. The other non-malicious humans could just decide not to trust them and continue on. Trust always remains a human decision.If that forks the chain, then presumably the malicious humans are on one fork and the non-malicious are on the other fork. How you feel about that is really a function of who comes with you to your fork. If you are on the fork with 99% of people, you win. If you are on the 1% fork, you lose. The great mass of humans retain all the power. There is simply nothing EvilCo can do to "muscle" them around. EvilCo has to "market" them around. EvilCo can't even divide the system 50/50 and have both forks continue. That's an unstable state. It's an all or nothing game.I'm not attempting to hack anything on to bitcoin. Bitcoin is what it is. I'm just trying to use shared understanding to keep discussion of the interesting bits on track. So far, so good!I'm not sure what your beef is with the monetary model. It's exactly the same as EnCoin's. I guess you are saying you don't like the in-points transaction out-point structure in the blocks and think balances would be better. That is not part of the discussion I'm trying to have.Most of your logic about bitcoin not being able to scale is sound. However, it was never meant to scale in the way you say it can't. Peer to peer in bitcoin didn't mean that every client user must be a peer. Satoshi wrote from the beginning that competing transaction processing peers would evolve. Most people would just choose a peer and use bitcoin as a service. I see that bitcoin is about halfway there now. Mining pools represent the first stage of transaction processing centralization. Eventually someone will re-factor the wallet file to remove the private keys and put them on people's cell phones. Then new transactions will be created and signed offline. Then they'll be sent to their favorite merchant or transaction processor directly. When you think about bitcoin this way, there will be no scaling problems at all.If I could submit secure GEM transaction from my phone. I'd have no problem using the system without running a peer at all. As long as I know merchants (and others) have a vested self-interest in keeping EVERYONE honest. AND I know these folks won't be blindly trusting ANYONE to remain honest. Then the system is in safe hands.There should never be a 51% trust problem. That is a silly problem to try and invent. Trust is a human concept that can't be automated. System validity is easier though. If any single human peer working alone can't detect 100% of system wonkiness then you have design issues. It's really easier than it seems. But it will take me longer to describe it than I have now. I'll write what I can now and clarify later. The 51% problem is possible because bitcoin allows undetected alternative forks to be created in private. It then makes it possible for malicious parties to require everyone to switch to their "secret" fork because of a mathematical quirk in the rules. You prevent this by deciding on transaction "confirmation" depth. Say three blocks deep. Then having each peer create a rolling block lock for those committed transactions. In this implementation, it is not possible to require any node to switch to any alternate fork if it requires changing a previously committed block.What is missing from bitcoin is the ability for anyone to detect that a network partitioning (accidental fork) is currently in progress. What I want to add is the ability for peers on either fork to detect the absence of those transacting on an alternate fork. Making a personal decisions to stop mining or transacting on your current fork becomes much easier if you realize your "personally trusted" trading partners are absent from your current fork.The block chain implementation is simple. Currently in bitcoin, only mining transactions are validated against the PREVIOUS block in the chain. Regular transactions can be copied and move from one fork to the other with zero knowledge of the account owner. This is what makes fork substitution difficult to detect, except for those who lost the mining transaction in the discarded blocks.I propose that GEM validate every new transaction against a particular "currently known" block in the chain. That allows any merchant to create an announcement transaction that says, I'm currently trading on this fork. I does this by simply transferring 1 BTC from it's "well known address" to itself.So if you are mining on a chain and you wish to sell you GEMs at Fred's exchange. But you don't see Fred's announcements in the previous three blocks of your chain. Well then, you are forked, and you should consider whether to continue or stop mining. Perhaps Fred is forked or perhaps totally offline. This is easy to detect if your chain has lots of announcements from other major know merchants. Certainly, it is a good time to check Fred's website or send an email. The point is, you are informed something funny is separating you from your other trusted peers.More later It doesn't require source code. It is quite obvious what he did. In fact thwarting the 51% attack is quite trivial in a trusted environment. All CoinHunter really had to implement was, "In cases of chain forking, trust the fork my machine is using." Period. It is that simple if you are willing to trust CoinHunter.The only thing that makes the solidcoin solution wacky is that he didn't say that. Instead he said, "Trust me, and trust any of the nine anonymous individuals whose names I'm withholding from you, and trust anyone who amasses one million solid coins no matter the mechanism they use to acquire them. Basically he is saying, CoinHunter's friendship or $17,100 buys the mandatory trust of every solidcoin user. Even when those trusted parties remain completely anonymous. Personally I find that appalling and the notion of "anonymous trust" an oxymoron.  Well I have to admit I didn't really try scaling to 100 trillion GEMs. But I did plan on keeping the block chain. If the whole system can scale to handle the transactions a 100 trillion GEM economy needs, I can scale it to handle the additional mining.Generation could either be implemented similarly to bitcoin but with variable interval blocks as you suggest. Or alternately, GEM mining could be encapsulated as individual transactions. Multiple mining transactions would be placed in each fixed interval block just as is done with other transactions. Both ways of course beg the question of how the system would deal with chain forking and reconciliation. I'm proposing a dynamic mining economy. One where inflationary periods might bring most mining to a standstill. One where deflation will cause miners to come out of the woodwork. And one where in stable periods, the most efficient will tend to drive out the fastest miners. In GEM The fork with the *most* hashing is not necessarily the preferred one. Therefore bitcoin fork reconciliation rules cannot apply. If they did, in inflationary periods, most any idle mining pool could collaborate to grab 75% CPU. They could then rewrite the chain and double spend at will.I have a solution of course. I was saving that for the next section though. It uses rolling block locks and a trivialized version of EnCoin's TrustNet mechanism. About a year ago, I guy linked to his libraries for doing just this. It was aimed at anonymous banking relationships. Not so much coins, but like bearer bonds and things like that. I recently saw it linked but I can't find it.Edit:Search "open transactions" by user "fellowtraveler"I think this was his first thread, but there are lots of others.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=847.0 There is really no upward bound on how many blocks can be generated in a given period of time. You just have to add more miners. Since they all mine non-competitively, 10% more miners (meaning 10% increase in MHash/s) per year would match your growth rate. However, since we already compensated for increasing (MHash/j) That would mean increasing electrical consumption 10% per year as well.Wow, that is a vote of confidence! But still, it is just a matter of adding 10% more miners and 10% more electricity.I'm not saying this concept isn't electrically STUPID!  (In fact sometimes it is hard to type this stuff with a straight face.) It just seems like it could be plausible.-----But your statement points out a really important dynamic. I put in the non-linear "Deflation Spending Subsidy" to help in cases like this. I probably should have given this specific example more thought.Let's consider two different transaction fee rates.10%: At this rate, miners would have to mine 10% of the existing GEM economy just to keep up. As they mined more than that, it would be supplemented by the subsidy. So in my hand wavy example, if they mined (transaction fee * 2) GEMs, it would result in 3 GEMs for the price of two. Distributed 2 to 1, between miners and spenders. So you wouldn't really need to mine a full 20% of the economy to get a 10% net increase of GEMs. If they mined (transaction fee * 3) GEMs, maybe it results 6 GEMs for the price of 3. (3 to miners and 3 to spenders.) [Waving Hands]Reducing the transaction fee, 5%: At this rate, miners would only have to mine 5% of the existing GEM economy to break even. After that the subsidy kicks in. (transaction fee * 2) mining results in 10% GEM growth. So mining 10% of the economy would get you 10% growth. So the non-linearity really depends on where we set the transaction fees. (2x at 10%) fee = (4x at 5%) fee with a much higher subsidy. (12 for 4)? [Waving Hand some more]Anyway, I think I used the wrong non-linear subsidy function in the example. I want it to be able to grow fast, but be tied directly to mining effort. And something not too exponential so it doesn't blow sky high if miners over compensate while trying to make a fast buck.----Do you think an appropriate function exists? Etlase2 had suggested a fixed fee to exert downward pressure on the EnCoin supply. He used that to rationalize minters needing to mint continuously to replace fee coins. Basically GEM is a variant on his ideas. Since I began with the fixed fee and constant electricity mining. Fees and mined GEMs were the two easiest quantities to measure.If (total mined/trading fees) = 1, then the total GEMs mined equals the total GEMs destroyed. So the number of GEMs in existence remains exactly the same. Since nothing really changes monetarily, I defined that as "just right" (stable).Rationally speaking, if the number of GEMs in existence is exactly right for the external economy, there is no reason to mine or to take a transaction fee. Everyone should just be left alone to trade among themselves. Originally, I proposed a different concept where in the stable state, all fees were refunded back to the original parties. In the stable state of that version, miners didn't have to mine, and weren't rewarded for mining. However, that represents a bigger deviation from bitcoin principles and I don't want to take needless tangents.I think the ratio = 1 definition of stable is pretty sound conceptually. Defining the fee percentage is going to require some serious arbitrary rationalization! Yes that is correct. At least in respect to the miners. They will always receive the same GEMs for each successful mining proof-of-work.The non-linear "Deflation Spending Subsidy" however, tends to break all the rules. It is intended to encourage GEM spending and discourage GEM hoarding in moments of deflated values. This subsidy come out-of-thin-air as a result of mining. However, it is paid to those with spending transactions in the previous block, NOT to the miners. This is the only time I break the 1 GEM = X Joules rule. But it seems fair, since the transaction fee destroys GEMs without refunding Joules at all. Etlase2 proposed banking all transaction fees into a sort of "Deflation Spending Subsidy" savings account. That holds everything to the 1 GEM = X Joules rule should ideological purity becomes a goal. Does Minting Model = Logarithmic mean there is a fixed maximum number of coins. But these are mined using logarithmically diminishing rates? (I'm not an expert at all the alt-chains).If so, you might want to include the maximum number of coins those Logarithmic systems will approach.i.e. 21,000,000 for bitcoin.Also perhaps how far down the curve each Logarithmic system is. Gives a feel for early adopter status.i.e. bitcoin is projected to reach 50% distributed on (X date). I edited the above couple of posts for clarity. Just-in-case there are people who don't free like talking about solidcoin.  I was wonder about this too. I asked CH in an earlier post but I think that section of the post got derailed.I seems implausible that they would go to all the trouble of adding in interleaving blocks (What I called a vector clock) without realizing they could be used in fork detection. Basically this would supplement or override "the longest chain" rule in cases where a long fork appears out of the blue. Otherwise, anyone who could isolate a single trusted peer could run wild.However, I didn't think it was plausible to invent ten 1.2 MSC accounts to make interleave feature work either. I guess I'm just cynical. I think the only thing that makes rich people different from me is......they have more money. No, I mean simpler than that. You have a rule that says, "only accounts with one million plus SC, can sign these even blocks."You might just as well said, only humans with real name validated verisign certificates could sign. It's the non-anonymity that makes the trust. Not the money.Which makes this a very ironic statement. Since at this very moment, people are camping in the streets protesting the anonymous rich! I dare you to go down to wall street and tell everyone, "Those with the most money should be in charge of your security!"  I have to admit I thought the trusted nodes as vector clock idea was clever.Did you build in any additional logic to help resolve chain forking due to network partitioning?I really have to disagree here though. You system would have been trivial to implement without the million SC accounts. All you need is a dozen people to say, "Hi, I'm Fred. I'm watching the system. If something goes wrong. Sue me at this address." That is basically what you did by giving out million plus SC accounts. Except you're not telling anyone who the account holders are. So if they collaboratively misbehave, there is no one to sue. Good to know. But the only way to build real trust is through non-anonymity.Anonymous trust is a bit of an oxymoron.
Question, for CoinHunter. Who runs the trusted peers? Are they all yours? Did you really create the next crypto-anarchist currency of the future by saying, "All everyone has to do is trust the rich!" Really?  I suspect it is different than you think. He was here last night saying it was distributed.I think it probably does something like this.-------------That's actually pretty darn clever! He has created a trivial implementation of a vector clock. Basically the "trusted nodes" are really time keepers marking what happened in what order. I'm assuming they are known in number and non-anonymous nodes.In the case of a network partitioning (intensional or otherwise) the known trusted nodes have to be partitioned as well. In this case, since you know the total number of trusted nodes, you have an additional piece of information to use in reconciling chain forks. The number of trusted nodes marking time on each fork. This defines the center of the SolidCoin universe.If 90% of the trusted nodes are marking time on one fork, and you are hammering a fork with 10% of trusted nodes marking time, you will probably lose when the partitioned networks recombine. But fortunately, for you, that should become apparent as you see timekeepers drop off your chain.---------------I don't think it requires a common key. It does seem to require making a donation to the central fund though. Assuming anyone could participate as a trusted peer if they wanted, then you have the following dynamic.Fork A: One hundred independent trusted peers interspersing donations between 1000 generated blocks, means 10 donations each.Fork B: One clandestine group interspersing donations between 1000 generated blocks, means 1000 donations.Perhaps that is the disincentive? (Edit) The previous post was too long so I removed this boring beginning. I'm putting it here for reference incase anyone doesn't get the above bits.---------------Economic DynamicsThis section is about adjusting monetary policy in the face of extrinsic inflation and deflation. By extrinsic I mean GEM pricing changes that result from a mismatch between the value of goods available to be traded and the number of GEMs available to be traded.The hardest thing about monetary policy is the shear number of hidden variables. Nobody knows which GEMs are "available" to be traded vs those which are lost or deliberately hoarded. Nobody knows how much total goods are available to be traded. Nobody even really knows the system wide break even price for mining GEMs.However, it is easy for humans to measure the success of the system. It's simply a matter of monitoring prices over time. To avoid arguments over terminology, I'll use the following definitions.--Definitions---If before prices were: 1 GEM = 1 loaf = $xThen, if afterward prices are: 1 GEM = 1 loaf = $yThis means pricing is stable and have met our goals. The GEM supply is "Just Right" no matter what direction dollar value moved.Else, if afterward prices are:1/2 GEM = 1 loaf = $yThen goods pricing, with respect to GEM, has deflated. The GEM supply is "Too Low". We should mine more GEMs and discourage GEM hoarding to increase GEM availability.Else, if afterward prices are:2 GEM = 1 loaf = $y  Then goods pricing, with respect to GEM, has inflated. The GEM supply is "Too High". We should destroy GEMs and encourage GEM hoarding to decrease GEM availability.--------------- Second Order (Economic) DynamicsRather than trying to detect basket-of-goods prices, GEM leaves that to humans. Instead GEM detects the "human" consensus on the GEM supply itself (too high, just right, too low). To do this, we *require* human mining behavior to follow personal self-interest. Each miner knows their own mining costs and can determine their personal ROI on any GEM transaction. Stable monetary policy is means actively balancing the natural pressure to increase the GEM supply, with a downward counter-pressure to stop runaway increases.Upward: Each miner is allowed to non-competitively mine GEMs whenever they see profit. When their personal ROI goes to zero, they stop mining.Downward: GEM uses a fixed percentage transaction fee to avoid runaway GEM supply growth. The particular fixed percentage is probably important, but not for this conversation. The transaction fee is destroyed.Primary Monetary DetectionWe detect the system wide mining consensus by measuring total GEMs mined versus total transaction fees over fixed periods. (Say bitcoin like, 10 minute periods.) That gives the ratio (total mined/trans fees) that I'll use in examples below.(total mined/trading fees) = 1If you are mining exactly what it take to replace your fees then there is a 100% consensus that the money supply is "just right". Who should receive the newly mined GEMs is NOT really a monetary policy decision. But in GEM's case, the miners keep their spoils.(total mined/trading fees) > 1This ratio is unbounded, so it has no way to express 100% consensus that the GEM supply is "too low". But the farther this ration moves above one, the closer you get to that consensus. The farther this ration tends above one, the faster GEMs are being added to the economy.(total mined/trading fees) < 1If this ratio is zero, there is a 100% consensus that there are too many GEMs currently available for circulation. The closer this ratio gets to zero, the faster surplus GEMs are being destroyed by the transaction fee. Dynamic Monetary Adjustment - Springs and ShocksNote that the above primary forces tend to act linearly. However, there will be times with more dramatic economic changes. (say Walmart starts taking GEMs) In these cases we'll need for more dynamic changes in the GEM supply. In support of this, GEM provides two periodic non-linear forces. The "Deflation Spending Subsidy" and "Inflation Panic Tax".(total mined/trading fees) = 1If you are mining exactly  what it take to replace your fees (ratio near 1), there are no additional taxes or subsidies necessary.(total mined/trading fees) >> 1If this ratio tends far above 1, GEM aims to do three additional things:1. Avoid removing GEMs from circulation by rebating fees.2. Encourage hesitant buyers to buy NOW! (Stop hoarding GEMs)3. Discourage sellers from panicked selling of goods. (Hoard goods)As this ration tends above 1, the fixed transaction fee fights against our monetary policy goals. It is destroying GEMs during a period where everyone is in agreement that more GEMs need to be mined. GEM mitigates the consequences of this through a deflation spending subsidy. The goal is to redistribute the transaction fee to those it should never have been taken from.(total mined/trading fees) << 1If this ratio tends far below 1, GEM aims to do three things:1. Destroy additional surplus GEMs, by taxing panicking buyers.2. Encourage potential buyers NOT to buy. (Hoard their GEMs until prices recover)3. Encourage potential sellers to sell NOW! (Stop hoarding goods)Psychologically, I charge the *panic* tax ON TOP OF the price the seller is asking. As opposed to requiring the seller to hide that included tax in his price. The former tends to make clear to *panicked* buyers that prices are *already* considered too high. It also makes it clear to sellers that NOW is a great time to actually close the deal. The later tends to encourage sellers to inflate their prices (which is what we are fighting against). And if they think prices are moving higher, they are further encouraged to hoard goods.Deflation Spending SubsidyIn times of deflation, when the money supply is too low. GEM levies an additional deflation spending subsidy in proportion to the standard ratio above. (total mined/trading fees) If mining exceeds trading fees, the mining wealth is shared with those who continue to spend in the face of deflation. The details are hand wavy now, but the concept is to rebate all transactions fees at say (2 mined/1 fee). And to rebate say double fees at (3 mined/1 fee). This encourages spenders and discourages hoarders.Inflation Panic TaxIn times of inflation, when the money supply is too high. GEM levies an additional inflation panic tax in proportion to the inverse of the ratio above. (trading fees/total mined) As mining moves to zero, the surcharge moves to infinity. This should provide a strong disincentive to panicked sellers. The details are hand wavy now, but that is the concept.-----Going RogueShould miners choose to work against their own self-interest, GEM adjusts to make sure each rogue miner's electric company penalties become as high as necessary to end their bad behavior. If the award reduction/difficulty increase keeps everyone else aligned with Koomey's law. (for argument 1 GEM = 10 kwh) Then the run away miner is now mining at 1 GEM = 11 kwh. If he continues to do so causing a GEM glut and price inflation then he is compounding his loss because his 1 GEM buys < $1.If enough people mine at a loss, it will temporarily trick the system into thinking the consensus is to add more money into circulation. The deflation spending subsidy will begin dumping money into the market. This will temporarily increase inflation for everyone. But inflation hurts the miner's profits, while the subsidy compensates others spenders. This further compounds the runaway miner's losses.There is no way a runaway miner can profit. Like in Vegas, a time will come when he has to pay the piper. And that electric company piper is a real bitch! Yes, that is correct.Mining becomes non-competitive and based purely on the self-interest of each miner. This self-interest is held in check by very real electric bills.I'm typing it now. Need a few more minutes. I don't think it requires a common key. It does seem to require making a donation to the central fund though. Assuming anyone could participate as a trusted peer if they wanted, then you have the following dynamic.Fork A: One hundred independent trusted peers interspersing donations between 1000 generated blocks, means 10 donations each.Fork B: One clandestine group interspersing donations between 1000 generated blocks, means 1000 donations.Perhaps that is the disincentive? That's actually pretty darn clever! He has created a trivial implementation of a vector clock. Basically the "trusted nodes" are really time keepers marking what happened in what order. I'm assuming they are known in number and non-anonymous nodes.In the case of a network partitioning (intensional or otherwise) the known trusted nodes have to be partitioned as well. In this case, since you know the total number of trusted nodes, you have an additional piece of information to use in reconciling chain forks. The number of trusted nodes marking time on each fork. This defines the center of the SolidCoin universe.If 90% of the trusted nodes are marking time on one fork, and you are hammering a fork with 10% of trusted nodes marking time, you will probably lose when the partitioned networks recombine. But fortunately, for you, that should become apparent as you see timekeepers drop off your chain. I wasn't attmpting to mock you or derail my own thread. I just thought your particular "phrasiology" seemed humorous and worthy of a shared giggle. No harm intended. There seems to be a flaw in the difficulty logic. (At least it seems like it to me.)If as CoinHunter said, the difficult increases slowly in response to increases in MHash/s,and the difficulty decreases quickly in response to decreases in MHash/s.Then you have a different kind of 51% attack that people are not used to. If one were to "strobe" massive hashing power based upon difficulty increment periods. You could effectively reduce difficulty drastically, for a given fixed hashing power.So in period A, the attacker goes full blast driving up difficulty 2X.Then in period B, the attacker stops hashing totally. If difficulty falls more than the previous 2X rise, the new current difficulty will be lower than before the attack began.Wash, rinse, repeat. OK, admit it. What you wrote was funny! It's not a ponzi scheme. It's multi-level marketing! I think what you are saying is very similar to what I'm suggesting. I see two slight differences. You are optimizing against computational speed (MHash/s), I'm optimizing against computational efficiency (MHash/ws). (One watt second = one joule) This in practicality is a very minor difference. Moore's Law and Koomey's Law are both exponential and very close cousins.You are benchmarking against combined instantaneous hashing speed of all nodes. I am benchmarking against time. I think in both cases, we are both making the same presumption that future technology improvements follow Moore's/Koomey's exponential curve.I wish I could tell you the differences I see. Quite frankly, I didn't have a complete grasp of what you were suggesting at the time. That was mostly because I didn't have a complete grasp of what I am suggesting at that time either!   You're curve idea might very well turn out to be better. There is lots I don't like about what I'm suggesting. Personally, I hate the idea of burning all that electricity just to make a GEM. However, once I realized the math might lead to stability, I thought it might make a good starting place for discussion.I'm basically benchmarking efficiency against time. Time doesn't go backwards so efficiency never gets worse. Once a mining rig is built that can mine 1 GEM for (X) joules, that rig will never mine 1 GEM at (>X) joules in the future.I deal with that in the next section. Basically by adding a transaction fee to NULL, to exert constant downward monetary pressure. And subsidies to compensate for the fee when it would be counter productive.Are we ready for that discussion? I'd like to have it if only to compare and contrast with your idea. I think each could help clarify the dynamics of the other, possibly leading to easier explanations of why one is better than the other. I said "5 for a dollar" or 20 cents each. I think the week before bitcoin got slashdotted, the coins were between 500 and 50 for a dollar. There was no exchange, just people making deals in the forum. Meaning, the real "early adopters" were throwing them around like candy.I'm not saying they'll never go up from their current prices. I just think bitcoin is well past the early adopter section of your bell curve.I guess this answers my question and supports my premise at the same time. It seems like few are using bitcoin as a currency, but those who are have to use it like a poor western union. (dollars in, dollars out) If people are not speculators, there seems little reason to hold BTC in your wallet just-in-case you might want to buy something. This exchange seems to be tradinghttps://solidcoin24.com/p/main/market_data.msc?c=BTC&tz=-5.0&tf=m/d%20g:i:sa Is the exchange open? I'm not seeing any new trades.Seems like the perfect time for double spends. If different people are seeing different difficulties and block rates, that would be a fork then wouldn't it? I appreciate the direct answer to my question!Clearly you are correct. GEM couldn't acquire a critical mass of users recruiting only from this forum.But what about Silk Road bitcoin users and the like? They are not attempting to profit as early adopters. They are attempting to profit from actual business. Surely they don't like selling $100 of product and only receiving $90 by the time they get the coins to the exchange. (Exaggeration for effect) I respect this opinion. But that was what everyone was saying when I was here more then a year ago. Bitcoins were 5 for a dollar then. I am not trying to dog bitcoin. It is what it is, and in that regard it is awesome. Bitcoin was the first master planned scarce COMMODITY. Some people still think bitcoins should be used as money. Others still think it is a highly implausible foundation for monetary policy.  However, you go on to make a very pragmatic argument.This should be a clue that things are well beyond the early adopter phase. A year ago in that phase people said things like, "I have no idea if this will become anything. but its cool! Why don't we throw all our excess coins in a fountain?" Nothing pragmatic in early adopter sentiments.Still waiting on "legitimate" uses, but I was encouraged to hear of even "illegitimate" uses like Silk Road. At least some people are trying to use bitcoins as actual money! Where do those folks get their training? I don't see a lot of chatter among them here. I agree that value stability makes coins seem much more like traditional money to the average user. I'm just wondering if there are any "average users" actually using any of the coins.Is there a forum anywhere that teaches people how to just use bitcoins to buy stuff? I mean how does the average Joe with a $10 bill learn the wonders of buying a cheeseburger with bitcoins? Hey, did they release their white paper yet? What is this talk about policing peers? I was guessing to solve the problem they were going to have to add in implicitly trusted peers. It makes perfect sense really. Distasteful as it may seem.
If stability is not why you are mining, I totally get that. I don't have a problem with competitive mining.I'm just trying to sort out if anyone thinks stability is a feature. Is there a market for such a thing?I think this is a similar idea to suggester's thread. However, after 18 months maybe sentiments have changed? First Order (Monetary) DynamicsSo how can it possibly be done if it is not something that can be remotely monitored? Well it can't. But it can be increasingly approximated over time.----Basing GEM on electricity absent any GEM/$ exchanges.1) All miners use the same current POW difficulty, as in bitcoin.2) The initial mining proof-of-work (POW) difficulty starts with a wild-ass-guess, scaled so that (36,000,000 joules) mines roughly (1 GEM) on current best-in-class mining rigs. Hitting an exact target is not important.3) Over time, the mean electrical value of GEMs will tend toward the electrical consumption of the most electrically efficient miner. (MHash/j)4) Left alone, this electrical consumption would tend to decrease over time according to Koomey's law.5) To return GEM mining to its original electrical consumption constant,GEM offsets Koomey's law by doubling the proof-of-work difficulty every 1.57 years.6) However, the difficulty jump is smoothed using scaled 10 minute increases with each new block.7) Difficulty never declines.----Constraints:a) If processor efficiency outpaces Koomey's law, there will be intrinsic inflation. Before: (1 Donut = 1 GEM)  After: (1 Donut > 1 GEM)b) If processor efficiency falls behind Koomey's law, there will be intrinsic deflation. Before: (1 Donut = 1 GEM)  After: (1 Donut < 1 GEM)Note: Extrinsic inflation and deflation (over/under mining) will be discussed in the next section. This intrinsic inflation or deflation will tend to be predictable rather then wildly dynamic. If efficiency isn't following the current Koomey ratio, it is likely following a close cousin.There exist no automated solution for detecting or remedying intrinsic inflation or deflation. Monitoring processor efficiency requires external human observation. In cases where technology makes extreme deviations from Koomey's predictions, I see only two possibilities. Either, everyone must tolerate the inflation/deflation, or, everyone must tolerate developers modifying the protocol ratio.Consequences:a) Mining rigs lose profitability over time. Since difficulty is monotonically increasing, eventually it will cost more in electricity for a given rig to mine then the resulting GEMs can be traded for. b) Computationally speedy rigs mint faster. Electrically efficient rigs last longer. The electrically efficient displace the electrically inefficient regardless of computational speed. GEM Basic PremiseOne GEM always represents a fixed number of Joules. (Punny huh!) The price of the Joules used to create a GEM will vary over time and across locations.1 GEM = (a fixed number of) joules = (a variable number of) $For reference: (36,000,000 joules) always equals (10 kwh) which currently sells for about ($1)The actual GEM/joule constant ratio will be an emergent property of the system. See, the "First Order Dynamics" section.GEM Basic GoalThe goal is a digital currency where GEM value remains stable over time. Meaning, a future "basket of goods (BOG)" costs the same number of GEMs as it does now. Even if the $/BOG ratio changes over time.If you delay gratification now, you receive exactly the same future gratification value. Nobody should save the value of a cup of coffee, expecting to exchange it for a steak dinner in the future. You are going to get a cup of coffee. GEMs are not intended as long term investments. If you want to invest in a commodity that might appreciate in value, trade GEMs for BTC, or gold. If you want to earn interest on someone else's effort, you'll have to arrange your own GEM loans and negotiate your own terms. If you can mine GEMs for $X today and sell them for more than $X in the future, knock yourself out. But consider yourself more an electrical futures trader than a GEM speculator. [edit]I'd like to start a discussion about stable crypto-currency. I'm just trying to get a sense if anyone is interested in non-speculative coins. As an example, I've extracted the concepts from EnCoin and simplified them for discussion into a system I call GEM. It is based on creating coins using constant electrical cost (in joules) over time.---I've been working for two weeks trying to understand the details of Etlase2's EnCoin proposal. Originally I thought the idea of basing coins directly on kwh was impossible. There are simply too many hidden variables to make it possible to monitor an arbitrary peer's energy consumption. I have recently adjusted my opinion from "impossible" to "plausible within constraints". I would like to discuss these constraints and the resulting economic and social dynamics.However, I can't in good conscience suggest anyone go read the EnCoin proposal until the the next version is released. Etlase2 is a bit hostile to some of the existing bitcoin design decisions. Reading philosophy mixed with economics only serves to obfuscate the points I want to talk about.As such, I want to distill his underlying concept (as I see it) into its most important dynamics. To reduce the learning curve, I'll frame my discussion around a theoretical bitcoin code fork (and new block chain) that I'll call GEM.---I want to put all the GEM dynamics into one thread. But, I don't want to cause an argument cluster-fluck. As such, I'll post the outline of where I'm going, but I'll post the detail sections one at a time. Meaning, if discussion survives the first, we can move on to the second. If not, discussing the second dynamic would be pointless.=======GEM BasicsPremiseGoalFirst Order (Monetary) DynamicsBasing GEM on electricity absent any GEM/$ exchanges.Second Order (Economic) DynamicsSprings and Shocks to smooth GEM value convergence.Third Order (Social) DynamicsVariation from the existing Bitcoin protocols.- 10 Minute Timekeeping- Block Chain Consensus- Network Partitioning and ReconciliationFourth Order (Moral) DynamicsDetecting FraudOuting Fraudsters======= OK, then. If you wouldn't mind PMing me when either the white paper or code is released. I would greatly appreciate it! Yes, very odd language. I'd be happy with a white paper explanation for starters at least.Does that require trolling or not trolling? Has any description of the algorithm for preventing 51% attacks been posted anywhere? I can't seem to find anything but the claim in their forum. Am I looking in the wrong place? If anyone has seen even a cursory description of that mechanism please post a link. I'm not expressing skepticism. I'm just genuinely interested. I'm just curious. Do you have a link? I'm searching the solidcointalk.org board and I see that claim. But I can't seem to find an explanation. I agree with you here as well. Any idea I would propose would contain a smaller "trusted" core of peers with the basic characteristics you designed into your "TrustNet/FreeNet/CoreNet" entity. I just think it could simplify the (transaction union/reconciliation procedure) that you go through in creating Primary Blocks.Fair enough! I think we are in, what an old professor of mine used to call, violent agreement. I think we are saying very much the same thing, but using different words. Inflation for one tends to be a maddening word for me. Normally I use it to mean goods prices are inflated against ENC. Meaning bread used to cost 1 ENC and now bread costs 2 ENC. But talking about buying and selling ENC using dollars the terms get more complicated. In my mind if, before: 1 ENC = 1 loaf = $1 after: 1 ENC = 1 loaf = $2   Then we are stable and have met our goalsafter: 1 ENC = 2 loaf = $2   Then goods pricing, with respect to ENC, has deflated. Meaning mint more coins. Discourage hoarding.after: 1 ENC = 1/2 loaf = $1  Then goods pricing, with respect to ENC, has inflated. Meaning destroy coins. Encourage hoarding.But I think we are both pushing in the same direction, no matter what definitions we are using. So much so, that if I didn't reply to something in the previous post, assume we are in agreement.I agree with everything in that section, but I'm confused by your use of "lower on occasion". Wasn't the plan to lower deterministically (and smoothly) based upon the presumption that Koomey's law will hold? I think that is what you are saying. If so, I agree. But on first read "on occasion" sounded like, "If things get wonky..."  If you mean, "When the award lowers over time" then I totally agree with the rest of your statement. As far as I have been able to figure, people are required to pay attention and make decisions in their own self interest. Otherwise, they pay their own consequences with the electric company. (Like a gambler losing in Vegas)However, THE GENIUS OF YOUR ENC=KWH IDEA means nobody else has to care. If the award reduction/difficulty increase keeps everyone else aligned with Koomey's law. (for argument 1 ENC = 10 kwh) Then the run away minter is now minting at 1 ENC = 11 kwh. If he continues to do so causing an ENC glut and price inflation then he is compounding his loss because his 1 ENC buys < $1.If enough people mint at a loss, it will temporarily trick the system into thinking the consensus is to add more money into circulation. Your proposed fee refund will begin dumping money into the market. This will temporarily increase inflation for the minter, but your "interest" compensates everyone else as an offset. This further compounds the runaway minter's losses.But there is no way a runaway minter can profit. Like in Vegas, a time will come when he has to pay the piper. And that electric company piper is a real bitch!---"If the award lowers over time" makes it sound like, you still entertaining other concepts besides adjusting awards & difficulty towards Koomey's law? Are you considering another alternative. Me too!I think it might be possible to implement this economic model on top of the bitcoin code base. I'm kicking around in my head if the reconciliation/consensus stuff could be avoided by using varying speed block creation. Someone wrote GeistGeld was experimenting with 15 second block creation times? I think the feasibility of that depends on how many peer nodes they have in the network. But if they could substantially speed up the rate without overwhelming the network, then their appears plenty of room for flexible block creation rates. No, because this is not a trivia: Take bitcoin's code base, change one constant, recompile and offer a release. At least we haven't figure out if it could be done that way yet. Some ideas actually take work. I'll keep working on this until we can simplify the idea into something easy to implement. If that becomes the case, I'll just do it. But if the minimal implementation is going to take several man years of coding, I can't commit that much time and energy for free.Eitherway the work would go so much faster if you would send in that $8,000 already! I'm pretty sure I'm in general agreement with you. Not sure I understand all the mechanisms you have for paying interest. But I agree you are pushing the system in the right direction.The hardest thing about monetary policy is that you are optimizing against a hidden variable. Nobody really knows what the break even point is for ENC. Once you have a $/ENC exchange, individual decisions becomes easier (I know what my cost, and immediate return would be). But still if you wanted to know what the system's optimal ENC price should be, there are too many hidden variables to get an accurate calculation.That's what led me to try and detect what the "human" consensus on the money supply was (too high, just right, too low). Technically, I think you could get away with detecting just two states (too high, too low). In that case the stable (just right) state would be when the system was oscillating between too high and too low. However, in my personal analysis, I always tend to think about the optimal stable state first. Then I look at how the other two differ from optimal.I'm pretty sure you are working on the same detection issues. It sounds like you are detecting money supply is "too low" by how many coins are minted. Or perhaps a ratio of minted coins/traded coins over a fixed period. Your money supply is "too high" as that ratio tends toward zero.I'd like to propose is ratio for discussion. (minted coins/trading fees) Where minted coins is the total number of minted coins in a given period.  Trading fees is the total number of destroyed coins in the above period. Meaning total number of traded coins times whatever fixed fee you decide on. (total minted/trading fees) < 1If this ratio is zero, there is a 100% consensus that there is too much money currently available for circulation.In this situation, I propose you attempt to do two things.1. Encourage potential buyers NOT to buy. (Hoard coins until prices recover)2. Destroy the coins of panicking actual buyers. (Your coin destroying fee)3. Encourage potential sellers to sell NOW! (Stop hoarding goods)Psychologically, I suggest charging your *panic* fee ON TOP OF the price the seller is asking. As opposed to requiring the seller to hide that included fee in his price. The former tends to make clear to *panicked* buyers that prices are *already* considered too high. It also makes it clear to sellers that NOW is a great time to actually close the deal. The later tends to encourage sellers to inflate their prices (which is what we are fighting against). And if they think prices are moving higher, they are further encouraged to hoard goods.I think you are saying, "Instead of actually destroying these coins, they go into a system managed hoard for later re-distribution." If that is what you are saying, then I agree. Hoarding those coins is monetarily indistinguishable from destroying them.(total minted/trading fees) = 1If you are minting exactly what it take to replace your fees then there is a 100% consensus that the money supply is "just right".Who should receive the newly minted coins is NOT a monetary policy decision. It can be adjusted to encourage other behaviors as you see fit.(total minted/trading fees) > 1This ratio is unbounded, so it has no way to express 100% consensus that the money supply is "too low". But the farther this ration moves above one, the closer you get to that consensus.In this situation, you have too many goods trading for the existing amount of coins. So I propose you attempt to do two things.1. Encourage, hesitant buyers to buy NOW! (Stop hoarding coins)2. Discourage sellers from panicked selling of goods. (Hoard goods)As this ration tends above 1, your fixed transaction fee tends to fight against your monetary policy goals. You are destroying coins during a period where everyone is in agreement that more coins need to be minted. The consequences of this should be minimized whenever possible. This is a good time to re-distribute all fees. Both the system's previously hoarded fees, AND the current transactions fees. Who receives those re-distributed fee coins is NOT a monetary policy decision. It can be adjusted to encourage other behaviors as you see fit.I think I'm generally agreeing with this, as stated above.I'm not sure I understand this enough to comment.EDIT: LMAO, I really didn't understand what you meant when I started typing below. (Basing ENC reduction on time.) I thought you were talking about the logarithmic reduction to compensate for increasing CPU efficiency. Now that I read what I wrote, and re-read what you suggested. It seems like I just re-wrote exactly what you said. If that is the case, I guess I do understand it enough to comment! But I wrestled with a similar sounding conundrum:If (total minted/trading fees) greater than one, persists for multiple periods in a row. It seem like coins should be easier to mint. That is what I was getting at when I added the +2 level to my system. If (total minted/trading fees) less than one, persists for multiple periods in a row. It seem like fees should be higher. However, both of these lead to more abrupt final transition states. I hadn't considered the above ration when I was thinking about that though. Perhaps things could be smoothed by considering the ratio rather than time? [edit: ]Say perhaps, the number of coins awarded per block is in proportion to (total minted/trading fees). Does that tend toward stabilization or toward more dynamic swings? Fee's are more difficult to adjust because they affect the ratio itself. But you could add a "surcharge" as the ratio moved below one toward zero. Perhaps a surcharge using the inverse ratio (trading fees/total minted) makes sense. (As minting moves to zero, the surcharge moves to infinity.) That would provide a strong disincentive to panicked selling! I have so many different versions in my head right now. I would have to read your latest on fee and interest to be able to respond coherently. I know anything I say right now would sound hopelessly lost in the weeds. I'll sell you 10,000 now from the initial pre-mine. Just send $10,000 to... Wait, you are right. You deserve a pre-adopter discount so you can get some serious return on your investment. Just send $8,000 to me! I'm not exactly sure what you are tying to fix? But my first guess you are trying to smooth out the function so that it does not change so dramatically by doubling in difficulty at 18 month boundaries. If that is the case, you want to reduce the ENC awards per block say every month, so you have an 18 step smooth exponential curve from 2 to 1. Then at 18 month intervals, you both double the difficult and double the ENC award/block and start down the curve again.I can't give you the exact values for this because I forget how to calculate with logarithms. But in effect if you had Log base 2 graph paper. You plot one point at 1 on the bottom left, 2 at the top right and draw a line between them. Then you divide the line  into 18 intervals and read the intercepts. That is the old school, before calculators way.So the answer is, if I understood the correct question, there is an easy answer that I don't know, but could probably look up.If you are asking, "What if it MHash electrical efficiency doesn't follow koomey's law?" Then I really don't have any answer at all.Honestly, I never bought that premise. I think (absent a currency exchange) the baker never sets prices based upon electrical costs. Instead he bases them on the cost of flour, eggs, rent, etc. delimited in ENC. He doesn't care what his customer's cost to acquire that coin was. The baker cares about the trade value of the coin when he goes to spend it. I'm not saying koomey's law is the perfect final solution. But I'm saying koomey's law is perfect way for the proposal to introduce people to your concept. It is well known, and it makes a good concrete example of canceling a known tendency with a known function to create your proposed constant. No hand waving is involved. That is what you want at the beginning of a proposal. It is like an establishing shot in a movie. It helps people suspend their disbelief.But it's fine to say "koomey's law[1]" and refer to a footnote that says, "See section 10.5 for a discussion of koomey's law and other possible alternatives for maintaining this constant."I'm not missing it. I'm not disregarding anything you are saying. Certainly, the price will never get too the lowest cost minter's cost. But that is the whole system's limiting condition. I'm using the phrase "tends to" in the mathematical sense, as with Big O notation. "The time it takes to solve the proof-of-work based upon  difficulty (D) tends toward O(2^n). Sure that's not exactly right. The exact calculation would be: POW time = setup time + (time for one hash) * 2^(D-1) + completion time. But that just obfuscates the point I'm trying to make.Again, I'm saying this is the best way to introduce the topic so unfamiliar people can grasp the system's dynamics. You can certainly put "electrically efficient minter[2]" and a footnote, "See section 10.6 on hashing speed vs hashing efficiency and how these effect total coins minted and the potential ROI of each minted coin.I'm not saying your intentions weren't correct. I'm saying your execution confused me repeatedly.(addition) By the way, ROI in the absence of a $/ENC exchange becomes a much more nebulous concept. Sure nothing really changes, someone spends $1 in electricity but takes their ROI in 1.3 loaves of bread. But I would certainly leave that discussion to a later section. Quite frankly, given your target audience, I don't think you are going to have any trouble convincing people to mint. They are already used to paying high electrical bills in hopes of higher future payback. In the absence of an exchange, I don't think the early minters/merchants would have a problem trading among themselves at (1 ENC = 1 loaf of bread). Then when an exchange appears, pricing their coins for sale at (1 ENC = 1.3 loaf of bread = $1.30), to those who don't want to mint. Over time, those two prices will tend to converge toward a single market price.But even accepting all of that, I still have trouble wrapping my head around the ROI dynamics of that final single market place. I'm sure it is describable. I'm just suggesting it is not where initial discussion of your concept should start. I'm going to respond to this tonight because I read this post earlier and I've been thinking about it already. I'll respond to the others later. OK, I get what you are trying to say. (I Hope!) To paraphrase:---Each minter uses the same proof-of-work difficulty for minting.As such, the value of ENC will tend toward the electrical consumption of the most electrically efficient minter. (MHash/ws)Left alone, this electrical consumption would tend to decrease over time according to Koomey's law.To return ENC minting to its original electrical consumption constant,EnCoin offsets Koomey's law by doubling the proof-of-work difficulty every 1.57 years.---This makes total sense to me. I completely agree with this statement. I really hope it is what you have been trying to say.Now a little needless bitching. The part that needlessly confused me for two weeks was your use of averaging. While it is true that if one guy mints coins for 8 kwh and another mints coins for 10 kwh, the average amount of electrical consumption is 9 kwh. You seemed to also be saying that the sell price and value of each coin will reflect this 9 kwh average. That seems ill conceived. In a marketplace, all the lowest price ENC sells first. Higher prices might not sell at all. Thus prices would tend toward the lowest cost, not the average cost.I know now that is not what you were attempting to say. You were trying to say the more general, "If peers use more electricity prices will be higher. If they use less, prices will be lower." The use of specific numbers made it seem you were proposing precise targets.This goes down as the worst sentence of the entire proposal! It made me think you were dismissing the likelihood of electrical efficiency increasing. All the talk about sunk costs, and the expense of upgrading made it seem like you were framing changes in overall efficiency as implausible. Having zero discussion of how you methodically change the difficulty level made everything seem even more hand wavy. "If in the unlikely chance that technology improves, we'll fix things by voting to change the difficulty." it was not very inspiring.---But anyway, I now understand the main trust of your proposal. (I hope.)Perhaps my suggestion for phrasing it with help make your proposal easier for other doubters like me to wrap their head around. So, given the above post about electrical efficiency. In any system where stable coin value is a priority, (Exchange or no-exchange) as coin values approach stability, electrical efficiency becomes exponentially more important. If coins trade within 1% of minting cost, and I can mint for 2% less than you. Then I can mint and your can't. This is not so much a competition as an unavoidable axiom. (The efficient drives out the less efficient.)Since I can't remove the axiom I'm attempting to use it as a feature.The most electrically efficient state of the system, is where NO ONE has incentive to mint at all. This does not effect continuity of the network. Merchants continue to make money, clients continue to see the efficiency of the system as a personal benefit. It just means arbitragers don't mint, don't make profit, and don't extract value from the system in anyway.Optimally, this would be the stable currency state. No new coins are required. No minting is done. No arbitraging is done.However, I couldn't get my system this optimal. Maybe it is possible but I haven't notice that solution yet.In the -1, 0, +1 system I proposed, in the stable state, some minting is required. However, it is collaborative (like you are proposing) and it does NOT involve arbitragers. In the stable state, only people with transactions will attempt to mint. If enough people attempt to mint, EVERYONE's tax is refunded. This is in effect a consensus vote that coin values are stable. It requires the combined tax rebate pool to spend only 1/2 the number of hashes as it would take arbitragers to create new coins.The under valued state is the most efficient in my proposed system. If coin values are below stable values, nobody will mint at all. This serves two functions. Most importantly, it represents a consensus vote that coins are undervalued. Second, it removes all excess overhead from the system when overhead is the biggest hinderance to coin value recovery.The over valued state is the only time Arbitragers attempt to mint at all. For maximum savings (to the system as a whole) arbitragers should mint as quickly and efficiently as possible. So if the most efficient minter can bring the value immediately back to stable himself that is optimal. If that is not possible other less efficient minters can step in to lend a hand.The goal is that no monopoly of minters be allowed to drive the prices away from stability. (Tending prices toward zero or toward infinity.) That is how to best judge what I suggest. If we can show multiple solutions meet this goal, they can be ranked by how far they allow the stable prices to shift when drastic economy changes occur. I realize now, that your goal is a variant of satoshi's. Create a coin that can be used in the absence of any exchanges. EXCEPT unlike BTC, you want ENC to be stable in value. Yes, this should have been obvious to me from the beginning. Let me explain why it was not.Your initial premise was: 1) If coins creation could be made dependent on the consumption of a fixed amount of electricity, THEN (logical implication) coins would have a stable value absent any exchanges.Yes, I recognized from the beginning that this statement is logically true. That implication does indeed hold. However, I recognized immediately that the antecedent "could be made dependent" was actually, False. While that does not disprove the consequent it doesn't help prove it either. That was when I asked if you meant ENC = $ = KWH. Whatever your answer was, I interpreted it to be "close enough!" So I substituted the original implication with:2) If coins creation could be made dependent on the price of electricity, THEN (logical implication) coins could have a stable value. However, that *will require* an active ENC to $ exchange.My substitution of premise (2) for (1) is the root of almost every argument we've had. In reality both assertions (1) and (2) are logically true. And in both, the truth of their consequent comes down to the truth of the statement "could be made dependent".So the real question comes down to:What made me "recognize immediately" that "could be made dependent" in (1) was False?Well, technically, it is not false. If you made peer participation dependent on purchasing a specially made, tamper proof, efficiency matched, processing box that was cryptographically signed by a trusted supplier. Then you could assure that 1 ENC required 10 kwh. I dismissed solution out of hand, because it conflicted in philosophy with everything you wrote. But absent that, there is no way to remotely detect a processor's electrical consumption rate.Everything in bitcoin is based around remotely monitoring (MHash/s). Hashes are monitored by knowing the difficulty level (2^(D-1)). Seconds are monitored by averaging block creation intervals. This gives you an accurate ratio, that you can use to recalculate difficult based upon a target interval of 10 min.Note however, that monitoring the block interval accurately requires you to prevent parties from lying about block creation times. That is why bitcoin is winner take all. It prevents even collaborative lying. With block chains, the shortest intervals (most blocks) trump the longer intervals (fewer blocks). All of that is really about monitoring time.Combined electrical efficiency (MHash/ws) cannot be monitored. You still understand Hashes. You can divide the number of blocks created (non-competitively, in a given interval), by the interval time. That give you a slightly sloppier measurement for seconds. But even given these, you have no way to monitor watt consumption (hence your 200W constant). Side note: You proposed that block creation could cross PB intervals. That means you lose the ability to monitor seconds at all.But even if you accept the above measurement of (MHash/ws) as being useful, changing difficulty (Hashes) does nothing to affect electrical efficiency (200W constant). You can only effect seconds. This leads to my example of the more electrically efficient driving out the less electrically efficient.So, I presumed the (1) premise could not be yours, because the only solution to its antecedent was one you would completely oppose.That is why I began thinking about (2) as the premise you were having trouble conveying to me. Really, it was nothing personal. I was just trying to figure out how you solved (what I called) the more important problems, that come later.
I'm going to respond in detail to your questions but I have limited time today. It is the first Friday of the month and I go to my local 2600 meeting. I just mention this so that you know if I disappear, I'll be back tomorrow.Second I want to start of with a little preamble to say, I'm going to call some things "my ideas" but only to distinguish the concept from previous things we've talked about. However, I don't personally consider any of these things "my" ideas. You claimed, "it was possible" to do these things, I just presumed your were correct. My goal was/is to understand how you are correct. So in pursuing my personal understanding of your correctness, I obviously disregarded anything you said that I already knew to be a false path. I just presumed it was miscommunication on your part or misunderstanding on my part. I then asked questions and tossed the concepts around in my head until I could figure out what your path really was. I hate it when somebody claims to know something is provably true, when I can't prove it to be true. I'd long given up on proving this was possible. I never proved it was impossible. It seemed possible. But I never noticed a plausible path to proving it was possible. As such, if we manage to prove stable money as being possible, I claim that it is just the natural termination to the path you started down. Hence, "your" idea. Really, we agree on about 90% of our principles. The 10% we disagree on is worth arguing over though.I'm not saying I have an "attack" on your system. I'm saying that the electrically efficient hashers driving out the electrically inefficient is a natural consequence of your design. It is a natural consequence of my design too. Electrical efficiency is not something either of us can detect, so it is not something we have any power to prevent.It is analogous to bitcoin, except there the temporally efficient (faster) hashers drove out the inefficient. There was no way to prevent that, so satoshi made it a feature.I don't know what this means, so I don't know how to respond. My use of ROI was probably too smug. But let me be clear this is a closed system. The number of dollars going out of the system, cannot be greater than the number of dollars going into the system. It doesn't matter what happens in between.Let's say buyers have $10,000 to spend buying ENC. Now lets say there are 1,000 peers who burn 200W*24hours*30days. That's 144,000 kwh or about $14,400 to the electic company. Or about $14/peer say we want to give each peer $5 on average for their trouble. 35% ROI. Now we have $19,400/month in costs to run the system. That means minting somewhere near 20,000 ENC. So the price will be $1 = 1 ENC.So the peers take these coins to the exchange and get... $10,000. Because that is all the dollars there are. You can say 500 peers sold 20 ENC each for cost+ROI=$19.40 (after transaction fees), and the other 500 have to wait to pay their electric bills. Or 1000 peers sold 10 ENC each for $9.70 and nobody can pay their $14.40 electric bills. That doesn't change the fact that the electric company is still going to want their money, and they can't take it in ENC.(You have the same potential problem with gold. If I spend $1,000,000 in electricity mining gold. And buyers want to buy $500,000 worth of gold. Then the electric company is still going to be just as pissed.)The bigger problem is, that out of $10,000 exchanged for ENC, there are zero dollars left for merchants to exchange for, once purchasers have spent their 10,000 ENC. All the liquid dollars have gone to the electric company.----I'm not trying to say anything really earth shaking or dramatic. I'm just saying that 1,000 non-minting peers who burn an extra 5W*24hours*30days (running this app in the background like bittorrent while doing other things). Comes to about 36 cents each. This can go without reimbursement.Say 10 committed competing arbitragers running 500W only when profitable, say 6hours*15days when things are stable. That is 450kwh or about $4.50 in overhead (45 cents each)So out of $10,000 exchanged for ENC, the arbitragers take $4.50 to cover their overhead. Then they take $50 each as 10X ROI. But this still leaves $9,495.50 not permanently extracted from the system.----Yes I realize this example is contrived, and maybe you can poke fun at different non-sensical bits. But the main point is, every dollar that goes to minters, comes from the pocket of someone buying ENC on an exchange. Those dollars will never be available to swap on the exchange again.I know there is a little multiway exchange diagram somewhere that shows this problem.Alice has an Apple but wants a BananaBob has a Banana but wants a CaramelCarl has a Caramel but wants a DollarDon has a Dollar but wants an AppleSo Don give he dollar to the electric company in exchange for an ENC.Carl says, "Hey WTF! I needed that dollar! And eats his caramel.Bob says, "Hey I wanted that caramel, and punches Carl. Who slips on the loose banana and falls into Alice, distracting her just long enough for Don to grab her Apple and run like hell!---So in summary$14,400 fixed cost, bad$364.50 fixed cost, better$4.50 fixed out of pocket, best$5,000 @ $5 each profit, expensive and not so motivating.$500 @ $50 each profit, cheeper and more motivating.---Yes, somewhere during that post I lost my mind. I'll respond more coherently to the rest of your post tomorrow.And Yes, I'll put my concepts up and let you poke holes in them. I'm pretty sure there are a few unexpected consequences I haven't noticed. I am a little disappointed no body else pinged me to do so from the other thread. Maybe we are alone.  http://www.adbusters.org/blogs/adbusters-blog/anonymous-joins-occupywallstreet.htmlReally, I didn't make up the "one demand" rule. It was part of the protest from the beginning. They didn't know what it would be when they started. They still don't know what it is.At least the Tea Party guys had demands like, "Write the laws down BEFORE you vote on them, so everyone can actually read what they are supporting or opposing."But not these guys. They want undying loyalty before they even decide what want. I don't know if I can get behind them yet. Maybe their demand is Obama start killing kittens? I simply have no idea. Agreed. That was what I proposed.Agreed. That was why I make it clear most people wouldn't be minting or benefiting from minting. It is a pure, stable, medium of exchange.Agreed. That's why we should involve as few people as possible in that cluster fuck. That's why I said only "Smart" gamblers will take part in arbitrage. "Dumb" gamblers are welcome to try, however their dollar losses need not be born by aunt J. Dumb gamblers should pay their own bills.Clients don't even have to know the arbitrage process is going on. Hell it happens everyday with dollars/gold/etc and I pay zero attention to who is winning and who is losing their arbitrage positions.Stable money is a benefit to everyone. Making the currency stable should cost everyone as little as possible. Every penny that goes to the electric company is overhead that comes out of sellers, traders, hoarders, savers, spenders, and aunt J's pockets. None of it, in your model is intended to come out of the minter's pocket. Instead, everyone else's overhead, becomes the minter's ROI.This is true in my model as well. But my model works to minimize the number of dollars that goes to the electric company. Therefore it minimizes the overhead charged to sellers, traders, hoarders, savers, spenders, and aunt J's. Actually I wasn't going to bother since there is so little interest here. But I checked the survey results on Suggester's poll and 26% of the people support his proposal and 10% partially support him. That is 36% interest in stable money. I guess I will start a thread.Funny? Why do you think all these people are not interested in you?Yeah, it is going to come as a real shock to bitcoiners that a small group of people, make control and distribute their money supply! Most of the posts on this forum are from people who are in that group or want to be in that group.P2P means peer to peer. Anyone in my system can be a peer. Anyone can be a trusted peer. They just can't be an "anonymous trusted peer". As you pointed out, that concept is just stupid. Anyone can however mint all the coins they want. Even anonymously! But only the ones who are both smart and efficient will be able to do so profitably.Which is as it should be. Because only a complete moron thinks you should penalize the smart and efficient, to benefit the stupid and inefficient. That is the closest thing this site has to a core principle. Woot! One more!That makes at least 5 people who have shown up and expressed support for stable money. I think if we get two or three more we can take a shot at occupying wall street! But seriously, Suggester. Thanks for joining the discussion! There is a third premise that was explicit in bitcoin.3. Fixed monetary policyIt was that third premise that represents the "soul" of this community.There used to be a currency called the Drachma that represented the soul of one community. A currency called the Deutsche Mark that represented the soul of another community. Then someone suggested, "Wouldn't it be better if we created one currency that represented our combined souls?"Turns out the answer was, "No. Probably not."Some concepts have to compete. True can't collaborate with False by settling on Maybe. Or in answer to a famous question, "No, we can't all just get along." This is a nasty sounding, but pretty fair summary of what I am suggesting.Arbitragers will compete, not on how fast they can hash, but on how cheaply they can hash. The arbitrager with the lowest overhead wins. The mathematics of the minting algorithms prevent even the last rogue minter from driving the system away from stability.If the latter holds. The former is always perfectly sensible. Otherwise, you are arguing to allow others to do exactly the same job, but at a higher cost. As all electrical costs are directly born by clients transacting in the *coins, minimizing this overhead expense benefits everyone.Anyone is allowed to mint. However, the vast majority of people using this system won't mint, and won't want to mint. The arbitrage competition requires too much *human* mental effort, and it requires gambling with ones personal dollars. However, as with bitcoin, anyone can run a client which keep tabs on the honesty of the rest of the network. These clients require trivial hardware to run and very little electricity. Absent all the needless hashing, monitoring honesty is a trivial problem. This however is not a correct summary for any reasonable definition of "secure the network". I claim that security will be provided (as it is with bitcoin) by cryptography. This prevents all theft, fraud, forgery and transaction related mischief. Denial of service (preventing valid transactions from being acknowledged) and history substitution (chain swapping) is not subject to the minters at all. Network continuity, and denial of service prevention become the responsibility of those non-anonymous parties that profit in the actual *coin marketplace. However, it is never compromised by 51% attacks. Denial of service/history modification requires 100% consensus among well known non-anonymous parties that can be held legally responsible for their actions.So, I claim if even 99% of non-anonymous parties attempt to block valid transactions or change history, the last 1% has 100% of the evidence necessary to file charges against (or publicly disgrace) the others. Even if 100% of non-anonymous parties are compromised, every anonymous monitor holds the same evidence.That is what I call "security". They promised to make "one demand" of President Obama. They said they would figure out what that one demand was once they all got together.I'm still waiting.I saw two separate proposals in the forum with tens of demands each. One was laughable. (Forgive all loans on the planet) The other had some sense to it. (Repeal this specific piece of legislation.)Until they can decide who they are, I'll just continue to giggle at the performance artist trying to be taken seriously. This seems very similar to what Etlase2 is trying to design for EnCoin.I'm absolutely sure the coin price (equals) and absolute quantity of electricity argument is impossible to implement. (Feel free to see that and the previous EnCoin thread for details of why.)However, In the process, I identified (the beginnings of) a pretty trivial mechanism for keeping *coin prices stable. It uses the price of electricity as a constraint. It has varying minting based upon economic changes.I don't want to deliberately sidetrack Etlase2 threads. But if there is interest, I don't mind starting a new thread to discuss the feasibility of the concept.This post has a brief summary.This post gives a few more details.I'm not saying this exact idea is finished or perfect. I noticed few unintentional flaws in the details myself. But if anyone is willing to discuss the plausibility of creating stable *coins using a variant of this mechanism, then give me a ping in PM.If you want me to understand that a fixed number of coins and depreciating prices are better... Trust me, I've already heard you! Nothing to see here. Move along... Awesome post BubbleBoy! I'm going to jumble the order of some of your quotes so I can clearly delineate where I am in agreement and disagreement with the EnCoin concept. I totally agree with you. Which is odd, because it clearly I'm saying something that seems very close to the opposite!The part I'm agreeing with is 1 *coin should *not* be pegged at 10 KWH as EnCoin suggests. Specifically, by requiring each coin to represent burning an average of 10 KWH. I find that impossible for the same reasons you do. What I'm saying is, electricity is the only commodity I've noticed that has even the potential to become a tool for stabilizing *coin prices. Electricity has one unique characteristic. As Etlase2 points out, we can require someone to purchase at least some energy prior to creating a new *coin. This means the coiner has "skin in the game" prior to creating/selling coins. I don't see any other basket of goods that has these characteristics. I can't force someone to burn wheat in the process of manufacturing a *coin.The question then shifts to how much electricity do we need to require at this moment? While it is impossible to determine exactly how much any particular person must purchase, fortunately, it is possilble to dictate that they purchase more relatively speaking or less than was required in the previous period. (Changing difficulty)I totally agree with these statements. Both would be bad and should be avoided.What I'm proposing is the (coin/kwh) requirement is constantly changing algorithmically based upon market conditions and the demonstrated need for new coins. The price of electicity serves as a limit constraining two non-linear functions. The (coin/$) exchange rate and the (kwh/$) exchange rate.Again, even that sounds impossible. But, here is the edge.I'm not suggesting the algorithm dictates when coins must be made. That remains a human decision. Human's make coins when Arbitrage between (coin/$) and (kwh/$) makes it profitable to do so. In a stable economy with a *coin price at a stable equilibrium, there is ZERO need to create new coins. Therefore, the proposed algorithm must give zero incentive to creating new coins. At this point 1 Coin = X kwh and there is no arbitrage profit. An algorithm CAN monitor the lack of coin creation.If the economy is increasing (more $ of goods to trade), then the (coin/$) relationship will vary from the (kwh/$) relationship. This creates arbitrage incentive to create new coins. An algorithm CAN monitor demonstrated coin creation.If the economy is decreasing (less $ of goods to trade), then the (coin/$) relationship will vary from the (kwh/$) relationship. This creates an incentive destroy coins and/or discourage selling coins. I propose a transaction TAX burning coins for this. Again, an algorithm CAN monitor coin destruction.I proposed the beginnings of an algorithm in a prior thread. But the gist goes.If people are minting excess coins, then make it more expensive to mint coins. (increasing economy)If people are being taxed, then make it cheaper to mint coins. (decreasing economy)If people want to mint just enough coins to rebate their tax, let them. (stable economy)I totally agree with you. I'm suggesting competition between arbitragers to monitor the market and keep prices stable. This is the opposite of "Everyone can run minting in the background without thinking about it."Totally agreed. In this model I want to minimize the number of people who have to burn needless electricity. That is just unnecessary added overhead to the *coin economy. Only arbitragers would need to solve proof-of-work problems. And then, only when they see it as profitable to do so.--- Note ---If electricity prices vary dramatically, or even if the economy varies dramatically (Walmart accepts coins), then coin/kwh relationship we move from the previous equilibrium.The goal for the system, is to assure that it always moves to a new stable equilibrium rather than tending to zero or infinity. I'll admit the previous post was lame. I was a little defensive when I should have read a little further into your post.Suppose that 6950 equilibrium comes at our long coveted 1 ENC = $1 = 10 kwhDid you work through the math?6950 sells coins at $1 with a cost of $1 for a net of 0.Altera sells coins at $1 with a cost of $0.10 for a net of 90 cents per coin.Even if the sell price goes up. And the 6950 begins minting 5 coins for each 1 Altera mints. Until the ENC price reaches $1.23, the Altera still generates more proft on its one coin, than the 6950 generates on its 5.More than you might think!I'm sure 90 cents on each generated coin will pay back even a $600 machine pretty quick. Much faster than the nickels you keep mentioning. I was going to make that point but realized I didn't have to. The Altera is supported by every other GPU that is even a little more energy efficient than the 6950. The chart shows lots of possibilities.And Altera and company don't have to keep driving the ENC market price down at the velocity the 6950's were driving it down at. They just have to hold it down. Its much easier to drown someone if they're already underwater.And as you obviously know, all that fee money has to go somewhere. Now it is going to the most efficient where it belongs. The irony is, to bring the 6950s back to profitability, you have to increase the difficulty while the market is stable. This increase is only to drive out electrically efficiency and add overhead. Sounds totally sensible. I have to admit, I don't even know. Too much cut and paste and bleary eyes. But too many little boxes for me to dig through and find a different example. But it doesn't matter! I don't have to match the 6950 in Mhash/s. (I don't really remember any of the details for "minimum requirements" to maintain your reputation and assure your spot in the minting pool. But I think it was generate at least one FNBlock a day.)Say when ENC hits "6950 equilibrium", the 6950 is generating 5 blocks a day and the Altera is generating 1 block a day. Now the (ENC_price - 6950_cost_to_produce) = 0. The 6950's ROI is zero. It has to stop minting or continue at a loss.This is your intended behavior, nothing more. I'm not making any wild claims.The Altera on the other hand is still profitable at 1 block a day. It can keep minting. So can all the other Altera equivalents. They are 10x more efficient than the 6950. From this moment on they continue earning a ROI. If there are enough Altera equivalent peers to hold the price steady, just below the 6950's break even, the 6950 peers are for all intents an purposes dead. They don't have to be 10x more efficient. 2x is probably enough. Altera EP4CE115C7   80 Mhash/s 18.18 Mhash/J   $299 academic6950      0.336062 Mhash/s   1.8 Mhash/J  $250The Altera does 18.18 Mhash/(watt second) = 65,448,000 Mhash/kwhThe 6950   does  1.8 Mhash/(watt second) = 6,480,000 Mhash/kwhThe Altera is 10 times more energy efficient than the 6950. Both cost less than $300The Altera is 240 times faster than the 6950.The Altera doesn't have to produce 240 times as many coins as the 6950 thus burning more total dollars.It can simply produce 10 times more for equal dollars and loaf.Or it can an equal number of coins for 1/10 the price and loaf.The Altera has the choice to decide what is the most profitable way to run the 6950 out of business. It just watches the ENC sell price fall until the 6950 quits. That means as you pointed out that:ENC price = 6950 cost to productENC price = (10x) the Altera's cost to produce.Now at this point, the Altera doesn't have to be a total dumbshit and mint until the coins fall to ENC/10. Or show off and invite everyone else into his game. He just holds the prices steady making maximum profit, while telling everyone else, he's losing money for the good of the network.Still don't get it?The whole point of the system is to reach price equilibrium. This is exactly what would happen if every node was a 6950. ENC would reach the exact same price. Lots of people would mint a little and sell them off. Sometimes they'd make money and the ENC price would fall. Sometimes they lose money and the ENC price falls. The Altera just makes money every time. As a side effect everyone else makes less, without the ability to know they could be doing better. The Altera guy could just be a better market timer than them. He's certainly not doing anything crazy looking.If they upgrade and mint faster, everyone will upgrade and what good would that be? Just more sunk costs for everyone and no more profit to offset it. Better to stick with Ryan's original plan. I deliberately ignore them because they have no bearing on any of my mathematical arguments. I could just have as easily said, talk 20 outdated old PC I got for free, and outsourced the hashing. Or created a botnet and outsourced the hashing.You're answer is always, "Yeah, but everyone's going to notice. Then they'll all start doing it too! Inflation will start. Everyone will decide inflation is bad, so will will agree to increase the difficulty. So there!" I clearly demonstrated how they are not REQUIRED to "benefit others as well." You did not refute my point. Again, you just said, "Of course everyone will take the path that's least profitable to themselves. How could they not want to maximize their momentary gains while sabotaging their long term profitability?"But what you fail to acknowledge is you've just run all the machines off the network that you designed the network for. Now you have a network of people who understand the benefit of minimizing hashes/watt. All secretly competing to minimize their hashes/watt cost.That was what I have tried to explain from the beginning. You simply cannot algorithmically force the efficient to subsidize the inefficient. That has to be done at the point of a gun.You took the word right out of my mouth! If you wouldn't mind, why don't you invite some of your IRC friends here to critique my density!----I know you addressed the FreeNet Sybil problem by adding a fee to create FNs. I'm assuming you've already solved the Peer Sybil problem. I'm sure you already noticed that in the grand scheme of things, it is trivial for one computer to serve as a FN Peer to multiple FreeNets simultaneously. Most of the work is completely redundant. If I'm receiving transactions, validating them, and signing them with one FN key. Then it is no more bother to sign the blocks as a representative of 10 different FNs. The additional broadcasting is really not a barrier with today's bandwidth.The only thing that can't be done simultaneously is hashing at 100% cpu power for each network. However, I've clearly shown that is not required.I could take my one already efficient machine (or plug plus an outsourced hashing rig) and create 10 virtual machines. Each would hash at 2mh/s and claim to running at 220W (or whatever the minimum requirement). Then I would be the someone in your, "subsidizing someone getting 2mh/s for 220W" example. But Woot! I would be getting whatever subsidy you are proposing ten times over!---What if I did that with my 10 plug computers creating 1,000 virtual peers for $1,000 and then outsourced hashing to one of those big bitcoin rigs looking for a little steady revenue. I'd fake being 1,000 slow peers and take the subsidies you propose from the others greedy supercomputers.Then if word got out, people would compete with me by faking having the most slow inefficient boxes! How perverse! We'd be 3 guys with 30 plugs, simulating 3000 crappy peers taking subsidies from 3000 slightly above average peers. All while paying off one high-end bitcoin GPU rig to do as little hashing for us as we could get away with. You are correct, in your edit. It is still the same problem even with different starting conditions.I guess it doesn't matter what "best hash value" means, since you claim it is equally distributed "per motherfricken block".You claim the supercomputer would dominate because it did more hashes than the other machines over the same period of time. To rectify this problem, you want the super computer to do only the same amount of work as the others, or give away its excess effort to the others. We both agree that the super computer wouldn't want to do that.You claim, therefore, there will be no supercomputers.I claim, if the supercomputer is more efficient in hashes/W, it will simply just do the average hash rate for multiple networks simultaneously. Thus avoiding your penalty. I could run a hundred nodes on 5W plug computers doing all the network stuff. Then have each plug outsource the hashing to one supercomputer in China that works cheap. You can't detect this. Nor can you prevent it. Nor as it seems, can you see it. This is called an "isolation" attack. Yes, it should be prevented if reasonably plausible, but it is in a completely different class from the rest of the discussion. It fits more in with DNS spoofing, or fishing attacks.If I can surround a "dumb" client completely I can lie to that client sure. But I still shouldn't be able to man-in-the-middle that client by redirecting his transactions to different accounts. At least not while I'm talking to others.I think IRC is just making life harder for you. What IRC channel is it by the way? You declared the improper forking. You are coordinating a "better release" that everyone will be required to adopt. I'm not sure which fork your release blesses, but your team got to make that decision. As Larry Lessig is fond of saying, "Code is Law".That is all I mean by center of the universe. Understandably, from the point of view of *coins as crypto-anarchist currencies, this would seem initially distasteful.However, it is important to note that it *never* makes sense for two different exchanges to trade on different forks. They will always have to take a break from trading to determine which is the correct fork to continue trading on.Otherwise, forking effectively doubles the number of coins in existence. Bitcoin hoarders pray for that to happen. It never will. Imagine if the chain forked and Euros traded on one branch and Dollars on the other. I could sell my pre-fork coins once for Dollars and again for Euros. Woot! Not going to happen.So the reality is, if you chose to continue the fork without the exchanges. You are in the same boat. You have just create a new currency pre-distributed to everyone who also owned *coins before the fork. That is just bad business. You would deserve what you get.If an exchange got hacked and tried to fork the chain, all the other exchanges would notice, stop, and gather together to repeat the above exercise. Most likely the hacked exchange would be forced back to the consensus branch and be required to repair any client damage. Otherwise they would be bankrupted and sued.It is an ironic fact, that even in crypto-anarchist currencies, there is a center of the universe. For Fairbrix at this moment, it is michaelmclees. Later it will be the exchanges.
I couldn't agree more with your re-definition of "private key". The section that said distribute the group's private key was a crypto mistake. In crypto a private key really means one and only one person. Once you give it to someone else, it is no longer serves its crypto function.That said, I was under the impression that everything else in the PB was both deterministic and validated by every other group. (In the same way that transaction confirmations are.)FreeNet Block minting allocation rules are based upon the previous PB so other groups should be able to detect invalid transactions. Since they are signed by a particular malicious peer, he should get the death penalty network wide.Reputation Block seems to be deterministic. Did the peer vote "present" during the PB. This is presumably signed so it can't be forged.Miscellaneous Block seems deterministic as well. If there were module change majority votes. I'm assuming the votes would be signed to prevent forgery.That just means you need a way to prevent one person or even a 51 majority from prematurely ending the PB reconciliation before everyone gets to submit their sets of data to the Network wide union.This is again what I was referring to as the problem of controlling time. OK, you are going to have to acknowledge that the version I started with stressed at the beginning at some human paid to start a TrustNet. Got the privilege of naming the TrustNet. And could invite his (presumably Trusted) friends et. al. to join his new TrustNet.In that scenario, it doesn't make a lick of sense to say, Hey Bill let me tell you about EnCoin... Fire up a peer, join someone else's shitty TrustNet until you build up enough Trust to join my TrustNet, then maybe I'll Trust you enough to let you in.Really, when I read it, I figured it was a caveat to keep the rabble out of the Network you had paid money to start and were busy investing money in building.OK, I did read "best hash value" as something figuring into the ranking. But ranking hashes didn't make a lick of sense. I presumed you wanted to do some sort of non-linear distribution (value only gets 20%) based upon each peer's Trust (Reputation/Placement/Rank).You appear to have been serious about what I called non-sense. So let's discuss it. How could you possibly rank random numbers over time? If I have a supercomputer and I generated one block. You have a busted old 386 and you generate one block. Then the hashes of these blocks have are randomly distributed across the difficulty range. You can rank the blocks based on this randomness and say the 386 wins this time. But the overall distribution is still 50-50 as we repeat this exercise. The goal here seems to be to keep the supercomputer from gaining a minting advantage. So just say all member of the group participating in the PB get an equal share.  Maybe you mean minting members. I'm not sure sure. But that's not important. If the distribution isn't equal, and it isn't based on RP, what is it based on?I don't know if you meant that as a light tease, but I'm going to take it that way. Then I'm going to work some math to show you are wrong.Say you are at a difficulty level with 31 leading zeros. That means you have a 50% chance of generating a block in 2^30 hash tries. Sure someone could generate the block on their 1st try or it might take all the way to the 2^31st try. But it averages out to 2^30 Hashes. Note: a block's units are hashes, not hashes/second.So if m=2^20 then, 1mh/s will take 2^10 seconds (on average) to complete a block. 17 minutes, 0.28 hour.2mh/s will take half the time, 8.5 minutes, 0.14 hour.3mh/s will take one third the time, 5.66 minutes, 0.09 hour.3mh/s for 200W * 0.09 hour = 18.0 Wh/block2mh/s for 220W * 0.14 hour = 30.8 Wh/block2mh/s for 180W * 0.14 hour = 25.2 Wh/blockIf each of the peers (on average) gets an equal share for doing equal work. Then the most efficient in electrical cost (Wh/block) Wins! Again, electrical efficiency has nothing to do with (h/s).This seem to acknowledge you recognize what I'm saying as true. But you are ACTIVELY trying to make the more electrically efficient subsidize the less electrically efficient.It can't be done. All your logic presumes that someone who is generating a block every 5.66 minutes will, WILLINGLY do more work than those generating a block every 8.5 minutes. This is a bad presumption. Each peer has access to the historical record. Each knows the exact the results of his fellow peer's productivity. If an efficient peer endeavors only to be average in blocks, he wins in DOLLARS!There is a whole famous book about why your philosophy is a bad idea. Give it a quick read. It's awesome! So of course not I realize you are trying to PREVENT people from deliberately building particularly reputable FreeNets. I'm guessing this is to prevent 51% transaction confirmation DOS attacks.I was never able to identify any other power a 51% majority gave a malicious group. You weren't worried about past posting, and falsifying transactions is still impossible. It doesn't seem to be a minting issue.If I'm missing an issue, I really am clueless I guess.But if you are worried about the transaction DOS issue I realized that such an attack is trivial to detect. If you see a valid transaction that doesn't make the next primary block. If that transaction is still valid after PB reconciliation, then it MUST be appear in the next PB or a DOS is happening.Any way. I hope at least one thing was insightful. Continuing on a slightly different point.-----FreeNet reputation seems intended to be a measure of a network's combined Reliability over time. In my mind, I define that Reliability as made up of two parts Availability and Accuracy.Availability means at least one of the FreeNet's peers must be online to receive transactions, validate them, and to batch and send those transactions around. The goal for the FreeNet is 100% availability.Accuracy means every transaction must be validated and confirmed exactly according to the crypto and accounting rules. Each FreeNet is required to be 100% accurate. If even one invalid transaction is confirmed, action must be taken.So if a FreeNet is 100% available and 100% accurate for some period of time, they reach a max Reputation. I know you had said validation/confirmation errors would really hammer a FreeNet's reputation. I began wondering if it should be a death penalty. That seemed overkill at the FN level.---When I thought about these two concepts at the peer level I noticed a difference. Each peer must still be 100% accurate. But each peer is not required to be 100% available. Also, minting effort seems to be more important intraFN than between networks.So if a peer solves minting blocks he might increase in rank. If a FN member peer is not 100% available he might lose rank. But if a FN member peer is not 100% accurate, the FreeNet either has to kick him out, or shut down. No other FN should trust a net that is even partially non-compliant.If a guy is shopping for a new FreeNet, I'd want to know if he got kicked out of his previous one!---You seem to be seeing network membership as more flowing and flexible then me. I'm interested in hearing more about that. But this is the original picture I got in my mind when I read the proposal. Clearly, I don't feel qualified to really come to terms with most of those details. But I can offer what (I think) are insights.I always visualized your reputation idea as two layered. You have FreeNets which gain reputation as a whole. And you have individuals, who are ranked (for lack of a better term) by their FreeNet Peers. To make a lame example, I may be a "made man" in the Italian Mob. But if I quit and go to the Russian Mob, my rank doesn't necessarily travel with me.I assumed in between when someone asked to become part of a FreeNet and when they were accepted into the FreeNet there was some sort of vote based on the existing FN Peers. I guess I'm suggesting that when you apply to be a member of a FreeNet. That the application contains an "rank" that you are applying for. If members don't think you are proven enough for that rank, they reject you.To make an example, I might say "Yo! I'm currently ranked 100% in Fred's (90 RP 3 block/day) FreeNet. I'll quit Fred, if you let me join Ryan's (180 RP 4 block/day) FreeNet at 75% rank. That way, I don't have to start from the bottom again.I was presuming, the FreeNet reputation dictated the total number of coins the FN could generate in a block. And the intraNet rank somehow affected how those coins were split among members. Wasn't a baited question. I'd never given it two seconds thought.It was a witty retort to your smug reply.As for ideas. I defend your good ones. I defend no one's stupid ones. I don't mind starting another thread to actually discuss principles leading to a stable currency. Perhaps, someone who didn't reply to every question with, "It's obliquely referenced in my 28 pages of incoherent blathering about minting reform." would foster some discussion. LOL!  New meme for me. Woot! Now personally, I think PayPal are a bunch of weenies. I'm personally offended by what they did to wikileaks. I make some regular credit card payments though PayPal at the merchant's request. But I refuse to "validate" my PayPal account by giving them my personal bank account information. That just seems stupid to me. Expecially given their history. They don't need to "validate" me. The credit card company confirms my identity by processing my payments. They are disingenuous weenies for even asking.But anyone who has ever bought a house knows, the lender always find something stupid and annoying in your financial history. You write letters explaining issues, you pay off anything insignificant that might hold off your process. Or you don't. But if you don't, you aren't awarded free liberty to associate your misfortune with black helicopters. Just saying.  Alright, support the #feedtheprotest cause, but don't bang this particular PayPal drum too loudly.The guy admitted he had a paypal billing issue 8 years ago where he claimed not to be responsible for some charges. PayPal investigated, found no fraud, but he never followed up with them. He simply cancelled his PayPal account.Now he's claiming this is a wikileaks situation. PayPal annoys me as much as the next guy, but make sure you investigate the horse's health before you hitch your wagon to it. Yes, I completely agree. I've been away from the *coin world for about a year. Just trying to get the lay of the land.I always thought the original bitcoin philosophy, of defending everyone's shared history based on the implausibility of >51% CPU power attacks, died when coders put in the first hard coded block lock. Since then the question has been, "How much history can we leave at risk?" What you call a "confirmation horizon" is exactly what I am suggesting. Otherwise, the definition of "confirmed" becomes non-sensical. I figured exchanged must have long ago solved this problem. It simply doesn't make any sense for multiple exchanges to trade on different branches. The notion of, "Everyone stop trading, while we (exchanges) discuss this among ourselves." makes perfect sense. Just curious, what mechanisms to the mechanisms to the exchanges currently use? Why don't you add in a rolling block lock. Say locking blocks 1 hour old. That would limit any CPU attack to the ability to only erase transactions less than an hour old.I know about the chicken and egg problem. How do anonymous peers know which block to lock? But in this case there is one known "non-anonymous" peer that is implicitly trusted. It is owned and operated by "michaelmclees".When you reach critical mass and add an exchange to the fairbrix network. That adds a second non-anonymous peer. Though no one will "implicitly" trust the exchange, if miners go with a fork unsupported by the exchange there will be no place to reap their rewards.If an exchange changes forks, it would result in brix they sold to customers for dollars disappearing. Since the exchange is non-anonymous actual police are likely to show up and arrest them for fraud. I presume exchanges will be monitoring any chain swap attacks closely. That is the part I, and everyone else, have been trying to explain to him. That exercise is futile.These effects are true, but they turn out to be temporary in the sense that the price will re-stabilize. It will not tend toward zero or infinity. It will simply pick a new level and continue from there.The thing that made that side effect less abhorrent to me was the relationship of the price of electricity to the outside economy as a whole. Electricity is a government regulated commodity. If there is a "glut" of electricity then the "fuel charge" part of your electric bill tends to go down. However, random fees and transmission line maintenance costs tend to rise. As with water, it doesn't matter how much conservation everyone decides to do. The gross monthly billing to consumers is never allowed to fall so far that it bankrupts the utility.Conversely, electricity tend to rise in proportion to general inflation. If your electric bill goes up, the price of bread is up, and *hopefully* your salary will rise to match. (I know salaries tend to lag. Such is life.)While I agree with you about this specific proposal. I agree with Etlase2 that stable money would be good. I also think using electricity as a benchmark worth further investigation and discussion.But naming your currency as if it was an Enron product, seems a silly, silly thing! Anyway, good luck with it. I'm pulling for you to make it work. By the way, what does the "En" in EnCoin stand for?I do appreciate you pulling me back here to talk about something that is not austrian economics, the wonders of the gold standard, or how hoarding bitcoins is just like buying stock in a new company! That used to be really tedious.It was nice to hear someone else is a fan of stable digital money. Really, a year ago you could get shouted off the site just for mentioning it. It is a bit sad to see that you are not getting more interest. Oh, I really thought you were trying to say something insightful. None of my example said anything about running at 50% of the hash rate. That is some random fantasy you made up.I'm saying that a 190W (2mh/s) machine is going to be significant. And I'm saying that a 200W (3mh/s) machine saves a full third. A 400W (16mh/s) GPU machine saves 3/4s, even if the 400W number looks bigger. Each block at a single difficulty level takes on average 2^(D-1) hashes to find. Where D is the number of leading zeros. This has nothing to do with (/second). The block doesn't care if you do it in one second or one hour. If all of my peers are averaging 1 block/day. Then if I can average the same block faster, I have hours to save electricity by loafing. There is nothing anyone can do about that.You seem to think you can average everything out and each peer's individual variance doesn't matter. Woot! Ignore it! Tell everyone it won't matter! Yell it to the world! I promise to keep my mouth shut. I'll do the same hashes as my peers. Get paid same ENC as my peers. And win, because my costs are lower. I will command the marketplace. I'll cash out faster because I can take the existing "highest bid", but still end up with a higher ROI then those waiting for a "lowest ask" that will never come.Woot! Trust me! You'll never know the difference. This is the last thing I'll ever say on the subject. I may even go back and delete any mention of it from this thread. Knight will be so proud! The secret was he rented an Amazon farm of servers for a few months. Wrote custom code. Took every coin when it was easy and cheep. Tried not to run up his own difficulty. And did it without mentioning anything to others. By the time he posted the image he was done. The basic lesson is, keep your mouth shut! Ah, now I see the issue You think ROI is a cause, not an effect!You are thinking people will mint around 10kwh but you plan to try and stabilize the market around 14kwh? Did you mean it would vary between 13kwh and 15kwh? Unless something catastrophic happens? I'm really trying to understand your math, but not trying to criticize. The math tends to go backwards and forwards at the same time.OK, by definition: 50 peers burning the standard 200w each should generate 1 ENC per hour.I understand the 2 to 1 ratio. But I have no idea why you awarded 20 coins.1000 peers / 20 coins = 50 peers/coinBecause 1000 peers were around for 1 hour you split up 20 coins?My bigger question is how do you know 50% were running at 1mh/s and 50% at 2mh/s. I assume this has to be deduced from how many blocks were generated and each block's difficulty levelI'm assuming at primary block time, you could see 24 blocks at an average of (X) mh    and 24 blocks at an average (X/2) mh over one 24h periodThat gives you 1 block/hour2mh/s * 60s/hour = 120mh/hourso 12 blocks took an average of 120mh to findand 12 took an average of 60mh to finddifficulty-1 = log2(120m)difficulty-2 = log2(60m)So your difficulty level was about 28 leading zeros.Which brings up another puzzling thing for me. You define a proof-of-work similar to bitcoin. It's difficult can only change in powers of 2. That makes your 1/10 difficulty and 1/5 difficult to grasp. I'm absolutely sure plug computers could handle all the non-minting tasks without breaking a sweat. That is a lot of network support if the Freedom Box project makes. (A huge if!)I looked for this in the proposal, but I didn't immediately find an implementation. I don't see how it can be done cryptographically. In bitcoin the proof-of-work must be derived from the bitcoin block. In Encoin it must be derived from the Encoin transaction block (?). Two different hash values can't be calculated simultaneously.What am I missing?Oh and I saw this in the proposal.9-3) Blind Signatures; “Mixing” coinsI have a thread on this forum about anonymizing bitcoin that way. It was part of my series on how to fix some of the anonymity flaws.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=624.msg6793#msg6793 No. That was why I said Computationally Undecidable. That is the point I and (John?) and others have posted from the beginning.This is the closest of your examples to what I wrote. However you use the work efficiency to mean how many khashes/sec I use efficiency to mean how many kwh/khash.The way I understand your minting process, each FN works in collaboration to solve a single minting proof-of-work. Exactly analogous to a bitcoin mining pool. I also understand (but could be wrong) that each FN submits only one minting transaction per Primary Block. I'm under the understanding that this has to be done under a time constraint that, at maximum, starts at one PB and ends at the completion of the subsequent PB.You scale the difficulty of this proof-of-work (I think) based upon time in a similar manner to how bitcoin does. Meaning, in bitcoin's sense, one POW solution per (all miners) per 10 minutes. If on average (all miners) produce a solution faster than one every 10 minutes the difficult is made harder. Slower the difficulty is made easier.Your system seems to replace (all miners) with (FreeNet). You allow each FreeNet to produce one solution per fixed-length period. You completely remove the competition between FreeNets. In bitcoin, the competition is the incentive used to keep miners honest about their solution timing. That timing is what makes it possible to adjust the difficulty.In your system, you can't tell the differences between a FN that took 99% of the period to complete their solution. And one that took 5% of the period to complete the solution and idled their electrical consumption for 94% of the time. Then lied to you about running full blast for 99% of the period.If you tell me, I'm wrong and each team can submit as many blocks as they want during a period. It really doesn't change the problem. You can scale to any average of completed blocks per period you choose. The faster system can always lie.If you can't tell the difference between the truth and a lie, you can't make compensation. That is where the halting problem comes in. Specifically, since there is no algorithm that can tell if an arbitrary SHA2() implementation will complete ("halt") for any given input. There is no algorithm that can tell if it will complete in a certain number of instructions or clock time.In this particular problem, "lying cooperatively" has a greater long term monetary benefit than, "honestly competing" for higher initial gains. That is why it is called the prisoner's dilemma. If the same scenario is repeated over and over, it is called the iterated prisoner's dilemma. In its iterated version, it is used to evaluate competing algorithms for maximizing long term gain. Exactly as EnCoin is doing.Closing your eyes and pretending that people are not trying to optimize things for reasons other than your network, doesn't make it so. Technology will improve. Improvements will be obvious to some. Not to others. That is how knightmb got 710,000 bitcoins for a trivial investment. I'm not saying he destabilized the network. I'm saying he profited handsomely without even trying to destabilize the network. And he did it secretly, right in front of everyone while posting daily in the forums.Really the exchange price is what all clients are going to care about. When I said stable I meant outside of extreme circumstances like Amazon adopting ENC, of Silk Road getting busted. On a day to day basis, ENC prices should vary between say 9.9 kwh and 10.1 kwh. (2%) At worst maybe 5-10%. But you are saying 15kwh which means that maybe it falls to 5kwh? That is a 100% variation. Doesn't seem that stable if I'm a client. I'm definitely going to try market timing with those swings.I'm saying even an accidental +-5% variance among clients is going to mean the more electrically efficient, chase out the less electrically efficient. Most people won't even recognize why. It won't crash the client economy. It will make the minter community's breath smaller than you anticipate. I've said from the beginning I don't care about this. I don't care if there is only a single minter. So long as client facing ENC prices stay stable. You, however, suggest this will effect EnCoin's long term viability. If so, that's a design flaw. First fix the flaw, then make if fair to minters again. That's all I'm saying.I plan on becoming a client, not a minter. I might even run a peer to keep everything flowing. But I'm not tolerating CPU fan noise just to feel good about myself. That was why I shut down bitcoin. --- Marketing ---One of the reasons I'm so obsessed with not burning needless CPU power when not absolutely necessary is for marketing reasons.Bitcoin had a great bootstrapping plan,1) Appeal to anarchist libertarians who don't trust the fed to keep monetary policy stable.2) Appeal to those who hate banks because they return low interest, when inflation is low. And return almost no interest while everything is deflating.3) Appeal to those who hate stock investing because the market was currently crashing.4) Convince them bitcoin was like investing because it was a deflationary currency and therefore anything bitcoins you stuffed in your mattress today were going to make you rich tomorrow.5) Start giving out free bitcoins and hope (1,2,3) buy into the (4) logic.Turns out in retrospect, it was a brilliant plan.--------A stable currency has to make a different appeal. I'm not even exactly sure who it appeals to. Certainly it serves exactly the same niche as paypal, visa, mastercard, etc. There is not much to differentiate it if you compete for clients only on price.  However, the one thing that attracted me to bitcoin was its promise of anonymity. I don't mean its "strong" anonymity. Like, "The police can't catch me while I'm buying drugs!" To me even bitcoin's "weak" anonymity has value.Especially marketing value! You are never going to generate mass appeal for a system that claims to let criminals get away with being criminals. I accept that as a given. However, it may be possible to generate mass appeal for a system that "prevents monitoring" of behaviors that most people are repelled at the thought of having monitored. Say buying controvercial books, porn, visiting strippers, cheating on your spouse, etc. It is for these types of activities that people currently use cash. Cash doesn't have "know your customer" laws like electronic banking/credit does.There is a growing number of activities being suggested for additional monitoring. For example, buying fast food cheeseburgers. Or french fries, or beer, or cigarettes, or ice cream. A lot of progressive thinkers advocate tracking  these sorts of activities and reporting behavior patters to either the government or private health care plans.It is very easy for people to imagine the government telling MasterCard to turn over everyone's purchase records to the Obamacare administrators. Or to tell Google to turn over everyone's search records. That way people can be targeted for specific "education" about the dangers of these behaviors.I think it is these people to which EnCoin could appeal.A subgroup of potential early adopters/advocates might be the Freedom Box Foundation. They advocate everyone having their own low power home server, specifically to protect their personal privacy. The project is still in its beginnings but they are proposing to use 5W plug computers like I linked previously. These boxes will tunnel browsing over TOR. Host personal mail servers. Share personal files. Enable other folks to jump firewalls. etc. In general, the set of all plug boxes reinvents the cloud computing concept, except people own their own parts of the cloud. Their philosophy is very complementary your intentions for EnCoin. However, I'm guessing they would be much more interested in running non-minting Peers. They already don't mind buying and running their own cheap server to participate in shared cause (like TOR). But they would be opposed to *literally* overheating their plug servers to prove their dedication. Or to burn so much CPU power that the other "Freedom Box" features wouldn't function as intended.I put myself in this class of possible EnCoin users. I don't mind telling my server to help EnCoin with bandwidth and transaction monitoring. But, if it slowed down my browsing, email, or required me to add a fan to the plug. Poof, the EnCoin process would be gone. Minting profits are not part of my personal value calculation. I wouldn't waste the CPU cycles stressing the server, even if the electricity was guaranteed to be offset by minting awards.But that is just me.Do you have any thoughts on bootstrap marketing?
Excellent, you are stating to see the lack of necessity in burning when not necessary! There may be hope for you yet! BTW, Cool image! Ah! I supposed you had at least a little background in computer science. Or at least some software engineering experience. I guess not. Loop unrolling is an optimization technique you learn in your sophomore year. But in my example it is a place holder for one of the numerous optimization techniques available to any hacker who isn't completely clueless.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Loop_unwindingNow it is you that is being deliberately dense. I said clearly, (and I guess I'll have to link the halting problem too.) it is algorithmically impossible for you to detect this. And by consequence of not being able to detect it, you cannot adjust the difficulty.I'm not saying you can't do it because you are a stupid fuck. I'm saying in 1936 Alonzo Church and Alen Turing proved that some things are computationally undecidableFirst off, CPU was a typo. I fixed it to be its intended GPU. But that doesn't change the fact that you are still clueless about cryptography (as you point out in your first section). Optimizations in calculating basic cryptographic functions happen every day. My 10 year old PC calculates the same exact SHA(2) hashes as your speedy new laptop. It just take more time an electricity to do exactly the same work.Speeding up how fast I can calculate a SHA(2) has no bearing on the cryptographically hard problem of reversing the SHA(2) hash. I'm not going to explain this, nor am I going to bother even giving you a wiki link. It should be obvious to the casual observer.Closing your eyes doesn't really make the world cease to exist.Plug Computers cost less then $99 and run at about 5 watts. Check the block diagram and look for the little block labeled "Cryptographic Engine and Security Accelerator"Ah, that is what you mean by new algorithm! I've got news for you! SHA2(SHA2(X)) is not a difficult new algorithm. It is running the same SHA2() algorithm twice! It takes exactly twice as long as running it once. If I was 5% faster then you at SHA(X), then I'm 5% faster than you at SHA(SHA(X)). We are both working on the same linear problem. If I have SHA() and SHA() implemented on an ASIC then I already have SHA2(SHA2()), SHA2(SHA1()), SHA1(SHA2()), SHA1(SHA1()) implemented as well. They come for free.There are a limited number of trusted cryptographic algorithms. All can be done in software. All can be done in hardware. All strive for simplicity and efficiency making hardware acceleration cheap.I'm not going to bother responding to this section, since above I've already done so above. If by this point in my post, if you don't realize your crypto presumptions are so far off as to make this logic nonsense, I can't help you.  If your coins are selling for 13-15kwh then write in your thesis, "Clients are intended to buy coins for 13-15kwh but FNPeers are intended to buy/mint them for 10kwh." All that 10kwh=1ENC sounds like bunk now. And it is clear that you see this as a government cost+award_fee situation. But even on government contracts, the contractor only gets an 8% return on the Government's investment. Here you want clients to pay 30-50% award, for their privilege of paying for FNPeer's intentionally inflated electric bills.Spare me your math about how I don't see that this is insignificant to clients compared to the benefits they receive. Your response is not necessary. I understand how rationalization works.But even acknowledging your silliness. Let's do the math.$1 = 10 kwh10 ENC = $15.00Efficiency Advantage = 5 kwhCompletive Advantage = 2xBill's Profit = $15.00 - $10.00 = $5.00Charlie's  = $15.00 - $5.00 = $10.00---$1 = 10 kwh10 ENC = $12.00Efficiency Advantage = 5 kwhCompletive Advantage = 3.5xBill's Profit = $12.00 - $10.00 = $2.00Charlie's  = $12.00 - $5.00 = $7.00---10/5, 9/4, 8/3, 7/2, 6/1, 5/02.00, 2.24, 2.66, 3.5,  6, INFI mean WTF! You don't think my logic still holds?You are totally missing the point, Charlie can take over the network and CHOOSE not to reduce his profit margins. All he has to do is keep doing whatever what most profitable when he ran everyone else out of business.Should Charlie and his friends turn on each other, only then is it mutually assured destruction. Until someone more efficient comes along. Wash, rinse, repeat. Really. One more time...If you build *any* bitcoin like tunable proof-of-work implementation using hardware and software. Then you tune the difficulty so that it requires (WAG) 1,000,000 khashes to solve, because 1,000,000 khashs on the existing (or average) hardware/software combination burns 10 kwh.Then I claim, *inevitably* and *undetectably*, that some Charlie will (choose one or more)- Unroll your loops, there by speeding up your implementation, and finishing 1,000,000 khashes in <10 kwh- Buy the latest 3 volt pentium, and finish 1,000,000 khashes in <9.8 kwh- Rewrite your algorithm to run on his cheap ass GPU, and finish 1,000,000 khashes in <9.5 kwh- Buy a $30 ARM cell phone processor with (Z) hash implemented in hardware, and finish 1,000,000 khashes in <9.3 kwhYou can't argue that something like this isn't going to happen.I claim that you can't detect, -who is running the original 10 kwh implementation vs -who are running <10 kwh implementations.If you allow, simultaneously created new FNs named "Bill" and "Charlie" to form. And despite your *drastic* 1/10th restriction limiting each of them to minting (X) coins a day at 1,000,000 khashs. (Because, before they can get the full reward, they both need to prove their worth by continuously generating RP over time thus avoiding Sybil attacks) And as stated above, since you *cannot* detect Bill nor Charlie's *actual* electrical usage. Then,if Bill's hardware is 10 kwh/1,000,000 khashes, andand Charlie's hardware is 9.5 kwh/1,000,000 khashes,and both sell their (X) newly minted coins for dollars at 1 ENC = 10.1 kwh Then at 10.1 kwh, Charlie makes six times (6x) the profit in dollars as Bill.The problem is not that your system isn't working. The monetary policy is working great!And the better it works, the higher Charlie's advantage is!If coins sell at 10.01 kwh, Charlie makes (51x) the profit of Bill.If coins sell at 9.99 kwh, Charlie can claim in the forums that he and Bill are both losing money, but... Charlie's a hero for sticking it out for the security of the system. But Bill, the lamer, is dropping out because he's not making money anymore. Greedy bastard!If you don't think this is a significant difference. Well, off you go then...And if you don't think this news will get around out-of-band to Charlie's personal human friends. Well, OK then...And if you don't think Charlie's 6x or 51x more profitable friends could possibly grow to 51% RP. Well then, awesome plan!...--- Summary For the Thinking Impaired ---1) You can't detect if a node is generating 1 ENC = 5 kwh.You can't detect if people are minting at greater efficiency then specified. This turns out to be very significant to each individual's profitability and incentive to continue minting.4) 10 kwh need not be burned to guarantee 1 ENC = 10 kwh.But, it is less significant to monetary policy. The ENC value barely deviates from optimal.2) You can't detect if some human collective has 51% of the RP.The efficient will drive out the inefficient whether you notice it or not. It's math. 3) Humans can't reach an intelligent consensus if everyone is anonymous.If Ryan is the last 10 kwh FN, he has little hope of forming a RP based consensus for changing the hashing algorithm. Everyone else will claim that $9.99 to offset their $10 electrical bill is good enough. They'll all willing to sacrifice the additional penny for the security of the system.If Ryan can't throw in a penny for the security of the system, why are we giving him any RP at all? I mean that was why the RP system was created! To weed those who care about the system from those greedy bastards only out to make a quick profit! The system is working perfectly and Ryan is whining about a penny! Greedy Bastard!$1 = 10 kwh10 ENC = $10.10Efficiency Advantage = 0.5 kwhCompletive Advantage = 6xBill's Profit = $10.10 - $10.00 = $0.10Charlie's  = $10.10 - $9.50 = $0.60---$1 = 10 kwh10 ENC = $10.01Efficiency Advantage = 0.5 kwhCompletive Advantage = 51xBill's Profit = $10.01 - $10.00 = $0.01Charlie's  = $10.01 - $9.50 = $0.51---$1 = 10 kwh10 ENC = $9.99Efficiency Advantage = 0.5 kwhCompletive Advantage = INFBill's Profit = $9.99 - $10.00 = ($0.01)Charlie's  = $9.99 - $9.50 = $0.49-QED- Truly, I'm baffled to the point of futility. This was your main thesis. 1 ENC = 10 kwh Difficulty had to be scaled to by changing algorithms to prevent people from being too efficient. That was what chased the last guy out of here. If that is no longer the thesis. Great. That's what I've been saying since the beginning. But if some people can mint for 5 kwh and others have to mint for 10 kwh. It's not hard to see that the 5s will drive out the 10s. If one is minting at 10 kwh and selling for 11 kwh. And the other minting at 5 kwh and selling for 11 kwh. The second is making six times the revenue of the first. No amount of payout constraints is going to make that up.Again, I'm baffled. You went on about FN needing to generate so many blocks per day to maintain their reputation points. The need of 51% confirmation on every transaction being the time lock for closing the PB. If minting transactions are not subject to the time lock or confirmation then great. Weird but great. Reputation Points seem to have very little effect on anything. They speed up a validation/reconciliation process you deliberately slowed down. They're of minor help during partitioning. The rest of the time the entire mechanism serves only as a way to "fairly" divide up minting spoils.Yes, that is exactly the problem with your plan. The code that can generate at 5 kwh will replicate and the 10 kwh code will die. But it will happen undetected in secret. It's better for people to generate at 5 kwh, and pretend they are generating at 10 kwh. Then they take their extra profits and go drinking.Nobody generating at 5 kwh will vote to waste the extra kwh. At worst they will pass their code around 51%. Then the 49% will drop out and everyone will be generating at 5 kwh. If they all keep pretending to generate at 10 kwh, the clients will not be any the wiser. Everyone's profit will go up because clients are still paying the bills thinking electricity is being consumed at 10 kwh/ENC.If the 5 kwh minters attack each other in a battle over the pie, yes they will drive the price down to 1 ENC = 5 kwh and all the mint lose the majority of their profits.This is called the "prisoner's dilemma" problem.I tried to explain it once more above. If you still can't get it. I can't explain it any clearer. Maybe I can explain it louder?I acknowledged security/continuity/dependability are perfect. Nothing left to talk about. Just monetary policy.I can't explain it any clearer. But the other guy didn't have a problem understanding. I see what you are saying. I thought I suggested this but I guess not. If you are a non-minting peer your RP could be zero (or some zero valued token). You do the work, other nodes don't have to believe you. But if the non-minting peer doesn't believe the consensus, it is going to alert its Human owner immediately. Merchants like Amazon make great non-anonymous sentinels trusted to watch for trouble.As for minters who earned RP, but have now current profit to continue minting at the moment. Perhaps they could become non-minting peers without increment or decrement of their RP. As long as they continued to support the network, their reputation continues. When minting became profitable again, they would change to minting-peers and their RP would begin increasing again. This is kind of like my algorithms (0) state. Do some work to avoid incurring unnecessary losses of RP. I'm quickly running out of time to continue thinking about EnCoin. But now that I have a pretty grasp of the concept. And because you PMed me for comments. I want to summarize my current views.First off, I think you have two unsolvable problems in the "halting problem" sense. There simply are no algorithms that can solve the problem.1) You can't detect if a node is generating 1 ENC = 5 kwh.Sure if they behave badly, you might detect it. But if they simply want to reap an outsized share of the minting profits they can do so undetected. See Charlie and his tit-for-tat approach.2) You can't detect if some human collective has 51% of the RP.Sure if they behave really badly, you might detect it.  But if they simply want to reap an outsized share of the minting profits they can do so undetected. Simply delaying an occasional competitor's minting transaction, while past posting your own would do it. Then you get sell on the exchange first at the higher price.The good news is, neither of these destabilize your monetary policy. They just remove some of the populism you are working to hard to add back in.Second, any attempt to fix the above issues, to add back in the populism, results in a philosophical issue. Resolving CPU efficiency or consensus monopoly issues, requires falling back on Human Consensus. You can't even count on plurality voting based on RP. If someone can generate at 5 kwh, they can sway enough collaborators to gain 51% RP.Human consensus means humans talking to humans. Someone must research the issues and propose alternatives for everyone else to debate. Programmers must implement the changes. All users must adopt the modified clients. However,3) Humans can't reach an intelligent consensus if everyone is anonymous. The idea of an anonymous trusted party is inconsistent. Unless everyone can read the code and decide for themselves, they have to trust someBODY. The benefits of being trusted comes with the responsibility of being held responsible for violating that trust.Finally, I think you have one logical mistake.4) 10 kwh need not be burned to guarantee 1 ENC = 10 kwh.There is a great early bitcoin thread on this. My favorite quote is:EnCoin's philosophy seems like burned wheat.As I've said before, I see ways to keep the 1 ENC = current_value(10 kwh) while minimizing the amount of electricity that must be burnt. I agree with your goal. I disagree with your logic. I also showed in the Charlie tit-for-tat example that someone burning 0.01 kwh can be indistinguishable from someone burning 10 kwh. In that case the first is better. In every case burning less electricity is better. As I showed in the burn 10 kwh and sell it for 10 kwh using dollars. That burned value must come from clients. This represents overhead that cannot be used as Minting incentive. It doesn't matter what the fee is and how you justify it. If you give the resulting minting award to the electric company, that part represents zero incentive for minting.So, to build consensus to cut Charlie out of the system. You must first convince everyone that burning 1,000 times the electricity to do Charlie's job is sensible. Then explain, this sensibility comes because the new system is fairer. Not fairer to the clients who are paying for the electricity. But fairer to those trying to get rewarded for leaving their computer running. This is going to be a hard sell.The algorithm I proposed uses electrical value as a boundary condition to prevent generating coins. It gives minting zero profit when minting is inappropriate. It should not however be a requirement for generating coins. If new coins are necessary, the amount of overhead in generating them should be as small as possible. Just like Charlie, competing arbitragers get paid by lowering the total overhead of the system.Anyway, you asked for comments. So there! :-) Found some interesting directions to pursue regarding the time problem.Vector ClocksInternal Tree ClocksBut then I realized my algorithm has only one condition bounded by time. That is when prices are inflated and it is time to destroy coins. In this condition, there is no minting and no profit at stake, therefore no race conditions. You simply can't make something profitable when it's not.---There is one other thing I wanted to mention about EnCoin minting in a down market. I'm pretty sure you haven't mentioned it.If inflation is occuring in an ENC world, that means ENC coins are selling for less than the 10 kwh of electricity it would take to mint a new one. You see this as causing a lack of incentive to "minters". As such, they would shutdown nodes and stop wanting to monitor/support the network. Perhaps that's the reason for your aversion to a non-minting peer use-case.I realized it is not as bad as you think.If someone was minting, then they believe in the concept of stabilizing 1 ENC = 10 kwh.When they can mint at the cost of 10 kwh, and sell the coins at 11 kwh, then they MINT and SELL.Conversely, when they can mint at the cost of 10 kwh, but only sell for 9 kwh, then they BUY and HOLD.That is the most profitable move if you really believe that things will stabilize at 1 ENC = 10 kwh. It is also exactly what you want them to do to stabilize monetary policy. In order to buy and hold in a down market, they are going to need a functioning network. If the EnCoin network fails as a whole, they won't have a future to sell in. Hence my most, compelling case for a non-minting peer. OK, understood.Yes. In this case, to me it means, assuring no transaction confirmations go out for transactions that can't possibly have been validated yet. It seems fair to continue the broadcast of even "overdraft" transactions at this point. It is part of creating the union of all existing transactions. But if you see your fellow FNPeer signing confirmations for overdrafts in the FreeNet's name, you'd better shut him down fast!OK, so now I understand the default case differently. The "human" client's machine arbitrarily makes multiple connections to known peers without considering their reputation, or the reputation of the FN to which they belong. I can see that working for the average user. It is equivalent to bitcoin (I think).The case I was thinking of is, say I a want some anonymity but I'm too lazy to run a full peer. But I know my friend Fred lives in Sweden where they have lax IP logging laws. So I pick him as the peer entry point to relay my transactions and poll for confirmations. It's not that I want guaranteed anonymity. I just want to guarantee that my connection point is not the Department of Justice.I think it is a fair enough answer to say. In this case, just run TOR and quit bugging me.But in your example, I can see people saying, "I just feel more comfortable submitting my transaction through Amazon. I trust them even if their official RP number is low." This could be a marketing feature.I see why you want lots of participating parties. I'm not sure I understand all the calculations between fee rate, and number of participating parties.But what I find most interesting is that *everything* seems to come down to distributed clock synchronization. Deciding what happened before a certain time and what didn't.--- EnCoin ---Gaining 51% of the RP does nothing that could possibly force the other 49% to allow theft, forgery, fraud, history modification or history substitution. (This is awesome!) It is what I was trying to get at with all of that blabbering about "security". In my sense of the word, EnCoin is always a 100% secure systemWhat 51% of the RP does give you is the ability to declare what has and hasn't happened YET. This brings to mind two situations.1) Denial of serviceYou've talked about this a lot. Basically the ability to stop other valid transactions indefinitely. If you have malicious peers with 51% RP, you are in the "deliberate network partitioning" scenario. The 51% can't declare the 49%'s transactions "rejected". They can only fail to acknowledge their existence. 2) Past PostingA 51% RP plurality allows "past-posted" confirmations to be generated in the reconciliation phase. This allows valid transactions to being included in a PB, when they should have been disallowed by time constraints.Combined, these two can conspire to create an "unfair" system. Say by delaying others mining transactions, and past-posting your own.Interestingly, I showed in a post on the other thread, this itself *cannot* cause monetary policy instability. If your 1 ENC requires 10 kwh rule continues to hold, exactly the same amount of minting will be profitable. It's just that the profits will be distributed only to the 51%.Should the other 49% of minters drop out of the network? From the client's perspective, nothing at all changes. Every client submitted transaction is still equally secure. The prices are equally stable. EnCoins operation is equally continuous. So long as the 51% doesn't deliberately sabotage their own self-interests, there will be no client perceivable changes at all. The 51% can only compromised the reliability of client transaction confirmations. In that situation Humans would cease to perceive of EnCoin as a dependable transaction processor. Or worse, perceive their coins as having been stolen. As the 51% cannot possibly gain possession of these DOSed coins, the mass exit of transacting humans serves only to destroy any particular future profit they hoped to receive.--- BitCoin ---Bitcoin solved this same "distributed clock synchronization" problem using a variable difficulty proof-of-work. Difficulty is adjusted to mandate consensus at roughly 10 minute intervals.--- My Algorithm ---My algorithm also requires reaching consensus on time. I deliberately hand waved on that, because I was concentrating on the monetary dynamics. The plan was, first, get the monetary dynamics to seem sensible.  Then, provided that worked, Google how NASA does remote clock synchronization. I doubt that anyone on the planet has done more research on this problem than them.I think it is time to do my Googling. I'm assuming you are agreeing with me here. Hash chain exists, but no direct proof-of-work required. Cool.Good this is what generally I was expecting.What I wasn't grasping was the ramifications of the "confirmation" message. There are a few more states that I wasn't considering. Re-summarizing what I understand now:1) You receive all transactions and confirmations into a sort of rotating buffer (a carrousel?)2) You process the next transaction in the buffer, 2a) If that transaction fails validations you skip it, leave it in the buffer and move on to the next2b) If the transaction passes validation, you2b1) Increment the transaction's RP with your reputation points2b2) Broadcast a confirmation through your signed FN transaction block2b3a) If the transaction has 51% RP, you remove it from the buffer and place it in the log.2b3b) else the locally confirmed transaction sits in the buffer awaiting remote confirmation messages2ca) As remote confirmations are processed, you increment the appropriate transactions RP2cb) If the inc results in a transaction with 51% RP, it is pulled from the buffer and placed in the log.I'm assuming all transactions left in the buffer at PB build time, remain in the buffer for the next cycle. Bitcoin dumps unconfirmed transactions during its consensus mandate. It gives the client the responsibility to resubmit them. I don't see EnCoin's way of "rejecting" a transaction and removing it from the buffer. Is my assumption correct? Do transactions stay around presuming a receipt will make them valid? Or do peers "bounce checks" at the PB boundary? You answered my question twice. You use the reputation system to guarantee consensus on when time has elapsed. The no-proof-of-confirmation rule is the no-backdating rule.No one can say, my minting transaction finished at the last second, it was just delayed in network transit.Your rule says, 51% confirmation propagation must be finished by the time we start.So basically, confirmations are transactions in the sense that, reconciliation requires the union of all confirmations, in addition to the union of all monetary transactions. Like other transactions, these confirmations are protected from forgery by cryptography.Good, this is what I was calling the "center of the universe" rule. It defines who is the center and who is the periphery at the time of the split. NOT at the time of the reconciliation, like bitcoin does.I think it is absolutely fair game to say, "You guys are cut off from the main network. You know it's you who are cut off. So, warn all your peers, (some things) will not function as they would if we were all connected.I don't claim to know what the set of (some things) is at the moment. You say transaction confirmation is definitely in that set. I was assuming minting would be in that set. If not, even better. It is unclear to me how unavoidable partitioning should affect reputation. Or how deliberate partitioning would affect it. Or how to tell the difference. OK, I understand what you are saying here. But the question I have is: Suppose Amazon doesn't want to mine, and just wants to monitor the network and assure that the common history never changes. They don't even want an automated vote in any decisions.Why do they care what others think their reputation is? Is it just because FreeNet peers only discuss these topics with other FreeNet peers? This seems to be a significant part of your focus. I have no problem with that. But understand I'm still more interested in the transactional and monetary policy parts. That is the direction most of my questions with be coming from.Most of these are topology decisions. It's good to understand the reasoning though. But you seem to be agreeing with me in the sense of redundant I intended. Every FNPeer receives interFN transaction block broadcasts and rebroadcasts them intraFN. Every FNPeer then consolidates all of the received transactions, removes duplicates and validates them all. You seemed to confirm that was required behavior for every FNPeer. Understood.OK, so I'm understand now that a "human client" CAN choose which FN they trust to download the current PB from.The PB gives them a nested list of FreeNets and FNPeers belonging to each. The "human client" CAN choose which FNPeer, of which FN, they trust to handle their transactions. Got it!Unsure to which antecedent you are referring.Understood. Totally! Everything you write seems sensible, but it points out to me that I don't yet understand your reputation system well enough to comment yet. I'm also a little slow understanding exactly what consensus decisions are subject to attack.I'm going to try to summarize what I think I understand. Hopefully, you'll tell me where I'm wrong.In encoin, theft through forgery, is prevented by cryptography. Nobody can create a transaction drafting money out of an account without the private key.In encoin, there doesn't seem to be anything equivalent to bitcoin's double spending of out-points. Instead, encoin has "over drafts", meaning transactions that would cause a negative balance.In encoin, fraud via over draft, is prevented by transaction validation rules that say, current PB account balance (minus) draft transaction can't be negative. In situations where two simultaneous (intra-PB) transactions combined to cause an overdraft, which transaction is rejected, and which is accepted is non-deterministic. (As is a bitcoin double spend)In encoin, PB account reconciliation follows rules which say, previous PB account balance (minus) draft transactions (plus) receipt transactions = subsequent PB account balance. AND subsequent PB account balance can't be negative. (It is not clear to me if you order account transactions as must be done in bitcoin's DAG.)Note: It is not clear to me how things are ordered if multiple receipts and a drafts show up in a single transaction block. Or if both show up in multiple transaction blocks affecting the same primary block. Unlike bitcoin double spends, encoin overdrafts are not necessarily malicious. It is possible for overdrafts to be caused by network lag in receipt transactions. Differing network propagation of receipts seem extremely likely, due to their differing origins. If a strict "order received" queue is followed (rejecting all transactions that would cause a negative balance) then inter-peer balances will become inconsistent. Without buffering and re-ordering of transactions during a PB building period, individual peer acceptance and rejection will be non-deterministic. This will complicate "confirming" transactions. /Note:In encoin, there is one, and only one, ordered transaction log. Only valid transactions are listed in the transaction log. If a transaction isn't in the log, it didn't happen. There is also one, and only one, ordered Primary Block (balance sheet) log. The two logs are encapsulated in separate parallel block chains. The two chains are staggered so that each primary block summarizes all transactions that happened prior to any given primary block. In encoin, theft via history modification, is prevented by protecting the block chain using a "hash chain". This protection does not require a proof-of-work.In encoin, there must be 100% consensus *in order to* finalize a primary block. Once a PB is finalized it, and its preceding transaction block, become part of our absolutely immutable shared history.------That just leaves me three things I'm absolutely sure I don't understand. Perhaps I just need pointers to the correct sections in the proposal.1) In the process of finalizing a Primary Block, How is consensus reached?a) I know the decision to finalize is partially time based. How is consensus reached that time has elapsed? (meaning which transactions should be in and which held for the next period.)b) If some transactions haven't propagated to every FN, how are the discrepancies reconciled? I'm assuming it is the union of all valid transactions. But what is the process for forming that union? Who broadcasts what to who?c) If the above mentioned non-determinism causes conflicts, how are they resolved?d) Which peers are responsible for the process?Except for (d), I don't see any need for reputation to weigh in on any of these decisions. I can think of deterministic ways to complete all of them. (Except guaranteeing that a peer doesn't backdate the transaction time of a personal transaction.)2) history substitution: How is network partitioning handled and reconciled?If some sub-set of EnCoin claims to have been completely cut off from the rest, can they go on processing transactions and/or minting? What about the main body of encoin, can they go on? How is either to decide who is main and who is cut off? If both continue, how is the fork reconciled?  Do some minters lose their minting transactions in reconciliation? How long can a fork go on and still be reconciled, can it cross PB boundaries? If so how are the history PBs reconciled.I'm absolutely sure this is a place where inter-FN reputation plurality comes in. I'm just not sure how it works.3) Are there any other inter-FN plurality decisions where reputation is involved?I know minting rewards figure in. But that just seems like a mathematical formula. If peers award themselves minting rewards that don't match the formula, they are wrong. That is more like a transaction validation/rejection rule. There doesn't seem to be room for weighted influence.===I'm really hoping my basic (above the ----) understanding is close. I really want to get on to understanding the stuff at the bottom. I see four roles. Tell me if you see the same ones.RoleNetworkMintingPeeryesnoFN PeeryesyesFN MinernoyesClientnonoI'm not arguing how much reputation nodes in these roles should have. Just whether they will exist in the EnCoin universe.Don't think I'm thinking small scale! And if a merchant like Apple or Amazon wanted to take ENC, I'm sure they would want to monitor the network, but not necessarily mine. They would certainly be willing to throw whatever network connectivity and hardware at the problem that it took. They probably wouldn't want to run 100 small peers, when 3 high end servers would do.And if there are minting profits to be had, people are going to optimize their implementations. I doubt every node of those bitcoin GPU and ASIC mining pools is handling network traffic.I have a thread on this forum proposing modifying bitcoin to use a distributed hash table approach to spread the load. I mean hell, all the p2p kids are doing it! It turns out I convinced myself it could not be done securely in an anonymous peer environment. Lots of things like sharding can be done if you trust the other shards. But if there is even a chance they are malicious things go to hell fast.Now that's not to say you can't minimize network messaging like you suggest. But you seem to be suggesting that each of your 100 FN members does the same redundant tasks as the others. I'm not saying you are wrong. I just don't know if you are saying that is mandatory for some reason.As a side note: I still don't understand which FNPeers will provide a client interface. Or if clients view the FN as a whole as one entity? Or do they see each Peer separately? If they see each Peer separately, do they know which FN a peer belongs to?I met the Jason Scott recently. He runs Archive Team for the internet archive. It changed my sense of scale. I no longer worry about storing bits. I barely worry about transmitting bits now. Still, I'm old school. Don't waste thing you don't have too!Understood. There were times at the beginning you mentioned reputation and consensus as being problems I know now you want to solve using cryptograph. Over time I'll ask you which are which. But not now. Now I've got to go out! In not generally contesting what you say. I'm in general agreement. I'm just essentially brain storming so you can hear my logic. (Even if you don't want to! )I was thinking of the case when say you had a FN of 10 nodes and every human was personal friends with the others and fully trusted among the group. As an extreme example, say one human owned all 10 nodes. In this case, what you must absolutely guarantee is that at least one node is always doing the work for the FN as a whole. If that node fails, another has to step in. Perhaps two or three did the work redundantly, while the other 7 concentrated on mining.In that case, the 7 mining nodes don't have to get every transaction. They don't have to be available for contact by clients either. As long a someone is there to serve them, the clients won't know the difference.So in that model, a client contacts your primary FN access point. This node forwards the transaction to the other FN primary access points. Each each primary access point would then intra-FN broadcast *every* transaction to the backup nodes. Those nodes wouldn't have to care which originated from which FN.I don't think we are very far apart here. We both think that if this situation were to occur, it would be a human problem to sort out. Not an algorithmic problem. Clearly, FN humans are part of the problem solvers, as are the programmers and the exchange humans. It is these humans that have to create the 100% consensus for the rest of the user humans.I'm not sure if you are talking about bitcoin or encoin here. But in both case I agree with you. Most other bitcoin posts I read, tend to have too much fascination with the 51% of miners take over and change the block chain attack.In EnCoin as history substitution attack is equivalent to changing the balance of an account absent a valid transaction. Then claiming that transaction happened in a past that most people have discarded transactions from. I doubt your system would let this happen. I'm presuming you are using cryptography to avoid transaction forgery, and a hash chain to protect transaction block/primary block chain. If any group tried to commit fraud, any single "compliant" peer would be able to detect this. Then it very likely becomes a human problem.OK! I'll respond to that one in a few. I need to run out. I have lots of other bits to say about the parts in between, but I want to say this first because I see you got the wrong impression.The other guy, (John?) had expressed concerns about consensus. He didn't see how it might be possible absent bitcoin's proof-of-work-summation-function. I was trying to lay the ground work for agreeing with you.You assert there are ways to reach 100% consensus absent that function. (Reputation weighted plurality voting of FreeNets, is how I understand it.) I assert there are ways to reach 100% consensus. (The simplest I have suggested is replacing the proof-of-work with a distributed random number generator.It doesn't matter to (John?) he just wants to grasp the concept. I was trying to show how little value all of those khashes do and for how short a time that effort retains any affect. You acknowledged that (and I agreed) by saying there exists a simpler process for agreeing on primary blocks.Your point is that if we all agreed and then locked in each primary block each dat (as you propose), then there would be no possibility for a long term history substitution attack. I totally agree! If bitcoin were to come up with a mechanism of dynamically inserting block locks for everything one day (or even one hour) old, they would do away with the possibility of long term history substitution attacks as well.Your reputation voting process defines a "center of the EnCoin universe". The set of all FNPeers and the reputation voting process gets to define everyone's shared history. (At least that is the way I understand what you are saying.) You are also saying, it is going to cost people dollars if they want to move toward the center of the ENC universe. Perfectly reasonable.Then I did a dumb thing. I tried to conflate two points into one post.1) Bitcoin already has a "center of the bitcoin universe" even if others don't notice or want to acknowledge it.Re-writing this:No matter what an attacker's chain's total effort count, if the exchanges dont agree, the attacker loses. Conversely, if the exchanges go with the attacker's branch. Anyone who attempts to continue the original branch, has created a NewCoin currency already pre-distributed to prior BitCoin owners. If a new exchange forms, bitcoin owners (who moved to the attacker branch) will simply cash out their free NewCoins (from the original branch) taking every dollar needed to incentivize NewCoin miners.2) "If you analyze it completely you will see the same relationship will hold true for EnCoin."Because, EnCoin mining incentive relies on the existence to ENC exchanges. (So that miner can cash in ENC to pay their electrical bill.) If the exchanges don't agree that the Primary Block (basic accounting) is correct. They can decide not to trade on that Primary Block. If they propose another Primary Block they will trade on, they win. There is no point in mining on a block the exchanges won't pay on.This doesn't invalidate anything you are saying. It just acknowledges that the exchanges have inherent "reputation" that puts them near the center of the EnCoin universe. It's like the US President. He doesn't get a vote in the house or the senate. But he gets a veto if he doesn't like their consensus. This seems to hold for exchanges in both the bitcoin and encoin governance.----I am in total agreement with you that it is possible to create a system where 1 ENC = 1 Loaf of Bread using the cost of electricity as the mechanism for adjusting monetary policy. I'm in agreement that this is a great goal for digital money.The only place I am likely to disagree with you is in total system efficiency and how that relates to electricity and dollars. Otherwise we are in complete agreement that these goals can be met. This discussion is feeling much more productive now. You were correct. I didn't want to you to respond to lots of that. I just wanted to provide a frame of reverence and define some terms. That way, when I ask questions about a how you propose to do X when you removed bitcoins X mechanism, we'll both be on the same terms.I'm going to reply to your long post in sections. Otherwise I don't think I'll be able to keep up with so many threads when you respond again. Nothing in this post attempts to be critical of any of your ideas. I'm still trying to confirm I understand the logic behind them. (Which bitcoin issues were you attempting to fix)OK, so you are not opposed to anonymity. And I think I understand what you are saying. Please correct me If I'm wrong.Defining EnCoin "client" as a human who wants to transact in ENC but does not run a continuous node. As such this client cannot (and does not want to) maintain a running tally of every EnCoin account balance in the system.You are saying if a client wants to transact in ENC he must submit his transactions to some "Peer" who will have the ability to associate his IP address with the accounts listed in his submitted transaction. Fair enough.This does not compromise any of the anonymity I care about. I (as a client) *have to* trust the processing peer to tell me the truth about my transaction and other transactions I cannot verify. If I trust the peer this much, trusting him with my IP address seems of little consequence. As long as that peer does not include my IP address with my transaction *and* broadcast that information to everyone. You don't seem to be claiming that is necessary, so that makes me happy!I like this feature for anonymity reasons.I suggested as such in one of my first posts to this site. We are in agreement.I understand your attempt to minimize the span of broadcasts as:1) Defining the role of "client". Computers operating in this role, do not need to be part of any broadcast. They can either poll for information, or register call-backs for events they care about.2) You expect there to be orders of magnitude more clients than the number of participating peers. Hence, the peer-to-peer broadcasts span becomes drastically narrower.3) You are batching transactions into blocks by FreeNet. This narrows the network wide broadcast span to FN-to-FN. It does likely require defining a second kind broadcast. An intra-FreeNet broadcast restricted to only peers of a given FreeNet.I accept these concepts. I suspect that you could leave out the (3) optimization and still create a system that scales well enough. I do recognize you are using these intra-FN broadcasts for other purposes as well. As such, I'm not lobbying against (3) just making a mental note for reasons that come later in this post. Additional topology choices such as small-world vs spanning-tree or other optimization seem inappropriate at this time. Saying broadcast is good enough for me. I don't care how it is implemented at the moment.I'm not disagreeing with this section but I am confused about the terminology. I'm going to attempt to define some terms and summarize my understanding using them. Tell me if I'm understanding incorrectly.Client: as defined above.Peer: a continuously running node who attempts to maintain running account balances for every account in the EnCoin system. I think this means he at minimum, gets every transaction, gets the consensus agreed primary blocks, validates all transactions between the previous PB and the subsequent PB. After that, he may or may not keep the actual transactions and previous PBs. By my definition, a peer is *not required* to mine or participate in proof-of-work calculations in any way.FNPeer: a peer in the above sense. But one who also chooses to belong to a FreeNet and to participate in mining along with the benefits of mining.My intention for defining "peer" this way, was in relation to merchants or exchanges who have a business unrelated to mining. They have a vested interest in making sure the network is secure (free from theft, forgery, fraud, and history modification). If a merchant in this sense, identifies say "fraud". He knows with %100 certainty fraud has occurred. Even if a 51% plurality of the FreeNet trust vote denies any such fraud.--- specific questions on your statementIn the terms I used above, it seems your use of "peer" would be my use of "client". Is this correct?Your use of "freenet peers" is equal to my use of "FNPeer". Is this correct?If both are correct, I understand your statement.Do you have the role I called "Peer" defined? What do you call it?I would identify a "Peer" in this role as someone who provides "security" and "continuity" to the EnCoin system as a whole. I assert this is true even if such a node decided to never participate in reputation building or mining activities. Do you agree?I understand what you are saying about the cloud. However, I'm not particularly concerned about the use-case. My thinking is, if some human demands anonymity, he should run his own peer. If we attempt to implement anonymity it should be defended at the peer-to-peer level.If the human insists on only running a client, he must trust someone. He had better pick someone he trusts with his anonymity as well. If no one exists in this category, he must run his own peer.I recognize you are saying, that each transaction gets put in a signed FN transaction block at the first FN hop it enters the network. That means any other peer can trace a particular transaction back to its FN of origin. If that FreeNet happens to be untrustworthy then it has your IP address. This is true for full peers as well as clients.That is why I made my mental note above. If it turns out you can scale the inter-FN broadcasts without batching and signing, then you can avoid the intra-FN broadcast and reduce the number of nodes that can confirm the origin of a given transaction. I suspect that would put us back to closer to BitCoin's level of transaction origin anonymity. (3) above may be the case of "premature optimization".However, as I pointed out above. I know there are other reasons for (3). I'm willing to listen to how they play out. I am really striving to understand your concept. I understand your goals. First a little background so you can reinterpret my previous posts as well as interpret the ones which will follow.I have great respect for all of the detailed thought that went into bitcoin. I analyzed the bitcoin white paper, read the code tried to poke holes in everything. When I saw potential exploits I pointed them out to satoshi. We worked through his existing defenses, generally he proved correct. But hashing out the logic increased our trust in both the algorithms and implementation.Note, I was probably the first to clarify bitcoin's lack of anonymity. Not because of IP addresses recording, in bitcoin's case. But because every transaction since the beginning of time is stored in a directed acyclic graph. That makes it almost trivially easy to coordinate "accounts" owned by the same human. Someone published a paper investigating the recent bitcoin thefts using exactly the mechanisms I posted about a year ago.Notice I say accounts in quotes above. That is because bitcoin's block chain doesn't contain an entity called "account". It only has transaction in-points and out-points. Each out-point is associated either with either a public key, or the hash of a public key. This public key hash is what is commonly called a bitcoin account. Bitcoin's block list does not sum or track account balances in any way. You propose to change that. You, in each primary block, propose to record account balances rather than transactions. That decision has many consequences that need to be analyzed. However, the "balance sheets" concept was proposed over a year ago on this site. That thread should be reviewed. In a very important sense balance sheets improves anonymity. I really like that. You however claimed EnCoin cares little about anonymity. I'm still searching for the necessity of this.There are interesting advantages to the way bitcoin's DAG works. One of the most important being, it makes it trivial to identify maliciously attempted double spends. Out-points don't keep a running balance. They are single use. All coins must be used in one and only one subsequent in-point. No other party can attempt to forge a transaction. The "account" owner must deliberately create two transactions which cannot simultaneously be valid under ANY circumstances. It cannot be done accidentally. This is called "fraud". This is different from banking where you might be acceptably or unacceptably "overdrawn".This fraud was what I proposed detecting when I shouted STUPID and IRRESPONSIBLE. I was referencing the fact that bitcoin detects fraud attempts, but it *silently* prevents them. It doesn't notify anyone of the instance of a fraud attempted, nor of its perpetrator. This is a stupid and irresponsible policy decision. That mistake should not be repeated. On security:In bitcoin, theft through forgery, is prevented by cryptography, not any form of plurality. In bitcoin, fraud via double spending of out-points, is prevented by DAG validation rules and procedures, not any form of plurality.In bitcoin, there is one, and only one, transaction DAG. For a transaction to be "confirmed" there must be an absolutely immutable 100% consensus our shared history. If the transaction doesn't validate in the DAG it never happened. In bitcoin, the DAG is encapsulated inside the block chain.In bitcoin, this 100% consensus is not created by any form of plurality. It is created, and mandated, by random chance. This random selection is implemented by the proof-of-work procedure. (Who solves the proof is stochastic. But existence of a valid proof makes acceptance mandatory.) Many, much more efficient, procedures for mandating consensus could have been implemented. In bitcoin, theft via history modification, is prevented by protecting the block chain using a "hash chain". This is a common technique used to protect shared histories like digital notarization records. This protection does not require a proof-of-work.In bitcoin, theft via history substitution, is prevented by careful monitoring of  the working end of the hash chain. Originally, this task was trusted to a mathematical function. In cases where two equally valid block chains exist, either by accident or by deliberate subversion, this function mandated which chain must be accepted as our shared 100% consensus on history. No form of plurality agreement was involved. This function takes the combined proof-of-work effort and chain length as parameters. It then decides which chain required the most effort to construct. This function is well known, but its dynamics are often misunderstood. It is also important to know that,THIS FUNCTION PROVED INSUFFICIENT FOR PERMANENT PROTECTION.Bitcoin programmers, by programmer consensus, began adding "block locks" into each client's block chain validation procedures. This programmer consensus overrides the above function in any case where the function might attempt to switch to a non-programmer-blessed history. This has been commonly accepted as "a good thing". I concur. Notice that none of the proof-of-work effort prior to the most recent programmer block lock, provides any protection from a history modification attack. The hash chain alone provides perfect protection. That means all of historical POW effort and electrical consumption was made moot, by a single line of code, created by a plurality of *trusted* programmers. That should serve as our definition of "Trust". Someone is trusted if they get to participate in locking down our shared history. Trusted peers guarantee that confirmed transactions stay confirmed.In a sense, all of the words I used abovetheft, forgery, fraud, history modification, history substitutionare all "security". But using the same name for all of them conflates multiple distinct topics and makes specific targeted discussion baffling.---I have tried to discuss each of these specific areas in previous posts. In variably, every reply became miners/peers/trustnets/freenets have to keep actively mining in order to provide security.I understand the conflated sense of why you keep saying this. But I think you are wrong for very specific reasons. I can't convey these reasons unless we accept a more specific vocabulary.In bitcoin's case, the proof-of-work-summation-function provides most of its actual utility for about an hour. If history more than a hour old changes, something catastrophic most likely happened. Humans SHOULD be alerted prior to accepting the results. ---That means all of bitcoin's electrical consumption does two things:1) It makes about six history substitution decisions each hour to resolve minor network splits.2) It serves as a weighted random number generator, for periodic bitcoin awards.The periodic bitcoin awards serve to provide incentive for non-transacting people to keep clients running. Thus your argument that mining provides incentivizes network continuity. I agree with that. But mining clearly does not provide any additional protection from theft, forgery, fraud, or history modification. It also begs the question of whether other have enough incentive to provide network continuity absent mining rewards. I would argue they do. The primary examples of this are the bitcoin exchanges. Their whole business depends on bitcoin continuity and security. If there were no more mining awards, they would continue to provide bitcoin network continuity.In effect the exchanges represent the dreaded "center" of the bitcoin network. It makes zero sense for them to transact on two branches of a single chain. it also makes zero sense for different exchanges to trade on different branches of a single chain. They must cooperate to stay on the same fork. Everyone else will follow them out of necessity.So in summation, if someone mounts a history substitution attack via 51% (or even 99%) of the CPU power, that attack only succeeds if the exchanges consent to the history substitution. Note that, only exchanges get a vote, and they must come to 100% consensus out of self-interest. Everyone else must follow. So, by my definition above, bitcoin exchanges are the only "trusted" peers in the bitcoin network.If you analyze it completely you will see the same relationship will hold true for EnCoin. No matter what your total reputation count, if the exchanges dont agree, you lose. If you attempt to continue the other branch, you have created a NewCoin a currency already pre-distributed to prior EnCoin owners. If an exchange starts, the EnCoin humans will simply cash out their free NewCoins taking every dollar needed to incentivize NewCoin miners. *Needlessly Ranting* Hoping you will change your waysIf you are Chinese and started learning English just yesterday maybe you would think so. But in reality, it just makes people think you are clueless about the subject matter. And it explains why you can't understand a fucking thing I'm saying.It's like saying, "The federal reserve has been providing security since 1914." When you mean "The federal reserve has been operating continuously since 1914."Or like saying, "I have security guy that always goes when I head out to party." When you mean,"I have a dependable friend who always goes when I head out to party."Rationalize them all you want, but they don't have the same connotations. I would forgive you if your native language was Thai. (I can't even attempt to speak that.) But your native language seems to be English. I won't forgive you being deliberately obtuse just to waste my time. I've sent you comments on the first three pages. Before you ask me to read it again, ask someone who doesn't already understand your idea to read it. Then assume every question they ask you is one I'll have.  I haven't read the new version yet, but I plan to. I really want to continue our discussion, but if I don't clear one thing up my head will explode.You seem to be using the word "security" in ambiguous ways that are driving me crazy. On many occasions it seems you are using the word "security" to mean "continuity". Occasionally, you seem to use it to mean "dependability".Security: the state of being free from danger or threat.Continuity: the unbroken and consistent existence or operation of something over a period of time.Dependability: trustworthiness and reliability.I tend to interpret EnCoin security to mean, nobody can steal my coins.EnCoin dependability means, it's always there and works when I need it.EnCoin continuity means, the network as a whole goes on forever. It will never disappear taking all my coins with it.Before I start reading, please tell me we are using the same language.---OK, I'm reading now. I'd like to make inline suggestion about the parts I find confusing, but think I now understand. I don't really want to clutter up this thread with those. Would that horribly offend you? Epiphany!Now I understand your insistence on a transaction fee! It destroys the evidence of the scam!If that 5 ENC gets traded around enough, it eventually evaporates via the fee! There is no last client to go back to exchange and find the backing $5 is long gone!Brilliant! Or, Sinister! I'm not really sure yet. :-)I see that your intention is for the system to be honest. I'm pretty sure you understand what is happening. But your explanations are sorely lacking.Indeed, there is zero possibility of taking 1 ENC back to the electric company and asking them to provide you with 10 kwh or electricity in exchange. That is the obvious concept that every potential client can't help but grasp intuitively. This is where your explanations need to focus.In your explanation, "But that $5 that was put into ENC stays in the ENC economy; it can never leave." is either fallacious or intentionally misleading. The $5 becomes 5 ENC, and it wanders the economy. But is evaporates as it wanders in increments equal to the fee. It doesn't stay in the economy at all.If the fee was 10%, to exaggerate the speed of the example, after one transaction the 5 ENC would become 5.00-0.50=4.50 ENC. After the next, 4.50-0.45=4.05 ENC. After the next, 3.65 ENC, 3.29 ENC,... It is an infinite regression that will eventually be rounded off as ZERO.Done "fairly" all the clients pay a fee that equals exactly the miner's cost of electricity. The miners don't profit at all for their effort. They only benefit by having access to a system, to which even miners use as and pay as clients.Done! I get it.But the best way to convince people to become clients of such a system, is to convince them that the system, as a whole, does its absolute best to MINIMIZE overhead=electricity=fees. This is where I think your persuasiveness is currently failing. No, I'm serious. I've been convinced from the beginning that the system should use as little electricity as possible to assure the monetary policy goals were met. If no new currency is needed in circulation then I propose they should be infinitely expensive to create in kwh. If many are needed in circulation they should be cheep to create in kwh.You seem to counter propose that each ENC coin must represent *having already burned* precisely 10 kwh. This is the part I think is implausible. I'll submit a simplified example.This is precisely the situation I was trying to allude to in the previous example. Let me make it clearer.I have $5 excess that I don't want to use to buy 50kwh of ELECTRICITY to run my air conditioner THIS MORNING.So I buy $5 worth of ELECTRICITY and mine 5 ENC.In the heat of the afternoon, I take my 5 ENC to the exchange and sell them to a client for $5.I spend my $5 to buy 50kwh of ELECTRICITY to run my air conditioner.No matter how you try to convince them otherwise, the electric company is going to expect $10 from you. Even though, you only purchased $5 worth of air conditioning. You took $5 out of your pocket and gave it to the electric company, so you think the system is fair. ("valuable as a medium of exchange") However, the anonymous exchange client you took $5 from to make it seem fair, (to you) is likely to see otherwise. The fact that this anonymous stranger purchased your right to take $5 from some other anonymous exchange client, doesn't make the issue go away. It just delays anyone noticing the scam until you can get away.In this world, miners can only sell ENC on an exchange. They can never buy ENC. If they were to buy ENC on the exchange, they would be buying back the same debt they already sold. But, (and this is the most important part to close the loop) they can't even try to buy back the debt they previously sold. Because they don't have the money. The electric company has that money.I look forward to your new proposal. Please address this scenario in place of the previous. It states my point more succinctly.
OK, I finally grok what you are saying.So if today, 1 ENC = 1 Loaf of bread = 10kwh = $1 and nothing marketplace changes except the fed prints lots of dollars.Then what you want is, 1 ENC = 1 Loaf of bread = 10kwh = $5I totally agree that is a laudable goal. That is what I'm attempting to approximate as well. If I work and decide, not to buy 5 loaves of bread today, I want to be able to buy 5 loaves of bread on any future date of my choosing.===I have $5 excess that I don't want to use to buy 5 loaves of bread today.So I buy $5 worth of electricity and mine 5 ENC.On some future date, after inflation caused by the fed printing lots of moneyI take my 5 ENC to the exchange and sell them to a client for $25.I spend my $25 to buy 5 loaves of bread.===However, one thing seems particularly odd to me.I have $5 excess that I don't want to use to buy 50kwh of ELECTRICITY to run my air conditioner today.So I buy $5 worth of ELECTRICITY and mine 5 ENC.On some future date, after inflation caused by the fed printing lots of moneyI take my 5 ENC to the exchange and sell them to a client for $25.I spend my $25 to buy 50kwh of ELECTRICITY to run my air conditioner.Doesn't this seem logically odd to you?It sure seems like a *double spend* if I can buy electricity twice with the same $5 bill. Where does the extra $5PV=$25FV come from? It seems like it must come from clients, who later will expect their future double spends to come from future clients.===I submit to you, that the proposal to *actually burn* an equal amount of electricity to the ENC value is implausible.Have I misunderstood something? Good questions! Let's see if I have good answers. Really my goal isn't to prove I'm a genius. Or that I've already got all the perfect answers. I came back here to have a discussion about concepts like these.For convenience of discussion I'm proposing a proof-of-work function similar to bitcoin's. They each miner tries to get their new coin transaction *blessed* by random chance. They do this by repeatedly hashing the transaction and a random (or sequential) nonce until the result meets the current difficulty requirements. In bitcoin's case this means a minimum number of consecutive zeros in the most significant digits. So if the difficulty level is 1 the most significant digit must be zero. Exactly 1/2 of the possible hash result meet this requirement.If the difficulty level is 2 the two most significant digits must be zero. Exactly 1/4 of the possible hash result meet this requirement.If the difficulty level is 3 the two most significant digits must be zero. Exactly 1/8 of the possible hash result meet this requirement.And so on, each time you increase the difficulty by 1, you double the average number of hash trials it will take to find an acceptable solution.So, if Charlie doubles the difficulty ten times in a row, he has used up all of his computational advantage. 2^10=1024 He has in effect rescaled the game to put himself in the same situation that Alex and Bill were in before he arrived."Doubling his personal difficulty" does sound misleading. My bad. I meant by doubling *everyones* difficulty, he also disadvantages himself.This is an interesting situation. I think you are correct in your analysis. But let's discuss what I was intending, where I messed up, and where it could be fixed. You had said something like, "in the future, processors might be 1000x more efficient." I totally agree with your premise. They certainly will. I was being a bit of troll, however, when I made the example. I actually started with 8x more powerful, but that didn't seem very hyperbolic. So I went to 32, 64, then I said fuck it. Go big or go home! 1024 times was a big jump over his competitors all at once. It leaves room for a few examples I didn't consider. A big Woot! to you for finding one. Woot!---You are correct, he could win say 5 times in a row to price his competitors out of the game. He could then quit mining knowing that *no one* could compete and the difficulty would fall back -1 where he could mine and win +1 again as you stated. Of course his competitors would all notice and start looking for upgrades... But that would be an unnecessary tangent to your more interesting question.I had intended for the +0 level to prevent this. By offering a +0 tax refund, I was hoping to make it profitable enough for those with taxed transactions to each commit *some* effort to mining. This creates an ad-hoc mining pool. If any of them wins, all of them get their tax refund. I had intended this pool to *never* get priced out of mining, except when the economy was actually falling.I also tried to compensate for situations like this using the ration between the -1 tax and the +1 bonus of (1/2 * tax). If the system starts to oscillate, the number of coins actually falls rather than staying the same. Eventually, I thought, this will cause enough inflation so others could get back in the game. However, 2^10 leaves enough room for Charlie to price *everyone* back out again.---The saving grace for me, is that even with Charlie taking control in a different way, the system didn't bubble or bust. The ENC value is still relatively stable. Except for the inconsistent taxing, network clients wouldn't even notice the difference.The process doesn't care who gets rewarded in dollars. Its goal is keeping the value of ENC stable and it succeeds in this scenario.In fact, it is in Charlie's best interest to move the market as little as possible. In the above example I said, "he could win say 5 times in a row to price his competitors out of the game." But, if he could price all competitors out by winning only 3 times in a row, his arbitrage gains would greatly increase. No sense for Charlie to spend 4 times the electricity if he doesn't need to.---Ironically, for me, if Charlie adopts this strategy, he in effect implements the proposed EnCoin transaction fee I've been lobbying against! This fee takes coins from the spenders, destroys them, then recreates and gives them to miners. All while minimally effecting monetary policy. Ugg! Charlie is promising to keep everyone's monetary policy stable, in exchange for a small fee! It only seems like a scam because monetary policy would be even more stable without Charlie's actions and fees. Go figure?  Sorry for the delay in responding.I understand what you are saying. A point that I didn't make clear is that, like with bitcoin, the difficulty levels are non-linear. In bitcoin, each difficulty level increase means a doubling of effort. Here effort means hashes/second which is a mathematically predictable. This of course has nothing to do with the cost of that effort as measured in dollars.You are correct in that it is algorithmically impossible to externally calculate the cost of someone else's algorithm. I'm pretty sure that is a part of Church's Thesis. But if it's not, it should be! The only way (I can see) that you can bind this problem to the cost of electricity, over time, given *hidden* technology changes, is through human to human competition. Human's decide how much *hidden* electrical cost they are willing to risk. Weighing the risk against their current projections for possible arbitrage gains. If there is no potential reward, nobody should risk anything by mining against their own self-interest.It's this non-linearity of, and competition for, Dollar rewards (not ENC rewards) that makes the system converge. I'll make up an example and see if I can convince myself.---Say Alex and team run the only implementation of EnCoin, on the most efficient know hardware. So does Bill's team, and everyone else. Every time teams see an arbitrage opportunity they mine. One and only one team WINS new coins. All the competing teams LOSE their electrical investment. The winning team immediately sells their coins to recoup their electrical investment. That coin sale must cover expenses for both this round and previous rounds in which they competed and lost. That leaves them either a profit in dollars, or a hemorrhaging of dollars. The latter, as in Vegas, causes unprofitable gamblers to stop by choice or by inevitability.Each time any arbitrager sells new coins it does two things: 1) It lowers demand for competing seller's coins, lowering ENC's exchange price. 2) It doubles the *hidden* dollar investment required for every arbitrager who tries to compete in the next round. This reduces the overall potential for arbitrage profit. When the potential for profit reaches zero, the system has converged on an ENC price in dollars constrained by *still hidden* individual electrical costs of the participants.I assert, this competition should keep the ENC/dollar exchange value relatively stable in the face of a growing or shrinking economy. Extreme economy growth can raise exchange prices, but arbitragers will work quickly to bring them back down. If prices fall, the transaction tax will both, take ENC out of circulation, and reduce the demand for dollars by penalizing panicking sellers in ENC.---The technology case is really what you are contesting. I claim that in the face of *hidden* technical change, the system *always* re-converges. Meaning, given zero human intervention, ENC value can never tend toward zero or even infinity. The only question I can't answer is, "How far can it wander from the current price?"Let me expand on the original example by adding hidden changes in technology.Say, Alex has a reputation for being the finest arbitrager. He's the best at knowing when to risk electricity and when to avoid doing so. Bill was being much less successful, so he adopts a strategy I call tit-for-tat. If Alex is mining, then Bill will mine. If Alex stops, Bill stops. This annoys Alex, but there is nothing he can do about it. As a result, both teams do equally well as measured in dollar profits.Now Charlie creates another network. One equivalent in every way to Alex and Bill's. EXCEPT, *unknown to anyone* Charlie has a better implementation of the proof-of-work algorithm, or a secret processor, it doesn't matter. Charlie's can make 1024 times the number of proof-of-work guesses as the others. All for the same quantity of electricity.There are a number of ways Charlie can play this hidden card.1) He can start mining when no one else can and win every round. If he adopts this strategy, he can win at most 10 times in a row. Since he has to doubling his personal difficulty each time, eventually he will stop. If ENC prices hold during this period, they will continue to hold. If they move some, they will hold at the final price once Charlie runs out of arbitrage room. The other mining teams can't help but notice Charlie has a technological advantage. In fact, no other teams will be able to compete with Charlie until they update their technology. This has no effect on monetary policy. Charlie gains no additional power to affect prices even though he is the only miner. Self-interest prevents him from further mining. He can let the price rise a bit, then mine again. But again that is the goal of the process. The process doesn't care who gets rewarded in dollars. Its goal is keeping the value of ENC stable and it succeeds in this scenario.This scenario, however, is NOT OPTIMAL for Charlie. We have what is commonly called an "Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma" situation. Charlie can maximize his technology advantage over the long term by cooperating with his opponents. Interestingly enough, it is in the opponent's self-interest to cooperate with Charlie as well.2) Charlie decides, instead of winning every time, he will adopt Bill's tit-for-tat strategy and do exactly what Alex does. Sure, he is going to solve every proof-of-work in 1/1024th the time and electricity as Bill and Alex. BUT, he decides to only submit enough winning solutions to deliberately match what Alex and Bill are winning. Alex, Bill, and Charlie's wins affect the ENC's monetary dynamics in exactly the same way. ENC's value stays exactly as stable as it would have if Charlie had not been present. Instead of the sudden inflation spike above, network "client's" see ZERO changes in ENC values or in the behavior of the network as a whole. Alex, Bill, and Charlie are indistinguishable to network "client's" and all equally trustworthy.Instead of being bankrupted as above, Alex & Bill continue making money the way they always have, but predictably less because there is more competition (securing the network!). They don't see any issues, nor do they have any reason to distrust Charlie. Charlie and Bill's behavior is indistinguishable to Alex.EXCEPT, Charlie is driving a paid-off Jag, while Bill is using his minor mining profits to pay down the loan on his Hyundai.Why? Because for every 1,025 dollars Bill receives for selling his ENC to the exchange, Bill sends $1,024 to the electric company and keeps $1. Charlie sends $1 to the electric company and keeps $1,024. Which is as it should be. Because, Charlie thinks Alex and Bill are deluded for leaving a hundred 100 watt light bulbs burning day and night, thinking they are helping to secure the world's future!The process doesn't care who gets rewarded in dollars. Its goal is keeping the value of ENC stable and it succeeds in this scenario. I'm pretty confident it will succeed in every other scenario as well. Changes in market conditions or technology, might move the price a little bit. But it will never go into bubble or crash scenarios the way you postulated. My bad. I meant $X to vary with time like you describe. That was why I said wandering target. But the equation doesn't make that very clear. We are in total agreement.Agreed.It's a design decisions of course, but I was serious about learning about internet peering vs transit if you are not already versed in it. It is a fascinating concept to understand when people are babbling about internet regulation. I do understand the points you are making. And I understand the philosophy about actually burning 10kWh to create each block (except when caveats about cool down mode upset the philosophy ) rather than just trying to keep the ENC value converged with the 10 kWh value.And without contesting anything you've said here, I still have some really interesting things to say about this. It is going to have to wait to tomorrow though.I'll give you a hint though...It involves me giggling at the idea of rolling blackouts in California, just because Amazon and iTunes decided to take ENC to purchase digital content! Turns out there were 4 threads, but I'll link to my best posts. You can decide if you want the backstory. I've posted them in chronological order, but fullest explanations are probably in the last two.Started with loaning gold. some thought about digital currency of the future 8/3Then debunked loaning during deflation. Lending at negative interest rates. (People like bigger numbers.) 8/3Some idiot said, "you can't do fractional reserve banking in bitcoin. Inflation, Fractional Reserve, and Bitcoins 8/5Explaining banking yet again in detail. Remove economic nonsense from home page 8/14Funny I found my favorite personal quote ever near the beginning of the last thread. I have to admin I was trolling the currency vs commodity argument, but I'm still right! My suggestion for how to describe bitcoin on the homepage of the site:---In reality bitcoins are the first master planned scarce COMMODITY. It is unique to this commodity that we know it's total available quantity in the universe. We also know exactly how hard it will be to discover this commodity over the next XX years. Also this commodity is generally seen as easily divisible and fungible, but otherwise it is useless.The only thing not master planned about this commodity is what people will do with it. Since there are no other known uses competing for this commodity, some people think bitcoins should be used as money. Others think this is a highly implausible foundation for monetary policy. I have a long thread on this forum about how one does fractional reserve banking with any non-fiat currency including gold.  I can find it for you.Otherwise, I don't really want to talk about it.Of course I understand. That is why I came here. I would call it 1 ENC = $X = 10kWh. It's a wandering target but at least it is constant with respect to each individual's lifestyle. Point understood. But stores are still going to adjust their fiat prices to what they want. After that, they'll look at ENC and decide if a price change is to their advantage. There is no *fair* price! Just the market price. :-)I understand hoarding. 'nuf said.I'm saying, I fixed it optimally. You are fixing it less optimally.You are not arguing I'm pushing the system in the correct direction. You are saying, "We'll get by without a push. Just might take longer."I don't think your conclusion follows from your premise. But you are free to charge transaction fees for providing a service. That doesn't affect my monetary logic at all. I'm not sure why you see a benefit to charging yourself a transaction fee for your own service. Or for peers to charge a transaction fee to other peers providing exactly the same service. See Internet Peering for the best example of what I'm talking about.I'm not implying you are wrong here.  I'm calling you wrong directly!Say we had 1,000 people which generally spend the equivalent of $100 each per month in ENC but keep little in their wallet. It is an optimal marketplace when coin velocity is at its maximum. Then Walmart or McDonald's decides they want to accept ENC payments. Suddenly, the same 1,000 people want to spend $200 per month. There is no excess velocity to be had. You are going to need more coins.So you start generating them at your standard max X coins per trust per day. Eventually you will have enough.But what if we had 1,000,000 people which generally spend the equivalent of $100 each per month in ENC but keep little in their wallet. It is an optimal marketplace when coin velocity is at its maximum. Then Walmart or McDonald's decides they want to accept ENC payments. Suddenly, the same 1,000,000 people want to spend $200 per month. There is no excess velocity to be had. You are going to need more coins.So you start generating them at your standard max X coins per trust per day. Eventually you will have enough.Are you saying it is OK for it to take 1,000 times longer?That is why I suggested corrections be related to the economy size.---On the other hand, I've come to expect that you understand the system differently than I do. So I may be misunderstanding your dynamics. Fair enough!  Yes, reputation is much better when talking about how one group views another group. Or even how less familiar group members view each other.If you hate the term compliance I would suggest something like: Reputation =  consistency * accuracy * effortReputation =  dependability * compliance * securingReputation = (uptime) * (not fucking-up) * (mining)Shit, I don't know! I hate naming things too! I didn't mean to imply any threat to encoin. I was only trying to point out an instance of security not guaranteed by mining. For reference, I'm never trying to imply anything. If I see something worth implying I'll just come out and say it directly. I'm really not trying to pick a fight.Yay! We get to argue about what I want to argue about! Woot!I have to split the sentence to properly respond.I don't concede this, but we *are* walking in the same direction. I think there needs to be *enough* incentive to guarantee the currency stays viable and secure. I propose for my reasons that *will* be the case. You propose for your reasons that *will* be the case. I don't want to argue about *why* we are walking in the same direction.I posted the reasons in one of my earliest posts. I'm going to take another crack at it. This is really the crux of our misunderstanding at the moment. Most of the other differences I have reconciled in my head.Humans make the decisions about when to change effort levels in both of our examples. In both humans compare the current ENC market price to the market price of electricity.Your lowest "cool down" mode seems equivalent to my (ZERO) mining level.Your "full blast" mode seems equivalent to my (current+2) mining level.The other levels you mentioned as possibilities seem to fit in between. I get it now. (won't try to explain how I thought yours worked before.)---So our main difference is that I deliberately separated the monetary policy sub-system, from the "incentive" system.I said, to myself, pretend incentives are already guaranteed. How would I optimize monetary policy to that it discouraged what we didn't want *clients* to do, and encouraged what we did want *clients* to do.In times of inflation, too many ENC are being exchanged for too few goods. I wanted to encourage hoarding and discourage rash spending. So I artificially raised the cost of spending. I didn't want to artificially increase pricing, (prices are already inflated) that tends to happen if you tax the merchants.So see, "Without the tax.." is incorrectly posed. I do have a tax designed to stop inflation.In a stable state, (excluding all thoughts about operator incentives) we don't want *clients* to change their behavior at all. So I did nothing. I couldn't figure out a way to know in advance whether monetary action would be necessary. So I proposed taxing everything, and refunding the tax when monetary action proved unnecessary.In times of deflation, too few ENC are being exchanged for too few goods. I wanted to encourage spending and discourage hoarding. I didn't think computing a hoarding tax was feasible. Even if it was, that case doesn't seem optimal. I want MORE total ENC and more moving immediately into circulation. So how to best increase ENC circulation?  I certainly don't want to penalize the spenders and remove currently circulating ENC. That's exactly the wrong direction. The refund simply means, "Do no evil!"But who best to give the newly created money too? Certainly not to someone who intends to hoard it. That won't change ENC exchange values at all. I could give it to those already spending. Perhaps by returning DOUBLE the tax to everyone in the transaction. That doesn't guarantee that they will circulate it though. The only person who will immediately spend it is an arbitrager. Someone, who knows exchanging the ENC for dollars now is his greatest financial advantage. That is the person who will sell the ENC for the "highest bid" rather than holding out for a "lowest ask" that will never come. This is the optimal way to immediately move the market.----Oh yeah! One last thing...I thought that the number of new coins being created should somehow be related to the current amount of coins *circulating*. Those are the ones that affect valuation. The tax is also related to the number of *circulating* coins. If the total economy is small, you need small efforts to affect change. If the total economy is large, you need larger efforts.At least that's my guess. OK, I'm with you so far. The perfect world generalization is fine with me, to get on with discussing the more interesting bits.The only kibitz I offer is that I think you mean "200W" rather than "200Wh". If someone's power supply is drawing 200W and they run their computer for 6 hours. The electric company bills them for 1.2 kWh.I understand all of this and have no criticisms. The intension is to encourage people to participate in these partnerships. Motivations might change, so you allow flexibility to adjust. Nice.Agreed. Not interesting in forking. It creates something that is not the system we are discussing.OK, I fundamentally understand "cool down" mode differently now. I thought it was a property of the system as a whole. After the X hour period generating a PB, *every* TrustNet goes into cool down *phase*. I appear to have been mistaken. Each network makes a decision on how much electricity it wants to risk mining at each mining interval. That makes much more sense to me now.I have some questions about the non-linearity of the cool down mode rewards. But I want to think about things more in light of this insight.I agree completely. But I want to point out that a lot of the benefits you are referring to come from trust in the humans behind the TrustNet abstractions. You can't chat with the code and ask it to vote on its best interest. I still think "Trust" means humans trusting humans. Compliance means nodes can't cheat.Most of the comments I have made should be viewed from the perspective that I totally agree with you here. I also want to take advantage of the unique advantages that come from knowing your fellow human peers. ---I'm going to comment on the rest after I've given things a little more thought.Thanks for the new insights! I hate to respond to this post first, but it is quicker.Your other post is much more enlightening. Thank you for that. I will respond in detail to that in a few minutes.My point was, he can run a complete peer an look at and check every single transaction for a trivial cost. No mining is requires. This will give an overall sense of how many people trying to cheat. Even if he doesn't want to do that, he can download the block chain every few days and check it for consistency. This is a built in feature of every client that runs automatically when you start a peer. If there exists even a single double spend in the block chain, the system is fucked and it is time to call the programmers and alert the media. The data structure and transaction validation rules simply won't allow it to happen. If its there, it is impossible not to notice. (I can go into details about in-point, transactions, out-points and the directed acyclic graph structure if you like.)And important point is knightmb doesn't have to worry about anyone stealing his existing coins. Even if everyone else stops mining, and someone has 100% of the CPU power, they still can't generate compliant transactions to take them. They also cannot fork the block chain and erase them. His transactions are long behind bitcoin's programmed in (mandated consensus) block locks.I understand what you are saying. I also agree that there is increased opportunity to cause mayhem if a huge majority of miner leave bitcoin all at once. But in the end it will be the vested interest of the bitcoin holders who motivate a solution. Even if it means changing long standing mining conventions.I completely understand your destroyed transaction fee and its purpose. I put a similar Tax in my post on the subject.I wasn't talking about or implying encoin in the above statement. It was common banter on this site that *bitcoin's*  trivially small (at that time) transaction fee would provide the ultimate reward to incentivize bitcoin mining after the 21M coins had been distributed. The thinking was, as each coin's external value skyrocketed, the transaction fee's external value would increase with it. I'm pretty sure satoshi covered this in his original white paper. On fortunately it tends to get overlooked with everyone focusing on mining rewards.According to satoshi, and I agree, the long term security and stability of bitcoin is in the hands of bitcoin owners. Meaning people who own/hoard bitcoins have intrinsic interest in the security and stability of the system. These people will always have an incentive to run honest nodes. Self-interest causes them to support the currency and make sure the system is free from fraud.I used to chat on this forum with a guy with the handle "knightmb". He owned 371,000 BTC. At current prices, knightmb's market capitalization is over $1.5 million dollars. He has a serious vested interest in the stability of bitcoin. From what I read, he no longer mines. I'm absolutely sure that he keeps an honest node running continually though. It is necessary, and trivial, for him to monitor the overall behavior the network. He can see at a glance that everything is in perfect compliance. If he notices non-compliant transactions creeping into the log, he will be the first to phone the developers and post a notice of an attack in this forum. If he has spent a single kilowatt of electricity on this monitoring in the past year, I will be shocked.There is a transaction fee in bitcoin. But, it was never designed as a reward system. It was a preemptive defense against someone swamping the system with needless micro-transactions. (See the code comments.) The pondering that "transaction fees might provide some future incentive" came via a consequence of the previous decision. According to satoshi, self-interest was always the long-term logic for supporting bitcoin. After all he named it a peer-to-peer currency. As such there is no higher interest than the self-interest of the peers. The point of that post was to propose a mechanism for monetary policy adjustment. I not to talk about consensus. I was directly answering the question someone else asked. I didn't want discussion of monetary policy self-adjustment to get sidetracked.But yes, if you wish, I can explain my algorithm for consensus building. It's not really necessary. You've already proposed yours is secure. For this conversation, on monetary policy, that's good enough for me. I just don't understand your concepts well enough to say, "let me propose an encoin like system, except..." Had I done that, I would have obviously been talking out my ass. I have no idea why you made most of your design decisions. Like say, why you changed 10 minutes consensus periods to X hours. How each miner is benchmarked against kWh. Or how effort based new coin allocation attempts to affect monetary policy.What I'd really like to hear is how the monetary dynamics of your proposal relate to what I wrote down. I know my expansions constants (1/2 & 2) are probably not right. But the post captures the gist of my dynamics. Maybe there are more incremental levels to increase generation speed. Maybe the rules for varying the difficulty are too aggressive. That's not important yet. If their are changed, the basic structure of what I wrote will remain the same. What I'm trying to understand is to what value/function does this system converge: If a new ASIC is 100 times more efficient? If a big new vendor joins the network? If the price of electricity spikes? If in any situation, the value of coins tends either to zero or infinity, I know the algorithm is not stable.On the other hand, I genuinely don't understand your dynamics. I have nothing to compare or contrast.You said you vary each difficult like bitcoin does. I don't understand when, how or why this happens. Say someone's hardware is generating ENC a 10 kWh per coin with X khash, and someone else's at 5 kWh per coin with x khash. You certainly can't vary the hash difficulty as a shared constant and meet your goals? You must have deeper thoughts than that. Tell them to me.You gave constants for coin creation that seem unrelated to the transaction fees. I don't understand why you chose those constants and why (as both are part of monetary policy decisions) they are unrelated. If they are place holders to be calculated later that's OK. I just genuinely don't understand yet.To combat increases in hardware efficiency over time, you propose rotating algorithms. Rotating doesn't seem to work, because if someone is willing to build an ASIC they might as well keep it around for when rotation comes back. 4 algorithms, 4 ASICs. Run when appropriate.Beyond that, your concept seems to require competing engineers. Who decides if existing hardware is too efficient? Who gets to choose the next proof-of-work algorithm? How do you make everyone else adopt those new rules? That seems like a different kind of consensus building completely unrelated to your TrustNets.---I'm genuinely interested in understanding how your system meets its monetary policy goals. To me, all the other bits are optimizations to previously solved problems. They are interesting in their own right. I'm just interested in monetary policy first. I wrote down the concept here. I think it got lost in all my ranting. There is no central server concept. Fully distributed. It's not that I don't use proof-of-work, its that I don't require proof-of-work for security. That makes mining optional except when it is actually appropriate to create new coins. In price inflated times nobody has to mine.For monetary policy, it's not important who gets the coins first. However, in this case we always know where they go nextTo the exchange. In this system, new coins always enter circulation immediately. That gives them the most immediate effect on prices. See the other post for the real answer. It's a winner take all thing for the miners, but its up to each to decide which accounts they put the money in.---Now this doesn't mean the server can't add a client transaction fee to benefit the partners. It doesn't affect monetary policy at all. There is also no reason that different hosts can't charge different fees. They could compete on price or service. Yeah, I did feel like I was ranting a bit. ;-)I feel like you are reading what I write as more critical than I mean it.I totally support your goal of creating a stable EnCoin currency.I'm not opposed to you or anyone else calling it "a service" and charging for its use. Discussing those goals, however, is not a priority for me.I happen to like the client/server part of the idea. It reduces the number of peers that need to communicate.I'm still totally baffled by a lot of the names you have chosen. I've been developing software for pushing 30 years now. I know naming things is often one of the hardest parts. The terms "Network Trust" and/or TrustNet have too many ambiguous meanings. As an outside observer I think you should split your discussion into its two separate senses.1) A TrustNet is a plug compatible replacement for a mining pool. In this sense you have "partners" who participate in mining, invest electrical cash, and get rewarded. You might consider calling this feature a "partnership". As in "Anyone can start their own EnCoin partnership..."2) A TrustNet is also service which is provided to "clients". You might consider the term "host" or perhaps "teller". Originally I thought, from the name, that each TrustNet was itself a client facing entity. Meaning, a client connected to his particular TrustNet to get his transactions processed. As in, "I'm going to my bank." That made the two seem more like a single concept.However, later you explained that each "partner" serves as a "host" for clients. It is not clear to me that clients even know that TrustNets exist. Perhaps they see each individual node as fungible automatic "teller" machines and don't care to which bank it belongs. Either way, this is the sense most closely related to "Trust" for me. A client *is required* to trust its teller, since the client can't validate its own transactions. In the previous sense, it's clear partners don't have implicit trust for other partners. Neither do partnerships trust other partnerships. Certainly TrustNets don't constitute a web of trust. Using the word "trust" seems to obfuscate everything.Well you caught me there! :-) As you know I gave up on bitcoin more than a year ago. I only know of that event from headlines. I was around, however, when the developers deliberately changed the bitcoin client to fork the block chain and rewrite history. It seems there was a bug, and non-compliant transactions had made their way into the block chain. The old clients would accept transactions from the new client, but the new would accept from the old. It was really interesting watching the new chain overtake the old and all the old nodes dumping their entire reality. It really gave me pause.Actually, I do. There are long threads discussing details with satoshi somewhere.I do understand them. I'm not trying to refute the fact that some of your ideas are better, safer, more efficient than bitcoin. They most certainly are.I just think that my ideas are even better than yours! ;-) So there!I was actually serious here. I think inside your sprawling confusing misnamed concept, is a much simple gem of an idea struggling to get out. :-) In general I think the video was full of crap.I do want to point out that if EnCoin is intended to have a stable value base. That makes it trivial to create money "out of nowhere" via lending. It's also simplifies creating fractional reserve banks. More money "out of nowhere". This is on top of the new mining currency created "out of nowhere".Only bitcoin like currencies that aim for ever increasing coin value (price deflation) discourage this "out of nowhere" money. There is a thread called "lending at negative interest" or some such where I disprove that silly logic. I'm going to take one more shot at this. Your calling me back here has been fun. I want to thank you for that.I understand what you are saying about: trust = hash * time vs. bitcoin's way. I don't think that is "trust" though. I think hash * time = "effort". I'd don't think I'd even call it "work" because I'm not sure anything is actually getting done for the effort.I'm also absolutely sure you overstate the dangers to bitcoin accounting. In bitcoin if you gain 51% of the hash power and you want to delete a transaction that happened 5 blocks back, you basically have zero hope of accomplishing that. If you have 51% of the hash power you CANNOT generate a fake transaction. You also can't transfer money from one account to another. You can't even do more than stall a transaction with 51% probability.The dangers you hypothesized for encoin were much harsher than those bitcoin is currently suffers from.I'll let most of this slide, since I'm under a pseudonymous handle. But trust me, I have more P2P experience than you know.The important part of my message is about compliance to the protocol. In bitcoin, even with 75% of the hashing power, you can't stick a transaction into a block if it won't pass the validation rules. Every other honest node will reject your block. Worse, they'll all know you are a liar. That is what compliance means.If I have your previous PB balances and all of the new transactions for this period, you had better not try to give me a new PB with balances that don't match the known transactions. If you do, you sure as hell better be able to produce a valid transaction I'm missing that reconciles the differences. I don't give a flying fart if your (hash * time) effort is 100% and my effort is 0%. If the math doesn't work you are still lying. That is what compliance means.For that matter, previous investment of time adds nothing to ones trustworthiness. Say, I take a copy of the bitcoin block chain and validate it. I am now equally as capable as any other node at spotting fraudulent activity. I've spend no time and generated not a single hash. But even if the 10 longest running nodes agree to accept a new block with an invalid transaction in it, I can still publicly call them faulty at best liars at worst. Compliance means agreeing with the specification, not with the majority.My recourse to compliance violations is not to bend over and take it because others have 51% of an imaginary quantity. My recourse is to publish the data on this forum. Call you a liar. Call the authorities and start sending out press releases. That is what compliance means.---If the only digital currencies you've ever seen are bitcoin analogs, I know it maybe hard to understand that most digital currencies and money transfer services strive to not waste CPU cycles or electricity. Expending needless effort is simply not required to guarantee the validity of crypto-currency accounting.If you changed bitcoin into a client server system with only a single bitcoin server doing the accounting, it would remain equally as trustworthy and secure as it is now. So long as everyone can download the server's history and validate the current state, there are simply very few ways for the server to cheat. If every client keeps track of the most recent couple of block hashes, then periodically checks to make sure they don't leave the chain, there is simply nothing the server can do while still remaining in compliance. Every false move is instantly detectable by even the simplest of client. Never fail quietly! It's one of the most important rules of software design.---I can show you how to take bitcoin's current implementation, remove the proof-of-work nonsense, and turn it into P2P network of Trusted Servers as you described. In the process you'll lose none of bitcoin's current security. If you want to add back in constant kwh mining and transaction fees, to help sustain a stable monetary policy that's awesome!If you want to add a complicated history of effort model to rationalize sharing the wealth, that's your own business (literally). It adds, however, neither security nor trust.A while back there was a bitcoin hack where a trojan stole wallets and transfered money out of people's accounts. There is nothing in the rules of bitcoin that prohibits that. There is certainly nothing in the rules that enables anyone to reverse that. But the programmers changed the rules and rolled things back. That is what "Trust" means. Well, it might not be. But just in case it is, I'm going to write down my logic. Maybe we can all bash on it and see where the logic takes us.----The whole concept is based upon Arbitrage. The instantaneous buying and selling of something in different markets. In this case, we want to buy ENC in the "electrical market" using dollars and sell them in the ENC marketplace for dollars. (Your currency may vary) The tendency toward a fixed value is based upon the self-interest of the participating humans. They only participate if it seems profitable. If it appears unprofitable the humans do nothing. So specifically, if a human thinks he can generate excess ENC for less dollars of electricity than the dollars he can IMMEDIATELY sell the ENC for, he begins mining. If he thinks it will cost more dollars of electricity than the ENC are worth, he stops mining. It's an intellectual gamble like in any financial marketplace. You have to put your dollars at risk to play.---For the sake of discussion I'm going to propose a hybrid system that's like bitcoin, except that instead of using mining to add the next transaction block to the chain, it adds the block through consensus. 100% of the existing nodes decide that all transactions in that block are valid. Then they lock that block into the chain forever. There is also no standard 50 BTC award. Transaction accounting is NOT rewarded. For this discussion, just pretend I can prove that it's a secure process.So in my version of the ENC system, mining is a completely optional process to that of transaction accounting. Mining DOES NOT secure transaction accounting.The process works like I've discussed in this thread. 1) Every transaction has a X% tax that is destroyed. This provides a baseline tendency that reduces the ENC supply. Transaction are grouped into 10 min blocks like with bitcoin.2) Mining is optional and can be run by anyone at any time. Mining generates new ENC transactions through a proof-of-work concept similar to bitcoin. The main differences more complicated ENC generation rules, and the process for varying the proof-of-work's difficulty.Mining takes place in the 10 minute interval after the previous (consensus created) transaction block. The proof-of-work can be solved at increasing difficulty levels, leading to increasing rewards.The transaction generation rules are as follows:If the miner solves the proof-of-work at the (current+0) difficulty level, the transaction must contain:a) Tax reimbursements for every transaction in the prior transaction block, paid back to those from which the tax was taken.b) ZERO additional reward for the miner.If the miner solves the proof-of-work at the (current+1) difficulty level, the transaction must contain:a) Tax reimbursements for every transaction in the prior transaction block, paid back to those from which the tax was taken.b) (Total Tax)/2 as reward for the miner.If the miner solves the proof-of-work at the (current+2) difficulty level, the transaction must contain:a) Tax reimbursements for every transaction in the prior transaction block, paid back to those from which the tax was taken.b) (Total Tax)*2 as reward for the miner.Mining is a competitive process. Whoever generates the proof-of-work transaction with the highest difficult in the 10 minute window wins. If there is more than one at the highest difficulty, the first wins.Difficult is algorithmically adjusted for the next 10 minute period based upon the results of the previous.If ZERO mining transactions were submitted, the current difficulty is adjusted (-1).If a current+0 transaction wins, the current difficulty remains unchanged (0).If a current+1 transaction wins, the current difficulty is adjusted (+1).If a current+2 transaction wins, the current difficulty is adjusted (+2).---As far as I can tell this tends to cause the following dynamics.If the current difficulty causes higher electrical cost than the dollar value of ENC, there is minimal incentive to try and add new ENC coins to the system. As such the Tax will be lost, tending to slightly inflate the dollar value of ENC. The difficulty will also be reduced, tending to slightly lower the electrical cost of ENC.If the current difficulty causes near equivalent electrical cost to the dollar value of ENC, anyone with a transaction in the prior block, has interest in mining for their tax reimbursement. This means the appropriate monetary action was to do nothing. (No tax penalties)If the current difficulty causes less electrical cost than the dollar value of ENC, then there is a momentary arbitrage opportunity. No tax will be lost. New ENC will be added tending to slightly deflate the dollar value of ENC. The difficulty will also be increased, tending to slightly increase the electrical cost of ENC. ---I think those rules tend toward some wandering equilibrium measured against the cost of electricity. I'm not totally sure of the exact function.What does anyone else think? I agree. That is really the question I showed up to hear the answer to also.I hear philosophy about why a constant value is good. I agree with that philosophy. I don't yet see how anything in the proposal facilitates that though.---As a side note, I think I have actually come up with the beginnings of algorithm that might suffice. It is clearly only a partial solution. I haven't solved the bootstrap problem.Technically, in my case, it's not 1 ENC = 10 kwh. It's closer to 1 ENC = 10 kwh * avg($/kwh). One ENC trades in dollars at the same price that 10 kwh trades in dollars. I don't know if 10 is the right constant either. It's a little more nebulous than that.So hypothetically, say we had a currently running ENC system where the price of 1 ENC = $X = cost_of(Y kwh).The goal of my algorithm is to cause the $_value_of(1 ENC) to tend toward the value_of(const Y kwh). This relationship should hold over time, even with changes in technology and changes in the price of electricity.Again, I can't bootstrap this yet. Nor can I drive the ENC price toward any particular Y value. But if it is currently at a particular Y value, I think I can keep it there over time.Anyone interested? This post does not inspire confidence at all.You know of course that the Sybil attack was one of the prime motivations for developing the wacky proof-of-work calculation. The logic goes, if we are going to have a group of anonymous peers, and we need to vote on things...The answer of course is, never let anonymous fictional entities vote. It's silly.Fortunately for you, EnCoin has relationships between non-anonymous trusted parties that investigate scamming, broadcast notices to the public, ban the scammers, and report them to the appropriate authorities. If the authority in your trust network can't do this, why on earth would you "trust" them?The fact that you consider these possible (but implausible) attacks on your proposed system shows that your basic consensus (100% agreement) mechanism is non-existent.Validity means a transaction is 100% in compliance with the rules of the system. There is no negotiation involved. No vote is ever required.ATTACK: TrustNet tries to pay itself too much moneyThis should be trivially detected and prevented by *every* other TrustNet. It is either a defect in that peer, or fraud committed by the peers owner. The defective/fraudulent TrustNet entity and all its users should be banned until trusted humans determine which problem it is.ATTACK: User abuses a TrustNets trust by approving bad spends (equivalent of a double spend in bitcoin)WTF? How can any group of peers abuse the TrustNet's trust? The TrustNet was supposed to be the party everyone else was trusting? The only way to attempt a double spend is to simultaneously submit two conflicting transactions to different TrustNets. Both would be accepted and each would "race" the other to see which got "51% Trust" first.That whole concept is STUPID and IRRESPONSIBLE. Both transactions are part of a single common attempt at fraud. This should be detected in 100% of the cases, by 100% of compliant Trust Networks. In EnCoins case it should happen within 30 seconds or so. Both transactions should fail immediately so the targets of the fraud can be notified before irretrievable property changes hands.All source accounts (transaction in-points) of both transactions should be locked system-wide. That prevents further attempts at fraud. Notice of the fraud attempt should be broadcast globally so nobody attempts to deal with the fraudster again. The locks should not be removed until the account owner presents himself to a trusted human and offers a believable explanation of how the situation happened honestly. 100% of the trusted humans must agree to remove the locks.ATTACK: Control 50% or more of the total network trust and use it to change wallet balancesSTATUS: Possible, and may cause temporary, but correctable problems. REALLY! You even consider this a possibility? Arrg! If this can't be immediately detected by 100% of compliant Trust Networks and broadcast system-wide, then really there is no reason for anyone to trust your EnCoin at all.I mean really, you are claiming that periodically your system "cools down" to reach a common consensus (100% agreement) point. At that point 100% of the Trust Networks agree on 100% of the account balances. You are saying that somehow 51% of the networks can conspire to change a balance or submit a fraudulent transaction and the other 49% either can't detect and/or can't prevent this fraud?Any single compliant network must be able to validate the compliance of every other network. If they can't there is zero point in anyone trusting even an honest "Trust Network".---Suddenly I have zero confidence in your proposed implementation.Convince me that I'm wrong. Part of my confusion is that you are not separating Physical entities from Logical entities.As best I can tell, a "Network Trust" is a logical grouping of physical peers. I'm not sure if you consider these peers to be the humans or these human's (zero?, one or more) computer nodes. Can I be part of a "Network Trust" (to send and receive coins), without running a node at all? Do I have to be part of a "Network Trust" to send and receive coins? I guess I'm asking, are NT's optional just so I can share in your reward scheme?I understand the logic of what you said. But who (what peers) is actually doing the work for a given "Network Trust" group? Does every NT member receive every broadcasted block from the other NTs? Or is there one-or-more delegates for each NT that NT members are *required* to trust? That was what I was referring to below.I got really confused about your use of the term network peers here. Sometimes it seems to mean intra-NT peers. Other times it seems to mean inter-NT relationships.And the statement "they will be putting" is completely nebulous. I understand why they will be putting together a block. I just have no idea who they are? Is there a single delegate for the NT? Do the members of the NT collaborate together? How do they share data? Who is responsible for resending the block every few seconds?It seems like there is a delegation pattern at work here. But then you say "Each peer knows the address of every peer in their network in case Something Really Bad is happening (all 4 or 5 peers are disconnected, or all 4 or 5 appear to be doing shady stuff, or something similar)" which implies each peer is monitoring his NT peers, not trusting them.I'm really confused.Again, when I said "account(ing) part of your trust network peer," I was thinking about the delegate pattern. Supposed you delegated *all* the 1) receiving of NT member's transactions, 2) validation of NT member's transactions, 3) transaction block broadcasting and receiving, 4) validation and recording of inter-NT transactions. This could easily be done using only the power of an iPhone.If you are not delegating the above 4 things to some "trusted" delegate node, then I'm totally confused about the dynamics of your NT group of nodes. If each member does these things individually without trusting the other members, then the batching, signing, and sending seems redundant.I don't mean to be dense, but I'm totally baffled by this last paragraph.We got all the way here, talking about a distributed system for trusted and verified transaction accounting. Never once did you mention any necessity for *mining* in order to guarantee transaction validity. Validity was guaranteed through transaction block signing (consensus notarization).What on earth does mining secure? The only thing I see that it can possibly protect is the reward system for mining. This system seems to operate completely independently. In actually, it doesn't seem to secure the transaction system. It seems to rely on the consensus relationships of the underlying transaction system to frustrate subverting the mining reward system.Again, I'm baffled.I thought the mining system was a way to optimize monetary policy. Where "optimize" means, expand or contract the money supply as appropriate to maintain coin value stability. That is a hard problem and worth my time to think about.On the other hand, levying a tax on every transaction and using *mining* as justification for redistributing this tax among miners... Well that seems to be an unnecessary problem to solve at all. At best it's a marketing problem. That's not at all where I want to waste my mental energy.
I see from your previous two posts that I have taken a mental tangent from some of your proposal details. I went back and re-read your proposal again. Doh, I hadn't snapped that you are using the word "trust" in multiple ways. Network Trust in the sense of "a body of trustees/a charitable trust". In later sections you talk of Trust in the "firm belief in the reliability, truth, ability, or strength of someone or something sense."Anyway, my bad. On the other hand, you say "EnCoin eschews the entire need for pools by having network trusts... There is no competition between Networks for coins." Which seems to mean that you take the most wastefully inefficient process in bitcoin, then make it redundantly wasteful in its inefficiency.Now keep in mind that I'm long on record in my opposition to using needless proof-of-work calculations to prevent tampering with the transaction DAG. It's a little clever and a lot ridiculous.--- History ---Bitcoin was invented to solve one particular philosophical problem. Say we have a set of anonymous individuals, none of whom trusts any of the others. To whom are we going to trust the common transaction history? The concept of a digital currency using a trusted record keeper was already well developed. The design decision was of course we'll all keep our own copy of everything and we'll all redundantly do all the work ourselves.That came coupled with another problem. How do reconcile our individual transaction DAGs to guarantee they remain constant over time? The design decision was of course, every 10 minutes we'll *randomly* choose one person's new transactions and pass them around as a block to everyone. The others will throw away all their personal knowledge of new transactions and start again. Then, hopefully, the transaction participants will keep redundantly resubmitting the same transaction until someone notices.But what if the network becomes partitioned and nobody notices? How do we reconcile forks of the block chain? The answer of course, is throw away one fork and those folks adopt the other fork and start again. Which fork? The longer? The one with the most transactions? The bigger network? What if someone claims they've been partitioned for six months and want us to throw away everything and user theirs? What if, what if, what if...The design decision was of course the proof-of-work concept. The real question you should be asking yourself is, why would somebody design a distributed transaction processing system that might throw away a ridiculous number of previously verified transactions—WITHOUT telling anyone! I mean WTF? The developers acknowledged this by adding specific block locks into each new client release.How do they decide which blocks to lock in as the one true fork? Human consensus! "Hey, anyone got a problem with me locking the chain to here? OK, done!" Poof! Millions of hash computations tossed into the trash bin with one line of code.--- EnCoin ---So what's my point?EnCoin is deliberately making different design choices than bitcoin.1) You have a set of non-anonymous peer networks who intend to "trust but verify" each other's work. They all intend to know and trust their network members as well.2) You treat and reconcile transactions individually, rather than as opaque blocks. Hopefully you also detect and notify some humans on simultaneous double spend attempts.3) Your network of known trusted peers can't be forked without someone noticing.4) Your system can never throw away blocks of transactions willy nilly.As far as I can tell, you have *zero* need for a complicated proof-of-work to keep your "primary block" transaction accounting safe.The only reason to start proof-of-work *mining* calculations is in hopes of arbitraging some newly created coins. If there is no hope of arbitraging these coins, there is no point in *mining* coins that are worth less then the cost to mine them. That is the key dynamic in your system that I see keeping the monetary policy stable.So who, does all the Primary Block accounting if the miners don't? EVERYONE who owns coins! Are you going to accept a hundred dollar bill from a stranger without looking for the hologram and security strip? That's what the transaction DAG/"primary block list" is for. In your case you might delegate the dynamic transaction validation to at least one trusted individual in each trust network. But that is just an optimization to allow trusting lazy clients. As a general rule, receiving, validating and storing incoming transactions is trivial compared to the current proof-of-work calculations. You could run the transaction account part of your trust network peer on a cell phone using batteries.---Anyway, end of rant.I'll address the rest of your responses in another post, but I needed to say that for context.I'm interested to know if you think you still need to throw kWh of electricity at your Trust Network just to keep up with transaction accounting. I see zero reason for that.I do understand why you might want to throw discretionary kWh at the monetary expansion problem. Now I wasn't criticizing the difference between expansion and contraction technologies. However, when I see differences in the dynamics I like to pause and think is that a requirement or a consequence?In the expansion case I understood that additional miners could come in when it was profitable to create new coins. That makes expansion non-linear. Contraction on the other hand, while not linear, is less flexible.As an extreme example, suppose Silk Road decided to move from bitcoin to encoin. The economy suddenly increased 10 fold. I'm sure miners would come in to create coins as profitably fast as they could. Now suppose Silk Road got busted by the FBI and the economy fell back to its previous state. I ponder whether the system could adjust with the given parameters. (I haven't reached any conclusions)I don't mean to propose that voting for fees is a good idea. I think aligning incentives is a much better way to let the market handle itself. A way to make the contraction rate more flexible, would be to tie it directly to the price of electricity as is used for expansion. (If inflation goes up, fees go up.) Or to the consistency of the contraction. (After X months of consistent contraction, fees go up to Y to speed things up) Those are just idle thoughts. Not well thought out proposals. Going to leave trust for another post.I didn't mean to contest the 10kWh constant. I just saw calculations that computed that number based upon todays technology.What I was wondering was what you answered in the second line above. You are planing to change the difficulty like bitcoin does. I didn't see that in the proposal.What I'd really like to know is what exactly causes the difficulty constraints to change?This, I think, requires more consideration. Though it seems like GPUs require more gross power, if they double power usage but do 10x more calculations, then the cost per calculation has dropped by a factor of five.I know you understand that point. I'm also confident you've somehow worked such cases into your thinking. I'm just asking for a reference to how you propose to detect and adjust to technology performance in order to bring the proof-of-work load back to a constant target.  I consider my previous post an epic FAIL. It's not that you didn't provide clear answers. I obviously didn't express myself clearly. I'm going to try again. Please bear with me. I re-read your proposal and thought about this some more. In general, I think there are a lot of things in the proposal that seem more complicated than necessary. In particular, the bit about trust networks. Now I do see this as a key part of your proposal, so I'm outright disputing it's necessity. However, I think it is a composite solution to several problems that didn't get enough ink individually. I think the discussion could benefit from discussing the individual issues before deciding on a technical solution.The other thing I still don't grasp clearly from the proposal is the mapping back to quantities of electricity. The point sd brought up is certainly significant. I can only offer the obvious empirical evidence. Over time, all CPU's will use less electricity to do the same amount of work. As such, you need a (hopefully) auto-adjusting parameter that keeps the proof-of-work load constant in kWh. I see lots of proposed constants in your technical information. What I don't see is anyway to vary those constants over time. JohnDoe has a proposal based upon voting but this is your thread so I prefer to understand your ideas.This is an absolutely key dynamic to keeping the value of coins stable. That means *ALL* 2b)/excess coin generation is an arbitrage situation. Meaning *everyone* generating coins in my 2b) sense will be immediately spending them or cashing them out. *Never* hoarding them. It doesn't make sense to spend 10 kWh to generate a coin worth 12 kWh, then to hoard the coin while expecting its value to drop back to 10 kWh.Agreed. This is what makes your idea interesting to me. Story time... I spent some time in San Diego a year or so back. During that time, they had a huge "save water" campaign across the region. Its success far exceeded their expectations. Big win right? Conservation means less competition for a shared resource means lower resource prices. Less individual usage means compounding lower individual expenses in a recession. Woot! Except, the resulting conservation meant lower revenue flowing to the water district. The district could no longer meet its fixed expenses. So the district raised the water rates! Which of course encourages more conservation...What's my point? As a friend of my once said, a gun always costs about the price of one gun. Meaning that since the wild wild west, a gun has alway been expensive enough to be considered valuable. Yet never too expensive for the average person to save for and buy. A gun represents a fixed fraction of the average person's salary over time.I suspect electricity, like water, like a gun is one of those fixed fraction commodities. Electricity cost different prices in different places and people use varying amounts. But any particular person's electrical bill is not likely to jump from 10% of their salary to 30% of their salary. Neither is it going to fall to 3% of their salary even if everyone tries really hard. (arbitrary made up numbers to stress the point.)I think you are probably right on the fixed transaction fee/tax concept. However, that means the elasticity of your model can expand as fast as it needs to, but it can only contract at a fixed rate. This gives me pause.I don't think of coins like credit card or paypal transactions. I think of them like fucking coins! :-) My quarters don't lose value when I spend them or when someone receives them. I have one quarter less, someone else has one quarter more.For me, this has to be the nominal case goal for any cash alternative currency. Meaning, specifically, in the case where the currency value is stable (2c), if I'm transacting in coins (buying or selling), I'd better not be penalized for using money as a medium of exchange that is of course our main point.This *requires* that in cases (2c) and (2b) all transaction fees be refunded prior to bonus coins being awarded to so called miners. This is logically invariant no matter how much work a miner thinks they proved. It is easiest to see in the stable (2c) case. If our coin value is stable, that means the appropriate monetary policy is to do *exactly* nothing. Do "no work" in the mass times distance sense. That doesn't mean nobody put in effort. It just means no work got done or should be rewarded. Why would we reward the people (do something) who just mathematically proved our best monetary policy decision is to do nothing?In case (2b), you can reward people for mathematically proving there is a need for more coins. However, taxing transactors is still counter productive. It decreases coin velocity and encourages hoarding in the face of deflation. That works to defeat the purpose of adding new coins.Only in case (2a) to we wish to penalize someone for participating in a transaction. If you analysis that situation, prices are inflating, taxing the seller will result in higher prices to extract the same coin value for their goods. This is opposite the direction to intended to move the system.Purchasing during *temporarily* inflated times is illogical/desperate. We want to reduce the number of coins flowing for too few, over priced, goods. That drives prices back down. The only way to encourage that is to tax the spenders, thus rewarding the savers. This is critical because, as I pointed out above, this is the least elastic of your monetary directions. Ideas, yes. Viable, perhaps. At least they are not implausible. ;-) Nothing was put down as a formal proposal. When I was arguing for a stable monetary policy, it was a very unpopular idea. Free appreciating gold was the big draw. There are a couple of threads discussing GETS/LETS systems. But let's ignore them for now. I'll try to bring what I learned to this idea.I like the central bank approach, but I'd rather see it automated as this idea tries to do. Well, I still don't understand how it does it, but I hope it automates it. I'm still kicking the concept around in my head Etlase2, but I like the overall direction. I'm less concerned about the technical details than in the overall system dynamics.The constant value tendency of a coin must result from the ratio between the total (external) value of the goods trying to be exchanged divided by the number of coins available to be exchanged. Meaning those not being hoarded.So if the economy increases (say we double the external value of goods needing to be exchanged each day) then to number of coins available to be exchanged must also double. Notice, I DID NOT say the number of coins in the system must double. Just that the number not being hoarded over that interval must double. That means if price deflation starts, you have to convince people to spend their current coins rather than hoarding them hoping they'll be worth more in the future. (Creating a bubble)Likewise, if the economy decreases (say we amount of external goods falls by half) then the number of coins available to be exchanged must fall by half as well. This becomes the real tricky part. In the face of price inflation, you have to convince people to save/hoard rather than to dump all their coins before they lose value. (Popping a bubble)The best way to motivate people to behave in this manner is to guarantee mathematically that the system will over the medium term always return every coin's monetary value to some constant. The question for me has always been, "What constant?" Meaning, what benchmark is to be used in a very dynamic economic marketplace?--- Hopefully, that mostly paraphrases what you have written. i wasn't intended to contest anything in the above section. ---I think the idea of using the price of electricity as that benchmark shows serious possibility. Satoshi suggested a similar thing, but with a constant BTC generation rate, a short term bubble seemed much more likely. Your idea of varying the generation rate of ENC makes the convergence much more likely.--- Controversial stuff starts here ---Keep in mind that by adding the concept of "Trust" you completely remove the necessity for bitcoin's proof-of-work. As you pointed out in section 6. Transactions, EnCoin's transaction history immutability is based upon shared consensus. As such, it should be possible to solve the transaction recording problem using only a negligible amount of electricity. That guarantees the greatest participation in the consensus.It also means, that time/power consuming proof-of-work calculations are required ONLY during the times it is advantageous to mint new coins. That could be a huge advantage in a shrinking economy.The only real question in my mind is how do you distribute newly created coins, and destroy any unnecessary coins, in a way that best leverages the hoarders. For example, in a growing economy, you want to penalize hoarding. Therefore you might award new coins ONLY to people who have current bitcoin transactions. Likewise, in a shrinking economy, you want to penalize spending/dumping bitcoins. You might consider, taxing the spenders in each current transaction.  Destroying the tax would increase the value of each hoarder's stash.I still haven't tied this line of thought to the optional generation and the price of electricity but I get the sense that it could be done. I have to re-read all your notes to convince myself you've figured it out.---I get the sense that your plan goes something like this:1) Tax every transaction.2a) If prices are inflating, make it electrically unprofitable to generate coins to replace the tax.2b) If prices are deflating, make it electrically profitable to generate new coins in an amount greater than the above tax.2c) If prices are stable, it should be electrically profitable to generate only the coins necessary to replace the tax. (Or perhaps there is just a gentle oscillation between the above two states.)===Am I anywhere close yet? Hi Etlase2,I re-read the "on hording" thread to see why you found me. If you liked that thread, this and this are others that were running about the same time.I'm on record here, (review my canon if you are interested) as being a big fan of the bitcoin concept. But also as presuming bitcoin will bubble and inevitably fail because of bitcoin's fixed monetary policy. Now the summer bubble doesn't make me prescient. When I first came here bitcoins were 5 for a dollar. I didn't buy any because, as a result of the slashdot effect, they had just appreciated 100 fold. At that time there was a website called "the bitcoin faucet" that gave anyone who asked 5 BTC just to spread them around. After the 100 fold inflation it had to switch to giving out "bit nickels" instead. As such, I own precisely .05 BTC. I didn't even ask the faucet twice. If, like I rhetorically postulated in some of my posts, I had purchased $1,000 of BTC AND sold them when BTC hit $30, then I would have been prescient. (See knightmb for an example. I hope he cashed some out!)---I did spend a lot of time and mental energy trying to come up with a bitcoin analog with a stable monetary policy. I'm assuming that is what you are going for too. I've read through all four pages of this thread and part of your proposal. I think I'm only at about 50% comprehension though. It looks like you are trying to come up with a way to generate EnCoins so that their value stays constant. I'm a big fan of that idea. In your case you've chosen a certain amount (or value) of electricity as your reference constant. Is that correct?I'm presuming that if the value of an ENC increases too fast, you want to generate ENC faster. I'm not sure I understand the mechanism yet. I'm guessing arbitragers notice the opportunity and fire up new nodes. The cost of electricity (somehow I'm not clear on yet) serves as a lower bound. If ENC values go too low, arbitragers won't waste the electricity to generate them.Am I on the right track, or have I missed the train of thought entirely? I second the Mechanical Turk idea. I was planning to start a thread about that.It could probably be a sinister way to do guerrilla marketing. I propose that every bitcoin transaction automatically generate and efax a 1099-B form to the IRS. No matter how small the transaction. Nothing like burying them in paperwork to make them rethink a rule. http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1099b.pdfThere must be some online service that will send the faxes for free. ;-) I'm not an expert but I thought about an options exchange for a while. It seems that you need to have exchange supervised margin accounts. I was hoping that you could just hold bitcoins in margin accounts, but I convinced myself that the exchange would need to hold dollars (currency) as well.The difference between futures "options" and trading now, is that options buyers are not required to trade in the future. Instead they have the option to trade in the future. Options writers however, are required to trade in the future if the option holder chooses to. The only way to assure that someone trades in the future when the market has gone against them, is to hold their margin account as collateral.Also, these options trade as independent entities. You can buy an option today and sell it to someone else tomorrow never having "exercised" the option. Creating an option exchange is not a trivial exercise, at least if it is modeled on traditional options exchanges.It could be fun though. That was my conclusion too. Because everything is public record, your anonymity is based upon how much someone cares to breach your veil. If you are the only one, it is simply a matter of drawing the lines to connect everything. You need lots of people to make the system normal. You also needs lots of regular payments to avoid correlation.If one person puts in 33 BTC and someone else puts in 26 BTC. It doesn't matter how much you mix things in the middle, if out pops 26 BTC and then 33 BTC going to other people. Just draw the lines and mark which were mixing accounts in case they get reused.The most anonymous situation would be to generate the coins using a node running over TOR. Then hold those coins in their separate address spending all 50 at once. Once you go mixing coins with others, you only add more possible entry points for someone to compromise.Not sure this had anything to do with what you were asking. Sorry for the tangent. The EFF uses lots of college interns for donations and maintenance projects. As the school year is just about to start I would expect more attention after the new crop of recruits comes in. It is possible to split a private key into N shares, where M of N are required to reconstruct the private key.That seems like the technology you are looking for. Shamir secret sharing is what it is often called. Don't forget Public Knowledge. Gigi has done a lot.http://www.publicknowledge.org/ In the us. Lived here for lots of years. It still doesn't suck where I live.Real estate spiked mostly in particular areas, CA, FL, AZ, NV. It wasn't the Feds doing. It was wall street's fuckup. It is very simple to understand and explain. The actual criminals were mortgage brokers who didn't vet loans. They basically gave out loans to anyone then sold them the same day to Fannie, Freddie, and real estate trusts. Bankers bought in to wall streets fuckup. It turns out letting them do that was a bad thing in retrospect. To big to fail served us just as well as it served the soviet union. Yes there was a central policy fuckup, but it was that the government should be in the real-estate business without paying any attention. It wasn't the Feds fuckup though. Outside of the areas being gamed things remained stable.Education is again a central planning fuckup and an organized scam. But it isn't the Feds fault either. Sallie allowed any crappy fake university take government backed student loans. This increased competition, but again it was competition against state supported universities. Who then just raised their prices to cover losses of aid flowing elsewhere. Again, state universities are always too big to fail. Now students are defaulting at much higher rates from fake universities. So we have the big O is nationalizing the whole program without fixing any of the problems.Medical care spiked because insurance and government subsidies make an even more horrible combination than subsidies alone. But the industry made huge improvements in care and technology over thirty years. Americans however made impressive strides in how far we are willing to go to abuse our bodies over the same time period. This time it's not a too big to fail problem, it's a "too stupid to die" problem. Again not the Feds fuckup. If anyone fucked up, it's American restaurants for providing huge food value at minimal cost. The part to the right of 1960, that excludes the 70's which sucked. But even when things sucked in the US, they sucked more in other countries at the time.But ever since 1980, you see a consistent ability to keep inflation slightly positive, with no deflationary dips. 2010 might actually be deflationary dip, but it won't be one because of the fed.The goals of the fed are: maximum employmentstable pricesmoderate long-term interest ratespromotion of sustainable economic growthhttp://www.federalreserve.gov/pf/pdf/pf_2.pdf There are lots of things that people want to do anonymously. But to convince yourself bitcoin is a safe place to store your value, that takes interacting with the community.This community is really not that sympathetic to people who like existing monetary policy, but are just trying to find a way to send cash-like anonymous payments over the Internet.They are even less sympathetic to those who say, "What makes bitcoin not a Ponzi scheme?" the answer that there is no pyramid is not one that inspires confidence.The answer has to be that there is a community committed to supporting bitcoin and building business on its success. We know and trust one another, but it is an earned trust not a naive one. You should meet some of us and join our community. "Hi my name is Red!"  The point of the Fed system is to separate banking from politics. It deliberately makes it hard to change policy. The congress could disband the fed but reality shows that the fed is succeeding at its assigned task. Congress however is much less effective at its tasks.It's hard for the pot to call the kettle black, when the kettle is shiny copper. Political speech donations is another thing I think would be useful. Especially in an election season. With scotus changing the rules it might not even be rebellious.This holds for PAC donations as well.
I've been kicking this around for a while. I've been thinking of bitcoin as the privacy currency. Suppose you want to post on a web site but don't want to give them personal information. If you could just include a bitcoin, that would make clear you are not a spammer. Or if you are, at least the site gets paid for canceling your posts.The same thing is possible for dealing with spam email. Sending email to someone and want to avoid their spam filter? Slip them a couple of bitcoins. Then they have some when they want to send an email to someone new.This way there is a complete circuit for bitcoins without going back to cash.As people start making distributed social networking things it could be even more useful.  Seconded with a smile! People trade with people. They trust their value to people.You will attract more cryptoanarchists but if you expect to attract the mainstream it means team building.Quite frankly if someone told me he was joining an anarchist organization I would just quietly smile to myself and enjoy watching the show.Somethings in life really are marketing. There is a transaction flag that you can use to sign a transaction without signing the to address. I forget what the enum is called.I think it is used for paying transaction fees. Because when you set up and send the transaction, you can't know who will generate the block and get to claim the transaction fee. Thanks! I found it an interesting survey because the questions are so weird. They are not so much asking your opinion as correlating emotional tendencies.My hypotheses is that bitcoin won't be successful in the long term unless the bitcoin community has strong community building tendencies. Meaning strong group loyalty. Also reasonable respect for authority seems required, and some purity in the sense of respect for traditions. But in this case that means *future* respect for the new traditions being created. In other words if members of the bitcoin community go chasing off after every shiny new monetary trinket...If you compare this to recent American politics, you can see that the Democrats, even though they have vast majorities in both houses, they can't form a team. They have little group loyalty, little respect for their own authorities, and no respect for their own traditions.The republicans on the other hand can agree to stand arms folded giggling at them in perfect unity.------Take note of the following in your real life.If you talk to a conservative about your liberal ideas, they will say, "I understand what you are saying, but I think you are wrong (or an idiot.)"If you talk to a liberal about your conservative ideas, they will say, "You really can't believe that. You are just saying that because..."It is not politeness or diplomacy. They really don't believe anyone could possibly hold your opinion. This is the first coherent discription I've seen for why this is.  Bump can send just about any information. It is a neat concept.No reasons you couldn't send a bitcoin address or an entire transaction. (One of those signed with the any receiver setting.) You know this is what the PGP web-of-trust is right?Trust in the PGP sense means, I have personally verified that this "public key" belongs to the guy stated in the PGP key. For varying senses of the words "personally verified". It is quite reasonable that if I transact with you BrightAnarchist that I might sign your public key, so that my friends would know you are the specific BrightAnarchist I traded with. Even if I only know you pseudonymously. Creighto please correct me if I'm wrong, but "all debts" is slightly overstated above. It is my understand that it means all agreed debts denominated in dollars.It is perfectly reasonable to make agreements or contract denominated in other commodities. For example, I can loan you 10 chickens and require 10 chickens to repay the debt. I don't necessarily have to agree to a dollar equivalent value of 10 chickens. If I'm hungry for chicken, I can't eat dollars.Futures markets operate on this principle.Legal tender really tends to mean, if someone owed your grandfather $100 from 1920, you can't demand 100 silver dollar coins, $100 in silver certificates, 2 $50 gold pieces or any other form specific form of currency. You have to take FRN if they are offered, else the debt is forfeit. Harm = 2.0Fairness = 3.0Loyalty = 3.5Authority = 3.3Purity = 2.2 I've been following Jonathan Haidt's research on the 5 foundations of morality for a little while now. He does a really interesting job of explain the differences between people based on 5 independent scales. He then shows how people who consider themselves conservative and people who consider themselves liberal tend to show similar patterns on these scales.He gave a very interesting TED talk (20 min) where he explains the concepts.http://www.ted.com/index.php/talks/jonathan_haidt_on_the_moral_mind.htmlI my personal life, I find his hypotheses seem to match the people I meet on a day to day basis. They also hold for different sub-groups I tend to interact with.The group that gathers on this forum however is a less common group for me. Most people don't consider themselves either conservative or liberal. Usually more libertarian and anarchistic. However, I still see certain tendencies that I think can be predictive of bitcoin's future success or failure.I'm wondering if anyone is interested in taking his "Moral Foundations Questionnaire" and sharing your results here. This is not a questionnaire about whether or not you "have morals". Everyone has morals. It simply asks what types of issues you personally see as being morally important. You might consider other things important for personal reasons, but not moral ones.For example, many people here would consider that owning personal property as being very morally important. The same people might not consider cussing in public as a morally significant decision. (my made up examples)Anyway, if you are. Here is a link. I understand if you are not.http://www.yourmorals.org/There is real research going on so their tends to be lots of available questionnaires, but initial one is called the "Moral Foundations Questionnaire".I'll post my results first. I'll post my hypothesis about how this is related to bitcoins future success later, for those who are interested. :-) It's a pretty cool use case. I don't expect there will be much *generalized* fraud if the machine did its own validation. I mean I doubt somebody standing there in the laundromat with a basket of dirty clothes is also simultaneously trying to double spend those coins by buying a tropical fish.However, it is probably worth defending against the case where someone is trying to double/triple spend to start multiple machines at once. That should be pretty easy to defend against though, since all machines are likely on the same network. I have to agree with Creighto. I haven't seen any racism and there is barely any organization.There are however, may people who have long been frustrated. If you live in a red state the tea party's themes have been common conversation for decades. The general public is very late to the concept.I'm sure that a "public affairs" company does lots of media and takes lots of credit for doing things. I don't know if DCI has been hired at any point along the way. But I know they didn't start the conversation or the parties. But some PA/PR/Media buyer did arrange some radio spots at some point. I'd be hugely surprised if RJR paid for them!I can guarantee however this is completely astroturf. It is also pretty unsuccessful!http://www.coffeepartyusa.com/ It's not that I don't find your roommate's argument coherent. It is just that I don't find it compelling. And I really have been to this rodeo a number of times. Each new generation makes the same points with a slight variation on the enemy. It is like an internet chain letter. The "people are corporate sheep" argument really hit its stride in the 60's. Ironically, the few people who ended up changing anything did so by started their own corporations. Producing things is a mighty force for change.But the key point he is trying to make is: People are not going to change anything to be more like I want, until things really start to suck. Therefore, wouldn't it be nice if things really sucked?Well as it turns out, "No". Things wouldn't be better if they really sucked. That's the grown-up answer to the very common adolescent question. Yes, I've been an adolescent and I've raised adolescents. And yes I'm well aware that adolescence lasts well into the late 20's now.But where he is wrong is that if you see a potential problem you really can fix it. Or maybe you can try and fail. But either way, don't expect people to care unless you actually fix one of THEIR problems.That is the problem Obama is having. He keeps asking for people to be impressed with all the problems he sees that he is fixing.  Purely pragmatic needs to work more and earn more FRN. In my case at least. Nothing special about high school except kids want to go to the prom. Seriously! That and high school is where the hot chicks are! :-) those were my kids thoughts at the time. It turns out it's not as hard a you would think. We home schooled our kids until high school. Then they just seemed to pickup bad habits.It turns out public schools are just broken as designed. Nice letter. It brought to mind the story of James Smithson donating a bunch of gold sovereigns to the unexpecting. :-) Thank you for that quote.It sounds just ordinarily anti-social until you get to "contribute to a massive increase in collective awareness" then it gets implausible and silly. No offense to your roommate, it's just not my first trip to the enlightenment rodeo.    There was a thread on arduino that fits this use case nicely. I'm not arguing that anyone need feel bad.I'm suggesting that most Americans have never seen a Euro in their life. Most probably never will. They see prices in USD that only go down for sales but usually go up as a trend. No one says, they went up, because the the dollar fell against the Euro or etc.If a merchant wants $10 for something, and I want him to have my $10 for that something, then there should be a process that is trivially easy and one that requires zero additional thought, rationalization or argument.Because the taco guy really doesn't want to hear his woes about BTC fluctuations to the dollar either. If he was trying to overthrow the Fed buying corn and chicken in BTCs and then selling tacos in BTCs, perhaps he might understand. But he isn't. He's just selling the damn tacos. What type of political bent is interested in increasing inflation? Seems either an extreme progressive, or just a crash everything because I want to need me to save it type.
The BTC to USD rates change over the short term and the long term.For my use case, I presuming people want to hold $10 as 10 BTB for a few days or couple weeks but to be sure they are still worth $10 when they spend them. Just like an anonymous debit card.I was considering an in country usage case so I may need to consider additional details given creighto's international trade comments. (I'll skip that case for the moment)Profit comes of course if the BTC savers are correct and BTC increases in value against the dollar. This seems most likely to happen if there is a huge increase in users of the bitcoin ecosystem. If the BTC savers are wrong and BTC declines against the dollar, it likely means that the Ponzi-like story is played out but there is not a sufficient increase in consumers uptake to makeup the difference. If that happens there is going to be a BTC value crash.The real question is what are the trends likely to be?If there is a long term up trend in BTC value than holding BTC makes cents. Holding other people's BTC makes even more cents. A sufficient buffer of BTC can smooth out minor price corrections. It also let's me automate a simple BTC cost averaging strategy.Pitching BTB to potential users can be easier than pitching bitcoin, because you can say, "Its just like paypal or a debit card, but no fees and it's anonymous." I don't have to convince them the fed sucks.   -----If there is a crash, I can tell people I just fell victim to satoshi's Ponzi scheme, just like everyone else. I need a bail out! So first let me point out that his particular post is not a philosophical statement, or an attempt to change the world. This post is about marketing and business profits. As distasteful as it may seem.So I noticed an issue during the 10x value jump. One of the merchants I was interested in had not changed their BTC prices and was inadvertently asking a price 10x higher in USD than they were originally asking. Many people are not used to checking exchange rates and repricing their products daily. I personally hate the idea. I even find it annoying when traveling. I just let American express handle it.There seems to be a very common use case that goes:1) I give X $10 for 200 BTC2) I send the 200 BTC to Y for a anonymous service.3) Y gives XX 200 BTC for ~$104) Y buys some tacos from a guy who doesn't care how tenuous USD is because he's just going to spend them too.So the immediate goal is to sent $10 to someone anonymously.Now if I convert $10 to BTC, send it, and Y converts it to $11 he's happy and I don't care.But if he converts it to $9.50 he's going to be a little annoyed. I don't want that to happen because this is not a dual, it's mutual cooperation.Believe it or not there are lots of people who think like me.Now, me being me. I don't want to take risk for the cash, so I'd rather create a front end to existing markets and let them take the money changing risk. I just hold virtual BTC and sell virtual BTB. I stay one level removed. (which may or may not be far enough removed.) I'm not sure it effects your point significantly, but I'm pretty confident I remember Betamax coming before VHS. Other formats came before both but were never successful with consumers.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Videotape_format_warhttp://www.mediacollege.com/video/format/compare/betamax-vhs.html Suppose I wanted to create a system like bitcoin, but I wanted it to have a value pegged to the dollar. Let's call it bitbuck. By definition, one bitbuck (BTB) would always trade at one USD.In bitbuck's case "like bitcoin" means that it does all the accounting and verification a la bitcoin. But it DOES NOT generate new coins with each block. Instead, an *int max* account is created in the first block belonging to the "Central BTB Reserve". A centralized service would take care of moving BTB in and out of circulation.It is easy to see that a central bank could work if it operated in the following fashion.1. The central bank would sell BTB in exchange for paper federal reserve notes.2. The central bank would alway deposit the paper in a safe "piggy bank". (100% reserve on-demand access)3. The central bank would buy BTB on-demand in exchange for the FRN in the piggy bank.That makes in a simplified version of PayPal. Except one with zero potential for profit. However, that also makes it a money transfer service with all the hassles that come from that.But the key feature is people understand dollars. Both working for dollars and spending dollars for things priced in dollars. There is no extra "philosophy" to cloud acceptance. There are no exchange rates to check when comparing prices.So that's obvious and uninteresting, so far. But the real discussion I want to have is:----What if in the above scenario, you replaced "piggy bank" with a bitcoin wallet.So to be clear, someone buys a bitbuck and the dollar is used ASAP on one of the existing exchanges to buy the equivalent quantity of bitcoin at market rates. These coins are held in the central banks bitcoin wallet, which is just like any other bitcoin user's wallet. There is no special relationship between the two systems.The benefit is that any merchant willing to accept bitcoins, automatically takes bitbucks as well. Since they probably already post an equivalent price in USD, they already have bitbuck prices listed.  (There are pricing issues worth discussing.)There is potential for the central bank to profit in USD if the value of BTC rises over time.There is a potential for loss if the value of BTC drops. So in reality the bitbuck system wins by making bitcoin popular and loses if bitcoin fails to gain acceptance. (The risks here are worth discussing. And the likely necessity of a futures market for mitigating the risk.)  I've always thought that but your TOS points are well taken!I think bitcoin has huge potential as an anonymous speech currency. It could replace the CAPTCHA for those times you want to speak but don't see a need to give sites your personal information.Or for when you wanted to make donations to speakers you support that prefer to remain anonymous. Think political or religious speech gadflies.Also, suppose you modified the TOR to support bitcoin, then you could offset the expenses of those running exit nodes, without compromising either party's anonymity. You could simply include a donation transaction when you set up the connection. The receiver can send it to any address they want.I'm trying to come up with ecosystems where the coins can circulate extensively without being converted back to national currencies after each exchange. Actually that was part joke and part poke at people who think that because bitcoin is designed to be deflationary in nature that makes it the perfect commodity for saving in.I think bitcoin has already sowed the seeds of it's own destruction by using a fixed commodity/currency model. Blame John Wanamaker. Americans simply don't haggle anymore so we find rapidly varying prices distasteful. Also naive proponents of fixed currency tend to sound like they are promoting a Ponzi scheme.  They have trouble explaining how bitcoin is better than PayPal without analogies that make user sound like neer-do-wells. None of that helps  bitcoin build creditability. That being said, bitcoin is the best attempt yet in my mind. None of these complaints are in anyway technical limitations so there is still huge near term potential even "as is".So, I do have some ideas for you.You've hit on the need for a bitcoin futures market. Been thinking of coding one of those up myself. It is a much more profitable way to speculate in the currency. We can talk about why it has exceptional potential for the bitcoin community.I have another idea as well but I'll start a new thread. Yes, you understand the issues I have with the block list now. :-)For most people it will be "enough privacy" to just use bitcoin as designed. But if you want to say provocative things and remain anonymous while being hunted that makes things much harder.The trusted account requires lots of users using it regularly for it to have any effect at all. That makes it akin to a bank and checking account. But an automated one that doesn't log checks. I really need to find that link. If six people use the bank they are all suspect. If six thousand use the bank, it provides some obscurity.But I'd really like to see an implementation with the transactions totally removed from the list. There are a couple of ideas pointing to the plausibility of this. There is a thread called "not a suggestion" that discusses them. I see what you are going for but it is going to be hard to implement. This is because of the graph nature of bitcoin transactions.Let's start with the premise that you are trying to make this a business. And you are selling these to people who want to do something but don't want to be traced. Often that means they don't want "to get caught", which is the most important threat to you personally I presume.So you are going to have to assume that one or more of your customers "gets caught" and see how that effects your anonymity.Say you are selling VM's that contain 50 BTC. Assuming the client VM's are just bitcoin installations + some wallet entries (address=public/private keys) that total 50 BTC. Now if you were to sell something like this. If I bought it, the first thing I would do is think, "Hey, that guy has copies of my private keys. So they are not private at all!" So to be sure my coins didn't disappear, the first thing I'd have to do is send these coins to myself, at a completely new address so you wouldn't have the keys. If the coins weren't correlated before then, they are now.Now assuming someone gets caught, and they say I bought this VM on the internet from an anonymous seller. The authorities can now look back at the transaction log. They can see all the keys you included in the VM and any new keys the "caught guy" created. It is trivial to determine the creation timing of each since its stored in the block list. So the authorities can deduce, every out-point that was part of his initial VM. The associated in-points must have belonged to the VM seller (you). So they have the set of your addresses you used to create the VM. They can easily trace to see were other coins from those addresses went. They are almost sure to be VMs as well. If they see a merge structure there, that confirms a VM and gives them more of your addresses.The more you pass coins around between your accounts, the more addresses they can correlate. The mixing patterns you describe are likely to be very obvious compared to normal transfer patterns in the transaction graph. If you mix coins that will go into VMs with coins that you spend personally, you have even more risk.The best way for you to avoid having your accounts correlated is to buy coins in the 50 BTC quantities you will sell, and never touch the coins yourself. Just create new addresses for each 50 BTC block and have the seller's transfer the coins there directly. Then you just put each key in a VMs and sell it.That connects your source and your customer together, but that only potentially gives away other coin addresses from the same seller.Notice no matter what you do, if one of your customer's get caught the authorities can deduce some account that is your, and the ownership history of every coin. Your anonymity depends on who you sell to, who you buy from and your ability to remain anonymous from both of them. There is already a poll of nationalities on the site. You could start there.But certainly if you read for a while, you will see that the forum community has a large representation of -anarchists and various types of libertarians.There was one liberal/socialist here, but I ran him off. (Sorry everyone.)Most believe strongly in hard (gold/silver) currencies and there is a deep distrust of fiat currencies and the governments that create them. There is unbridled animosity toward central banks.I however, prefer fiat currencies and think gold is better used for rapper's teeth and silicon interconnects. I came here on the promise that bitcoin could be used as an internet cash replacement with all the privacy that goes with cash transactions. It fits in with my strategy to return privacy back to the web. However, bitcoin is slightly less private than I would like. I'm working to fix that.If you are really interested in "investing" in the bitcoin ecosystem, I have one or two ideas you might be interested it. I'd be happy to discuss them in public or private. Ok, so there is nothing much to add to what theymos said... Except, that on most "digital signatures" the full certificate including the public key is included in the signature block. Otherwise they are hard to validate because there is nothing to map the seemingly random signature part to any particular person's public key.Since bitcoin doesn't use certificates, (I think) they add the signature and public key as a separate fields in the transaction. Hense Betamax begetting VHS, but VHS dominated the market and crowded out everything else incl disks up till DVD. I was referring to the demand for bitcoins absent their currency-like utility.Selling bitcoins ONLY because others will want them even more in the future, is by definition a Ponzi scheme. I'm sure I don't understand your use case.But if you retrying to accumulate great wealth while not being seen as a single entity, it is better if you keep your coins in addresses that don't communicate with each other. Then pay with the account with the balance that is closest to what you want to spend.  The premise of this thread is spot on, even if the examples are slightly weak.You propose that some one comes up with a "better" bitcoin. However, that is not required. They need only come up with a "more accepted/useful" bitcoin. That is not so far fetched as the forum consensus would point out.For example, the current bitcoin implementation is very popular among Crypto-Anarchists and libertarian revolutionaries. As an investor you are betting that this community can sway the masses to support "their idea" of better money.A few days ago there was someone of a more liberal bent that proposed some monetary policy changes that were "fairer" from a liberal perspective.Others have proposed changes that seem better if you prefer the idea of a zero inflation/deflation money.All could be implemented with minor changes to the bitcoin code base. (I am a coder by trade.) So as an investor you would be betting on which group is more likely to build the most valuable consensus.Unless you buy into the idea that there is a build in demand for bitcoins just because they exist as a limited commodity. In that case, I've got some things I think you'll be interested in...   This seems like a point today, but 2.5 years ago I heard people making the same argument in favor of investing in California real estate. Excellent! Charles Ponzi himself decided to come to the forum. Welcome!How exactly is gold like bitcoins?What makes bitcoins more like gold than say like 2008 Oklahoma collectable quarters? I may not understand your point but this doesn't sound anonymous at all. Each transaction is logged in the block list. That makes it trivial to associate this group of nodes. By making payments from multiple nodes correlated in time you confirm the suspicion.Somewhere I posted a simple way to have true anonymity, but it requires a trusted account that mixes coins from different people. If multiple people own the same account then no single person can be correlated with any particular payment through block list analysis. Hear hear!There appear to be some people who think that bitcoins represent a store of value ABSENT the acceptance of bitcoin as a commonly accepted medium of exchange. Nothing could be more preposterous. What value would it be storing? Exactly my point. USD is much more useful as money than gold bullion is.I think this statement is off base. The success of PayPal depends on how easily it converts to the US Dollar (et al). Bitcoin will be a success when you don't have to convert them to anything. That is the point of the exercise. Creating electronic proxies for Dollars has been done to death. It's easy by comparison.Fresno, bitcoin is designed to be currency-like for use in a currency-like fashion. That's the point if the exercise. Merchants treat and use bitcoins as money. Markets for trading different currencies are secondary to the concept.Digital accounting and limited edition digital commodities are trivial and uninteresting by comparison. I saw a good definition of success when researching LETS. Int holds for bitcoin as well.Money is hard to earn and easy to spend.Bitcoins are easy to earn but hard to spend.You can judge the success of bitcoin by how easy it is to spend your bitcoins on something that improves your life.What's the point of owning 100,000 BTC if you can't buy the occasional, wine, woman or song?
Let me be the first to say WTF? Not because your definition is not accurate but because it is pointless.Your description matches tcp/ip, http, smtp, kazaa, limewire, bittorrent, and just about anything that is not paypal. How on earth is that useful?  These are great definitions. Here as in the rest of my life I struggle with naming things appropriately. I will try to use these definitions consistently in the future.How would you describe LETS credits? The have long ends and short ends like split tally sticks, so currency seems superficially appropriate.I'd never given two seconds thought to economics before I came here! :-)  Noagenda, I like the tally stick as metaphor. However it suffers from the same limitation as GETS/LETS. If you don't already know what they are, you have to look them up first. :-)I really think bitcoin is two concepts merged into one term.1) the global distributed tally system (currency-ness)2) the fixed quantity policy (commodity-ness)I created the GETS concept as a way to talk about the currency aspects independent of the commodity aspects. I think your tally system fits here appropriately but I need to study more. (And I don't need to hear that both can be avoided by saying "it's just a convenience, Fresno)A zero based LETS system doesn't suffer from the "tyranny of timing" that I've pointed out and Galuel seems to have devoted his life to. That means hiding "progressivism" in the monetary policy is unnecessary. That was why he had to lock the UD topic. It simply isn't a universal necessity.----However, the key thrust of all banker/money changer arguments seems to be that these people get something that they are not deserving of because they did not do an amount of work proportional to the benefit they receive. They all seem to be "fairness" arguments.LETS groups solve this problem in the most generalized way possible. They simply say, the point is not for you to compile credits so you can stop working and retire. The point is to keep us all working together for our common benefit. That's its hippie-ness. There is no subsidy/tax for delayed gratification. Bitcoin is decidedly not hippie. The community loves bitcoins limited commodity-ness. As such they are almost giddy at its delayed gratification subsidy. (price deflation) It is supposedly fairer because anyone can get free stuff like bankers. They don't even have to understand banking. Galuel, interestingly was proposing a monetary policy with a built in tax on delayed gratification. (monetary inflation to cause redistribution of wealth) It is supposedly fairer because it penalizes bankers to support workers.    Well written! You've struggled with some of the same issues I have. I invite you to comment on some of the other threads as well. For example the GETS thread and the commodity thread.The arduino idea is quite cool! This is a silly way to play semantic games, and it is spamming too many otherwise interesting threads.Fresno, the game is simple. Just start a new thread and in your post write your best description of bitcoin for the uninitiated. Feel free to not use any words you don't want to use. If new people understand bitcoin, then you win. If new people go WTF? you lose.Or start a thread with campfire stories about boogie men. Then we can all try to out do each other with our stories of righteous indignation and a persecution by the man.   I know a guy who runs a peer to peer conference. It is piggybacks on a digital media conference. There have been various groups interested in p2p payment systems there in the past.I could probably get him interested in bitcoin if there was interest here. The group is small in number compared to the giant trade shows, so bitcoin would stand out more. It is a LA or DC show usually. I haven't been in about three years, but I did get to meet ant party with the edonkey, morpheus, and kazaa folks. Lots of Hollywood types trying to figure out how to get paid for their digital properties there too. Bitcoin could be very useful to that market.Any thoughts? That is not a problem. It is the intended way of dealing with value using a LETS approach. In fact if you are simply bringing charity, you do not have to be part of the system at all. Or you could barter one Lincoln Towncar for one authentic string friendship bracelet. That does not require participation in a system intended to tie you to the community.One of the things I have been struggling with is the basis for "the value of money". You allude to the equation (fixed total currency)*(currency value)=(total value of non-currency commodities).So if total value increases and currency remains fixed then, currency value must increase. However this equation does not really apply to LETS. I've convinced myself it doesn't apply to money in general.If a potter and a baker join a LETS community, the system doesn't record how much bread or pots they own. Nor does the system take note when they bake more bread or create more pots.The currency quantity is bounded but elastic so it need not vary in value. So if both the baker and the potter start with zero balances, then if the baker needs a pot, he simply takes one and tallies the LETS credits to reflect this. Potter +=1, Baker -= 1.Now if the clay digger is hungry he gets bread from the baker and he tallies his actions. Baker += 1, Digger -= 1. Eventually the potter will need more clay so he gets it from the digger and updates the tallies. Digger += 1, Potter -= 1.Now everyone's balances are zero again. Meaning the total amount of credit/currency circulating = zero. However, there is an increase in total commodities (pots). Therefore commodities can increase without price deflation. Credit/currency can increase without causing price inflation. Truly traveller it is veer interesting and much more up my alley than bitcoin. However there is so much more to analyze and learn than with bitcoin.It makes one feel a little slow and behind the curve.-----So let's start with a noob question. Is it in use anywhere? Is there annother community forum somewhere that I can go  and lurk in?  I understand your point of view. It makes perfect sense in reality. Say I come into a community and I teach basket weaving. If I leave and take nothing the community is richer.  However in the case of a formal monetary system it does have consequences. A LET system is equivalent to a fixed currency system in the sense that coins, bullion or tally sticks, it someone enters the community than leaves taking the currency, then there is less currency to go around. It is monetary deflation. It makes it harder to trade. In LETS as others' balances go more negative you have to either allow more credit to compensate for the unspent credits or change prices to compensate for the hoarded currency.If die or formally leave the community and return your unused credits, you have the same issue as someone dying with negative credits. You still have to redistribute the good fortune, or the burden. It is much easier in a LETS system since there is central control of the accounting. For anyone outside the US, the above statement is basically silliness. W-4 form is the form employees fill out specifying how much salary withholding they are ALLOWING the employer to withhold. There are mandatory withholding laws that apply to all employer/employee relationships. There are certain responsibilities each party MUST comply with, like it or not. The W-4 form is a form that shows compliance. It is not a contract. If you refuse to sign and W-4 and the employer still wants to employ you, he must still comply with the law. You must also still comply with the law whether you sign or not. It says so right on the form:http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/fw4.pdfThe W-4 form is not a contract. That should be clear to any observer as the required part is only half a page long.Of course you can have the kid down the street mow your lawn! This is the stupidest statement I've seen on this site. The lawn guy that cuts my lawn is NOT my employee. He is an independent contractor. If he has employees then he has to comply with the law. I certainly don't have to. Nor is the guy at the grocery store my employee because he carries my groceries to the car. Nor the waiter because he brings me my food. Please don't make Americans look like idiots.Obviously they do. Sometimes people use them to point out you are spouting nonsense. You ducked the question by saying people can agree to whatever they want.I suggested that it simply doesn't make sense to pay someone extra for their "delayed gratification". While you might think that delaying your own gratification is somehow noble. It doesn't benefit me at all. Moreover, in the context of a LETS system it negatively effects the community. If someone hoards a positive balance, then others' balances by definition have to remain negative.A LETS system is a shared credit system (according to wikipedia). Suppose a system starts everyone out with a zero balance and allows people to have up to a positive or negative 500 credit balance. So in your case if you had a zero balance you could easily pay the lawn guy 10 or 11 credits. Whatever you negotiate. The community is lending you those credits at zero interest in the hope that you will use your skills to benefit the community. The only reason you could not pay the lawn guy, is if your balance was already -490 (Which is publicly known by definition). At that point the lawn guy could have the community accept the risk for your -10 credits, or he personally could take the risk for your -11 credits. That would be up to him if he wanted to trust you for it. He would have a lot more evidence from the LETS system than most people have making those sorts of decisions today (unless they run a credit report).The community risk in a LETS system is that people run up a negative balance and then exit the community. This means they took services from the community but did not repay with services of their own. Say a person died with a -500 credit balance. Then by definition, there are +500 credits out there that can never be balanced. That would be the equivalent to "inflation" in other monetary systems. To bring the system into balance either someone has to take responsibility for working off the -500 credits, maybe other family members. Or the community as a whole would have to "write off" +500 credits of their expectations. LETS is an accounting convenience owned, used, and maintained by the community. It is used to facilitate trade and wikipedia defines it as a full fledged monetary system (not barter).I don't find the noun "convenience" used alone to be descriptive enough to be useful in this situation.In the US there is nothing wrong with trading using whatever token you want. I use frequent flyer miles, credit card rebates, hotel and untold other points systems, karma, coupons, and many other things listed as "foo dollars" or "foo bucks". There really is no threat.If I used any to avoid taxes or send money to terrorists they would hunt me down and ask why. But I don't do those things so I'm unconcerned.And legally speaking, your intentions matter but your vocabulary usually don't. You can be convicted of having someone "offed" just as easily easily as if you had said "killed".    This is more common than you think and not arbitrarily non-sensical. Suppose you work for a fixed salary and generally work 5 week days and get 2 weekend days off. Now if you happened to work one weekend extra it is clear that you are "owed" two days of not working as compensation. If you take those two days the next week that seems perfectly reasonable. However, what if you decided to "bank" those two days and to not take them for five years? Say over those five years your salary increases 50%. So when you take those two days, they are equivalent to three days of work at the rate you banked them. Is this fair to the company? What if there is a recession and your salary falls 50%? Do you have the right to demand four days off-work instead of two?More and more companies in the US are employing a use your vacation (this year) or lose your vacation strategy whenever possible to avoid these issues.The LETS philosophy adopts this concept for everything since everything is basically "work" to them. According to the founder there is no point at all in saving in LETS credits. Credis should remain fixed in value. If you want to save in something that changes in value choose one of the numerous commodities produced and traded by members of the LETS community. That is why they stress keeping everyone's balances close to zero.-----Bitcoin differs greatly from LETS in this philosophy but only because of the 21,000,000 fixed bitcoin policy. Bitcoin's monetary policy could be varied (in theory) to bring it closer to LETS, but that is definitely NOT a priority of the bitcoin community. There has been much discussion on this site about how best to describe bitcoin to the uninitiated. Some people, favor currency metaphors, others alude to commodity metaphors. Others caution either of these as dangerous taunts to authority.I posted the following in another thread and there was a suggestion that I write an extended article about my simile. It seems likely that my suggestion is as polarizing as any other. So to avoid any unnecessary aggravation, I'm soliciting comments in advance. Any thoughts are appreciated. ------I'd like to submit that I think the most apt description of bitcoin is that it is most like a Global Exchange Trading System (GETS) which is a variation on the LETS concept that isn't for hippies.Descriptively it differs because it's community is loosely knit and global rather than an intertwined small-town. As such, there can be no commonly trusted party to operate and monitor the system, so that function is trusted to redundancy and mathematics. (block list)LETS communities can rely on "local knowledge" of peoples historical behavior and intentions. As such it is perfectly reasonable for them to advance credit to people (negative balances) in certain situations. In a GETS community advanced knowledge of all parties and intentions is not practical or even preferred. As such, GETS operates on a zero credit policy. (no negative balances)Also, since GETS trade globally, there is no "national currency" that can be used for equivalence. As such, GETS defines it's own unit for accounting purposes. Since this currency must necessarily vary against some national currencies, the LETS strict "no interest" principle cannot be preserved.----I think if people understood LETS they would intuitively understand GETS. The rest of the bitcoin details are just one possible GETS monetary policy. Yes this is interesting. I need to do more research befor I can say anything interesting too! Kudos though!  Sub-groups are a huge overall benefit to mankind. They allow the world as a whole to try many different solutions to any given problem. It is an "evolutionary" solution that is incredibly undervalued by some other sub-groups. Namely Venus/Zeitgeist type groups that think the world would be much better if everyone would just get along by doing things the way our group wants them to. You never here these types say, the world would be much better if I just did what that group wants me to.I highly value the existence of sub-groups they make the world a much better place. I like to go and visit other sub-groups learn about them and borrow/steal their good ideas. I also like to leave their bad ideas behind.But just because the existence of different sub-groups in an absolute good, does not imply that every sub-group is equally good, or espouses equally valid opinions. It is very important to be able to compare and contrast groups, so we can borrow/share good ideas and leave behind the poor ones.Nationalities are important sub-groups to use in examples because many people can understand your point in few words. It is completely accurate in many cases to say, "Americans are so..." because we are. You know that, and sometimes we even know it. :-)  It should go without saying that, there exist Americans that are not... but sometimes humor does not translate well between different languages. On a forum it is always good to point out when you are deliberately being silly.In my case, I was referring to a really old joke that many Europeans seem to know. It goes in one variation:"Heaven is where the police are English, the cooks are French, the engineers are German, the lovers are Italian, and everything is organized by the Swiss. In Hell, the police are German, the cooks are English, the engineers are French, the lovers are Swiss, and everything is organized by the Italians."Hence my reference to their replacing perceived bad French engineering with perceived good German engineering. At the expense of people worrying about German policing.Cheers! This is open mockery and is intended with humor rather than a direct attack on anyone!  :-)-------I read a bit on the Venus Project web site: "The Venus Project presents a bold, new direction for humanity that entails nothing less than the total redesign of our culture." It also mentions: "The Zeitgeist Movement is the activist arm of The Venus Project"It is clear that Jacque Fresco the founder of the project thinks the world can't make due without him. However, the whole concept of redesigning the world based upon the musings of a Frenchman seems absurd. So even he seems to think its plausibility depends on it sounding a bit more German.But really, nobody much cared for the last two times the German's decided to take humanity in a new direction! Not even the French! --End Mockery!--------(Yes, I know they are based in Florida and are stealing from Walt Disney, but thinking of this as an American concept just makes me sad.)Feel free to mock me if you wish! I think I'll copy all his stuff and declare myself sovereign of North America. That way in the post collapse aftermath, if people are stupid enough to accept him as a global leader, I'll have equal claim! Wow! That is high praise from you Creighto!I'm willing to start a new thread about it. I'm also willing to contribute to the project. However, by nature I'm very lazy! I often fail to complete projects like this.However, should my laziness consume things, you've already demonstrated your aptitude for the project. After all, it was your analogy to begin with!Cheers! If you trade another commodity for bitcoins and SAVE the bitcoins, they you are gambling on relative future demand versus todays demand. If the future demand for bitcoins is higher you win, if it is lower you lose.There are only two reasons for other people to "demand" bitcoins. Either they wish to save them for future use. Or they wish to trade them in the near term for another commodity.So if it turns out that "all of the demand" for bitcoins is because people want to save them and sell them later when they are in higher demand, then you have a classic ponzi scheme.If "all of the demand" is for use in immediate trading, then you have a very high velocity type of currency. (Changes hands many times over a short period of time) Counter-intuitively this "highest velocity" case actually defines the minimum demand for currency in a given community.So yes, at the moment bitcoins as an investment fit nicely under the umbrella class of "Ponzi scheme". As a holder of bitcoins, the value of the coins increases most as more people decide to purchase bitcoins and save them.When trading, the highest demand for bitcoins is caused by the smallest cycles.  1) A has bitcoins, wants Apples; B has Apples, wants bitcoins2) A has Dollars, wants Apples; B has Apples, wants bitcoins; C has bitcoins, wants Dollars. 3) A has Dollars, wants Apples; B hash Apples, wants Oranges; C has oranges, wants bitcoins; D has bitcoins, wants Dollars.In (1) trading one unit of Apples, requires one unit of bitcoinsIn (2) trading two units (Apples & Dollars), required only one unit of bitcoins.In (3) trading three units (Apples, Oranges & Dollars), required only one unit of bitcoins.So as bitcoin becomes popular for people to both buy and sell things using bitcoins, the demand for coins could very well drop. If you are speculating in bitcoins but promoting bitcoins for trading, you want small cycle trades (a la paypal). Large cycle trades minimizes the demand for your holdings.So I really wasn't blowing smoke when I said Bitcoin has many Ponzi like characteristics. That may not be the intent of bitcoin users, but neither was it the intent of Ponzi's investors either.
This bring to mine an idea I had a couple of days back. I haven't seen the Football pool game being done using bitcoins. For those who don't know the game. It is a 10 by 10 grid of squares. Each persons buys one or more squares for a standard price. Sometimes a dollar. Often a quarter. Normally, all 100 squares must be sold before the game. Each person chooses they squares they want from among those remaining. The are all arbitrary at this point so none can be known better than others.After all are sold, a random process is used to assign the numbers 0-9 to the horizontal and vertical axis. The horizontal represents the low order digit of one teams score. The vertical represents the low order digit of the other team.At the end of each game quarter. The square owner who matches the digits of the score is awarded 25% of the pool.I doubt the game generalizes to low scoring games like the other world football/american soccer. This is not an archetypical pyramid scheme. But it is of the class "Ponzi scheme". One were the benefits to investors are paid from their own money and/or subsequent investors money.You are betting on the gullibility of others relative to your gullibility. (i.e. Am I the first to be gullible or the last to be gullible?) I'd like to submit that I think the most apt description of bitcoin is that it is most like a Global Exchange Trading System (GETS) which is a variation on the LETS concept that isn't for hippies.Descriptively it differs because it's community is loosely knit and global rather than an intertwined small-town. As such, there can be no commonly trusted party to operate and monitor the system, so that function is trusted to redundancy and mathematics. (block list)LETS communities can rely on "local knowledge" of peoples historical behavior and intentions. As such it is perfectly reasonable for them to advance credit to people (negative balances) in certain situations. In a GETS community advanced knowledge of all parties and intentions is not practical or even preferred. As such, GETS operates on a zero credit policy. (no negative balances)Also, since GETS trade globally, there is no "national currency" that can be used for equivalence. As such, GETS defines it's own unit for accounting purposes. Since this currency must necessarily vary against some national currencies, the LETS strict "no interest" principle cannot be preserved.----I think if people understood LETS they would intuitively understand GETS. The rest of the bitcoin details are just one possible GETS monetary policy. He declared himself an equal sovereign to King John and wrote his own 300 plus page magna carta!I don't think it took the English nearly 300 pages and they FORCED the king to sign it. I think he is a very silly silly man! Just for reference:Market capitalization/capitalisation (often market cap) is a measurement of size of a business enterprise (corporation) equal to the share price times the number of shares outstanding (shares that have been authorized, issued, and purchased by investors) of a public company.I don't think the un-generated shares would be counted. They would be authorized shares, but they have not been issued through their IPO phase yet. Edited above and reposted so you don't have to look up.I really wanted pride of place on this one.------------It is very important to any new venture to NOT define it in terms of a well known scam. No one here would say bitcoin is like a Ponzi scheme except without the scam part.But that is what you are doing by saying, it's like issuing stock in a corporation, except without all that bother of actually creating a product. Let's just consider the stock the product and get right to selling it! It's a limited edition product, so its price will vary based upon supply and demand.Trust me, that metaphor has been used for thousands of scams. It is equivalent to a "red flag" warning to all authorities. You are really much better saying bitcoins are like sets of collectable poker chips. Some people will want them, some will not. If lots of people want them you can sell each poker chip separately. I found that hilarious! 1.38M BTC right? It is much less in USD at the moment I think. This is a unique post in which I agree with most everything you've written! :-)Agreed. It is an accounting system for services rendered to a community over time. There has to be some sort of standardized unit to facilitate trade. Also to allow people to compare prices to the services quality of differing vendors.I can't see a way to bootstrap a system without initially declaring at least some standard prices as universal benchmarks. Kind of like declaring a meter as the distance between two marks on a rod in Paris. But an amateur haircut might be worth (.85) of a professional haircut (1). And a stylist might charge (1.15) times a professional haircut. Everyone could compare the prices and determine if the difference in service warranted the difference in price.I won't argue this. I don't know of any LETS system that argues such pricing would be helpful.What you argue is clearly a potential behavior, and arguably the most likely behavior. But It is not necessarily the "smartest" behavior, unless you started from the not unrealistic point of view that the entire venture was doomed to failure at some point.I don't think it actually does. Since there is no commodity backing anything, and there is an ability to generate credits/debits on demand. There is nothing which need change in value based upon supply, demand, or expiration. If everyone endeavored to keep a zero balance in credits, then all potential time-value relationships would still be respected among different commodities. In my example, the LETS credits are decidedly not a commodity. That is the spirit in which the terms inventor meant them to be.Yes, that is quite interesting.However, it makes it a useful tool in which to formalize the rules in which one system succeeds and a different one fails. I want to be the first to say "No, they are not!"I'll edit this to support that statement later. :-)--- Edit ---It is very important to any new venture to NOT define it in terms of a well known scam. No one here would say bitcoin is like a Ponzi scheme except without the scam part.But that is what you are doing by saying, it's like issuing stock in a corporation, except without all that bother of actually creating a product. Let's just consider the stock the product and get right to selling it! It's a limited edition product, so its price will vary based upon supply and demand.Trust me, that metaphor has been used for thousands of scams. It is equivalent to a "red flag" warning to all authorities. You are really much better saying bitcoins are like sets of collectable poker chips. Some people will want them, some will not. If lots of people want them you can sell each poker chip separately. I am confused about your post, but it is clearly my ignorance not a defect of your communication skills. Most of my confusion is for abbreviations I do not understand.I agree that Bitcoin is "like" the "limited credit LET" you describe.I don't know of SCEC and the site appears to be in Italian. I'm not sure what "much more near a DU" means. Is DU = UD?I'm not sure I understand the point of the graph. Given the scale and resolution, I can not derive the functions behind them. Do they say, create a linear amount of currency until you reach a total amount of X in year 13. (parabolic part of the rate graph) Then create a parabolic amount of currency 5%? (linear part of the rate graph)I don't know SEL. Is that an abbreviation for "selection system"?---However, everything you have written here is addressing a case that I did not propose. I know that the example I gave is not bitcoin-like at all. So I'm unconcerned with how this relates to the bitcoin project.The example LETS I described uses a zero initial starting balance. And it allows each participate to review the behavior of other participants and individually decide if they want to advance them credit in each particular transactional situation.For example if Fred had a negative balance and he asked me for Food because he was starving, I might give him food on credit (increasing his negative balance). However if Fred asked me for beer in exactly the situation, I might decline him the credit. Each transaction is an individual judgement. Not a community mandated one.Modifying your statement, I'll call it:It is a Negotiated Credit LETS, with for instance 0 for each, -inf / +inf system limits. However, it is not community mandated to trade in EVERY negative balance circumstance. Transactions where both participants balance remains positive might be mandated. (No arbitrary discrimination in trade) But transactions that increase an individual deficit must be negotiated between the participating parties.It is for this particular case I'm interested in understanding the benefits/justifications for UD. I do not see any. Galuel,I am curious about your views on the relationship between Universal Dividend and Local Exchange Trading System "credits" as a currency. My specific question is, in your view would a UD need to be paid to make the system "fair" to new/future participants?In a LETS system, there is no initial currency and no inflating currency. There is simply an accounting of services provided. So for example, say 1,000 people decided to start a LETS system. Each person's initial share of credits is ZERO.Now suppose they say that a 1 haircut = 1 days ration of food = 1 LETS credit. So if a farmer gives a barber food in exchange for a haircut they are both even. Their balances do not change. But say the farmer needs to go to the dentist today, so he doesn't have time for a haircut. However the barber still needs to eat. So the farmer gives him food anyway. The barber's account balance is now -1 credit, he owes his service to the community. And the farmer's balance is now +1 credit. The community owes him whatever equivalent service he might want.In a LETS system, there is never any inflation or deflation. There is also never a shortage of actual currency because there isn't any. It simply accounts for how much each person has cooperated with the community. In effect the system is "delayed gratification neutral" there is no advantages to saving in LETS credits for the future. There is no advantage in spending all you have now. One day's food today, will never buy you 2 haircuts tomorrow, nor will it buy you 1/2 a haircut tomorrow. (Ignoring for the moment any attempt to keep 1 LETS credit equal to 1 unit of a national currency. Because, I don't know why this is useful for the LETS definition.)A LETS system characterizes each participant's cooperation using two publicly displayed values. 1) your current balance. 2) your total trading volume. The second characterizes your commitment to the community over the long term. The first characterizes your recent behavior.So say a long term member of the community, (measured by his large trading volume) gets sick, it maybe necessary for his balance to go negative for an extended period of time. However, the community can decide to continue rendering him services because they feel comfortable that upon his recovery, he will again provide his valued services to the community.However, say a new person joins the community and he decides to take a lazy approach to life. If he produces little for the community (measured by a low trading volume). If he decides to slack off and his balance turns negative, others are perfectly justified in saying I will not render my services to you. I am not confident you will provide anything in return to the community.-------------In such a system, I can see no possible way for someone to justify a universal dividend. However, I expect they some would justify it anyway. I'm curious as to what those reasons might be. Could this be a competition of programs wanting to run a the "lowest" priority? Where bitcoin just competes less hard.For example freenet wants to run at -10 priority but bitcoin only tries to run at -9 priority.  I want to add the concept craighto mentioned. LETS. Local exchange trading system.Bitcoins differs from LETS in several ways but it is similar in other important ways. One very important similarity is both currencies are virtual and created/backed only by the  shared participation of a voluntary, self selected, community.edit ----This is from wikipedia but I think people will see the parallels with bitcoin."A number of people have problems adjusting to the different ways of operating using a LETSystem. A conventional national currency is generally hard to earn but easy to spend. To date LETSystems are comparatively easy to earn but harder to spend. The success of a LETSystem is therefore determined by the ease with which a person can spend their LETS credits, and improve their quality of life by participation. Placing difficult arrangements or unreasonable service fees in the way of LETS members will produce difficulties in the future." I looked up some of the terms used by the guy who coined the concept and term. He would consider coin generation positive interest and transaction fees negative interest. I was exaggerating a bit for effect. There is of course no comparing several millennium of competitive rivalry with a couple hundred years of mostly "coopetition".But I have been to Europe several times, and had the good fortune to work with and live among Europeans both there and in the states. (IRL and internet) Your point is well taken because the British refuse to even call themselves "European" unless they are talking to an American. To them, you people are the Europeans. They use phrases like, "I'm going over to the continent." If you are an American that seems hilarious.Just for reference, I've never been to Portugal or Spain, but I have family members who have travelled there many times and loved it. I've been to Italy, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, France, and England. And had the great fortune to work or live with people from Italy, Romania, Hungaria, Russia, France, England, Belgium, and I'm probably forgotten some.I suspect you are an exception, but there is a tendency among European travelers to come here, visit New York and then they fly over and visit LA. (The most european thinking parts of the country.) Upon return the report back to their friends, "I've been to the states!" Which is true, but misses some of the character of the continent. Hell they didn't even meet anyone with a gun rack in the back of their truck! How can they say they've been here! :-)It is like Americans going to London and Edinburgh and saying, "I've been to europe. And guess what! Those people are so much like us! Most almost speak our language!" Yes, that is not much of an exaggeration.But you neglect to mention that many of our citizens hold European/Canadian systems as the pinnacle for "social programs". I can't tell you now many times I've heard, "Why can't we have free health care like the Canadians or the Swedes or etc. Why can't we have open acceptance of recreational drugs like the Dutch. Why can't will all have Ménage à trois like the French."If the federal government wants us to change they say "shouldn't we be more like them?" If they want us to stop questioning them they say, "WTF! Do you want to be like them?"Bring the FIRE! Woot! :-)The interesting thing most Europeans don't seem to realize is that in the US. Texans know their system the best. Californians know theirs is way better and Texas sucks. New Yorkers think "WTF? They let those people govern themselves? I thought we were in charge?" And we all think, "Who the hell are these Washington people to tell us what to do. They are not even good enough to be a state."Really, it is the same here. Each state knows with all certainty that it is better than all the others. We dislike the way other states do things, but we tend to dislike their ways less than we dislike the way "outsiders" do thing. So we don't tell you guys about our internal squabbles. Thank you for the LETS analogy. I had not heard that term in it's originating context. I agree it makes a good point of reference. It seems to differ mostly in terms of "equivalence to the national currency" and "no interest".   Agreed! If you have only one of any important enterprise than by definition it is "to big to fail". As such, whatever it does tends to get rationalized as "necessary". There is no trivial way to rebut the rationalization because there are no easy comparisons to make.From my point of view, it is much much better to have 50 independent state governments each making their own decisions. The important thing is we have 50 simultaneous experiments in which to compare any subject. But is is not a competition, there are only winners. A state being less successful in one area, wins by being able to easy adopt proven ideas from a state that has actually demonstrated more success. No state will be "smarter" in every area of government. In effect, each state gets the benefit of trying 50 experiments, at the cost of trying 1.When I say I am a conservative. This is what I mean by the term.The opposite view is one which states philosophically, "For any given problem, there is one person who is "smarter" than all others on the subject. We should find that person and put them in charge of solving the problem." By a false implication, they consider that the "optimal approach".I tend to see those I call liberal as having that point of view.I assert that on any given subject of governance, the best out of 50 solutions decided on by "average" individuals, tends to be better on average than solutions chosen by the "best" individual.I think this point is well supported by evolution. Which works not by survival of "the fittest", but by death of "the unfit". Better one bad approach die so that 49 can live. I think Spock said that. :-)----By the way, it is fun to watch the Europeans learn this lesson as they gradually submit to their federal government. Nice start!I dare you to put a definition for "commodity". ;-)
There is some checkpointing in the code that works like that. But it is not dynamic. It only updates when the dev team decides to add a new check point. But that does validate your point.But I learned there are some addition protections as well but I haven't read that code yet. Something like refusing chains if they change more that X hours work. It probably worth reviewing other threads to find it. Knightmb was involved in that discussion if it helps to find it. Is there a consensus on whether bitcoins are a commodity?What about the three commonly used types of currency:Commodity currency - silver coinsRepresentational currency - silver certificatesFiat currency - Federal reserve notesWhat type is bitcoin?   Thank you very much for the discussion. Even though I disagree it was interesting and worth my time. I like to know how others view the world.I did abandon the desired effect long ago. But for the same reason I abandoned my desire to become a sea Pirate. It turns out the reality didn't match my imagination.I wish you great personal success persuading other people. For you that is a personal quest. The adventure will pay you dividends in your future.I also encourage you to build a bitcoin clone that implements your monetary policy. I posted a plausible way to get others to switch from bitcoin to your model in another thread.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=808.msg9163#msg9163Currencies like bitcoin are an inexpensive way to explore economic philosophy questions without putting at risk society as a whole.Cheers! There exist several people with large amounts of value stored in bitcoins now. They also run business using bitcoins so they have a vested interest in protecting the process and the trustworthiness of the system now and into the future. They also run significant amounts of CPU generation, and watch the blocklist for fraud. If you would like, I can introduce them to you.So NO. I don't accept your assertion that these people do not/will not exist. Nor do I accept your assertion that these people are not rational. Take that up with them.If you would like to assert that *you* would be more willing to validate transactions if people will pay you better, then knock yourself out. I have a degree in computer science. I'm well versed in Gödel, Turing, and Church.I understand your concept when you say "formal system". What I'm saying is the formal system you are proposing is already been tried and it is a repeated FAIL. If you are trying to say, I'm designing a formal system. As such, things which are true and things which are false EXIST, but you can't through logic, mathematics or programming PROVE these things to be true or false. Then yes that statement is true.But I you say, "We should do this! It is good!" and you assert that, I cannot disprove such a thing formally, than you can't prove such a think formally either.You can say, "This is an experiment and it will prove itself over time. Just like a program either shows itself to "halt" or "not halt" given enough time, even though no one one can formally prove what it will do."So I'm saying, "I HAVE SEEN this program run before. It halts. It halted the first time. It halted the second time. It halts every time because there are no changes to it or its inputs. Get over yourself.It's been done, I've seen it. It fails.Because you don't understand how it could fail doesn't mean it will stop failing.-----There is an old American bit of sarcasm that goes:If you are not a liberal when you a young, you have no heart.If you are not a conservative when you are old, you have no brain.Congratulations, you've discovered your heart.Keep on searching, perhaps you'll discover... You probably already know this but if you don't know the google term this might be helpful.There are the terms two-factor authentication, three-factor authentication and multi-factor authentication which might help your search.The general definitions are:First Factor = something you know. i.e. a password.Second Factor = something you have. i.e. a physical key, dongle, smartcard, etc.Third Factor = something you are. i.e. Retinal scan, fingerprint, face recognition, etc.Multi-factor is considered to be two or more authentication factors taken from different groups.i.e. A smartcard and a password. A finger scan and a dongle. a face recognition and password.Happy Googling! How the Universal Dividend could be implemented---------------------------------------------------------I'll use four countries for example but feel free to add all of them if you wish.Suppose country's currencies were ranked by their value. For example.Euro > Dollar > Yuan -> RupeeNow say the Europeans said to the Americans, "We want to use your currency, but ours is worth more." So we are going to print enough new Euros so they have even value with Dollars. We are going to distribute them as a Universal Dividend to all Europeans. They are going to all love it because they'll all get new money.So the Americans agree and they decide Euros and Dollars are now interchangeable. But the American people now start thinking, "Hey how come the Europeans got a dividend and I didn't?So the Americans and Europeans say to the Chinese. "We want to use your currency, but ours is worth more." So we are going to print enough new EuroDollars so they have even value with Yuan. We are going to distribute them as a Universal Dividend to all EuroAmericans. They are going to all love it because they'll all get new money.So the Chinese agree and they decide Euros, Dollars and Yuan are now interchangeable. But the Chinese people now start thinking, "Hey how come the EuroAmericans got a dividend and I didn't?So the Chinese, Americans and Europeans say to the Indians. "We want to use your currency, but ours is worth more." So we are going to print enough new EuroDollarYuan so they have even value with the Rupee. We are going to distribute them as a Universal Dividend to all EuroAmerChinese. They are going to all love it because they'll all get new money.So the Indians agree and they decide Euros, Dollars, Yuan and Rupees are now interchangeable. But the Indian people now start thinking, "Hey how come everyone else got a dividend and I didn't?+----+|    ||    V| So to be fair, they decide to print 5% more EuroDollarYuanRupees so everyone can get a truly Universal Dividend. | They are going to all love it because they'll all get new money.|| But the very next day, 10,000 children were born and they said, how come everyone else got a dividend and I didn't?|    ||    |+----+ This could so totally work!And we Europeans and Americans are going to love it, because it is so totally fair! It only takes from the really rich to give to those who need it most. Like us!Wait! You're saying I'm the really rich? WTF! Liberty thanks for not making me look up! :-)I know how you feel, I fight with my brothers a lot but when all is said in done we're still brothers! If the Democrats didn't exist for balance, I'd be right there with you!By the way, I edit a lot, I just don't tell anyone! :-)I totally agree with you on the next election, it's like that supposed Chinese curse, "May you live in interesting times!" Good luck to you too. But you don't stand a chance!  Thank you Galuel for your direct response.I understand everything you are saying with 100% clarity. You have done a fine job at conveying your points. Your English really is way better than my French!However, I also see with 100% clarity, that there are no actual new ideas being proffered here. Just different rationalizations for the same "false paradox" that I've discussed many times. It is what is commonly known as "an epic fail".This was a little condescending so let me just say, "spare me." Let's just say my colleagues actually fly in space. I'm not exactly clueless about the concept of four dimensions.This and its associated list make it clear that what you are doing is merely an exercise in persuasion. You don't care the reason people accept what you want. It is only important to you that they accept what you want.So we have a false implication. You are asserting that your premise is true. However, you will accept anything (true or false) as justifying (implying) your assertion. That means logically the relationship between the two (the implication) is necessarily incorrect.So in effect your argument can be summarized as saying: (my premises is true)(does not imply)(anything I'll say to persuade you) T !--> X   There is simply no point in me having that discussion with you. It's arbitrary rationalization.----The mathematics behind your premise has existed in space and time for longer than I have. It has always been false. It doesn't matter if you change the rationalization.I take X% of Y from everyone in a group based upon the quantity of Y they hold. I give each person Sum(X*Y)/N. Where N is the number of people in the group.Do you think this is a new concept? It had been tried over and over again. It is a repeated EPIC FAIL. Not theoretically, empirically. I won't quote examples. You are European. You know more examples of this failing than I do.----It really doesn't matter what rationalization you use to imply something false. It is logically irrelevant.  X --> F means nothing, just like T !--> X above.The following "mathematical proof" comes to mine.A roulette strategy was touted that went:1) Bet on Red or Black2a) If you win, you've doubled your money.2b) If you lose, increase your next bet so the amount you'll win will cover your previous loses.3) Therefore, you can never lose at roulette.Of course, all Frenchmen think that is a silly strategy because they invented roulette. So they will no longer listen to your silliness.So you tell them, there is this American game. It is so stupid it doesn't even have red or black. Just a bunch of cards. It's called blackjack, but what the silly American's don't know is there is an obvious strategy to beat blackjack, it goes like this!1) Bet2a) If you win, you've doubled your money.2b) If you lose, increase your next bet so the amount you'll win will cover your previous loses.3) Therefore, you can never lose at blackjack.SEE!!! I told you!!! No Red or Black at all!!! It's a sure thing! Mars is more extreme but there is an ATM in Antarctica.http://www.needcoffee.com/2010/01/12/antarctica-atm-interview/:-)I like this article because it points out the difference between currency and money. There is a fixed amount of currency in Antarctica, but that amount is completely unrelated to how much money the people there own. (mere account balances)  Yet, bafflingly to some, the system works quite swimmingly for all involved. The mars situation could work exactly the same way. Galuel, would you mind responding to this?Or even to this?Thank you!  The spirit of the thread asked what people thought. I listed what I thought and why.I'm not intending to lobby for everyone calling bitcoin a commodity beyond acknowledging that bitcoin is an uncommon object that does have some characteristics of other things commonly thought of as commodities.I'm perfectly happy with Liberty's veiw that on this site the word commodity should have economic semantics. Or your view that it should have legal semantics.Until semantic consensus is reached, I'll use the language as I understand it.  I favor the same thing, but within limits of course. I'm sure "as possible" means you have your own limits.In general though, I think this dignity should be furnished by many small groups, rather than a few huge ones.So we can agree on what we want to happen. Maybe we disagree on how it should happen. Maybe not.I'm in complete agreement with you here too!I like it better (more of the time) when the republicans are making "progress", than when the democrats are in power. But I don't dispair in either case. I choose to be here. I've traveled but this is home.Even with the Dems in power (soon to be out :-)) I don't want anything to fail. That is like rioting and burning your own neighborhood when your team loses. It's silly.In general I think the Fed has been hugely successful in their actual job, which is to prevent deflation and keep inflation stable. Others have failed at their jobs, but the Fed has not. In total agreement. That is why I stay around!Bitcoin is cheap philosophy experimentation. We could launch inflating, deflating, and stable money for the cost of a used car.But the last thing I want is The Fed experimenting with philosophy.Again, sorry for the grief!  Liberty, now I really feel like an ass! I was being snide about the fact that someone else (not you) wrote a long post not responding to you, just prior to when I was typing. I started writing one as off track as his.But in between others posted and the association got lost.Your long post was perfect and exactly what I was looking for!I shouldn't try to make jokes so late at night. Sorry to cause you grief! (hanging head)  I pursued this line of reasoning in the thread, but it turns out it is a FAIL. It turns out that Satoshi was correct. You either need publicly validated transactions OR you need to save the entire transaction history so the receiver can validate a private transaction.The reason eluded me at first, so it is not stated yet in the thread. In private transactions, if you send the money to yourself you will own both sides of the verification. As such, you can increase the values to be anything you want. Nobody else is watching. If you throw away the history no one will know. You can now pass on your inflated money to anyone. FAIL. Doh!So the amount of validation required before you can purge the history is greater than a private transaction. It may not require a full public broadcast, but if it does we've added only minimal privacy. (see earlier in the thread) It's crazy how people can write an enormous reply, without referring to any bit of content from your post. Let me try too!---I am immensely grateful that you did the research and I didn't have to. But, I didn't read anything that didn't strike me as textbook European Liberalism/Socialism.You mentioned once that you were a "very traditional USA democrat". Did you find any of that enlightening?The first section seems to be the standard: "The country/state is like a corporation. Each citizen should receive an equal share of the profits but the (X) are hoarding all the profits for themselves!"The second section seems to be the old Robin Hood refrain. "We should take from the rich and give to the poor, because everyone knows (Y) and all that money is just going to flow back to the rich anyway. The rich are always happy. Why shouldn't we make the poor happy too? After all, its better for the rich to live in a world filled with happy poor rather than violent poor!"It seems very much like those decade old internet chain letters, where someone periodically updates (X) and (Y) to the demons of the day. In today's case the current demons are (X) = the central banking system and (Y) = corruption/conspiracy/incompetence. The solution is money creation.Today the they assert "government supported banking" is "incompetent" and instead of fairly distributing the profits from "money creation" they neglect "holes" and send the money to "bubbles". Distributing the 5% profit equally fixes that.I've seen the same thing, but "elected officials" were "corrupt" and "tax-revenues" profits went to "insiders". Distributing tax-revenue profits equally fixed that.We used to tax the rich to give to the poor, but as Galuel pointed out. Taxes are unpopular with everyone at the moment. Money creation is a more politically correct way to take from the rich.I think the first false analogy is that where the state is like a corporation, it is much more like a non-profit corporation than a for-profit corporation. And also the fact that most countries whose citizens make this assertion, tend to be deficit spending so there are no profits.The second metaphor fails, because in reality they usually mean, "take from the rich and give to the middle-class like me!" But what happens is a taking from middle and working classes, to give to those who find working inconvenient.But that's just me. I'm a Republican. :-) Again, this is not a suggestion for chaining bitcoin. That is in the title.Rather it is a question about what could be possible, and what couldn't be possible. The general question is, could the block list be/have been implemented in a way that didn't store the full transactions in the list?The answer could very well be, no. But your saying, "The public has to see the transactions to verify them." Does not make that so.In this context it means a set of unspent out-point hashes. These hashes do not contain bitcoin quantity information.I know what a balance sheet is. I was there for that discussion. I supported their possible utility. This is different. The balance sheet was a way of rolling up known transactions that already exist in the block list. This is an exploration of never putting transactions into the block list at all.It may still be a FAIL, but the question is not can you think of ways this might fail. It's can we prove that it must fail.Feel free to make your own suggestions in your own thread, but your suggestion didn't meet any of the stated goals of this exploration. No problem with an appeal to authority on definitions. I'm obviously not the definitive authority on the language.But I'm not seeing what separates us, even from this definition. The green parts clearly fit bitcoin. Do you read the red part as absolutely excluding bitcoin? I apologize for the tone here. It was flippant, but I didn't intend for it to be an ad hominem attack.I was referring back to the previous thread where you said:I really thought that was the main separator between us.If that is not it, I'm really at a loss to know where I am failing?----This is by no means authoritative either, but I offer it as background in my use of the term commodity...What drew me to bitcoin, was not the monetary policy. It was the promise of making anonymous transactions. Like many noobs, I presumed that there would exist serialized digital coin files, and that they would change hands in some verified fashion.My first thought was, "Hey, I could use such coins as a proxy for verifying the ownership of other things! I didn't care about their monetary value. I just wanted a very cheap uniquely identifiable digital commodity." I was thinking about something like a transferable access key. I have the right to access something digital on the internet. I can sell that right to you anonymously. Now you can access that thing, and I can't. But no third party gets to know who you are.It turns out the existing bitcoin implementation is not suitable for what I was considering, but I did see either 2 or 3 other people postulate the same type of proxy use for bitcoins.So I started out thinking of bitcoins as a commodity not a currency. As others discussed bitcoin's properties it tended to re-enforced my views on its commodity characteristics.Scarcity = Not generally a property of commonly used currencies. Often associated with commodities, especially gold.Pre-fixed Quantity = No commonly used currencies I know of have this property. It is easy to point to limited edition commodities.Dynamically Variable Value = In the two months since I came to this site, the value of bitcoin in dollars has risen 10 fold. That is not a property of any other common currency. It is a property of some commodities.Trading on exchanges by competitive bidding = This is a property of many commodities. Most people don't acquire their everyday currency this way.Use of the terms Buy and Sell Bitcoins = This means to buy bitcoins using a currency. Or sell bitcoins for a currency. That is the same pattern for commodities. People never seem to say, buy dollars or sell dollars in the same sentence with bitcoin.Use of the term trade = People often say I'll trade web development for bitcoins. That is very commodity barter like. People rarely say I'll trade web development for dollars.None of these are authoritative. But I found they reenforced my notion of bitcoin as a commodity.But I'm willing to be persuaded I'm wrong. Fresno would prefer that. I meant you should ONLY accept certificates that contain verified SSN (or other unique country ID). That would get you most of the way there because you could spot duplicates yourself.However, you have the problem that some people are dual nationals or otherwise might be able to get unique IDs from different countries. There is some ability to get replacement SSNs as well if one is compromised.It is by no means a perfect solution. But it would frustrate the non-hacker types. fresno, your points are well taken. However creighto pointed out that I tend to call people on their unsupported arguments. So supporting mine is a matter of saving face. :-)If people feel my commodity assertion is supported well enough so I don't look like an idiot, then I'll promise not to assert it in public if doing so would have drawbacks to the community.
Both ways solve the problem equivalently. But if my understanding of the operation of blinded public keys is correct, it means the number of public keys each user would have to store in his wallet is minimized.I'm not exactly sure of this particular use case, but it doesn't have any bearing on the proposed solution. I know this is not a decentralized as you would like, but you asked for partial solutions.In the general case this problem is solved by Certificate Authorities who check people's real world credentials. In your case, you could have people add their SSN or other national ID to a standard 509 certificate. I bet that has already been done somewhere.NOTE: If people are unclear the difference between a public key and a public certificate: A public key is pure mathematical data no identifying information about the user. A certificate is a signed document that contains a public key. It deliberately contains other structured information about its owner. Normally name, email, sometimes phone or physical address. But really you can put anything you want. It is signed by a trusted authority to avoid web-of-trust issues. However, you can generate your own certificate and sign it yourself if you want. Nope, this is a much different solution.The general public doesn't get to see any transactions or balances.It already solves the issues you pointed out. It's right there in the thread.Edit -----OK, there are probably some weaknesses, but the thread at least attempts to solve the ones you pointed out. :-) Thank you very much NewLibertyStandard!I'm moving to France! I've got to try for some cooptation! Without denying that I deserve some of your grief... ;-)Give me another crack at justifying my point of view.I really do stand by my definition, "If I can barter for it. It is a commodity."  as capturing the true spirit and semantics of the word commodity as used in standard everyday American English. Commodity is really used to mean, "something, that can be bought, sold, or traded." Perhaps that makes a better definition.There are other more restricted definitions that have different connotations depending upon industry. Usually "the thing" is something fungible, but even that usage is flexible. Used cars are not fungible but to the used car industry, they are simply commodities. The same is true for diamonds and the diamond industry.I hear you saying that "the thing" must have some use other than being a currency in order to be a commodity. I don't see this restriction. I don't think it is up to you to decide if or what use a commodity is.However, federal reserve notes are often considered commodities when traded against other currencies. I don't expect that if a currency trader, said he was a commodity trader that you would call him an idiot.----Two questions for you or anyone else:Supposed someone told you his occupation was a "commodity trader" and you asked him what he traded. If he responded, I buy and sell widgets based upon their price fluctuations to the dollar.Would you have to reserve judgement on whether he was "really" a commodity trader until you could learn more about widgets? Or are widgets obviously a commodity based upon context?----If I told you each bitcoin contained a public key, and that pubic key could verify the authenticity of any file signed by the owners secret private key. Would this give each bitcoin enough outside utility to be considered a commodity? How much non-currency value is enough to make something a commodity? @ Galuel I thought we were reaching some common understanding with a few quantifiable places where we disagree. But now it is seeming less so. I need to validate my understanding of your positions before I feel comfortable proceeding.-----It now seems this universal dividend concept is just a proposed solution to "the bootstrap problem". Meaning, we want a new currency to exist, but it can't exist until we distribute some amount of it. If we create and distribute this amount of currency out of thin air now, "to be fair" to people who come later, we must continue to create X() amount of currency from thin air forever.Is that the only problem you are trying to solve?Or are you saying, the EU should be paying a universal dividend every year, because they created a new Euros out of thin air and "to be fair" they should/must continue to do so?-----It also seems you are trying to recreate the Christian notion of "original sin" in your economic system.Meaning, you were born into this world/culture. As such, you owe us for all the nice things we have provided for you. This is a debt you can never repay. No matter how much you donate, we will always say that there are other intangible things to which you continue to benefit, therefore you continue to owe us. And if that seems unreasonable, think of future generations, you owe us because of your debt to the future.Is that your philosophy? Is there ever an amount of money or commodity I could give to "society" where they would say "Thanks! you don't owe us anything now. Everything you earn now is guilt free!"-----When you speak of work that benefits society but is otherwise not directly uncompensated you seem to know its value in total (5%/yr), but deny that anyone can fairly put a value on any of the composite parts.For example, say I enjoy writing Vogon poetry. There is no current market for Vogon poetry because everyone knows that reading Vogon poetry akin to torture. But that doesn't matter. I'm contributing to society anyway by writing Vogon poetry. You can make no judgement as to what value future generations might place on reading Vogon poetry. Who knows? After all who could have predicted people gullible enough to listen to trance music.But you decide I'm entitle to payment now, on speculation that it might benefit society in the future. Is this your logic for everyone receiving a share of new money?-----Anyone feel free to tell me I'm totally misunderstanding these ideas. I'm not trying to be sarcastic. This is the way it is seeming to me. I can give a rational, but probably not a better definition than those I already included. I'm assuming you meant my use of the word "commodity" rather than "first" (hyperbole), "master planned", or "scarce" (supported).I already defined commodity stealing from the dictionary above. "A useful or valuable thing, such as time or water"But my best definition is still: "If I can barter for it. It is a commodity."Allow me to rationalize by stealing from wikipedia as well."A commodity is a good for which there is demand, but which is supplied without qualitative differentiation across a market. Commodities are substances that come out of the earth and maintain roughly a universal price.[1]It is fungible, i.e. equivalent no matter who produces it."Bitcoins seem to fit here. Except for the "come out of the earth" part which just seems silly there."one of the characteristics of a commodity good is that its price is determined as a function of its market as a whole. Well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets."Bitcoins seem to fit here as well."There is another important class of energy commodities which includes electricity, gas, coal and oil. Electricity has the particular characteristic that it is either impossible or uneconomical to store, hence, electricity must be consumed as soon as it is produced."They've included electricity, so commodity is an acceptable term even for something virtual.Interestingly, currencies are often traded as commodities rather than being used for their value in facilitating trade.Wikipedia defines "commodity trader" and from their references lots virtual things like debt that "can be seen as a commodity." It also references currency market from there.So nothing seems to exclude my use here.But really I use the term for the reasons I gave above. People tend to draw more parallels to bitcoin's "gold-ness" then to it's "coin-ness"  "Scarce like gold", "invest in it like gold", "discovered over time like gold"Nobody says it's round and shiny like coins. I think it is a commodity for the reasons I posted in another thread. I'll repeat them here.Edit: In summary, I think Satoshi created a digital commodity by code fiat. I think the user base as a whole is utilizing Satoshi's commodity to mentally mint and trade coins.Most common discussions tend to equate bitcoins to a commodity backed currency like gold coins. ----In reality bitcoins are the first master planned scarce COMMODITY. It is unique to this commodity that we know it's total available quantity in the universe. We also know exactly how hard it will be to discover this commodity over the next XX years. Also this commodity is generally seen as easily divisible and fungible, but otherwise it is useless.The only thing not master planned about this commodity is what people will do with it. Since there are no other known uses competing for this commodity, some people think bitcoins should be used as money. Others think this is a highly implausible foundation for monetary policy.----commodity |kəˈmäditē|noun ( pl. -ties)a raw material or primary agricultural product that can be bought and sold, such as copper or coffee. a useful or valuable thing, such as water or time.If I can barter for it. It is a commodity. What I choose to do with it is up to me.Most of the discussion on this list as it relates to bitcoins comes from a barter mentality. Perhaps you haven't noticed. Really, no European says, "My salary is an investment in Euros". American's don't say, "I'm putting penny's in this piggy bank waiting on an increase in demand for pennies."Money is a medium of exchange. I swapped an ounce of gold for 1000 loaves of bread, using $1000 to speed the process. I did three months of work and I'm going to buy a car with it after my vacation, using the $20,000 in my wallet. If there is "excess demand" for money, that is a flaw in a monetary system not a feature. It is only when you think of commodities that such terms make sense.----Actually I was writing an example of third party trade but it was a lame example so I erases it. Yours was much better.I think we are in "violent agreement" on the topic. :-)I prefer my currency as an abstract accounting that, I feel, should not have commodity characteristics.My best example is I don't think currency should increase in value as a result of demand. All commodities have this characteristic naturally.Some feel differently and certainly commodity currencies have existed in the past but they died out. I think that is less conspiracy than a diminishing in utility compared to non-commodity based currencies. Your English is much better than my French!No it was not a joke. It was sincere thanks. Thank you again!The reason I wrote it that was is because early in the thread I saw value in contrasting your ideas with the more common ideas held by people posting on this site. I though the contrast would help bring their ideas into focus. Instead it focused my own. :-)I'll write about my insights later.Yes, that is the way current money creation is perceived.I'll argue later that money creation should not be symmetrical in time or space. I'll also argue that money bubbles and holes cannot be prevented using fixed preset formulas. As such, money *creation* should not be seen at stable, but money itself should.I'll argue symmetric redistribution is simply a social policy tool. It should be kept separate from monetary policy.One equation can't serve two masters. :-) Agreed, the percentage of *arbitrary* inflation does not matter for this discussion. (Non-arbitrary inflation is discussed at the end.)OK, I said some inflammatory things prior to this section. I guess that justifies the defensiveness of this reply.Rich in this context meant - Currency rich. i.e. Those who possess their wealth in currency.Poor in this context meant - Currency poor. i.e. Those who possess their wealth in stuff (Me).I'm well familiar with wealth that is not currency. Most everyone is. Please interpret all my responses from that point of view.Bread is an important commodity because it is perishable. I know I'm going to need to buy lots of it next year, but I can't buy it now. It serves as a common archetype for consumption.It doesn't make sense to "back a currency with bread" in the same way as you could with a non-perishable commodity like gold. But you knew that.By making specific examples for discussion, I'm not misunderstanding the economy as a whole thing. I'm simply trying to address the economy as a sum of individual commodities and the desires of those who consume them on one fashion or another.Absolutely, that is why the amount of currency available is trivial compared to the amount of commodity value in existence.The birthcoin example, did not arbitrarily inflate as bitcoin is currently doing. It merely attempted to remove the tyranny of time from the fixed currency model. There is a lot of discussion of what constituted "fair" on this site. Also what constitutes "sound money". The birthcoin example was intended as a "fairer" way to initially distribute coins, without introducing too many variables at once.I've already addressed elsewhere that the idea of bitcoin trickling money in over time is completely inconsistent with of principles of a fixed quantity of currency. I find it curious that bitcoiners use inflation as an incentive to sell future deflation.I've also discussed in detail (elsewhere) the fact that I personally feel, building persistent price deflation into a currency is completely counter-productive.In reality, I think (when averaged over a whole economy) generalized price deflation is "a bad thing". I also think generalized price inflation is bad as well. However, the balance point is NOT at zero. A little deflation is a lot worse than, a little inflation is. That point is supported elsewhere on this site. Therefore, defending against generalized deflation is a priority, and if that cost a little inflation, overall its a general win.But to be clear, adding more inflation when you are not in danger of deflation, is "a bad thing" from my point of view. I am not "a progressive" in this regard.Fair enough. No one could think of a better number to quantify growth.Thank you for the restatement. We are in complete agreement.You didn't accept or reject this statement. Is that an oversight?I do write open source software. I have considered everything above. It has no effect on the point I made.I can write a book or a post and give it away. That doesn't mean I have received no benefit. My perception of the benefits for doing so is up to me not to you or society at large. That is why I only respond to certain posts. Some are not worth my time.But if I have freely given away an insight to you that you use to benefit you and the others around you... Then let me stipulate for the record, "You owe me nothing! Ever! Not even if you get rich in supermodels!" I've already taken my personal benefits thank you. While I speak for myself here, I'll make the stronger point that this hold true for everyone.The same moral rights I assert that protect me from your taking my benefits, also protects your productivity increase share. This hold true if you bought my ideas, or I gave them to you for free.I wish to understand this statement but I don't. Can you restate it, please?Are you saying, how can open source writers continue to write open source software if they can't figure out how to support themselves? If they can't figure out how to support themselves, that doesn't make their problem into my problem. Nor does that make it OUR problem. Why on earth would you think it should?Stipulated for the record. I think that currency levels should increase decrease as necessary so that (on average over the whole economy) prices remain constant. Where the most important prices to remain constant are the prices of the things that most people need to preserve their life and livelihood.As non-inclusive examples of the category: Food, electricity, water, fuel, internet access!Commodities that could inflate or deflate relative to the above without me caring: Gold, luxury goods, recreational drugsThe reason my example included a deflationary economy was purely so its differences could be compared relative to bitcoin. Thank you Galuel!  The contrast you provided allowed for an epiphany.The funny thing is, the revelation was that the current central banking mandate is the correct one! :-)At least from my perspective it is. And I feel confident I can coherently explain why. No conspiracies required. Who'd a thunk!Maybe I'll start another thread. I'm learning that what you think are "psychological benefits" I see daily evidence of being "psychological drawbacks".Stipulated: that ONLY investing currency should cause an INCREASE in net value to you. You're hoard of currency shouldn't work when you are not working.However, your 100% winner statement is either absolutely wrong or absolutely unsupported.If you increase currency levels 5% and prices increase 5%, then each equivalent share has exactly the same commodity value. If 1.00 original coin bought a loaf of bread before. 1.05 in inflated coin will buy a loaf of bread.Because you gave "something" to everybody doesn't make the process a "win" for everybody.The rich lost in their personal value as measured in loaves of bread.The poor won in their personal value as measured in loaves of bread.You know this, so I presume the deception was on purpose for persuasive effect. FAILI think you mean "taking money from people. I do welcome others taking money to me! :-)But stipulated. People don't like taxes.Again this is a deliberate deception. It still fails on me.Creating money is welcome to those without money. Not to those who value money as a commodity. It doesn't matter to me if I receive more money, but still lose value. That concept only effects the naive or stupid. That is often why they don't have money to begin with.This is an argument in favor of "price inflation". Since it makes rich people's currency worth less, they will spend it on things that either 1) generate additional currency to make up for the loss or 2) commodities that increase in value as measured by the currency.Stipulated: This makes it EASIER and CHEAPER for smart people with productive ideas to borrow money and create additional commodity wealth.Woot! A point of personal agreement! Don't make it unnecessarily hard for smart people to move quickly.NOTE: I just notice I made an error in my previous post. I'll fix it momentarily.Stipulated: Everyone is richer on a per-capita basis when using a ratio that compares (total commodity value in existance)/(number of people currently alive)This ratio increases not with mere production increases, but instead with productivity increases. (i.e. each person produces more value now than they did then)In my proposed system you still continue to get richer in total commodity value. However, prices drop so it takes less currency to buy a loaf of bread. (This was a mis-statement on my part previously).I don't understand this. Can you restate it?This is confusingly stated, but it seems like a purely standard liberal political platitude. I couldn't disagree more strongly, but I am quite certain even your average "right winger" in France would seem a "leftist" when measured relative to where I live.So my general response is, if I am "one of those people generating great value for all" then no. Hell no, does it make any sense at all for me to create great value for you, then to have you take my share of the value I created also.This requires an example.Say, I create a process for baking bread that uses less than half of the energy, time and man-power than the existing process. Using my new process I bake bread faster than most others. Now there has been BOTH an increase in *production* and an increase in *productivity*.Because of the increase in productions, YOU and everyone else "receives great value" because the price of bread fell by half. So the money you already own buys twice as much bread. That is huge value for YOU.But the productivity increase is the root of MY value. I baked more bread than others, I sold it at a lower price than they did, and still took some profit for myself. That value is MINE. I deserve every bit of it. If I want to give it away, that is MY business not yours.I assert with all possible strength the following statement: IF I increase my own personal productivity and/or the productivity at of others, while at the same time bringing society as a whole additional aggregate and individual value as a direct result of my increased production,...THEN, there exists NO MORAL REASON for you to take ANY of the value I gained as a result of my productivity invention. In European terms, I would say I have "moral rights" to my creations and to profit from them. Exactly the same moral rights as if I had written a book, or made a sculpture. Yes, agreed. Absent of outside verification, there is no know way to assure one-and-only-one account is created for each human.However, we do have outside verification. Each state tracks births and issues birth certificates. It does the same for death certificates. The world outside bitcoin including the legal system relies on these certificates. Even the federal government relies on these certificates when they create social security numbers. Since there are 50 plus entities doing this, I'd call it a decentralized system. Though one made up of mutually trusted peers. So there does exist a decentralized system that can serve this function. However, I do accept your assertion that such a function cannot be arbitrarily decentralized and still remain verifiable. (a la bitcoin)But given that there is a plausible way to create a trusted mapping of initial accounts, births and deaths, I'd argue that my hypothetical is well supported enough for discussion of its monetary policy benefits relative to other monetary policies.Yes, I'll stipulate to that. However, I'm not as skeptical of central authorities as many Libertarians. Nor am I as trusting of central authorities as many Liberals/Socialists.Generally I trust individuals to act in their own self-interest. But contrary to what Liberals believe I see clear evidence that un-coerced cooperation is self-perceived as being in ones self-interest. I find this true of rich and poor people alike. Cooperation is simply fundamental to human nature. Even for Libertarians like me who want to retain the fundamental right to be uncooperative. It is written somewhere that after bitcoin generation stops, transaction fees will provide the main incentive for people to keep generating blocks and verifying transactions.I've always thought that statement was silly and unnecessary. It should be deleted to avoid confusion.Currently fees are charged to avoid "transaction spam" as identified in the source code. Also for verifying very complicated transactions. I think both policies are simply deterrents for known annoying behaviors. They are not intentional incentives.The main reason people will continue to validate blocks into the future absent new coin generation, is personal self interest. If you hold lots of value in bitcoins and you don't defend them, no one will. The people with the most coins have the highest incentive to make sure the system remains safe and secure.  Galuel:What is "Progressive Cooptation". Also I'm not sure I'm understanding your use of "Cooptation". That is a word I haven't seen in common US English.  Could you define both for me please?Also, I used you as an example in another thread. Just FYI.Also, you called yourself "deeply liberal". That may not translate into US English as you expect it to.In the US we have a scale that theoretically goes "Left" to "Right".  (Forgive me Libertarians, but you tend to draw yourselves off the scale as part of a triangle.)Communist -> Socialist -> Liberal -> Conservative -> FascistHowever, in common political usage here we only use two terms. "Liberal" often associated with Democrats. "Conservative" often associated with Republicans.When Europeans say they are "more liberal" they often mean, "less socialists". But in the American mind that makes them WAY LEFT of mainstream Democrats here. And it doesn't sound anything like our equivalent phrase "I'm more conservative". I think we had the same idea Liberty.I was considering posing for discussion a currency with the following monetary policy.1. At birth every real human person is given 100 "birthcoins" bTC.2. On death of each real human person 100 bTC is removed from circulation.In such a system, the quantity of currency would grow in direct proportion the the number of people. In effect, "Our money is backed by ourselves."My goal was to remove the tyranny of time for the new comers, but maintain "sound money" principles.------People will argue about, how you remove bTC from circulation. Having the government burn it from the collected tax revenue makes sense.However, I came up with another way in my head. I think this is what the universal dividend is touting. But I might misunderstand it. I was reading an auto-transalated version. Galuel please correct me if I'm wrong.What if we couldn't come up with a "fair enough" way to ever remove money the dead people's money from circulation?In that case what we would need to do is keep a running count of how many people had been born (B) since the start of the currency. (i.e. The total number of allocations of 100 bTC.) We would also need to keep a count of how many people had died (D) in the same time period.Then we would simply make new birth allocations using this ratio so the relative allotment per birth doesn't diminish over time. Let's call these coins "Inflating Birthcoins" (IBC).The birth allocation ratio would be = (B)/(B-D)  It's simply the amount of bTC ever created divided by the current population. When someone is born, that is the share of currency that *represents* their birth. By its nature that would be an ever increasing ratio. But for any moment in time let's call it the "universal standard" for equality. Each birth dynamically generates (100 IBC * B)/(B-D) and that amount is put in an account for the new baby.So at any point in time, you could measure your wealth against my originally stated monetary policy at the top by using the inverse ratio = (B-D)/(B)   That dynamic ratio always takes you back to "universal stand currency".   (100 bTC = 1 person)------I would call both IBC and bTC "sound money" because neither is randomly inflating based upon outside whims. But I may be misunderstanding the definition others use for sound money.And though there is monetary inflation of Universal Standard Currency as the population grows, there are no "Progressive" policy goals. Simply stability goals.My aim for the system would be that if a loaf of bread cost (1 bTC) in your grandfather's generation. It would cost (1 bTC) in your grandchildren's generation. Of course it would cost a lot more in IBC, but using the universal standard ratio, everyone could see that things were remaining stable.The previous statement was a mistake. The system proposed here is obviously a "price deflationary" system. As there are productivity increases, the total commodity value will grow relative to the total currency. Just as with bitcoin.Given the electronic nature of birthcoins, it is actually trivial to do all the accounting in IBC internally, but to always display prices and trade in uBC. That keeps people from having to change paper price tags every time a few people are born. Let's make it a more concrete example, maybe that will help us see if I'm full of it.----It is commonly known that bitcoin's fixed-quantity monetary policy is popular among libertarians.Galuel recently proposed an expand at 5%/yr monetary policy with a distribution sure to be popular with French socialists.Right now bitcoin's market cap is trivially small. It is not inconceivable that Galuel could find a wealthy French liberal to back a bitcoin alternate that better suits their (slightly silly) view of the world. All this is extremely cheap as political statements go. He could do all of this for 10% the price of one TV commercial.Let's say that Galuel realized that Knightmb has lots of BTC sitting around doing nothing. So he cut a deal with Knightmb to buy up half his stash for French Euros. All this took place off the market so it didn't effect BTC prices elsewhere. Now let's also postulate that Galuel doesn't auto-generate coins like bitcoin. Instead he just generates 1 Trillion ZTC into his own account. Then he sets monetary policy by giving them out however matches his short and long term goals. He also has an initial stash of Euros/Dollars from the wealth Frenchman.Now he starts promoting zitcoin as the progressive alternative to the regressive bitcoin system. All socialist should shun bitcoin and use zitcoin. He sets a price to sell his unlimited zitcoins at one bitcoin or the equivalent in Euros. Now like here, people show up just to see what zitcoin is about and to help support global socialism. They realize all of this is cheap and buy some ZTC just on principle using Euros. To support the currency, he promises to buy ZTC for equivalent BTC, but only from merchants. Now there is a merchant incentive to take them. People have them, why not take their money. Those people don't have BTC and don't want BTC.Now keep in mind Galuel has a 100% reserve of Euros backing his ZTC at current BTC to Euro rates. But he has no need to spend it. He also has a stash of BTC he bought from knightmb. At the current volume, say he could keep ZTC trading at parity for at least year. Remember initially Galuel is simply slowly selling the cheap BTC at a profit in Euros.That is enough to gain traction and to give his currency the same perceived value as BTC in most people and merchant's minds. People will begin to trade these among themselves at parity as well. Every time a merchant doesn't trade a ZTC for a BTC, he can support the currency longer.Eventually he announces it is time for a 5% "progressive" bonus for each user rich and poor alike. So he start handing out more money. Then more and more. By its very nature, this will upset BTC libertarians because it effects the total volume of things that people see as fungible.Eventually the libertarians will pester the socialist NOT to peg their ZTC to the BTC. Galuel will quit swapping any excess BTC he has left. And will tell merchants to swap it on the exchange. Prices will start to diverge.It seems plausible as a hypothetical. What happens next I'm really not sure.It seems to me that at least initially, people would save their BTC and spend their ZTC. As BTC customer numbers declined, it seems hard to resist the number of customers offering ZTC. I could be wrong though. Show me.====Disclaimer: I'm NOT proposing that Galuel's progressive inflating currency is a good monetary policy. I think it is a silly policy.I'm posing ZTC as a type of Gresham bad money vs BTC as Gresham good money.  Understood, but I don't think your point is well supported.In my example, I specified that I manipulated the price so both coins initially traded at parity. Meaning if the merchant takes either to Liberty's exchange he gets the same amount of $. If he takes them to another exchange he can swap them one-for-one for bitcoins.What does he care in the short run? Why would he choose not to accept what people had to offer? It's actually less significant than someone saying, "I'll sell it to you for $10 greenbacks but I don't want a $10 roll of quarters." That's just bad business.As the relative value diverges, there is always a ratio that represents equivalence. Why would a merchant not trade at that value for zitcoins? If he was going to immediately spend them there is no reason to care what equivalent representation he passed along. If he wanted to keep them he could immediately swap the zitcoins for bitcoins. Again no reason not to trade in them.Nothing is stopping me from requiring my customers to pay me in gold. Except the fact that my customers don't have an easy cache of gold. Sure they could trade their dollars for gold and then buy my warez. But I doubt they would bother if a competing merchant sold the same warez for the dollars they already have.  Yay! this is actually coherent enough to address!So the reason what you write sounds so obviously unsound, is you are only writing about HALF of a banking system.Loans are barter. I give you something. You give me something.When I loan someone $9,000 I take something worth $12,000 as collateral. That assures that the borrower has at least 30% "skin in the game". If his idea sucks, he loses more than he borrowed. Now that gives me two ways to win. If he pays me back, I get interest. If he doesn't pay me back, I claim the collateral and sell it. Think of it as loan insurance. It is what real bankers do instead of showing up and breaking the borrowers knee caps. It may be less fun, but it is more profitable.If you look around, you will see lots of disreputable lenders offering collateralize loans they know people are "overly optimistic" about paying back. Pawnshops are an easy example. The same is done with use car loans.Now, when the business man puts his $9,000 in my bank its because he needs to pay bills over time. He knows they will come up, but he doesn't need to spend the money now. He may not have to spend it at all if he has sufficient cash flow.And when I lend that money out again, it's because I do have real value backing that loan. In this case collateral is a very valuable "claim check". If they don't pay, I claim the house, car, company, gold, tools, etc.So I lend $8,100 and take $11,000 in collateral. If that person deposits the money with me, I can do it all again.I have the money, its all cash. None of it was made up or came from the Fed.If someone comes in and want more cash than I have on had, I can go to any other bank for a loan. I can use my collateral as collateral on that loan. It is perfectly sensible to do so. If everyone requests their cash at once, all my collateral assets get pledged to other banks who happened to have more cash on hand. And that is still perfectly sensible. Because I now have no risk. I paid all my depositors off. The other banks have the risk so they hold the collateral.Or I can simply sell my loans to an outside investor. They are investments guaranteed by collateral. And the best thing is, as the loan gets paid back the borrower's "skin in the game" increases. Since they have more to lose, they will work harder to make all payments. Who wants to lose a car for missing the last car payment?Notice, in no case did I go running to the Fed. In most banking transactions the Fed is not required at all.Where the fed is needed is when all your cash is out on loan, but there is still more opportunity to grow the economy.Say I did your progression. I lent out all that money and took gobs and gobs more in collateral. Everything is going smoothly, people are making payments. But now I have no cash on hand available to loan.Now say Fred comes in and has a great business ideal. He also has collateral to back the loan. The problem is I have no cash. So in this case I go to the bank where I can borrow money the cheapest. (sometimes the fed but most banks can't borrow there directly) So I borrow money, and pledge his collateral to back my loan. I do the paperwork, charge him more interest than the fed charges me. Everyone gets paid back.There is no magic and no scamming. Unless you SUCK AT BANKING! Which has happened recently. It is not a scam, it is a bunch of fucking morons who failed to do proper risk assessment or take proper collateral. They should all be lined up and SHOT for sucking so much at their one and only job. Most of the fault actually lies with so called "investors" who created a market by purchasing sets of prepackaged loans, without knowing what the fuck they were doing! It is really easy to create and run a hugely profitable business if you customers are fucking morons! And most of the "investors" who bought the loans were fucking morons. They'll claim the guys who packaged up the unvetted loans scammed them. But it is easy to scam a fucking moron.----By the way, EVERYTHING I wrote works for fractional reserve bitcoin or gold lending as well.Stick that in your FAQ.  :-)This is unsupported. I doubt it is true. Central banks and/or collateral simply doesn't work like that.Feel free to support this point if you want.Changes in reserve percentages don't effect anything I said. If you have more cash on hand you lose the value that comes from lending it. But you save on time consuming interbank transactions to manage cash levels. Really this is not quite as intuitive as it seems. Suppose I started a currency just like bitcoin (zitcoin is an ok name) and say I got Satoshi to mod the standard client so everyone who trades bitcoins could trade zitcoins as well. They didn't have to if they didn't want to. But it would be trivial to send either or both.So now let's say I could control the minting rate of zitcoins dynamically. So I manipulate the quantity so that it would trade at parity with bitcoins. At least for a while. But as a general policy, I decide that zitcoins would remain value neutral while bitcoins increase in value.There is an interesting effect called Gresham's Law that says "bad money drives out good." What that means is that while currently both coins are trading at parity, if you were conducting commerce using both, you would tend to save in bitcoins, and spend in zitcoins. So would everyone else.So very quickly, zitcoins would become the defacto "currency" while bitcoins would revert to more of a "commodity". As the price diverged later. People would trade 1 bitcoin for 2 zitcoins, then spend them. If they received excess zitcoins they might trade them 2 for 1 to bitcoins, hoping that when they traded back they might get 3 zitcoins.A few merchants would continue to demand payment in bitcoins, but if there were alternative places that took zitcoins they would tend to prefer them.So the open question is, if this were to happen how long would there be enough demand to encourage people to continue saving in bitcoins? Sure bitcoins are a limited commodity, while zitcoins are inflating. But is that enough inherent value?
Actually I was writing an example of third party trade but it was a lame example so I erases it. Yours was much better.I think we are in "violent agreement" on the topic. :-)I prefer my currency as an abstract accounting that, I feel, should not have commodity characteristics.My best example is I don't think currency should increase in value as a result of demand. All commodity have this characteristic naturally.Some feel differently and certainly commodity currencies have existed in the past but they died out. I think that is less conspiracy than a diminishing in utility compared to non-commodity based currencies. The French website suggests that the concept of paying dividends proportional to how many coins each person possesses would be what is commonly called "regressive". (i.e. The rich get richer relative to the poor.)Paying dividends in proportion to the population, (one person, one share) is more "progressive". (i.e. The poor gain relative to the rich.) Truly this is nonsense. If I have $10,000 from deposits, a 10% reserve means I need to reserve 10% of my deposits. So I must reserve $1,000. Therefore I can lend $9,000. I already have the $9,000 on hand. It's already borrowed from the depositor. I don't need to ask the central bank for anything.Yes, I made the account entry when the depositor gave me the money. Yes, they can take have the money when they want it.If my borrower wants his money, I have it. You haven't even mentioned me loaning it out any yet.But let's just say, I did loan out $9,000 to Suzy as partial payment for a used car worth $15,000. She paid $6,000 to the seller out of her wallet. I paid the other $9,000 to the seller in cash when he came by the bank. In exchange the seller signed the title to the $15,000 car to me. I'm holding that title until Suzy pays back the $9,000 plus interest. ==So back to your point. I have only $1,000 cash-on-hand. And let's say my depositor want's his whole $10,000 back.So I have to call ANY other bank and BORROW $9,000 cash to pay him. I can do this easily, because I can show them I have the means to pay them back. I own either a car worth $15,000 or a loan worth $10,000 principle+interest. If necessary I can sell either one.So I borrow the money from the bank next door. I still don't see money coming out of thin air.Good, the borrower paid me back $9,000 + $1,000 in interest. I now have $10,000 and I owe the bank next door $9,000 plus $500 interest.I pay them back. I now have $500 profit, in cash. In my hand.Still no money created from thin air.This is all gibberish. It is not supported by math. It is not supported by English semantics. It's not supported by references that explain the mismatch. It just literally makes no sense at all.Justify your association between the ability to lend NINE TIMES your deposits with the phrase 10% reserve. This math doesn't work. This semantics doesn't work. $10,000 * 0.1 reserve = $1,000 reserve    $10,000 - 1,000 reserve = 9,000 unreserved   There I showed my work.So even if I had $90,000 in secure interest paying loans out. There is no such thing as "recalling a loan".If I need cash, I have collateral. I can borrow cash. It is simple barter. I don't need special treatment.Really? Is this representative of how people think banking works? Some days, typos seem like my first language. :-) But if your asking. All of my other languages are worse than English.commodity |kəˈmäditē|noun ( pl. -ties)a raw material or primary agricultural product that can be bought and sold, such as copper or coffee. a useful or valuable thing, such as water or time.If I can barter for it. It is a commodity. What I choose to do with it is up to me.Most of the discussion on this list as it relates to bitcoins comes from a barter mentality. Perhaps you haven't noticed. Really, no European says, "My salary is an investment in Euros". American's don't say, "I'm putting penny's in this piggy bank waiting on an increase in demand for pennies."Money is a medium of exchange. I swapped an ounce of gold for 1000 loaves of bread, using $1000 to speed the process. I did three months of work and I'm going to buy a car with it after my vacation, using the $20,000 in my wallet. If there is "excess demand" for money, that is a flaw in a monetary system not a feature. It is only when you think of commodities that such terms make sense. This is a really cool idea. I think I see where you were going with it. It took me a few tries to fit it all together. I'm a bit slow.I'm correct, you were suggesting that you could sign an out-point hash with a single-use blinded key.Where the blinded public key is equivalent to the public key of the transaction's bitcoin address. Say the bitcoin address' public/private key pair was P/p. The the blinded public keys would be P1, P2, P3...Pn. Where each can validate anything signed with the private key (p).So upon creation when you submit the out-point hash for validation it appears as signed by P1. However, when receiver submits the out-point for cancellation it would be signed P2 or anything besides P1 (since it is already of public record). Both calculated signatures would be the same, but the public key would change. That would signify only someone in possession of the common private key could have generated it.That is genius! I'm going to reply to this in two parts.That's my fault, because I was trying not to make too many claims at once. I was also not trying to introduce too many new "features" at once for analysis.My mental goal is to incrementally constrain the horizon of transaction visibility. Both in time and in space. Time meaning say to only nodes running at a particular instant. Space meaning to less than the set of all nodes running at the time. Optimally, a transaction would only be known to the sender and the receiver. Then all proof would disappear. I hand you a $10 bill. Then we walk away forever. As long as no one observed me handing you the bill at that moment, no one can ever discover it by examining the bill itself.I initially hoped that all transactions would be validated only between the parties concerned. In effect the block generating nodes would just record the hashes that got told to them.However, at the last minute I realized that since the hashes were not signed or otherwise verified, it became possible to easily falsify a "cancel the previous out-point hash". You couldn't steal someone's coins but you could invalidate them.I can see three possible ways forward on that pesky detail. 1) let all verifiers see the transactions, minimize what is saved. 2) come up with some way to minimize the number of validators that need to see each transaction. 3) create a single use keypair for each new out-point. Sign the hashes. (Last minute entry!)1) I initially wrote about the first case, because it introduced less variables at once. I wanted to be sure recording only hashes wasn't an obvious FAIL.I tried to quantify what bit of privacy we would gain. It is minimal in the worst case, (everyone saves everything anyway) but it is considerable in the nominal case, most people don't save anything they don't need for themselves.So in this increment, the benefit is, any new threats can only observe a transactions that occur after they join. They can't look back in time, unless they can both identify an earlier adopter who recorded everything from when they joined, and convince them to share. So minimal protection, but at least your Ex isn't going to be snooping around after the fact. :-)2) However, it is possible to minimize the space horizon with a clever use of a DHT. All details are not worked out yet, but you can visualize it by splitting the block list into say 1024 identical block lists each with 10 redundant validating nodes. Rather than one blocks list with 10,000 redundant validating nodes. Each randomly chosen set of nodes is responsible for a segment of the hash space. But instead of guaranteeing that 50% of all CPU power is required to fake something, you might aim for 100% consensus and a complete broadcast of the chain checksum and/or blocks. So upon periodic DHT re-org any new node can verify that the chain has always remained 100% consistent. (Similar to publishing each of the 1024 checksums in the newspaper each day)This restricts an attacker's visibility to know what hash he would want to cancel. (I only see 1/1024th of the transactions) And it limits his time window to submit a fraudulent cancelation to a time window when he controls 100% of a bucket's verifiers.So there is a potential path to gain some privacy by restricting some visibility. It comes at some potential risk.3) So in reality I need to give you credit for sparking the best case idea. Kudos! I initially dismissed the idea of signing the out-point hashes, because it seems so much like the existing bitcoin addresses. I assumed the public key required in the signature would associate too many things.However, if you use a one-time public key where you sign a combination of the out-point hash and the current block number. Then when the out-point hash is initially created it is recorded with a public key. When it is spent the hash is verified by having a different but related signature, signed by the same key. I think that solves the problem completely. There are no additional associations because the two single use instances of the out-point hash in the block list HAVE TO be related. Adding a second single use public key identifier adds nothing. To simplify the "current block number" issue, the submitter might submit signatures for the next 3-4 block numbers. The validator would only record the appropriate one. To the block.It does add more bits to the block list than I was hoping to. I thought a hash only was optimal.====What is the smallest crypto construct that has the following properties? Might be able consider that instead of a hash and full signature.1) I give you something that appears arbitrary.2) I give you something that appears easily related to your #1 but unrelated to anyone else's #1.3) Nobody else could figure out your #2 from #1.====For example1) I give you  Z where Z = X * Y and both X & Y are large primes2) I give you the tuple (X, Y)3) Nobody can factor X and Y from ZIn that case, when sending an offline transaction, the sender would enclose (X,Y) for each in-point.The receiver would privately create a new (X,Y) for each new out-point.The receiver then broadcasts each in-point's (X,Y) to cancel them. It broadcasts each out-point's Z to create them.Does that work, or is it too naive? All processes for bitcoin cheating involve either:1) Inserting a non-validated transaction into the block list. Which is easily spotted by anyone with the list, generating or not.2) Removing previously validated changes from the list, which involves substuting the entire tail (most commonly scrutinized section) of the list.All other theats are common concerns to all secure systems. (man in the middle, wallet stealing, cross site scripting)One and two are really easy to add additional defenses too. In fact there are more existing defenses than are currently discussed. (hardcoded checksums, prohibitions on large branch switches.) as attacks are spotted it's easy to bump up defenses.As such, this argument boils down to, "if there were a way to cheat it would be more profitable than not cheating." Duh! That is why we don't rely on incentives to prevent cheating! I'm not arguing that anyone is an idiot. I'm just trying to clarify the issue Galuel is concerned about. (I hate his solution by the way.)Suppose that Bitcoin had launched slightly differently, but otherwise was exactly the same implementation.Suppose that it was launched as a closed beta, but there was already considerable interest. Suppose 10,000 people submitted requests to join the first day. But suppose Satoshi decided that he needed to monitor the system closely, because his reputation as a software developer depended on it. He simply wanted to spot and fix bugs before they would have any wide spread consequences.So to be fair, he decide to randomly choose 100 people the first day, then to choose 100 new random people to join each day for 100 days until the initial request list was exhausted. After that the system would leave beta and anyone could join who wanted.Would this have been *more fair* or *less fair* then the "he who hears of bitcoin first, joins first" approach that is being used?I say, it depends on if you got your acceptance the 1st day or the 100th day. But you may feel differently. I curious, say I want to start a bank and create money out of thin air, how do I do it? I would like to engage in this business.My name is Joel Bernanke and I've got some connections. But if you can I'd prefer an explanation that a friend my dad doesn't like could use.Thanks! I wasn't trying to slam your definition of "fair". I really wasn't. I was simply pointed out that while we all agree that there is a fixed number of bitcoins, and a process for distributing them. The process has NOT completed. It seems inappropriate to use the past tense. In reality bitcoins are "distributing themselves" in a process that everyone is required to agree is fair. Or you don't get any.I agree with your closed definition of fair. It is equivalent of joining a Soccer league and then complaining that it's "not fair" that the goalie gets to use his hands. The correct response is, "It's not EQUAL that the goalie gets to use his hands, but it is FAIR that the goalie gets to use his hands, because (insert your own reason here). In reality, all reasons tend to converge on, "because if we made it more (insert your complaint), the game sucks and nobody wants to play."In American football, defensive blockers can use their hands, but offensive blockers can't. It is fair but not equal, because if it were equal the game would be boring.But the rules are not "fair" because they are unchanging. In reality, sports rules often change to make the game *MORE* fair. Pick your sport and there will be a list of important changes. American football, "pass interference, roughing the passer/kicker". Soccer/hockey "offsides rules, blue lines." etc.I point this out because that is the sense of the word FAIR that I was using, and I'm presuming Galuel was using. (But not Obama. :-) )If 1,000 people want to use Bitcoin but 6,000,000,000 don't, Bitcoin is still fair. But if you can make changes to Bitcoin so that 6,000,000,000 people want to use it but 1,000 don't, the changed system is *more fair*, and much more relevant.This differs from Obama's definition of fair, which is "Fuck those guys who believe differently from me. They're idiots and can't hurt me. They'll get my definition of fair and they'll like it!" That definition of fair tends to cause revolutions. Actually, I think most people miss his point so I'll try to clarify it.Bitcoins are NOT "fairly" distributed yet. Some are. The vast majority are just waiting to be distributed. But the existing mechanism is presumed "fair enough" for the current community.It bitcoins were already "fairly distributed" we could simply stop generating anymore. Since enough are already generated to last in perpetuity. The reason people want to see coins continue to generate is qualitatively for the same reason that Galuel wants increased generation. The only thing disagreement is quantitative.What Galuel is trying to point out is that even if coins are "fairly distributed" among the bit coin users of today. They are NOT fairly distributed among next week's bitcoin users. If you look at that set of users instead of the current set of users, it is clear that some got more coins simply for showing up first. Not for putting in more effort.Built into bitcoin is a tyranny based on time. At least that's the way he sees it. Many will agree with him. To dismiss that out of hand is to make the same mistake Obama did with the tea party movement. Never under estimate how man, (or how strongly) other people perceive you as an idiot. I think Galuel is just what this community needs. It was getting a bit self-congratulatory here.It's nice for the libertarian to get to see that they're not just trying to separate themselves from "conservative" monetary policy. They are separating themselves from "liberal" monetary policy as well!I have read the French website and I think the ideas probably sound good in a coffee shop. But perhaps not to the shop creator. Perhaps not either to the waitresses forced to serve the layabout philosophers. But I'm sure it sounds good among the beatniks.Personally I think it is silly and quite obviously ill conceived. But as contrast, it's invaluable. It highlights that, quite possibly, there are ideas being discussed here that play best on the gun show circuit.By the way, I love gun shows! :-)  What does it administer? Is it just a block list viewer/analyzer? Cool! Something I disagree with more than the permanent deflation concept!  I would have guessed that phpmybitcoin was a php implementation of mybitcoin.So yes they can be confused.I have used phpmyadmin lots. I didn't draw the parallel. Second the inherent value of gold.It is an easy to work metal that conducts electricity well and doesn't tarnish, rust or otherwise degrade over time.One of the worst possible uses I can think of for gold is to use it as money. As shown in everyday life, anything can be used as money. It's better to use something otherwise useless for money. Say britney spears CDs.:-)  In reality bitcoins are the first master planned scarce COMMODITY. It is unique to this commodity that we know it's total available quantity in the universe. We also know exactly how hard it will be to discover this commodity over the next XX years. Also this commodity is generally seen as easily divisible and fungible, but otherwise it is useless.The only thing not master planned about this commodity is what people will do with it. Since there are no other known uses competing for this commodity, some people think bitcoins should be used as money. Others think this is a highly implausible foundation for monetary policy.----All true, no politics! Yes, I am talking about the hypothetical system.The way I proposed the system, each time a block gets generated every validating node must accept or reject that block by validating the transactions and confirming the hashes in the block. In effect, the same work that is being done with the current system, plus the out-point hash checks. Since the other validators were already competing to generate the block, they already have (at least most of) the transactions.As with the current system, if the transactions don't validate (plus match included out-point hashes) the other nodes will reject the block. If the block doesn't get acceptance by at least 50% of the CPU power, it doesn't make the block list.So the presence of the hashes in the block list, signifies that at least 50% of the existing validators at that time saw and validated all the containing transactions and out-point hashes. Therefore (barring hash crashes) if someone submits an antecedent transaction that matches an unspent out-point, it must be valid. That antecedent's antecedent must have been valid as well, otherwise the antecedent would have been rejected. And so on and so on.For that not to be the case, you have to postulate that there was a period in time where blocks weren't being validated against out-point hashes. But that's plausibly implausible with the CPU competition system. If a client joined the network recently, it did so presuming that prior validators followed the rules and all pre-existing blocks are valid. (No one would join a known corrupt network)Sure, in the current system, if transactions were never purged, a new node could validate all prior blocks for self consistency. But they still couldn't prove absolute truth. A bot net could have taken over and erased some transactions leaving "a new truth" and unhappy users. Equivalent to case 1) above.In the current system, if transactions were Merkle tree purged then you have case 2) above. New comers must trust in the process. Anything missing, they don't need to worry about. Everyone must presume it was valid.The unique thing I'm saying is that, if you have confidence in the bitcoin validation competition process (and we do!), then you really don't need "a 2) thoroughly deep block" to be very deep at all. Someone said in another thread that clients reject any changes to blocks more than two hours old. So we can have absolute confidence in all blocks buried 12 deep. So if a transaction is unspent and buried 12 deep, we can purge all it's ancestors. They add warm fuzzies but no additional validation. We have to rely on them. There is simply no way to back up and change course.After that, every succeeding block presumes all the preceding blocks are true. Otherwise it would be a fork and not a succeeding block. So for any transaction validated against out-points in a preceding block, if those out-points exist and are unspent, they must be presumed valid. If those are presumed valid, their ancestors must be presumed valid even if purged.---In the proposed system, exactly the same things are true.If an antecedent out-point hash is unspent and buried 12 blocks deep, then it is absolutely unspent. Nothing can change that fact. No point in checking its ancestors. You can finish validating the transaction, cancel the in-points hashes and create new out-point hashes.Interestingly, if an antecedent out-point hash is unspent and buried LESS THAN 12 blocks deep, then it is RELATIVELY unspent. Curiously, there is still no point in checking its ancestors. The only thing that could change the antecedent's validity is a branch swap to a longer chain. If an ancestor of the antecedent you are validating this transaction against was swapped out, this transaction would be swapped out as well.It's one of those cheesy time machine movie plots. Someone when back in time and spent my ancestor. Now I don't exist!=====So what I'm saying is that in BOTH systems (existing and proposed) the only thing validators need to do is to validate that the antecedent out-points exist and are unspent (for the current block chain). The process assures that everything else remains relatively or absolutely valid.The rest is just warm fuzzies.-- PS --I know this is too long and redundant, but I'm to tired to edit. :-) It's a bit of a brain twisting idea isn't it. :-)It turns out the notion of a cancelable notarization generalizes nicely. For example this system is not limited to bitcoin transactions. Since the signed contracts are kept externally, with additional validation/notarization rules, you could easily implement things like IOUs/claim checks. If someone gave you $5, you could give him a $5 IOU. Its IOU hash would be notarized into the blocks list (of hashes). When you pay them back you could have them sign the IOU for confirmation. Then have the notary insert an IOU hash cancellation. Then no one could show back up with a copy of the IOU and demand double payment.I thought this too at first. But then I convinced myself otherwise.It is really a matter of how much trust you place in the verifiers and the process of verification. People like the warm fuzzys that having every transaction available lets them trace the roots of their money back to its creation. However that is not required. If you are confident in the process that validated the transactions during block creation (> 50% CPU agreement). And if you are confident the previous blocks can't be changed (you proved this). Then you only need to check that related out-points have not been spent. The security features remain in the block list and procedure, even if the transactions themselves are stored externally and the predecessors are not stored at all. You showed this yourself by proving old transactions can be deleted using the Merkle tree to maintain consistency. True, privacy is directly related to observability. If there is a central party like a money changer, he can relate a lot of out-points. But if we get away from the notion that every coin must be traced back to creation, the observation horizons will be much closer. ----It's really weird getting used to the notion that this coin is valid simply because the process wouldn't let it be included otherwise. But really, that is exactly how bitcoin generation works. The transaction has no inputs, but everyone decides the out-point must be valid purely because otherwise, it wouldn't be in the block at all. :-) I agree that eventually the latter will have to be done. It's for the reasons you pointed out that my DHT solution has flaws. Curiously it's all a side effect of not being able to implement the former constraint.If you allow validating nodes to arbitrarily ignore transactions you risk breaking the key requirement that all validating nodes receive and record all transactions. The current presumption is that all validators try to receive and record all transactions. If a transaction is non-uniformly delayed and missed by the node who completes the block, it is presumed that statistically the transaction would be recorded in a subsequent block. However, that requires continually rebroadcasting the transaction to assure it gets through.Let's say throughput was right and there was an advantage to a node saying, "I'm only willing to take 5 transactions a 10 block period." in that case it still generates blocks that can't be rejected by others, but an increasing number of unrecorded transactions backlogs with each minimal block. This causes additional retransmissions exacerbating the bandwidth problem.In effect you rely on unrestricted nodes to compensate for a problem caused by restricted nodes. So if the restricted nodes are causing problems and doing less validation and recording work than other nodes, why should they be rewarded equally for generating blocks? That seems counter productive.It would be better to say, "record all transactions or you can't be a validator!" Less validators means less bandwidth usage overall. It also becomes easier to spot abusers.----ps----An zero knowledge proof-of-completeness would be for competing validators to reject a proof-of-work block if it didn't contain 99% of the known outstanding transactions. 
Knightmb said increasing connections and bandwidth had little effect on khash speed.Game over. Try again? It's hard for me too! :-) Was interesting to re-read though!Was hoping it would spawn some insight on a way for nodes to demonstrate that they "always follow" the block generating rules, in absence of everyone needing to have the set of all transactions to double check.It didn't. :-) Satoshi: I know you know the first part of what I'm writing, but I want others to be able to follow and for you to correct any misconceptions I might have.I was looking at the current Merkle tree implementation trying to figure out when transactions could be removed without losing security. In transaction graph terms, the transactions represent the nodes. The edges of the transaction graph are represented by the in-points which point to previous transactions using a BlockHash->TransHash->OutPoint kind of structure. It is the existence of an in-point that marks a previous out-point spent. So for a transaction to be valid, you most show for every in-point in a transaction that BOTH, a previous out-point exists AND no previous in-point exists that references that out-point. So for every out-point, there are zero or one in-points referring to it. zero = unspent. one = spent.That also means that no transaction can be culled from the block list, until both its out-points are spent. Otherwise coins will disappear. You can however, delete all double-bound transactions as soon as you are confident the 2nd binding block will stick around. (earliest possibility)However, as you delete transactions and replace them with their tree hashes, you lose the graph structure present in the block list. In effect, all transactions undeleted from the block list have unspent value purely because they still exist. They can no longer prove validity by ancestry since that part of the graph was culled.Which got me thinking, is there a way to prove validity if you never put the whole transactions into the graph to begin with?The key is to hash the transaction information as part of the out-point hash. So instead of creating a single transaction hash, you represent the transaction as two out-point hashes. (I originally considered an in-point/transaction/out-point structure using hashes, but that proved unnecessary.)Only transaction validators need to know the bitcoin address associated with a recorded out-point hash. That comes from the submitted antecedent transaction for an in-point of the current transaction. The antecedent transaction and out-point is hashed and presumed BOTH valid and unspent if that hash appears one-and-only-one time in the block list.The current transaction must be signed by the key for the address in the antecedent transactions of course. If this proves valid, two new out-point hashes are generated and inserted in the current block. The in-point hashes are marked spent by including them in the current block as well. (If a hash exists twice it is spent.) If you want to represent the transaction as a unit (and the currently visible transaction graph), the in-point hashes and out-point hashes could be grouped. However, this is not strictly necessary to prove validity.In this case we are trying to prove the presence of ONE matching hash and the absence of TWO matching hashes. It does require knowing all of them to prove.I think the prohibitions against double spending are as strong as in the current version.==== CAUTION! ====However, you have to consider the case where a node causes mischief by deliberate adding random "canceling hashes". In this case, the node wouldn't be able to gain access to the coins, as he has no signed transaction hashing to a valid unspent out-point hash. However, the current owner wouldn't be able to spend the coins either. The in-point would be presumed already spent.That means the validation conditions are EXACTLY THE SAME as with the current implementation. All validating nodes must examine and validate all transactions represented in a block before accepting it and building on it.If there exist any hashes in the proposed block that are not represented by valid transactions, the block must be rejected. That is exactly the same as the current system's, if any transaction doesn't validate, the block must be rejected.I had hoped the condition to pass all transactions to all validators could be weakened but I can't see how (yet) without relying on trusted delegation.----------An interesting feature is that this simplifies the validation process. All that needs to be done is to parse the block list (of hashes) once. As each hash is parsed you simply look it up in a hash-set. If it doesn't exist you add it. If it does exist you delete it. When you are done parsing the block list, you will have the minimal set of valid and unspent out-points. You might even be able to keep the whole set in memory. (at least for a while!) Interesting idea to revisit! Thanks. Hadn't thought of them in a while. By the way, this is the way most digital notary services work. You send them a hash of a signed document and they log it permanently. Then they create a hash chain like bitcoin does. They periodically publish the current hash chain value in a newspaper or other offline redundant record.You don't have to send your private documents/transaction to the notary for them to be time stamped and recorded. The notary is just certifying that something that matched this hash existed at this point in time. I did mention that. I wouldn't count on this for monetary security. I would like the system to be equivalent to the current one.However, privacy obscurity is known to add value. Your neighbors, or the FBI could me watching everything you do all day long. But they probably aren't. If you happen to become "of interest", sure they could start watching you now and from this time forward.But the most asked for additional legal powers seems to be, "let me examine everyone's logs!" (phone calls, cell towers, email connections, facebook connections, credit/debit card transactions, Google history, browser history.) The other systems are "security though authority." Bitcoin doesn't have that.====By the way, I'd rather not broadcast every transaction to every node either. But that is for another thread. As some might have noticed, one of the things that bugs me about bitcoin is that the entire history of transactions is completely public. I totally understand the benefits of how this simplifies things and makes it easy for everyone to prove coins are valid. So this is not a suggestion for a change to bitcoin. Rather it is a question about what could be possible, and what couldn't be possible.The general question is, could the block list be/have been implemented in a way that didn't store the full transactions in the list? Specifically, *perhaps* it would be possible to store only hashes of the in-points, out-points in the block list. These would be time stamped (notarized) in the blocklist exactly as is being done now.The major difference is that it would be the coin receiver's responsibility to store the full transaction. And perhaps he might have to store previous transactions (X) deep to show history.Then when he wanted to transfer the coins to the next party, he would create a transaction exactly as is being done now, except he would have to submit the antecedents to the transaction for validation as well. For validation, each antecedent of the in-points would be hashed and validated as existing in the block list. The in-points would be hashed and identified in the blocklist as not yet spent. Then the transaction would be validated as is currently done.If everything validated correctly, the additional in/out-point hashes would be added to the block. This closes the transaction's in-points, and marks the new out-point hashes as unspent.Once a node completes the block (by winning the hashing contest), he then broadcasts the block of hashes and the related transactions+plus antecedents to the other nodes for confirmation and acceptance.as a rough example:{block-9 hash-a, hash-b, hash-c, hash-x }{block-12 hash-a, hash-y, hash-c, hash-d }{block-17 hash-b, hash-d, hash-e, hash-z, hash-f }{Transaction {in-points: hash-x, hash-y, hash-z} {address, signature and other transactions stuff} {out-points: hash-payed, hash-change} {generating-block hash-x, hash-y, hash-z, hash-payed, hash-change}So basically, if the i/o-point hash existed twice in the block list, it has been spent. If it exists only once it has not been spent.So in after block-17:   a, b, c & d are spent.   e, f, x, y, z are unspent.The transaction spends x, y & z and creates hash-payed & hash-change, so the transaction is valid.After the generating-block:  a, b, c, d, x, y, & z are spent.   e, f, payed, change are unspent.====The Goal: The goal is to provide all the same security of the existing system, but to avoid creating a public graph of every transaction that is easily correlated. In this case, the hashes don't even have to associate in the block. The block could simply sort all hashes in ascending order.In effect, I want to create real gold coins. I can give my coins to you, but everyone in the world doesn't know I did. You can give them to the next guy and prove they are pure gold coins, because you have the pedigree of the coins AND every generation in the pedigree was notarized in the public record.====The Question:Satoshi showed that you can remove transactions from the block list through the Merkle tree structure, without compromising security. I guess my real question is: "What is the earliest you can remove the transactions?"You could argue that nodes could remember everything anyway (the web never forgets). But if you structured the protocol so that new nodes would only receive a block list of hashes, they could only remember from this moment forward. That would give a little additional privacy. (Maybe)====Any thoughts? Is there an obvious way that people could cheat and get rich? I really I understood the point of this thread but I guess I didn't.I assumed that if you could design to do the exact same thing in the same commodity quantities and at the same protection level, BUT consuming less energy and producing less BTUs of heat, then that would be less wasteful.You can mine gold in lots of ways, some require less resources than others. If two processes produce the same amount of gold then no point in optimizing anything else? I'm not opposed to for profit companies. Nor am I opposed to your for profit venture. Eventhough you have a huge advantage by learning about bitcoin before most people.My point was, if you have only twenty-one nodes validating transactions you don't need the block list at all. There are easier ways of reaching consensus with a smaller pool of peers. I understand it! It adds value with a little risk.If you did it twice at the same time, you would have exactly the "tear two $5 bills in half and swap halves" case.That helps the risk cut both ways. You laugh and I did too. But consider that the launch of bitcoin could have gone this way.--------Hi I'm Satoshi, you a are the 20 largest ISP's in the world. I'm launching a new network cash service. It will add significant value to your existing customer base and make you some additional revenue.So here is the deal, In exchange for each of you running a bitcoin transaction verification peer and signing this contract, you will receive 1,000,000 BTC. You agree (in the contract) to distribute >= 500,000 BTC to your existing customer base in the first year. You may sell them, give them away to new subscribers or as a value add to promotions. Compete among yourselves, dispose of them anyway you want. Dispose of or keep the rest to dispose of in the future.You also agree to run the transaction verification servers honestly for X years. Here is a free client you can pass out to your customers, you can give it away or charge them a service fee. Compete among yourselves.Each of you pay me $100 for the privilege, you'll make that back the first day.Thank you for your $2,000 good luck to you all!Poof, now there is a functioning bitcoin network will all 21,000,000 coins in circulation. Satoshi gets to keep the last 1,000,000 BTC + he gets the $2,000.Bitcoin builds on the reputation of the 20 largest ISP's and is adopted immediately. 20 trusted nodes can reach consensus quickly so there is no reason for the hashing game or new minting rewards.----I don't think that is too pie in the sky for some of the clever salesmen I know to pull off. I say this half flippantly and half seriously. :-)If I were you, I would have considered a mapping that included, "For each entry into the bitcoin transaction recording/gold mining lottery, please send $10 to Satoshi."That would discourage botnet operators from thousands of nodes. And if it didn't you would have tens of thousands of dollars! ;-) PS:---------I really did think the CPU power contest was a brilliant solution. Then I actually did burn my leg with the bottom of my laptop. At that point I realized there was absolutely no way I was going to leave a node running just to support the network. I've run lots of P2P system just to support the network, but bitcoin is much harder to justify absent the "free money" enticement. And that enticement was not enough for me.By assuring that you need 32 CPU machines and fat network pipes to compete in the battle to record transactions, you absolutely guarantee that the bitcoin ecosystem slides into a central core of trusted nodes and peripheral users that rely on them. That in itself is not a bad thing. (Your news server analogy is appropriate here.)However, many people are attempting to contrast bitcoin as better than a central bank style system. By guaranteeing that there will be a central small set of high powered, well connected and trusted nodes that clears all transactions. Where these nodes are peers among each other, but a service "superior" to the general public. And that only members of this elite core are eligible to receive "newly minted money." It really appears that you are just in the process of recreating all the existing fears.The set of individual who have lots of BTC (like knightmb) will be the most interested in assuring transactions are recorded correctly. They will make sure they run high power honest nodes. As such, this set of BTC rich will receive a large subset of all new coins. That combined with planned price depreciation guarantees that the rich get relatively richer. The competition to this core of potentially "idle rich" is not the public at large, but scammers and BTC miners.This is not an inspiring story to sell the public. That is the key question of course. I think you need to make it harder to demonstrate you are a person/node. I posted some initial thoughts in the previous post. The method I was referring to was in the earliest version of Freenet. It was designed before the trusted connections model was implemented. I'd need to review all the details to remember the specifics. But basically you the nodes you would connect to were picked (I forget the method of picking) Then you pick a random number and broadcast it to all those nodes. Each of those nodes picks a random number and broadcasts it back to you, and to the other nodes in the set. All of the numbers are mathematically combined (don't remember the function) into your arbitrary ID. If you don't answer to that consensus ID no one with talk to you.Don't sue me if I've got that wrong. That is from an obviously faulty memory.The Sybil attack (named after the movie, I think) was a network segmentation attack. You create multiple personalities and try to surround a given node to deduce what they are storing. Obviously, that turned out to be possible for this method of ID generation. Hence the new friend-to-friend topography. The same limitation may be a weakness for bitcoin as well. But failures often provide the best guidance on new ways to proceed.Forgetting the Freenet tangent for a moment...The "Proof-of-work" technique may actually be applicable to address the ID generation problem you deftly pointed out. Instead of making it harder to generate the record of transactions, you could make it harder to generate new nodes and attach them to the network.Suppose you (making this up as I go) required that nodes create a private key, then calculate a proof of work checksum on that key, and then the node ID became RIPE-160(SHA-256(POWCheckum(public key) + SHA-256(public key))). Or some such.The intention being to slow node ID generation down enough for the attack to be untenable, but not so much that it makes it onerous for new nodes to join.That combined with some last minute "salt" on the transactions, might get us most of the way there.-------By the way, I see what I overlooked in my previous conceptualization.When a transaction is send to the DHT I was presuming would actually be stored on many (hopefully independent) nodes. 5 times related to each in-point and 5 times related to each out-point. Also once by the payer, and once by the payee. I guess that would be 17X redundant given 1 in and 2 outs.Each of these places "could" resubmit the transaction back to the network if it went missing.However, I failed to consider three things, 1) validators would only be using 5 of the 17 places for validation. 2) they have no way to query the other places of redundancy should the initial 5 locations be compromised. 3) the additional redundant places have no way of identifying the compromised nodes if they return targeted malicious lies. Oops. But nice catch! Bitcoins, the only money fit for Libertarians! My scheme doesn't have blocks. I was referring here to how the existing system operates.Yes, It's much easier!You've made a quite plausible argument for this particular case. Kudos! I'm not going to do the math either because that is really not the point. I'm not proposing "The solution". I'm suggesting that the amount of compute resources doesn't need to scale so badly to satisfy bitcoin's requirements. I'm only trying to show that there are other reasonable designs that can meet bitcoin's requirements with significantly lower CPU usage, and in the case of this thread less latency.I think with the brain-trust that is this forum, any limitations in a distributed solution are easily discovered and rectified. Just as is being done with the current implementation. Perhaps I chose a poor way to create a node ID. Freenet proposes an entirely different way of shared generation of node IDs. It doesn't suffer from the issues you point out. Perhaps it has other issues in this situation. But I'm confident there exist a distributed implementation that would work.Is the main thrust and incredulity in your argument because you think there CANNOT be a better solution than burning 100,000 CPU at 100% 24/7 and sending 100,000+ redundant messages per transaction? (100,000 was Satoshi's number of expected core nodes for a system that supported millions of users)  If you look for reasons to dismiss the idea out of hand, you will find them. However if you use the example to increase your understanding of why some P2P systems succeed yet many more fail, it will give you some insight.In that spirit, let me answer your questions directly.If ANY other transaction using that out-point is found there is a double spend, same rules as the current bitcoin system. The only way there can be disagreement is conflicting transactions got broadcast simultaneously but one arrived a close node A first and the conflicting one arrived at close node E first. By the end of the two 5 node broadcasts, both parties would discover the double spend.So which one is valid? Who cares. Flip a coin. That is exactly what bitcoin does in this situation. If my node is working on a block with on transaction, and your node is working on a block with a conflicting transaction, whoever solves the block first wins. Distributed coin flipping algorithms are trivial. All of this can be done almost immediately. Much faster than in 10 minute windows. So no, the majority doesn't change if 4 nodes leave, because consensus was reached and the nodes were made consistent.By the way, standard DHTs already address preserving data when nodes leave, and spreading the data when nodes join.No, this would be a requirement constraint. It is possible for the same reason that it is impossible to generate two public keys that match to the same bitcoin address. See my previous faux pas.Nodes would generate node addresses based upon private keys, exactly as is being done for bitcoin addresses. This makes node spoofing implausible. All of the inputs to the out-point hash are fixed except the payee, which is pre-specified. The only flexibility I can think of would be in the payment amount. If you want to iterate through all possible amounts and try to create a simultaneous 5 way hash collision, knock yourself out.It actually solves the problem in exactly the same way, just with much less CPU power.The brilliant insight behind bitcoin's distributed time stamping mechanism is you don't need absolute timestamps at all! You only need relative order. And for conflicts in a short window, you don't have to care at all. You can simply arbitrarily choose one.My solution does exactly the same thing. It maintains relative order among transactions. It arbitrarily reaches consensus on conflicts. Neither method has a requirement to accurately order unrelated transactions by time. Again, that was a brilliant insight. What I'm suggesting doesn't exist yet. There was related talk about similar issues on the thermodynamic perversity of generating blocks. If I have just one central node, the system could generate a transaction block in a fraction of a second. If you wanted, it could do this only once every ten minutes. But it wouldn't need any more than a fraction of a second of CPU time on a single processor.The reason is purely related to consensus. So if you had two nodes, you could have them both redundantly capture all transactions, and then in a fraction of a second each could generate a block. They could then exchange block hashes and if they matched, they would have consensus. If they didn't match you could reach consensus in one of two ways. 1) compare the transactions of each block one by one, and create a block consisting of the union of all transactions. or 2) Just pick one of the blocks and go with it. The second is what bitcoin actually does now. It just picks using the worlds most expensive coin flipper. You could accomplish the same task with a much cheaper coin flipper and nothing in bitcoin would change one bit.That is what I mean by "design decision" a it doesn't change any of the requirements for the system's features or behavior. It just implements things differently.----So when I talk about distributing the transaction graph throughout a distributed hash table it is just a different possible (but currently non-coded) way of implementing bitcoin's key feature. The feature of verifying the transfer of bitcoins from one address to another, in a way that makes it impossible to double spend coins.Optimally, if you had x,000 transactions per minute and 100 nodes, each node would only have to do 1/100th of the work of a single node handling x,000 transactions per minute. Each transaction is only required to be recorded once.However, with the current bitcoin implementation, if you have 100 nodes, they all run at 100% cpu for x,000 transactions. If you add another 100 nodes, they all still run at 100% cpu but do exactly the same job. We used to call it "government work" when you could do a job with 5 guys, but instead they used 50 guys, because more people working is better for the economy!So the new design constraint I'm proposing, is that for a given number of nodes (n), it should take (Order (1/n)) or maybe (Order log(n)) work per cpu to handle a given number of transactions. In this case work means CPU time and network communication. My design modifications FAIL if they give up any of the transaction protections of the existing system.----It turns out that the block list itself is not required to validate transactions. Only the transactions are required. So to understand what I'm suggesting you have to think about an equivalent bitcoin implementation without a monolithic block list containing every transaction in the history of the system.Instead, the transactions are redundantly scattered across all the nodes. No node need keep a complete list off all transactions, but they must be able to quickly retrieve any transaction on demand. Optimally in Order(1) time, but Order(log(n) time would probably suffice. That reduces the storage requirements of any given node to Order(1/n).Transactions are mapped to nodes by transaction out-points. You generate two unique out-point identifiers by hashing the transaction+out-point information. You then store the transaction redundantly on the five "closest nodes" to each out-point ID. That means for a system with 10,000 nodes. Each transaction is stored with 10X redundancy instead of 10,000X redundancy. (the 10X was an arbitrary choice, the redundancy would be based upon the DHT algorithm and characteristics of the node population.)Now each of those 10 nodes holds that out-point data completely privately, unless another node can show a "need to know". In this case a need to know is demonstrated by submitting a signed transaction that includes a given out-point as an in-point. In this case the storage node stores the new transaction. It also returns any known transactions referencing that out-point. If there is a previous transaction in-point associated with the out-point the second transaction is a double spend.So for any new transaction, to verify it, you send it to the five closest nodes to each in-point on the transaction. They record the transaction and immediately tell you if they've seen a double spend. If any have, it's a bogus transaction, which gets broadcast to the other close nodes.Now the what I'm suggesting also increases anonymity because you no longer have to broadcast every transaction you make to the world. Also random individuals can't go poking around in your business.There are many ways to map bitcoin transactions to DHTs. I just chose an example that would be easy to explain. There may be other possibilities offer improvement. But this one is sufficient to get the point across.There is also a fun technology called a "dining cryptographers network" that could further improve some of the anonymity aspects of bitcoin. Nice pitch Liberty! Shows benefits and has a call to action! I'd probably follow up on that.
My elevator pitch would be:"Captcha's are broken, but they are required for the web to continue to function." (Say something that people can agree with, the second part, and something plausible but perhaps they weren't currently thinking about, the first part."Bitcoin is going to be the new captcha. It can anonymously separate botnets from humans based upon tangible value."(What makes bitcoin, different from everything out there. But not something that is philosophically polarizing.)"Anyone who sells a captcha replacement based upon bitcoin, is going to make a boat load of dollars."(Tell the audience why they need to follow up now.) While everything you say is true. I'm not arguing your logic at all, here is why as an "elevator pitch" it falls flat.It doesn't explain the actual benefit of using bitcoin for the listener in the elevator. If the listener replies, "That's nice! I hope to hear more about bitcoin as it matures!" Then your elevator pitch has FAILED.An elevator pitch is all about opportunity. Not about the subject matter. An elevator pitch has to make the listener interested in immediate follow-up. Because if he fails to immediately follow up, he personally will lose the opportunity to gain value, and someone else will likely gain that opportunity. This exchange is fascinating! At some sense it's just a matter of semantics, but it is very insightful semantics.Logically I can support knightmb's statement "trust everyone collectively".However kiba's statement "trust no one" is disprovable,as is knightmb's statement "Trust no one node, but if enough nodes are saying the same thing, then trust that."The way the system works is every node attempts to receive every transaction, they each try to put every received transaction into a block at the same time. And while they are doing that, they each play the hashing game individually looking for fate to bless them with a match before it does anyone else.So at any given point in time the system is really *trust (but validate) someone arbitrarily*. This happens when someone declares a block & hash "solved". All the other nodes check the block for self consistency, but they DON'T check the block's transactions for consistency with the transactions they themselves were working on. Nor do they check against the transactions other nodes received. So I see no support for the "if enough nodes are saying the same thing, then trust that."All nodes simply declare, "I will trust this node's work as the next increment of bitcoin truth, because fate has blessed it." So it doesn't qualify as a "trust no one" system. Node's never say, "Hey you fuck head! I have 5 known transactions you didn't bother to put in your block! You are a lying bastard." Everyone just presumes the missing transactions will be resubmitted and they'll end up in a subsequent block. This is heuristically plausible, but not absolutely deterministic. Everyone has to keep checking to make sure their transactions actually cleared the process.So if knight's "trust everyone collectively" meant, "trust in the process" I find that insightful and a good motto. I'd probably add "...but keep doing your own validation!" mkrogh: Yes, you are correct. There is absolutely no requirement for there to be such latency in the bitcoin system. Nothing fundamental would change if the system were implemented with a block list that updated every 10 seconds, instead of every 10 minutes. It was just a design decision that could be changed without effecting monetary policy a bit.In fact, there is no requirement their be a block list that updates in increments at all. The system would work fine if each transaction were validated one-by-one. In effect one transaction per block. That was a design decision to make networked consensus building easier.However, when you say "local transaction validation" what you are grasping for is a truly distributed system, rather than a monolithic system made redundant. The current version of bitcoin is the latter. Each node does exactly the same work as every other node. Each redundantly checking every transaction. It is a system horribly wasteful of resources. And because it is so wasteful, generates latency as a waste product.Bitcoin could be made into a truly distributed system by storing the transaction graph in a distributed hash table. This is the kind of magic that is behind most other P2P systems. In effect, each bitcoin address would be arbitrarily mapped to a smaller set of nodes that checked its transactions. In such a system, there is no need to broadcast global state to every machine. This takes huge amount of latency out without needing to change any of the desired behavior. Hear hear! I though I tried to explain the lack of necessity, but people seem distracted by their repetition of mantras. A woot! To RHorning for his last post.I'm not a fan of bad banking either. Those that are bad at their jobs should be fired. Those that scam should be tried and locked up.I think mortgage brokers, realtors, and even some title companies should be investigated as "scam artists" for their activity during the housing price boom. All of these people convinced ordinary folk (maybe gullible ordinary folk) that obviously overpriced properties were affordable sound investments.I also think that any bankers that gave out mortgagees during the housing boom should share more than a preponderance of the responsibility for these stupid loans. They are the people holding themselves out as experts on the subject.Banks should never be allowed to get too big to fail. And if they practice banking they should fail.--PS: that should say if they practice BAD banking. Nicely written gridecon. I completely agree. I've been considering posting a similar critique but you've laid the issue out clearly. if you don't mind I'll add my thoughts here.As the minting process and the transaction recording process are one, there is really no reason to separate them. I don't disagree with knightmb's points at all. But I do think that is is really important to point out that all that CPU power and electricity usage is absolutely NOT required for the task at hand.Generating blocks serves three critical but independent functions in the bitcoin system.1. It permanently records valid transactions in a roughly chronological order.2. It creates *consensus* among all nodes on what transactions took place and when, WITHOUT relying on a central authority. That was a hugely clever breakthrough.3. It trickles bitcoins into circulation at a regularly scheduled rate. (roughtly 50 BTC/10 min) Also a nice motivational trick.However, all of these required tasks could be done in a much more efficient manner.Generally in a P2P system, if you add more nodes then the necessary machine resources needed per node decrease. (for a given usage level of the service)However, if we add more nodes to the bitcoin network the necessary machine resources needed per node increase. This is true of CPU usage and network bandwidth. Satoshi already pointed out that the goal of this is not to scale to millions of pure P2P nodes. But instead to have thousands of transaction checking peers each having thousands of clients. That means the goal is to create core "central authority" of peer nodes each of which is trusted by some clients, but the core peers do not necessarily need to trust each other. This is a absolutely critical design construct if the current implementation of bitcoin is expected to scale to millions of traders.However, there are other design possibilities that could meet each of these three critical goals without exponential growth in resources utilization.Implementing the transaction graph using a redundant distributed hash table comes to mind. This could be done with or without a core of central peers. Another possibility would be just to store the transaction graph in a SQL database and use database replication among the core peers. Either of those satisfies goal 1 and 2 using minimal system resources.Goal 3 is implementable by simply generating a distributed shared secret, then using that shared secret as a concensus random node to send 50 BTC to.I agree with gridecon that such an implementation would out compete the current implementation. Even if it otherwise following exactly the same external behavior and transaction validation rules. That is really quite clever!Do you simply assign the transaction to two bitcoin addresses and transmit it to the network for inclusion in the block list?Can you do more than two? Is it a one-or-more situation?Is this feature in the GUI yet? I obviously disagree, but it is a point that can only be proven empirically.Your point is well made, but I want to suggest that talking about bitcoins as "stock" is risky semantically. There are lots of agencies that investigate fraud in such areas. It is common for scammers to tout their schemes as "shares" in an "investment opportunity". Metaphors show intention. It is intention that gets people locked up. I know you don't think of this as a scam. But it is wise not to share terminology with scammers.If there was a bitcoin company and its goal was to make money by providing a service. And it sold shares that inherently increased in value based upon profit from customer's paying the company for that service. Then you could call justifiably call it stock. But you can't form a company whose business is SOLELY to sell the company's stock. And tout that if you buy the stock early, the people who come later will want to pay you more for that stock because it is a limited commodity.Trust me. Doing that is "a bad thing." :-)It was a brilliant decision! I've said that in another thread.But sometimes brilliant bootstrapping decisions can lead to hamstrung growth decisions. We disagree about this, but the truth will eventually play out empirically.I wrote on this in this post, but it got buried by a flippant comment about relative wealth. I would appreciate some comment on it.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=75.msg7603#msg7603I think the porn-industry could find value here. However, for that to benefit the bitcoin system as a whole, there needs to be something the porn-industry could spend their new BTC on BESIDES dollars. Maybe hosting. Maybe an associates program that pays for referrals in BTC. Then coins would be in the hands of more people in exchange for actual services rendered. More coin holders opens more possibilities for people to sell random commodities for BTC. That would create a real BTC economy of both coins and commodities/services circulating.If the majority of people just buy BTC for dollars, then spend them anonymously on porn, and the porn industry sells the coins back for dollars; then you have "a money transfer service" which cries out for the regulators to attack. While I doubt I would call it "the true price inflation rate", I understand what you mean. I would call it "the change in relative value between two commodities."And as in my prior post I claim that is "a good thing". Quoting myself below: (yes this is obnoxious, I know. But it was a long previous post)So back to your points again.Yes, I completely agree that in this situation the fed creates more competition for HOARDERS. It can out compete you because it is in a very real sense, an endless hoard. This competition drives what you could charge for lending out BTC from your hoard. In the same very real sense it "steals POWER" from the hoarders. (Meaning those whose BTC is not circulating and thus not affecting the production or consumption of new commodities.) And it gives that power to those who will affect production directly, or influence production through consumption.I agree, and I make the claim that this is "a good thing".I disagree with this because by its very nature, the Fed cannot benefit from receiving interest. As discussed above, the Fed represents an infinite hoard. It is of zero benefit if the hoard becomes "infinite+1". Now if the fed demanded to be paid in corn, or cows then you would have reason to be suspicious. But it sees no benefit from more FRN. Ah, I finally see where our disagreement lies! Call me slow!I agree with your statements above! Woot!But I'm making the claim that your checking, savings and CD accounts are the SECOND situation not the first. When you sign up for a bank account you sign a contract with the bank. It is a transaction just like any other. You SELL them your money, and you BUY their "paper" that promises that they will perform as stipulated. If the stipulation is "on-demand withdrawal" that means if they don't give you some of THEIR BTC when you demand it, they are in default on the contract and you can sue them.I claim that, in no way, is the BTC you give the bank still yours after you make a deposit. The abstract "account" specified in the contract is yours and the contract binds the two of you to certain behaviors.However, the bank does sell other services that match your FIRST situation. They call them "safe-deposit" boxes. You rent them from the bank fill them with YOUR property and the bank itself never has claim on your property.OK, so we agree on the following. That was what I was saying in my previous post.Furthermore in the previous post, I claim, if you can do this efficiently you can quickly convert  "loan properties" to BTC by quickly selling them to investors on-demand. (in this case investor money means hoarded BTC)So loans don't need to be "backed by savings" in the sense that there is BTC in a hoarded address. I needs to be backed by an asset liquid enough to be converted back to BTC on-demand. (gold would probably qualify) Re-read the whole thread. I found lots of wisdom in it, and this unanswered question. So I'll go first in answering it.No. I don't think Bitcoins would become popular if the supply of bitcoins was already fixed and no more minting was occuring.Does anyone disagree? Because bitcoin's dreaded monetary inflation is trivial to stop right now. I'll answer this, but I think your next post was much more interesting. I'll draw from that here as well.This is the second time I've seen the line "The people whom receive the new money first benefit the most". I don't know if it was you or bytemaster that said it previously.Who are these people? I've really never heard of the people who receive the money first.The BEP makes the money and delivers it to the federal reserve. The federal reserve doesn't "spend it" in the any consumer like sense of those words. They simply keep big piles of it for banks to borrow. Those banks borrow it with interest. Granted, now the interest is very low. It's almost like borrowing it without interest, but it still has to be accounted for and repaid according to the loan terms.So those would be "the people" who get the money first. But the banks don't take the money unless they can lend it out at a profit. Otherwise, the additional money would just be a liability. Yes, they get a lower interest rate, but interest rates always consider cost & risk. The large banks are *supposed* to be low risk. And the fed is *supposed* to monitor them to make sure they are. Lending only to a few low risk customers keeps costs down for the fed. Banks compete for borrowers but lend to riskier clients than the fed. That comes with additional costs and a higher rate.I'm still not seeing "the evil people" who get an advantage. Unless you consider all banks that deal with the fed as those people. I'm also not seeing how anyone can take advantage of lower prices in the marked. Perhaps I'm dense.---"Money spent into existence alters the price structure into something different than what it would be if that money had not been created."I agree with that statement. After the money has been loaned and it is actually spent, thus entering circulation, then prices are different then if that money was hoarded out of circulation."By the time the money filters through the economy and raises the general level of prices due to more money chasing the same amount of goods, the non-recipients of this new money are left with less purchasing power than before."We are not far apart on this point.However, if the Fed does its job perfectly (according to its mandate) then the new money entering circulation, keeps the PRICES from deflating and they remain perfectly stable. If there were not ALREADY an increasing amount of goods trading, there would be no need for the fed to encourage more currency to circulate.So with a perfect fed, existing dollar holders have exactly the same purchasing power as they had before the new money. But you are correct, they would have less purchasing power than they would have had if prices had been allowed to deflate.And for complete clarity, in my view that is a good thing. Money, when used in country, should not a commodity to be invested in. Specifically, you should NOT gain value by holding money in your piggybank or your mattress. That doesn't do anyone any good. You shouldn't necessarily lose value either.I know you disagree, you consider it a benefit of delayed gratification. I read the other post.But hoarding money OUTSIDE of circulation is fundamentally different than investing money in an interest bearing account. Saving's accounts pays interest because the money is not hoarded. Instead it circulates to people who use to create more commodity or service value. This additional created value IS "the time value" of money. It's the alternative to hoarding that is worth MORE than hoarding.When money doesn't circulate, it is worth zero to the economy. I've heard the argument that "it's an investment in the economy" but that can't be correct. If you and I each have $100 dollars and we both put them in our piggybanks we have both helped the economy none at all. Sure we are not competing for goods, so others might buy more with their money than if we competed with them. But "the economy" does not increase in commodity value. And if instead of putting my $100 in my piggybank I decided to burn the bills, I would still have exactly the same effect on the economy as you. Zero. There is no effect until the money starts to circulate again.If we reward people for having no effect on the economy. Things will go badly. Hoarding money over time has no positive effect on commodity production, so it should not be rewarded by value creation. You absolutely have more bitcoins, but less gold than the kings of old.But seriously, four guys discover the bitcoin system they all have $10,000 they want to trade for bitcoins, but they aren't sure about the system.The first guy says what the fuck and trades his $1,000 for 200,000 BTCThe second guy decides a month later and trades his $1,000 but gets only 20,000 BTC.The third guy is a little slower but says WFT a month later and trades $1,000 but gets only 2,000 BTC.The fourth guy gets on twitter and says, "Screw bitcoin, it's a pyramid scheme. I'm trading for ฿ and spending them on Thai hookers. That's the way I want to be fucked!"No one sees that as in obvious danger? OK so you have a point! ;-)  However, in my defense, let me explain what I was alluding to.The initial silver Dollar was defined as the average amount of silver that is in the equivalent Spanish silver coin at the time. Those were the common trading currency of the time. The dollar needed parity if the coins were going to be interchangeable at that time.But the common lament is "Oh, if I could take my 2010 FRNs to the Federal Reserve and demand a 1800 Silver coins I'd be rich! They've stolen all that value from me."But even with the original silver coins, the commodity value of the silver was always less than the monetary value of the coin. That makes perfect sense if you think about it. A silver nugget has to be assayed, smelted, and pressed into coin. Part of the value of the coin is silver. The other part of the value is confidence in the "token" itself.If the commodity value of the metal is ever more than the monetary value of the coin, it is rapidly taken out of circulation. Not by governments, but by individuals and traders. If I can pay one-dollars worth of corn for a coin, but melt it down into one-dollar and ten cents of silver, poof, they disappear. Simply sell the silver back for another dollar coin and start again. 10 times and you have a free dollar.The point of the gold and silver standard was for trade between countries. It was less important for intra-country trade. I just answered this here.http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=376.msg7621#msg7621But as for the housing crisis, I didn't mention fractional reserve banking at all. I gave an coherent explanation of how it happened that didn't involve the fed printing money or even the banks making recursive loans.You ignored that and replied, "it was fractional reserve banking", because you don't like fractional reserve banking. If you want to dispute me. At least show how what I said was not possible or even not probable.By the way, the last paragraph is gibberish. Or is it just me? So supposing that there exist bankers that take on-demand deposits of BTC and make sound-loans of BTC that pay interest in BTC. What I'm saying is no fraud or scamming by bankers. And no hedging on my part, these are fractional reserve banks. They lend out any 90% of depositor's BTC and keep 10% on hand as easy "cache".What you are proposing (and I hear proposed by others as if it were a common case) is a run on all banks at the same time of all "on-demand" BTC deposits.Now, one unacknowledged possibility is the "on-demand" deposits are paid with BTC from term deposits like CDs. But perhaps you considered those "on-demand" with penalty and the run includes those. Now if "good banking" is going on and there is no BTC in-house, then all the BTC is out on BTC interest producing loan and is backed by collateral. That makes these loans nice low risk "BTC income producing properties". So at that point the banks can sell these nice low risk BTC income producing properties to other investors willing to pay BTC now in exchange for more BTC later. If there is a default the investor claims and sells the collateral.If you unwound every loan this way, all the BTC would be returned to the depositors, and outside investors that used to have cash, would now hold sound low risk BTC income producing properties. In effect, they would be the new banks, but they would also be their only depositor. If they wanted their BTC back, they would have to sell their investment property to someone else.If I've explained this coherently, can I consider the BTC fractional reserve banking myth "de-bunked". :-) ---One of the best things about BTC is that it is a high velocity currency. We don't talk about that much. But because it is, it would be much faster to unwind this situation than with the lending of gold or paper. That is why banks deal with electronic currencies so much.--However, I still maintain that with planned monotonic deflation, BTC banking will not evolve. Deflation simply causes too much risk. (see the thread on negative interest)  There will likely be speculative high-risk/high-reward investments, but they will be done by "the bitcoin rich" rather than by average individuals pooling their money in on-demand banking. Are you kidding? In a market based society there is only relative wealth. Bill Gate is not rich because he has 40 billion dollars. He is rich because we all don't have 40 billion dollars. If we did all did the "average" house would cost 100 billion dollars and we'd all still have mortgages. Hell, I predicted the crash.I also listened to mortgage brokers on the phone in California. Realtors and other locals who made huge sums of money before the crash explaining why it could never happen."They are not making any more real estate! It is always going to go up in value! Look at the history, it's been up every year since world war 2!"But the problems weren't caused by monetary inflation. The problems were caused by bad banking. And they weren't caused by creating money. They were caused by taking money from people's retirement accounts and "investing it" in California, Florida, Nevada, and Arizona pooled mortgage funds.It was simple supply and demand. Investors wanted to buy pooled mortgage funds because they were safe and profitable. (Initially they were.) However, the initial well vetted mortgages got pooled first and sold to the smart guys who invented the concept.Because of demand to buy these funds, mortgage brokers lowered all the vetting rules, so they could quickly close new mortgages to sell into the pools. A mortgage broker could loan mortgage money in the afternoon, and sell the mortgage into a pool before close of business. The buyers didn't do any checking so who cares if the brokers did any?They loaned 9X people's annual salary with no money down. Then sold the mortgages as low risk investments. That is where the criminal fraud was. The big fund managers were irresponsible for not checking up on their suppliers. It was "bad banking" pure and simple. No money need be printed to create the inflation. It could have easily happened with a gold backed currency. I met my first Libertarian roughly 35 years ago. But I've been hearing people advocate for going back the the gold standard for longer than that. I agree with the pragmatic nature of Libertarianism that says less government is better. However, often find distasteful many people who call themselves Libertarian but use it as an excuse to argue that police and drug laws are bad. Ones I actually know personally, do this because they use drugs irresponsibly and exhibit anti-social behavior which antagonizes the police. I prefer not to be lumped in with them, even though I have some of them as friends.While I'm well aware of complaints about inflation and FRN, I had not heard it called Austrian economics. I disagree with the proponents of going back to the gold standard. I also find idiotic those who claim going off the gold standard was some sort of secret conspiracy. (I'm not claiming you are one of these Bitcoiner. I'm not so sure about Bytemaster though.) There were issues with gold backed money. It was publicly discussed, passed by congress and in all the papers. It was no secret. Lots of people didn't like it and many of them were rich. Poor people by definition had nothing to lose in the switch. So unless it was a conspiracy of the poor to steal value from the rich by causing inflation, it doesn't seem plausible. It is like calling Obama-care a secret conspiracy. I disagree strongly with that, but it certainly wasn't a secret conspiracy. Yes it benefits some and disadvantages others. Yes, it institutionalizes the concept that there is a service you are entitled to but not responsible for paying for. But it wasn't a secret, and it wasn't a conspiracy of the insurance agencies, hospitals or medical professionals.I pasted the quote because it was exactly what I was going to write about bytemaster's arguments on this site. Mainly this part:"generally lacks scientific rigor,... theories are not formulated in formal mathematical form, but by using mainly verbal logic and what [he] claims are self-evident axioms."alsoHis explanations are "contradicted by the evidence." At least by my experiences.
Nice summary. Worth discussing but I'm still not buying it.As an aside, I think there are a lot of mixed metaphors and final paragraph doesn't follow in anyway from the previous paragraphs.Note: I think it is 21,000,000. But agreed, there is a virtual account which the blocks are being debited from.However for your metaphor, who is this very rich man? Why is he the ONLY one with money when we start the system? Why does this guy get to decide what the price for OUR services are? That doesn't seem very market based to me?My metaphor twist is important because I want to show that the way blocks are trickled out is really a sociological trick. If you believe in a fixed currency, the trickle out system should really bother you. It is by definition and design "monetary inflation". Obviously, the first person who received 50 BTC had all the value. That made him the second very rich man. However, according to your rules, if the second block was generated by someone else, 1/2 of the second rich mans values was taken away and given to a third now rich man.By your very own terms, who is this very rich man, that he can choose to reallocate shares of wealth arbitrarily?The only rational way to answer this question is to say, he's the very rich man! He gets to make the rules of his game. If you don't like the rules of his game you don't have to play with him. Therefore, by common agreement among all who choose to play the very rich mans game, there exists at least one moral reason for an individual or group to reassign other people's wealth. So you have given a first affirmative answer to your #1 question. I'll suppose you are asserting that there exist no OTHER moral reason.Now, let's look at a different but more consistent metaphor that could have been used to boot the system, if you were a real austrian purest.Suppose the rich man said, I'm dying. You 21 closest friends of mine get all my BTC. Take care of it and trade it with the world. He then gave each person 1,000,000 BTC.Now you have the same logical stable state as you will have in "100 years" in your given example. It just gets here sooner. But the benefit is, you don't have to compromise on your most important value. Now there exists no group or individual who can reassign other people's wealth. Ideologically it is a perfect system.I think you can give me a dozen reasons why my pure system will fail. I'll give only one to advance the argument.1) Why on earth outside of the initial 21 now very rich men, would anyone else choose to use the system? Who are those 21 guys to make all the rules for all time? Why do they get to be the initial rich people and not me? What did they contribute that I am not contributing?This inductive logic holds for any fixed commodity fiat money system. I would guess there are roughly 21,000,000 motown records which were pressed in 1966. Why not use them as your fixed commodity? They are already "fairly distributed" among the initial population. Or perhaps you could use the roughly 21,000,000 Playboy magazines that were printed in 1957. Those are "fairly distributed" as well. Well if you decide men should be most of the initial rich people.In that case we could all decide that if you happen to have a 1966 motown record or a 1957 Playboy, you get a starting bitcoin. After that every bit of your logic still holds. They don't even have to all be redeemed at once. You could redeem them for bitcoins as you stumbled across them (like finding gold!)This is where the sociological trick comes in. Everyone here who is normally an austrian but tolerates the trickle in system does so for one reason. They want to be one of the initial rich people. To get something for nothing is very motivating.So the #1 question I have for you is, as the chances of being awarded blocks goes down. Why on earth is anyone going to want to play the silly game invented by you people who happened to stumble upon easy BTC first?After all, Knightmb has 10% of all the exiting BTC. He probably bought and generated them for less than $1,000 at the time. If I decide to trade some commodity worth $10,000 I would likely end up with less than half of his stash. He put in $1,000 and I put in $10,000 a couple of months later. He is more than twice as rich as me. If someone tries to trade $100,000 worth of commodities for BTC a few months after me, is he going to be half as rich as me and a quarter as rich as knightmb?That seems like a poor game for him to play. I don't think so. I think you understand this correctly.However, let me give it to you as a deductive reasoning chain:1. You loan 500 BTC to Fred for manufacturing improvements.2. Manufacturing improvements increase productivity.3. Increased productivity creates more commodities to trade.4. More commodities trading compete for a fixed number of bitcoins to trade with.5. Competition for bitcoins increases their value.6. Increased value of the repaid coins means commodity value break even is less than the principle of the loan.Seems perfectly logical via deductive reasoning. You can always finish the chain by saying it is up to the lender how much less he is willing to take.The problem with all this deductive reasoning is that it is completely pointless. No where did I give you any math that attempted to show how much deflation the given investment would/could cause.====Thought about more mathematically, a loan with negative interest is equivalent to two separate transactions.1. The amount of the loan that requires repayment (at zero percent interest).2. A gift for the rest of the amount.Deductive logic would say, there might exist cases where I might donate money with the hope of increasing deflation. And if I would give money away for that, then there is no loss in loaning money for that.Therefore, the proposition is again reasonable.====Inductive reasoning however says.1. Take the loan.2. Repay the loan.3. Keep the difference.That makes a lousy business model for a bank. Woot!  LOL!  :-) I was going to summarize my criticisms of your point of view but wikipedia already did it better.It is enough to say that I concur.By the way, just because people put extensive thought into something doesn't imply it is correct. The communists had lots of theories about why that model was better. Empirically, they didn't prove out. Many people saw the consequences of communism as mathematically obvious. That did not make them closed minded.For the record, I'm a pragmatic libertarian. Believe but do your own math. Math works. Empirically validated functions rule. Philosophy is easy to twist to any whim. That is my philosophy! :-)-------Criticism of the Austrian SchoolCritics have concluded that modern Austrian economics generally lacks scientific rigor,[10][12] which forms the basis of the most prominent criticism of the school. Austrian theories are not formulated in formal mathematical form,[107] but by using mainly verbal logic and what proponents claim are self-evident axioms. Mainstream economists believe that this makes Austrian theories too imprecisely defined to be clearly used to explain or predict real world events. Economist Bryan Caplan noted that, "what prevents Austrian economists from getting more publications in mainstream journals is that their papers rarely use mathematics or econometrics."A related criticism[5][108] is applied to Austrian School leaders; these leaders have advocated a rejection of methods which involve directly using empirical data in the development of (falsifiable) theories; application of empirical data is fundamental to the scientific method.[109] In particular, Austrian School leader, Ludwig von Mises, has been described as the mid-20th century's "archetypal 'unscientific' economist."[110] Mises wrote of his economic methodology that "its statements and propositions are not derived from experience... They are not subject to verification or falsification on the ground of experience and facts."[111] Murray Rothbard was also an adherent of Mises's methodology, and though Rothbard assigned a quasi-empirical description to it, he comments that "it should be obvious that this type of 'empiricism' is so out of step with modern empiricism that I may just as well continue to call it a priori for present purposes".[112] Additionally, the prominent Austrian economist, F. A. Hayek, stated his belief that social science theories can "never be verified or falsified by reference to facts."[113] Such rejections of empirical evidence in economics by Austrian School leaders have led to the school being dismissed within the mainstream.[5]Another general criticism of the School is that although it claims to highlight shortcomings in traditional methodology, it fails to provide viable alternatives for making positive contributions to economic theory.[114] In his critique of Austrian economics, Caplan stated that Austrian economists have often misunderstood modern economics, causing them to overstate their differences with it. He argued that several of the most important Austrian claims are false or overstated. For example, Austrian economists object to the use of cardinal utility in microeconomic theory; however, microeconomic theorists go to great pains to show that their results hold for all monotonic transformations of utility, and so are true for purely ordinal preferences.[10][23] Caplan has also criticized the school for rejecting on principle the use of mathematics or econometrics.There are also criticisms of specific Austrian theories. For example, Nobel laureate Milton Friedman, after examining the history of business cycles in the US, concluded that "The Hayek-Mises explanation of the business cycle is contradicted by the evidence. It is, I believe, false."[6][103][115] In addition to Milton Friedman's criticism, Nobel laureate and neo-Keynesian economist Paul Krugman argued that Austrian business cycle theory implies that consumption would increase during downturns, and cannot explain the empirical observation that spending in all sectors of the economy fall during a recession.[7]Economist Jeffrey Sachs has pointed out that when comparing developed free-market economies, those that have high rates of taxation and high social welfare spending perform better on most measures of economic performance compared to countries with low rates of taxation and low social outlays. He asserts that poverty rates are lower, median income is higher, the budget has larger surpluses, and the trade balance is stronger (although unemployment tends to be higher). He concludes that Friedrich Hayek was wrong when he said that high taxation would be a threat to freedom; but rather, a generous social-welfare state leads to fairness, economic equality, international competitiveness, and strong vibrant democracies.[116] In response to Sachs' article, William Easterly states that Hayek, writing in 1944, correctly recognized the dangers of large-scale state economic planning. He also questions the validity of comparing poverty levels in the Nordic countries and the United States, when the former have been moving away from social planning toward a more market-based economy, and the latter has historically taken in impoverished immigrants. Easterly also argues that laissez-faire countries were the leaders of "the ongoing global industrial revolution" which is responsible for abolishing much of the world's poverty.[117] Bitcoiner: I disagree with your viewpoints but they are worth the discussion value.My previous comment referred to the prior post by another and related video in another thread. I'm done there. Sometimes not trying to convince people of their ignorance is the most valuable choice.If I failed to respond to particular points it was because I was replying from a cell phone with limited keyboard. I will reply in depth as I get access to more efficient devices.In the meantime, why is it called austrian economic theory? Last I checked the austrians were part of the EU common currency? No one claims the euro is a fixed currency system do they?PS: this is a thread about the likelihood of people, banks or groups lending with negative interest. I think I responded very coherently about that. In this thread please feel free to refute my premise that PRICE inflation encourages lending, and PRICE deflation makes lending much riskier for the lender and more expensive for the borrower. Therefore it is highly unlikely that widespread lending at negative rates will evolve. I think what people fail to consider is that US silver and gold certificates were always denominated in DOLLARS not ounces. See for yourself.http://dollardaze.org/blog/posts/2006/November/12/1/usdollarcomparison.jpgA one dollar silver certificate is worth exactly the same amount of silver or gold as a one dollar federal reserve note. Always has been. Always will be.By the way which weighs more a pound of lead or a pound of feathers?  There were silver dollars made from silver, also some dimes and quarters. And $50 gold pieces made from gold. You can still buy some gold and silver commemorative coins. They are still denominated in dollars but cost more than their gold value. Those are what you want.The coins are no longer made from these metals because the metal value is worth more than the denomination value.Even pennies are no longer made of copper, because people were melting them for their copper value.----You should take this up with the British whose money IS called Pound Sterling!!  Go try changing their coins for a pound if silver. This represents a complete and closed world view that cannot be argued with.It is unfounded enough to dismiss out of hand. Watched the silly video. It explains much of the bantering.I'll leave you to your notions, because if that is your authoritative source there is no further point in discussion. If you give me 10 coins and I lend out 9 of them, that is a 10% reserve. If you loan out 90 coins that is fraud. Math is important.Fraud happens when you can't meet your obligations. If you do it doesn't matter what banking magic or collateral swaps you use.A one dollar silver certificate is worth exactly the same as a one dollar fed reserve note.A one dollar of lead would be worth just as much. I fail to see any significance. Hi falkenberg,I agree with you. If anyone does banking badly they can crash the system.In the US the banking system did Real Estate really badly. In California the decided it was sensible to lend people 9 times their annual salary with no money down! They also didn't require people to pay even the interest on their loans as part of their regular payment. The excess unpaid interest just rolled into the growing principle.The could only do this because there was a market of EVEN STUPIDER investors to sell these idiotic loans to.What happened? Well house prices spiked of course!BECAUSE, houses don't cost what people can afford. Houses cost what banks will LOAN! That is how supply and demand work in real estate. This of course was a metaphor, but if you are having trouble getting it, how about an example.Suppose on average it take 100 BTC a year for a person to buy all the necessities of life for a year. Food, rent, minimal stuff.Now we have two people doing the same job, one rich in cash, say because he happened to discover bitcoin four years before the other guy. The second person just discovered bitcoin today. So they start in the same job at the same wage (100 BTC) with the same needs (100 BTC). However, 4 years ago the rich guy traded a stack of old porn for 1000 BTC and then hoarded them. Say it was worth $5 at the time.Now say it is a really good year for bitcoin adoption. The "demand" for bitcoins doubles and the prices of necessities falls by half. Now let's say salaries fall to match. Now both guys make 50 BTC and spend 50 BTC. So who cares?Well the rich guy went from having a 10 year reserve of BTC to having a 20 year reserve of BTC. The other still has no reserve.The rich guy did no more work than the poor guy. AND!!! This is the important part!!!  His hoard of 1000 BTC added no more value to the overall economy than the poor guys 0 BTC hoard. In productivity value, all hoards are equal.Hence the over all transfer of wealth to the rich. You might not consider it "stealing" however certainly both people and their stashes benefited the economy equally, one got disproportunate reward.If you think about it, this is how Feudal systems work. However the important commodity is land rather than BTC.Now inflation should be self explainatory. If prices doubled, the rich guy went from a 10 year reserve to a 5 year reserve. Which is still a huge benefit from a stack of porn. It is in his best advantage to spend the money right away before it goes from a 5 year reserve to a 2 year reserve. Bad government is bad government. But I'm sure you'll find that zimbabwe was trying to redistribute the wealth. They did that by printing money to cause inflation. They could have burned the fields and cities, the prices would have spiked just as fast. As I pointed out, inflation steals (in commodity value) from the cash rich, and gives to the cash poor.In a related note, bad banking is bad banking. The US and Europe showed that lots of their bankers can suck too.While I agree with lots of what you said, I think this statement is unsupported.If you could point to any recent example of a group of people trading with an absolutely fixed fiat commodity it might help. However, I can't point to any government anywhere trying to preserve a monotonically deflationary environment.What evidence is there that such an environment is one that wouldn't turn into Feudalism? Really now, this is all getting quite silly. Isn't this on wikipedia?The Bureau of Engraving and Printing makes the bills. The U.S. Mint makes the coins. The Federal Reserve orders the money from the BEP and acts as HOARD. That is why it's called "reserve". The hoard is used to replace worn out money. And more importantly, it serves as a central bank that operates on principles similar to most other banks. It loans money from the hoard at interest to other banks. That is what "the prime rate" and "the fed rate" are all about.The Fed never prints money and willy nilly sends the money out to citizens, politician or even other banks.The thing that makes the Fed special and the part that you seem preoccupied is the fact that they The Fed is responsible for setting the interest rates, and rules for other banks.Feel free to read about it. It's all public information.If you find an instance of someone who got to benefit first from newly printed money please let me know. I want to go stand next to that guy.Note that even with "the bank bailout" the Fed didn't just print money and give it to the failing banks. The money was budgeted and loan terms were set by congress. Most of the banks repayed the loans with interest. I know you really want what you say to be true but it doesn't match with any reality that I know of.Bitcoin does absolutely nothing to prevent fraud in banking. Any commodity can be stolen with clever fraud.Bitcoin does absolutely nothing to improve responsible banking. Banking can be done using any commodity.Banks never create money however, they really do increase the velocity of money. That makes it look like there is more money, but responsible banking backs everything with outside commodities. Most of this post is just mantra with very little attempt at understanding what I posted.I always talk about price inflation and deflation. Central banks increase or decrease the money supply to effect monetary policy. It is only coincidence that increase and inflate are synonyms. This site is the only place I've ever been to where people try to confuse dissimilar concepts.For the record, bitcoin has a fixed monetary policy. There are 21,000,000 bitcoins by definition. That number is constant for all time. Some coins circulate some are being hoarded. Most are in a logical sense being hoarded in a roughly 17,500,000 coin central reserve to enter circulation with predictable timing based upon a fixed central policy.No coins can be destroyed, beyond the known 21,000,00 none can be created. Therefore there is zero monetary inflation or deflation in bitcoin. Get over it! Coins can only circulate or be hoarded purposefully or accidentally.Printing money does squat. The US is printing money at a huge rate at the moment and prices are still deflating. Or I could be lying and the government could be burning money at a huge clip. You can't know and you don't have to care.Printing money "transfers" nothing! The money just sits in a vault until some bank borrows it at interest. The interest is determined by the goals of monetary policy. Which is to deal with PRICE inflation or deflation!  No. But in periods of increasing bitcoin popularity with an influx of commodities and high deflation rates, expect little lending.As people begin to get frustrated that the bitcoin rich are getting richer under deflation, while doing zero work, they will begin to take their commodities and sell their bitcoins. Thereby reducing deflation rates, perhaps even causing momentary inflation. It is during these times that lending will start to look like a good idea. If the loans drive the creation of new commodities traded in bitcoins, the deflation will resume and the frustration cycle will start again.But take the case of the very early adopters as an example. The system started with coin generation and zero commodities to trade the coins for. The very early adopters were awarded coins easily and for nearly free since block generation was low.Now compare the case of those who sold their early generated coins to knightmb and those who continue to hoard their coins. The sellers were bearish on bitcoin. The hoarders are bullish on bitcoin's success.Knightmb is bullish on bitcoin. Otherwise he would be trying to borrow coins rather than buying them outright.If the commodities that want to trade in bitcoin increase the early adopters who hoard (bullish) are proven correct. They indeed get more for nothing than the early sellers. If bitcoin is abandoned, those who sold (bearish) are proven correct because they at least got something for nothing.But in general, deflation steals from the cash poor and gives to the cash rich.Inflation steals from the cash rich and gives to the cash poor.That is why deflation causes uprisings but inflation causes malaise. Everything I wrote is accurate whether you do good banking with gold coins, dollars, or BTC. Banks never give you money without borrowing it first. That is called forgery. You don't have to care where the banks borrowed the money from. You don't even have to care if they pay their loans back. The person the bank borrowed from has to care. And in turn the bank has to care whether you pay your debt. Banking is inherently a trust enterprise. Or as Ronald Regan would say, "trust but verify". That is where collateral comes in.In your example, your "sort of bill of a debt" is actually an interbank loan. When you say "This bill is backed upped by the the loan-certificates it got from borrower mostly" I'm assuming you mean the loan is secured by the property/collateral taken from the consumer borrower. Yes, both of those things are sound rational banking practices.If the consumer defaults on the debt, the collateral is sold and used to pay back the interbank loan. If the bank didn't hold proper collateral, then they suck at banking and deserve to fail. So does the bank that trusted them with interbank loans. I disagree about bitcoin monetary policy too, to it is the bitcoin way. The system and policy will likely rise or fall together. Don't expect drastic change unless you start a competing network. Exactly! But the premise of the thread was that in a highly deflationary period, people would be naturally incentivized to lend money at low (even negative rates) because the additional commodity growth would accelerate deflation fast enough to make up the difference. The now even greater deflation would then compound the incentive to lend.That argument is bunk.In every marketplace, incentives to lend increase with inflation and they decrease sharply with deflation. Furthermore, the higher inflation is the lower the relative delta between inflation and interest rates.For example in an economy with 1% inflation you could easily lend at 5% interest (5x inflation).However, with 10% inflation while you could likely get 15% interest (1/2 x inflation), you certainly couldn't get 50% interest (5x inflation).As inflation goes up, the relative risk of lending goes down. If you are already going to lose 10% of your value in a year, a 3.5% gain starts to look really good. Remember we are comparing lending vs not lending.HOLD: 100 btc present value = 90 btc present value after 1 year of 10% inflation.  LEND: 100 btc present value @15% = 103.5 btc present value after 1 year of 10% inflation.  On a one year loan, that is a 13.5 btc delta over NOT lending. However, the borrower only has to create 3.5% gain in commodity value to pay back the 15% interest. That makes the venture LOW risk.Deflation plays on the same spectrum. Not an inverted one. HOLD: 100 btc present value = 110 btc present value after 1 year of 10% deflation.  LEND: 100 btc present value @15% = 126.5 btc present value after 1 year of 10% deflation.On a one year loan, that is a 16.5 btc delta over NOT lending. However, the borrower has to create 26.5% gain in commodity value to pay back the 15% interest. That makes the venture HIGH risk. Thanks guys! Sorry to be lazy! Just because I'm lazy and don't have the code on this machine...You're saying the hash recorded independently by each node outside the block chain? Where is the check-point hash stored and how often?
I'm really not picking on you. :-)It's just that a lot of the "fractional reserve" discussions on this site are hooey. Everyone just nodding at each other doesn't re-enforce validity of a fallacious argument.If I loan the bank 100 gold coins, then the bank promises to repay me 100 gold coins. It doesn't promise me to keep 100 gold coins on hand incase I bang on the door and want to see them.We have such deposits but they are called "safe deposit boxes" you pay the bank for the privilege of them keeping your hoard safe. They pay you nothing, because they are in business to make money. What you hoard has zero benefit to them. It could be gold, could be comic books. They are just renting really expensive cubic inches to you. If you wanted the bank to keep a 100% reserve of the money you deposit with them, you simply have to pay them for their services. You can't expect them to pay you for it.Now back to my gold coins, they didn't appear out of thin air. I loaned them to the banker and they are hard and metal. If a home buyer wants a loan, the bank spend my gold coins on a real world house. The coins don't disappear, they go to the previous owner of the house, or pays the builder for creating the new commodity. Now if I want my gold coins back they don't appear from thin air. The bank gets coins from another bank by simply selling them the house. If you have every mortgaged a house, you would have seen your mortgage change hands several times during the life of your loan. There is no magic involved.If you do responsible banking, the system works well. If you suck at banking, your bank fails. This can only happen if you give money to someone who won't pay it back AND you didn't take the proper collateral to guarantee zero loss.That is the problem with depreciation. The collateral for loans no longer provides the value needed to back a default on the loan. That is why NO ONE loans in a depreciating environment. Interesting! Are you considering going all the way back to the genesis block?I was presuming you would just wipe out recent transactions. That would require a shorter effort.If I had to guess, I would say it would be hard (not impossible) to go all the way back to genesis. The reason I think so is the increasing amount of CPU power over time. Every time the difficulty increases, it is because blocks are generating faster on average than 1 per 10 min. There have been many difficulty increases, so therefore I'm guessing that on average since the launch of the system, blocks have been generated faster than 1 per 10 min. If you are trying to fix your rate at 1 per 10 minutes, it would seem you could never catch up. Doh! I forgot you can fake time itself! That was the whole point of your title! You can generate blocks as fast as you want from your new genesis block! All you have to do is synchronize your network's fake clocks and fake transactions! You could probably wipe the whole list in days if you tried!Woot! Nice attack!Do the nodes not keep the alternate forks incase someone wants to extend them in a chunk later? Banking is always based on trust in the bankers. People don't really "deposit" their money in a bank. They "loan" their money to a banker. There is a written contract between the banker and depositor that specifies the terms for repayment of the loan. Some loans are "on-demand" (checking accounts) others have more restricted terms (certificates of deposit).If potential depositors don't know who a banker lends too, how can they possibly judge their risk in lending money to a banker? I'm not a lawyer, but I'm as close to as absolutely sure as I can get that you can't enforce a contract between a person and an anonymous entity. So depositors would be able to hold a known banker to a contract. However, a banker wouldn't be able to hold an anonymous borrower to a contract.Sounds like a recipe for disaster to me. If you want to do the first market based test of the economic theories here...You might consider "borrowing" some bitcoins from knightmb at a set interest rate and payment schedule. I'm interested in seeing what he interest rate and payment schedule he would consider acceptable risk.If you follow most gambling, it is usually better than a license to print money. It could be argued that such a business should out perform the bitcoin economy as a whole. Technically, you will need to build a relationship with the copyright holders. If they approve your plan it is smooth sailing. If they don't, you are in for a world of hurt.In western publishing the author often assigns the copyright to a publisher. At that point what they want ceases to be of any importance to your legal standing. I don't know Japanese business conventions though. So in the abstract, better make sure you knows who holds the actual copyrights. The music trading business has lots of examples of the artist putting works up in P2P systems and the publisher harassing people for trading said music "illegally." Woot! Real facts! Nice!Cool time machine thread too. Nice analysis! That is a very interesting attack vector!I was thinking about that longest chain wins bit for a while, however, I presumed (didn't read the code) that there was some memory in the network outside of the "block tree" itself.For example, I presumed that if at block 7000 everyone calculated the difficulty and the consensus was 250 then this would somehow be remembered as a permanent checkpoint. However, if each fork in the block chain is evaluated in its own relative terms then the vector you suggest seems potentially viable. It would seem even more viable during two week periods where the main network is decreasing in CPU power. On average the network would be generating less than one block every 10 minutes. Towards the end of the two week period it seems possible that you could substitute your now longer chain for the shorter main one. Thereby erasing any number of transactions that you wanted.If their is no memory across difficulty reset points, the substitution effect is magnified. Not to pick on Bitcoiner, I've seen this line of reasoning in lots of threads. However, it is bunk as it leaves out obviously everyday solutions currently in use.Obviously if there is "a run" on a bank's cash reserve, their obviously most common solution is to BORROW cash at interest from another bank. Sometimes this money comes from a central bank, but normally it comes from one of the other banks who are not experiencing "a run" on their cash.A bank does not "go bankrupt" when it runs out of cash. It goes bankrupt when it runs out of credit worthiness. Banking is always based upon trust in the bankers making the decisions.By the way, your bitcoin wallet is never "a bank" for any sense of the term "bank" that doesn't start with "piggy". It is more properly termed "a hoard". In the same sense that storing cash in a mattress, safe or piggybank would be a hoard.A bank's deposits are always in the economic flow. That is the only way banks are able to pay interest. The interest comes because other people use the cash to create more commodity value, that in-turn translates back into cash to repay the loan with interest.The last thing you want your bank to be doing is hoarding your cash. They couldn't pay you any interest, and would have to charge you a fee for safe storage of your money. It would be cheaper to put it in a mattress and buy a gun. So much for 100% reserve banks. They would be worth-less than fractional reserve banks to everyone. Do people really think that banks generate or borrow money from the air? That is just uninformed.Banks borrow money from each other and from the Fed/Central banks at interest. The Fed/Central banks set interest rates (and make other monetary policy decisions) to keep the currency relatively stable. Stable meaning $1 buys 1 loaf of cheap bread. (It has for the better part of a decade now.)In general the Fed/Central banks guard vigorously against a price deflation. They also guard against rapid inflation. This means the fluctuations are NOT zero centered. Value fluctuations tend to stay on the slightly inflated side of zero. This is all by design.Getting a 3% pay raise is a little nice. Getting a 3% pay cut sucks really bad. By the way, I made the "monkey" crack before I saw the thread on monkey economics. It is worth watching the video.People do tend to make decisions in relative terms rather than absolute ones.But notice he could have also said, I loaned out all 1000 BTC at -50% interest and get back 500 BTC which is worth the same, but I've done a wonderful thing for society and it cost me nothing.Or I loaned out all 1000 BTC at -35%(ish) and ended up with 650 BTC worth 1,300 loaves of bread. whether or not it is a good argument depends on the random absolute numbers you pull out of your but with the flying monkeys.But in the end, humans don't tend to make decisions this way. We say minimize risk if we expect to be gaining value. Gamble overly optimistically if we think the trend is down, but there is a chance we might be saved from loses. Las Vegas was built on this principle. Ask the monkeys. Expanding upon "bunk"Lending 100 BTC and having it double the economy is an example equivalent to saying, "And then monkeys fly out of my butt..."So here's more monkeys!Scenario 1:YOU:At the start of the year you have 1000 bitcoins, you lend out 100 for 1 year at -50% interest.This stimulates the economy to grow 100% At the end of the year, you will have 950 bitcoins, but they are worth 1900 loaves of bread.ME:At the start of the same year I have 1000 bitcoins. I lend out 0.You stimulate the economy to grow 100% At the end of the year, I will have 1000 bitcoins, but they are worth 2000 loaves of bread.I win!Scenario 2:Neither of us loans coins.The economy increasesWe tie in value. I think I'll just restate what I said in the post he was responding to.-----------This logic is mathematically flawed. People don't realize it because they have never seen it.If external value starts to flock to bitcoin, than the external value to trade increases, while the number of coins to trade stays the same. That means if the value of external commodities traded doubles overall, than the value of each bitcoin doubles as well. Example: If there were 100 loaves of bread a day and 100 bitcoins the mean value of bread is 1 BTC. If you want to trade an additional 100 loaves a day, you either have to double the velocity of the coins, or trade in 1/2 BTC coins at the same velocity.That's the easy part! What is counter intuitive is the dynamic vs lending.In this situation your argument says that people would start lending their excess bitcoins (at interest I'm presuming). So what would the interest rate be in this situation? So if we presume that the amount of value people want to trade using bitcoins will double this year (not unlikely) what is a reasonable interest rate? Well, just putting them in my mattress will give me 100% interest in commodity value with 0% risk.However, if I want to borrow the money to start a business manufacturing some commodity widgets, the if I borrow the equivalent of 100 widgets today in BTC, then I need to pay the BTC back with the equivalent value of >200 widgets in a year. So if my widget business is growing at 50% growth a year, I'm screwed.Deflation make lending very expensive, and very risky. That is why there is minimal lending now, EVEN THOUGH the government is giving away free money for banks to lend.People are not used to this in their regular life because they are used to price inflation.Inflation means that money in your mattress is worth less to you (in commodities) next year than it is worth today. That encourages you to LOAN your money to a bank in hopes that they will pay you at least as much interest to make up the difference. A little extra is even better! This makes lending cheap for new businesses and much less risky for lenders. Business need a much smaller growth rate and profit margin to succeed. Including the bank to whom you lent your money.------------In my follow up to his reply (which you used to begin this thread) I said-------------And he replied-------------So generally I think the negative interest rate argument is bunk. Answering the actual question:Knightmb I don't see that it couldn't be done. After all China pegged the currency for a billion plus people against the dollar. If you have a central point of control (conversion point) anything is possible.That is not an argument for it being a good idea. Should Greece be pegged to Germany? Maybe...? It's my collection, I can do it if I want! If you read carefully you'll see I defined the rules for the collected coins in terms of transactions. It maybe a silly idea but I think the rules of the collection make it coherent even if it is virtual.  To make a truly anonymous payment, the sent address must be not be linkable to a particular person. All addresses belong to a particular key holder. So it's an impasse unless we break the rule about an address belonging to one and only one individual.So what I'm considering is a automated Tor hidden service that holds the private key wallet for a joint address that anyone can trade through. It would have to be a "trusted" service because obviously anyone with access to the private key could steal everyone's coins. So for the sake of argument, presume that the service is not a scam.Now an honest anonymity service could provide proof of its honesty using the following automated mechanism.1. Many users send bitcoins to the anonymizer address in advance like a checking account. Each of these are standard public transaction. That means the service can see who sent the coins and keep private account balances by sending address. 2. Users communicate with the anonymizer through a Tor hidden service so there are no exit nodes that can spy. No one knows where the server is located to avoid other sorts of attacks. There are three messages that can be sent to the service.2a. Send this transaction.2b. Get Balance.2c. Acknowledge Balance.Send this transaction - takes as parameter a almost-standard transaction sending money from the anonymizer address to any recipient address. The only non-standard part of the transaction is that it is signed by the "account holder" rather than by the anonymizer. The system validates this signature and matches it to the depositors account in the standard way. It then checks the current account balance. If there is sufficient funds, the anonyizer simply removes the account holder's signature, and resigns the transaction and broadcasts it. It then *temporarily* stores the original signed transaction request and updates the account balance. Get Balance - the message returns the account holder's current private balance and any confirmed account transactions.Acknowledge Balance - once the account holder has reconciled his "checkbook" against the account records, he then signs his account balance and sends the signature in an acknowledgement message. When the system receives the acknowledgment it deletes the transaction logs and saves the signed balance.So should any user try to repudiate the anonymizer's honesty the system can show the user's previous signed balance, any signed but unacknowledged withdrawals and any new new deposits (from the transaction log). These should sum to an unassailable current balance.---As with any mix-net, the system requires a large number of users to provide anonymity. It doesn't do any good to have a single user anonymity system. It also requires a buffer with some latency. It doesn't do any good to deposit 1234 BTC and then immediately send 1234 BTC to someone else using the system. That can be easily correlated just like in my previous post.The optimal use would be for lots of users to make regular deposits (like a paycheck). Then they could request payments at will, just like with a checking account. So to be optimally anonymous all users must:1. make regular payments2. have private/hidden balances3. communicate with the system through a non-observable channel4. make irregular payments (not matching public deposits)Anyway, that's the general idea. Feel free to shoot holes in it. Which part?If I passed a transaction to you offline, you could validate that it was a good transaction using your locally stored block list. Now say I connected to the network first, and instead of broadcasting the transaction I gave you, instead I broadcast a similar transaction sending the same coins to another address. Now when you connect to broadcast the previously valid transaction I gave you, it will have already been spent.If I remember correctly from the code, the in-points of a transaction reference the end-points of a previous transaction in a particular block. If the transaction is not in the block list, there is no way to generate a subsequent transaction. I could be wrong on the details, but this is the generally expected behavior of the system. Ah, I see what you are going for now. I don't really know what use case you are thinking about.Say you duplicate the block list entirely, then split the user base across two non-interconnected systems forking the block list from that point on. Interestedly, all the transactions remain consistent enough to be concatenated. They couldn't actually be concatenated because of the proof of work daisy chain, but you could certainly rerun each fork into the other with no inconsistencies or double spent coins.The restriction is that each private key/bitcoin address would have to trade on one system or the other but not both. If you merged the transaction list periodically you could allow users to cross over at that point.Have no idea if this solves any problem, much less the one you were interested in. But I found it interesting to realize that you don't have to destroy the coins. You have to destroy the owners! :-) This seems quite silly as opposed to not lending the money and making even more real profit.Perhaps I don't understand what you are saying? You can make a complete confirmed transfer with the receiving party completely off line if that helps.It is logically possible to create the transaction and send it to the receiving party while both are offline. However, this becomes a trust situation until one of the parties broadcasts the transaction to the network and it is confirmed in the block list.Trust meaning that it is possible for the sender to double spend the coins before the receiver broadcasts the transaction. Also, it is not possible for the receiver to spend the coins until the transaction is confirmed.
I do understand the alternate coins with a floating conversion rate. You list some great examples.I don't understand the alternate coins with a one-to-one mapping to bitcoins. I may be missing something.  You have a pretty correct understanding.1. Yes that is correct2. The block chain is a massive ledger of all the transactions using coins. It will grow linearly with the number of trades. However, all trades don't need to be kept forever. Old trades can be culled from the list. Not sure if this is being done now.3. You could generate a transaction in a detached fashion but it would still need to be transmitted to the internet connected nodes for the transaction to be confirmed in everyone else's mind. Until that point, the another transaction could spend the coins in advance of your detached transaction clearing. There is no way to private go, "Gere are 5 coins. Don't tell anyone I gave them to you."4. Difficulty is computed and considered.5. It could be done. Don't know if anyone is working on such an app. I think you understand completely. Since there is no way to destroy bitcoins they would need to be held in a trusted escrow account. That is the only way to assure there will be bitcoins at the correct market rate to exchange back.I'm missing the point of the exercise entirely. How does this additional complexity add a new feature to the existing implementation? I agree with the first statement. I also happen to agree with the second statement (others here don't).But I don't think anything you wrote supports the second statement. "keep the market small" is ill defined. The market had been growing and the value of coins is increasing. You didn't explain when this becomes bad.I was only pointing out that "safe from inflation" isn't a constant. In my mind it shouldn't even be a goal for bitcoin. However others seem to think this is a feature.I posted in another thread about inflation, deflation and lending. Check my history if you are interested. This logic is mathematically flawed. People don't realize it because they have never seen it.If external value starts to flock to bitcoin, than the external value to trade increases, while the number of coins to trade stays the same. That means if the value of external commodities traded doubles overall, than the value of each bitcoin doubles as well. Example: If there were 100 loaves of bread a day and 100 bitcoins the mean value of bread is 1 BTC. If you want to trade an additional 100 loaves a day, you either have to double the velocity of the coins, or trade in 1/2 BTC coins at the same velocity.That's the easy part! What is counter intuitive is the dynamic vs lending.In this situation your argument says that people would start lending their excess bitcoins (at interest I'm presuming). So what would the interest rate be in this situation? So if we presume that the amount of value people want to trade using bitcoins will double this year (not unlikely) what is a reasonable interest rate? Well, just putting them in my mattress will give me 100% interest in commodity value with 0% risk.However, if I want to borrow the money to start a business manufacturing some commodity widgets, the if I borrow the equivalent of 100 widgets today in BTC, then I need to pay the BTC back with the equivalent value of >200 widgets in a year. So if my widget business is growing at 50% growth a year, I'm screwed.Deflation make lending very expensive, and very risky. That is why there is minimal lending now, EVEN THOUGH the government is giving away free money for banks to lend.People are not used to this in their regular life because they are used to price inflation.Inflation means that money in your mattress is worth less to you (in commodities) next year than it is worth today. That encourages you to LOAN your money to a bank in hopes that they will pay you at least as much interest to make up the difference. A little extra is even better! This makes lending cheap for new businesses and much less risky for lenders. Business need a much smaller growth rate and profit margin to succeed. Including the bank to whom you lent your money. Votes could be weighted based upon your address' balance of bitcoins. Stock proxy-vote style. The rich would have more power.Votes could be weighted based upon the number of nodes. The hackers would have more power.Votes could be one-person, one-vote. But that would have to be verified outside the system. I don't understand your point. I don't think you made it.Bitcoins would work just as well as a national fiat currency with no other alternatives.There would generally be price deflation over time as the amount of external commodity value increased against the constant number of bitcoins.However if there was a war and lots of people were killed. The external commodity value would likely decrease and there would be a spike in inflation.There could also be other spikes as people who were hoarding decided to trade their bitcoins. See that's the insidious nature of correlation. If I tell you about it, then build it as a hidden service. The service is forever linked to my user account here!:-)I'll post about it in detail but it will take more time to explain than I have now. It involves trust, but in the bitcoin spirit, the trust is cryptologically verifiable.   By the way, I've got an idea for an automated way of preserving true anonymity in the transaction list. It shouldn't require any changes to the bitcoin system. I might try to create it as a service if anyone thinks it would be of value.Other people are going to hate the whole concept though. ;-) Anonymity in BitCoin is really a misnomer. It is really pseudonymity as all transactions are done through bitcoin addresses. An address is equivalent to the pseudonyms used on this site.When people speak about anonymity/pseudonymity they usually mean link-ability. Can my pseudonym (address) be linked to my real world identity.However, there is another important aspect, associate-ability. What can others learn about me by watching the behavior of my pseudonym. Because bitcoin is a publicly visible directed graph, link-ability is directly related to associate-ability.Suppose you use the same handle and anonymous email here, as you do on a kiddie porn site. If that association was made you might be banned here, or even targeted by others. In the real world (and the generalized internet world) those associations are often hard to make. That tends to make people careless. However, in bitcoin these associations are trivial.Associating your address with a set of behavior gives others a reason to attempt to link it back to you.Every bitcoin comes to you from someone who knows enough about you to transact with you. When you spend the coins they go to someone who often knows you as well. Each interaction can leak information about you or your behavior.You would think that single use addresses could protect you, however they can often be correlated easier than you think. Suppose you want to buy a domain registry from privacyshark for 700 BTC. But you don't want it associated with your well know bitcoin address in your footer here. So you decide to route it through three single use intermediary accounts (x, y, z). So create new accounts X,Y,and Z. Send 700 BTC first to X, then from there to Y, and from Y to Z. Finally you send the 700 BTC on to privacysharks well known address.Well you are still screwed, because on the bitcoin directed graph, you just drew a straight line from your public address here to privacyshark's public address. Each segment in that line correlates by value amount. They also correlate in time. (one hop each block at worst)What if you try it differently, you send three different amounts from your public address to the three new addresses. 100 to X, 200 to Y, and 400 to Z. Then you send from X, Y, and Z individually to privacyshark. Well these amounts now create a neat diamond shape on the graph with you at the fork and privacyshark at the join. The transactions to and from X,Y & Z all correlate in time (perhaps even in the same two blocks). They also correlate by amount. If you already happen to have coins at several addresses and you decide to sent 700 of them at once to privacyshark, I'm not sure exactly how the client generates the transactions but I do know, that they will still correlate by time and amount. Even worse it has the potential to associate non-single use accounts to one individual.You can only de-correlate the timing by adding more latency. You can only de-correlate the graph connections by adding more hops. You can only de-correlate the values by adding more forking. All of these precautions reduce the utility of bitcoin and increase the complexity of transactions.Is anyone going to go through all the bother to back-propagate your transaction graph just for buying a domain name? Well they might if privacyshark just registered "kiddieporn.com" and they are looking to link that to the buyer. And while doing that they might happen to correlate the anonymous registry of "IDontPayTaxes.com" with your "trade in bitcoin instead of paying taxes" post here. 1. No. <-- That is the shorted summary of the well laid argument in that thread.2. No. If people decide they don't want to sell their goods for bitcoins, prices will likely inflate on the goods that do trade. It's a sell your coins while they are still worth something situation.3. No. Explained previously.4. No. Hoarding doesn't lead to collapse. If prices monotonically deflate, hoarding leads to wealth in exactly the same way as the interest from loaning money to a bank leads to wealth. The more coins you hoard the larger the summation of benefits from each coin buying more. The math is simple. It is equivalent to saying if you loan $10 in a bank you get twice as much interest as loaning $5. While I think the signed binary bit is a non-solution to the problem, that attack vector is really quite likely. Especially while people are competing to run specialty builds that hash fast than everyone else.A real solution would be to factor the key generation and private key storage into a separate process. The bitcoin client would communicate with the signing process through a well defined interface that took the data to be signed as input and returned a signature as output. It would never expose the actual public key to the bitcoin client.This is equivalent to what some USB encryption dongles do. http://goldkey.com/The signing process would have to prompt the user to review the generated transaction, and unlock the wallet prior to signing it.A user review of the actual generated transaction is necessary to prevent the other obvious fraud vector. Covertly replacing the bitcoin address on a user's intended transaction with an alternate, prior to signing. To make that work in bitcoin you would need to be able to create a private key that both of you know, but a public key that each of you only know *half* of. In the crypto sense of half, where there are two secrets that can be combined together mathematically to make a third secret.You would both transfer 5 BTC to the bitcoin address matching the public key. Then neither could retrieve the coins until one surrendered his half to the other.A proxy comes to mine, but that is cheating. If you used a proxy to generate the private key and split it, they would know the private key and in that case you might as well trust them to hold the money without splitting the key.I don't know enough about how elliptic curve based keys are generated to propose an algorithm. But stranger things have happened in crypto than that. In some cases, you can do math with two unknown encrypted numbers and have and have the answer decrypt correctly.Go figure. Thanks lachesis!That is what I concluded from reading the code. It makes perfect sense when you dig down to the details. It wasn't what I was expecting though from a system called bitcoin. Was kind of expecting objects representing coins which were somehow encrypted, signed and passed around between parties.As a side note, can you imagine writing the FAQ for BitCoin for a new generation 20 years from now?  I mean far enough in the future that we have begun to cull the beginning of the block list.Q: "How do I know that the bitcoins you are giving to me really exist?"A: "Because the guy that gave them to me believed they existed! And the guy that gave them to him..."It's really going to sound like the old joke that ends with, "You don't get it. It's turtles all the way down!" Thanks! those are great answers!I guess I slipped a couple of "design decision" questions into a list I intended to be purely about parameter settings.Bitcoin addresses vs full public keys/certsCertificates vs a key wallet But if we add to the design decision list, I'm also interested in:Coins - why the decision to not serialize them or otherwise uniquely identify individual coins? (This misconception seems to come up repeatedly)Accounts - why the decision not to keep a running balance by bitcoin address in the block list.I think I understand why, but if there was a FAQ, those two would probably belong in it somewhere. Fair enough! :-) Hoarding is worth discussing but by no means is it rediculous.If you are living in a world with price inflation then a key thing to teach your children about is the magic of banking with compound interest. The last thing you want is a long term piggybank. In a world with pre-planned monotonic price deflation, the equivalent magic is called hoarding.  I think that the limits of anonymity needs to be discussed if that is going to be a claim of the system.I'm very interested in that subject, however, others are less so.Might be worth creating some sort of best practices, depending upon how anonymous you are trying to be. As close as I figure everything throughput is babbling about, comes down to a single use case.1. Superhacker "Red" wants to steal bitcoins without anyone finding out.2. Red downloads the bitcoin source from sourceforge.3. Red adds a little extra bit of hidden code that covertly uploads the node owner's wallet (private keys) to Red's super secret hacker server.4. Red uploads the hacked binary to sourceforge or somewhere else that people will think it is an official version.5. People trust the hacked version and begin to use it.6. As the wallet files come in, Red uses their public keys to submit valid transactions sending the coins to untraceable super secret bitcoin addresses.He suggests this scenario could be avoided by signing the binaries with a trusted public key/certificate. I didn't notice this earlier or I would have responded.Who wrote the code doesn't have security implications. What the code does, has security implications. If you don't believe the binaries match the source, then build the source yourself. If you can't ask for a binary from someone you trust that has. If you can't do either. You are what we call SOL.This makes no sense to me. See above.This almost makes sense, but not really. Most of your points are off enough to be dismissed out of hand. However, I thought of a better example that others might grasp so I'll mention it in a follow up post.1. I did.2. Yes, others agree. Just ask.3. Implemented correctly, yes it can be proven and the risks of the system documented based upon the strength of the crypto. If there are bugs in the code, it is open for anyone to point them out and/or fix them. I tried. I failed. Others may try as they think weakness.4. Yes, he did a great job in the white paper.You can't put inconsistent transactions into blocks. The other nodes will reject your blocks.The entire transaction log is public. Even if you were able to subvert most of the nodes, if you expect the other nodes to accept your transactions they have to be consistent valid transactions.If you can subvert all the nodes, then by definition you are not running a bitcoin network. You are running a "your silly coin" network.The rest is nonsense.Everyone analysis. Just ask Knightmb. Do you think he would have spend one nickel on server time if stealing coins was easier?You are foolish, to not presume that the community has not already considered every point that pops off the top of your head. Everyone tries. Everyone fails. Everyone tries again.You should try again. Just try to understand the system first. Then hack it.
As far as I know, this is incorrect.Every bitcoin transaction is mapped to a previous transaction. All transactions are signed by the owner of a particular bitcoin address. They are all traceable though the graph. If you think about it, you will realize that otherwise the system would be easy to spoof.The send to IP address, simply makes a connection there first and asks it for an appropriate bitcoin address to send to. After that everything is the same as any other transaction. That is why there was a warning of a possible man-in-the-middle attack using Tor or other proxies.(anyone, please correct me if I'm wrong) There are certain constants in BitCoin that could have initially been set to any arbitrary value without conceptual changes to the network. I'm NOT contesting any of these parameter choices as ill conceived. However, there are a lot of curious numbers used in BitCoin and I have no idea why.I think it would be interesting to document why these choices were made as they seem to be at the heart of many questions that get posted to this forum.I'll start the list with the parameters I can think of off the top of my head. Please feel free to add to the list.----------------------------21,000,000 BTC - Why 21 million and not 10, 16, 20, 25, 32. Just seems like a very particular number that is not divisible by 10 or an obvious power of 2.2016 - Why does the difficulty adjust every 2016 blocks? Why not 2000, or 2048?2 weeks - Why does the block adjustment map to a two week period? Why not every week or everyday?10 minutes - Why do we want to generate a block every 10 minutes? Did this drive the above choices or is it a result of them?50 BTC - Why a 50 BTC reward for generating a block? Why not 100?  Or Why not a relative value like 0.X BTC for each BTC transaction in a block or even X% of the existing coin base?4 years - Why does the block reward reset every 4 years? Why not every year or every 5 years? Why does it decrease at all?1/2 - Why does the block reward diminish by half each time? Why not decrease by 1 or 5 coins?"Golden years" - Why choose to give out half of all bitcoins to whomever happens to show up in the first 4 years? Why not give out 10% or 100%? Did this drive the above or is it the result of the above?BitCoin Addresses - Why use the hash of a hash (good idea!) for an address, rather than simply using the full public key.Certificates - Why not store public keys as part of standard 509 certificates, or in PGP format, The same for private keys.Time stamps - How do we calculate when in UTC a transaction actually took place? When it was issued from the client, or when confirmed in a block list? Is there a shared consensus on BitCoin standard time? (Everyone, add what you can think of. Answer what you know.) In most cases, a single person can't change bitcoin parameters unilaterally. That's sort of like saying I use gold for coins, but you choose to use silver. But you want to pretend that both of our coins are the same.However, everyone could change to a different set of parameters at once if necessary. However, there are reasons each of the parameters was set at its current value. I just don't know what those are. So I'm going to post that question in a new thread. That is pretty awe inspiring!  You didn't assemble all those machines for this project did you?Were some of them cloud machines (like amazon ecc?)I'm hoping you'll give some details on your project soon. I've got some anonymous banking ideas if you want to share. FTW! I can't explain this to you any better.I can only explain it to you LOUDER.If you are still unclear on the concepts, you'll have to look to someone else. I don't have to see it. Mathematically there is no difference.Coins are not limited. You can trade 1/10 of a coin as easily as you can trade 10 coins.It is well known that one person has 10% of all existing coins. Most are being "hoarded" because he is developing a new venture that requires the coins as collateral. If his venture were to fail before it started and he were to "burn" his wallet with 10% of all existing bitcoins. NOBODY WOULD NOTICE! Nobody knew he had the coins until he told us. If he had never told us, the math is no different.If he decided to sell them all at once the market would notice. But nothing happens if someone takes NO action.Consider the obvious. By definition the bitcoin system has 21,000,000 BTC of value. Currently 3,500,000'ish is available to circulate if it wants to. That means that 17,500,000 is being hoarded by the BitCoin reserve to be trickled out over time. It makes no difference if it is being hoarded in a bitcoin address or outside a bitcoin address. (In fact I'd have to examine the code to know for sure.)If all the users decided that trickling the coins out was stupid and we should put a stop to it. It still wouldn't matter. The system would continue to trade with 3,500,000 total coins rather than 21,000,000. Absolutely no one would notice, EXCEPT those people who wanted to get bitcoins for free. That is a "social" dynamic, not a monetary dynamic. I want to point out that I have heard of several existing "alternative implementations" all created by people other than Satoshi.People have replace the SHA-256 algorithm with a faster one. Made it work on many different operating systems and hardware configurations. Each of these is a separate and equal alternative implementation.When you create an alternative implementation that doesn't mean you have to start from scratch or understand the details. You could let a C++ to Java or C# translator do most of the work, while you remain oblivious. Others could pick up your work, learn specific parts, make modifications and remain oblivious to the rest of the system.Now, I'm not against protocol specifications written in an abstract language. Nor am I against regression testing. However, neither is required for BitCoin to become successful. If you had any system, quantum or not, that could solve the discrete logarithm problem, yes, you could generate the private key from any known public key. With that you could steal any coins you want.However, you could also probably steal most of the Dollars, Euros, Roubles, etc. I used to have similar thoughts, but I decided I was wrong. It turns out that BitCoin is peer to peer in the sense that tier-1 internet providers are peer to peer. It is not P2P in the same sense that bittorrent is P2P.Satoshi points out that he sees the NEED for at most 100,000 nodes verifying transactions and logging blocks. Others would use those nodes in a more client/service fashion. If I was guessing that number I would put it much lower (3<X<100) independent interested parties. Anyone can choose to be one of those X parties, or can choose to validate some or all of the work of those X parties, but only a small number are really REQUIRED.Because in effect, the entire block list is mostly a distributed notary service. And though that requires rigor, it is not a particularly hard job.So who would choose to do that job for free?Knightmb for one. I'm have no doubt that many others like NewLibertyStandard will as well. Why Knightmb specifically? Well he has lots of coins and his business model and personal wealth relies on a well functioning honest system. Without that, his wealth and business simply evaporate. It is altruism and cooperation though self interest.If you want a real world example consider the internet itself. At its amorphous core are about 7 tier-1 service providers. They are called tier-1 only because each has a mutually self interested "peering agreement" with the other six providers. That means these huge services providers move phenomenal amounts of date back and forth with zero accounting and zero payments among each other. They make all their money by selling their service to NON-tier-1 providers who make their money from selling it to you.There is nothing to stop anyone from becoming a tier-1 provider. All you have to do is convince the others that it is in their self interest to peer with you. So for a example, Google is thought to pay zero in bandwidth to transmit youtube videos. There is enough traffic both ways, that it is in everyones self-interest to peer with them.I expect that the same will happen with BitCoin. All the internal accounting and transfers will be free. (with the exclusion of transaction fees meant to avoid spam and mischief). Value will be created at the edges where people exchange bitcoins for something else of value. Actually I don't think it *requires* making a breaking change. It simply requires making everyone who trades in your "gold coins" a little more rigorous about their behavior. Either that or making the client a little more explicit about when it creates merging transactions.An example of rigorous would be, the person who bought "gold coins" would have them transfered into a virgin bitcoin address. In your wallet, you could have you client tag that address as "non-merging". Everyone who received them would also do the same thing. In that case, when they are redeemed they would be "untainted".Should someone inadvertently taint the gold with other coins, they would have to continue trading/redeeming all the tainted coins in one block. In effect, you have to lose the traditional value of the tainting coins to preserve the "gold value" of the tainted ones.I initially thought the same thing. I also noticed that you'd probably want to take into consideration non-fungible vs non-fungible and divisible vs indivisible commodities.  Assigning coins to no one, is exactly equivalent to hoarding them. Which is exactly equivalent to losing your wallet keys.The result is the same. No one will notice or care. If you are having trouble grasping thisNo one knows what coins he has. No one is begging him for them because no one needs them. So if he hoards them or loses them it makes no difference.Now if he were to spend them, he might have some effect on supply and demand. But NOT SPENDING them can have no effect, the lack of his coins is already priced into the market as they say. No one can disintegrate bitcoins even if it were fun. The only thing you can do is decide NOT to spend them. Whoopee! What a blast!It really doesn't matter how many coins he is NOT circulating. What's important are the ones which are. Your person makes no difference to me. Only your words live here.And your words either point out what is obvious to even the most casual observer.1) Everyone is not a developer.2) The code makes the rules.3) Therefore, developers of the code make the rules.No shit Sherlock! That really does go *without* saying.The rules can change! That is not a revelation. What will be considered a valid transaction in the future is unknown. However, what was a valid transaction in the past cannot change. That is the important thing. And the future rules cannot change if the consensus of users doesn't want them too. If it tries, people just convert their value out of bitcoins using the existing system, and move on to another currency. There is no way to steal the existing bitcoin value by anyone, developer or not.If there is, you certainly haven't pointed anything out.In the case where you do say something that is not obvious to everyone, it is generally either misguided or nonsensical. I mean really, WTF! Yes, but it isn't immediately obvious why.Technically it could be done without changing any of the shared data structures (the blocks list of transactions). But you would have to assure that the client that generates the transactions doesn't inadvertently "taint" your coins.So for background, the "transaction history" called the block list, is really a shared directed graph of all valid transactions.The transactions themselves (nodes), group one or more in-points, and two out-points (edges).The out-points are *quantities* of bitcoins, assigned to particular bitcoin address. The first out-point is the amount transfered, and the second out-point is any leftover from the sum of the in-points.A transaction's one or more in-points are simply links back to previous out-points in the transaction list.Individual bitcoins are not represented as objects, neither are bitcoin addresses. The amount of bitcoins assigned to a given bitcoin address, is simply the summation of the unused out-point values assigned to that address.(Someone correct me if I've screwed this up!)So for example, say three people send bitcoins to one of your "bytemaster" bitcoin addresses, in the amounts of 4, 5 & 6 BTC.Code:                           [             ](4 BTC, "alice")<-- in-1  [Transaction 1] out-1a --> (4 BTC, "bytemaster")                          [             ] out-1b --> (0 BTC, "alice")                          [             ](9 BTC, "bob"  )<-- in-2  [Transaction 2] out-2a --> (5 BTC, "bytemaster")                          [             ] out-2b --> (4 BTC, "bob")(2 BTC, "chuck")<-- in-3a [             ](3 BTC, "chuck")<-- in-3b [Transaction 3] out-3a --> (6 BTC, "bytemaster")(5 BTC, "chuck")<-- in-3c [             ] out-3b --> (4 BTC, "chuck")The first transaction comes from alice in the about of 4 BTC.  Notice it has 1 in-point and no left over change. This is the simplest type of transaction. I'll call it a "pass-through". One input value and one output value. The second transaction comes from bob in the amount of 5 BTC. However, bob had previously received 9 BTC from someone else and he only wants to give you 5 BTC of that. So he sends the remaining 4 BTC back to himself. Notice the input quantity must equal the output quantity. I'll call this type of transaction a "fork". Because it has one input value and two output values.The third transaction comes from chuck in the amount of 6 BTC. However, he has previously only received small amounts of bitcoins, so he doesn't have enough value in any previous out-point to transfer to you. So his transaction gathers value from several previous out-points. I'll call this type of transaction a "merge", because of its multiple inputs.-----What you want to do is to create some "gold bitcoins" that you can identify as different from regular old bitcoins but others wouldn't. This is logically possible to do with bitcoin as is. The simplest case would be a series of pass-through transactions.Code:(5 BTC, "gold" )<-- in-4  [Transaction 4] out-4a --> (5 BTC, "bytemaster")<-- in-5  [Transaction 5] out-5a --> (5 BTC, "vendor")<-- in-6  [Transaction 6] out-6a --> (5 BTC, "gold-redeemer")In this case, the "gold-redeemer" could easily see that the value originated as "gold"However, if someone was to send some regular bitcoins to the same address at you or a future owner uses for the gold, it is possible that the "gold bitcoins" can become "tained" by the regular coins in a merge transaction.As far as I know, in the current bitcoin client, you do not have fine grained control over this. For example your client might merge the coins from alice in with the gold coins. This makes it impossible to decide where the gold is down the line.Code:(4 BTC, "alice")<-- in-1  [Transaction 1] out-1a --> (4 BTC, "bytemaster")<-- in-5a [Transaction 5] out-5a --> (5 BTC, "vendor") <-- in-6  [Transaction 6] out-6a --> (5 BTC, "gold-redeemer")(5 BTC, "gold" )<-- in-4  [Transaction 4] out-4a --> (5 BTC, "bytemaster")<-- in-5b [             ] out-5b --> (4 BTC, "bytemaster") <-- in-7  [Transaction 7] out-7a --> (4 BTC, "gold-redeemer")In this case "gold-redeemer" has received 9 coins but can tell that only 5 "gold coins" were issued. It is ambiguous who to return the gold value to.So for your needs, pass-through and fork transactions would be OK. You could merge coins if they were all "gold coins" but if you or someone else inadvertently merges in regular coins, all that gold becomes tainted. That's interesting! Thanks for the reference. It has to be in the transaction recorded in the block list by definition. Maybe those fancy python tools for examining transactions would help?http://github.com/gavinandresen/bitcointoolsAnd just for my own benefit, is this the best way to examine the block list's transaction history at the moment? Or is there something I'm missing? Bytemaster: I had a similar ideal. It turns out the major limiting factor is that coins are not actually serialized or represented in any way. Only exchanges of fungible value are represented.It quickly becomes impossible to identify your particular backed coins unless special care is taken. I was going to write a post on this, but instead I wrote the one on coin collecting in the marketplace forum.If you want create a new topic and we can all discuss "non-fungible" bitcoins. Yes, quite an impressive analysis! Alas I have no coins to send.Why is there no PPC build for the Mac? I really need new hardware. Actually, that is a really cool concept to ponder. I hadn't thought of the fact that Satoshi has the private key to the genesis block! He has incontrovertible proof that he kicked this whole thing off! I doubt he'll part with that key. He'll probably pass it down to his kids.It would be cool to own that address with some of the original coins in it!(Shit, now I'll never get any! :-))
I kind of figured that if I had generated the first and only block, the next thing I would do is transfer some coins to another account to see if everything was working. Probably several different times. Then I might try merging them back together to test that too.It's possible they have all been merged together. That would be a shame for future historians though. If that's true, I might start looking for coins from the first non-tainted (uncirculated block). Either way, I figure there is at least a 1 and 10 chance that you have the earliest untainted coins. :-) Ƅ  Latin capital letter tone six (simple and cool looking)∄  There does not exist (my ironic favorite, because bitcoins do not exist)ℬ  Script Capital B  (since you are documenting all the cool things that look like a B) I'd like to be the first BitCoin collector.I'd like to buy 5 uncirculated bitcoins from the genesis block.  I'm willing to pay $5 USD for them. That's 20x the current market rate if you are the current owner.As bitcoins are not individually represented or serialized, here are my requirements for "uncirculated".After transfer to my bitcoin address(s), you should be able to show the following provenance.1) A complete transaction list originating at the genesis block2) All transactions in that list have only a single input. (no merging transactions)That means, I want coins from the genesis block, that have never been mixed with (circulated with/tainted by) coins generated in subsequent blocks. Otherwise, there is no way to know my coins are true genesis coins.The only exception to the merging transaction rule, is if you can show that every input to the merging transaction has the above provenance. In other words, the genesis coins have only been mixed with other genesis coins.I might even pay extra, if you can document the real world owners of every bitcoin address the coins passed through.Cheers!Red I think the digital goods argument holds until it becomes obvious that the following is happening.1) Someone within the US buys $X,000 worth of bit coins.2) That person transfers those bitcoins to the account of someone undesirable.3) That undesirable person sells $X,000 worth of bitcoins for cash in another part of the world.At that point, unless bitcoin is receiving public adulation, (like say FaceBook) the whole network will be deemed an unregistered money transfer service. If the undesirable person is undesirable enough, showing steps 1) and 2) will not be proven, just implied.I think you are correct that no one will care for small numbers of X. But as market volume goes up, someone will start to notice.P.S.:  I think you will also want to be able to show that you are NOT in too tight with other traders. Otherwise it looks even more like a money transmittal service. I see this is an old thread. Did any real lawyers advise anyone on this?I see that the current market just helps people meet and paypal or others handle the currency. That seems sound to me. Either those outside organizations are registered to as money transmitters or their neck is on the line.I doubt any of the argument of "It's not a currency" will hold water in the US, its the money transmittal service aspect that tends to get people in trouble. I'll learn how elliptic curves work one day, but not today. I should have taken more finite math when I was I college. Who'd a thought it would have come in handy for anything!By the way, nice idea and implementation of BitCoin Satoshi!It opens a whole new world of possibilities. I particularly like the concept of distributed agreement without relying upon trust. I think that is the breakthrough concept.Also, I think the idea of BitCoin mining was brilliant! I doubt you could have gotten the network bootstrapped any other way. I disagree that it's a "fair way" to distribute coins, but hey the world is not fair! And really, I don't think any other way would have generated as much user excitement.By the way, I concede that there is no thread of stealing bitcoins from my earlier postulation. The double hash seems to assure that from my perspective. Nice call!Incidentally, I'd still like to know what happens if you generate RSA keys based upon non-prime numbers though. I figure there are other systems out there that didn't double hash. :-) You might try reading in the economics forum. Lot's of competing suggestions in there.Beware, it's a hornet's nest! Let me clarify...I'd like it if EVERYBODY forgot the old transactions. It doesn't make much sense from an anonymity perspective for just some people to forget them.And yes, I understand Merkle trees. It's a nice feature. So the way I read it.Given two numbers p and q. Which for RSA are supposed to be large primes.Then n = p*qThe public key is the two fields (n, e).  e is called the public exponent and appears to be chosen from a set of common values.The private key is also two fields (n, d). d is called the private exponent it it is derived by knowing  e, p-1, and q-1.The trick is, it is really hard to factor n into p & q. Therefore it is equally as hard to find p-1 and q-1My postulation is that if n is arbitrary, and e is one of the common values, then there are lots of different p, q pairs that would work. The less prime the numbers the easier to find p and q, and therefore p-1 and q-1. And if you have a big block of arbitrary data that give you lots of flexibility in trying to collide a hash.(That is the point where I could be totally off base though. Really interested, if a crypto geek knows better than me.)I did read that the key generation algorithms create p and q such that they are "very likely prime" but it is too much work to know for sure. This leads me to believe non-primes don't cause any obvious FAILs. I could be wrong though. I think you are correct on the analytical attack. At least a far as I understand (minimally) the mathematical genius that is analyzing them.I was worried it was the simpler:bitcoinaddress = RIPEMD-160(publickey) From what I was told, bitcoin is using one of the 160 bit hashes for generating bitcoin address.The SHA-1 family of hash algorithms are some of the most commonly used. SHA-1 is a 160 bit hash.Here is a paper that claims to find SHA-1 collisions in 2^52 crypto operations. And optimally secure hash would take 2^80 operations. 2^52 time is still large, but it is getting into cluster and botnet range.http://www.ictlex.net/wp-content/iacrhash.pdfThe MD5 hashes can already be crashed in seconds on laptops. That was why it was retired from certificate based signatures.And yes what I'm saying is **I think** you can think of a public key as two secret numbers mathematically combined together. And the private key as those two numbers kept separately. The thing that make the system secure requires that the two secret numbers be really large prime numbers.But if they are really large non-prime numbers the combination math still works, it is just must faster to break the algorithm.I'll do a little more googling and see if I can substantiate my claims. I was hoping someone could dismiss them out of hand though. Satoshi pointed out that my scenario still required the hash function to be broken. That is true, but I was surprised to learn how successful some have been with that. MD4 and MD5 are obvious examples. But work is well underway at colliding SHA-1 and siblings like SHA-256.What hash is being used in this part of Bitcoin?He is also skeptical that you could you could use something other than a generated keypair.On this point, I'm pretty confident that it is a simple matter of mathematics. I didn't pay enough attention to this until I learned about "blind signing" of documents.It turns out you can take a document and multiply it by a random number. Then have someone sign the jumbled file. Finally, you divide your random number out of their signature and the result is still a valid signature for the original document. Who'd figured that would work!Anyway, if keypairs are only secure if they are based upon pairs of primes. Then nothing changes any of the math if the numbers are not prime. They are just much easier to factor.I'd be perfectly happy for some crypto guy to prove me an idiot. It effects some features of a previous project I created that relied on the same association. I didn't think of this then either. Thanks Satoshi,Here is what I sent him.-----------Public key cryptography depends on the fact that it is hard to factor large prime numbers. Everyone knows that. If bitcoins were transfers were assigned to a well formed public key, and an associated private key signature was required for future transfer I would concede that bitcoins crypto transfers were completely secure.However, bitcoin transactions don't seem to work that way (by my reading). Transactions assign coin amounts to a particular "bitcoin address". Where the address is a hash of the public key.To validate a transaction, nodes take the public key from the signature and use that to verify the actual signature. If the signature is valid, it then hashes the public key to confirm it matches the bitcoin address assigned in the previous transaction. If both match, by definition, the transaction is good.The potential weakness is in associating the public key in the signature with the bitcoin address.There is a many to one relationship between public keys and a given hash. Now, if finding a pair of prime numbers that creates a secure public/private key pair where the public key part hashes to a particular bitcoin address seems hard... it probably is.However, that is not required.All you need is ANYTHING representing a public key that hash collides with a know large bitcoin account. It does NOT have to be a secure key pair based on primes. It is simply has to work once and allow the transfer of the stolen money to another account. That is potentially much easier.Some hashes are harder to collide than others. I'm not sure the strength of the hash being used. However, colliding any hash gets much easier if you don't have to care about the content being hashed.Because of the nature of public keys they look like random data. As I understand them, you can't know if a public key is based upon secure math unless you succeed in factoring it. Therefore clients don't try. They normally just do the validation of the signature and presume the public key was generated in a secure fashion if it worked.NOTE: The following analysis needs double checking by a real cryptohacker. IANACRSo depending on the hash, you could use one of the up-and-coming hash collision algorithms to generate a colliding block of data which represents a public key. Then by reversing the public/private key math, generate an associated (but hardly secure at all) private key that would generate valid signatures.You then take your insecure, easily factorable, key pair and generate a signed transaction that matches the target bitcoin address.Since the transaction log, can't validate the full public key the coins were intended for, it simple presumes it must have been the one presented.By recording the full public key of the transfer target in the block list you can regain the intended strength. However, you lose the ability to pass around 34 character addresses.If I'm off base, I apologize for wasting your time.Cheers!Red You stopped my post just in time! :-) I think there is a pretty significant crypto flaw in Bitcoin as currently implemented. I'm not sure it is exploitable now (I'm not a real cryptohacker) but it is more than plausible that will be in the near future.The flaw would enable anonymous stealing of coins from arbitrary bitcoin addresses. And no it doesn't involve solving any of the hard problems that keep existing crypto systems secure. It is simply a *potential* correctable logic flaw in the implementation.I would like bitcoins to succeed, so I'd rather not jump up and down in public yelling about flaws in public. Is there an appropriate place to discuss these types of issues? Yes, I understand that completely. However, bitcoins create a complete public transaction graph showing who has transacted with who. This gives away lots of correlation information. Someone else drew some nice graphs in another thread.The obvious initial identity leak is in purchasing coins. Since making fiat payment often comes with identity information you have a potential leak there. Also since on purchase, coins are likely transmitted in a single transaction to a single bitcoin address, it becomes an anchor account tied to your paypal account. (depending on the precautions of the market of course)A second obvious identity leak is in spending the coins for hard goods. As someone previously pointed out, this ties your real address to the bitcoin address the payment was made from.Also vendors and users publish well known bitcoin addresses tied with either a person, organization, behavior, idea, or product. Say for example, "Donate to "xxxxx" if you want to support anonymous cheeseburgers delivery." Donating "tags" your account as belonging to a carnivore just as efficiently as a carnivore tag on YouTube. If you trade from a single bitcoin address to multiple well known addresses, it simply corrolates more information about you. Say a naive noob bought 50 BTC and had them all sent to his shiny new bitcoin address. He then sent 10 BTC to anonymously overthrow the government. Send 1 BTC for a cheeseburger, then later decided he wanted a cool "send me bitcoins if you like me!", in his forum signature, and on his facebook page. Poof, he has now tied his anti-government sympathies, cheeseburger support, forum account to his real world facebook page. Just by being a noob. If you created a second anonymous donate account, but then naively transfered those coins to your main account, you are just as screwed. The many to one, then one-to-one pattern would be obviously apparent.Now say, both parties took lots of precautions and created lots of intermediate accounts for plausible deniability. But unfortunately decided that access to the kiddiepron site costs 123.45 BTC.  Now it is a simple matter to search for all transactions of 123.45 BTC. Then you simply follow the graph backwards and forwards until you find previous or future transactions that collate to the real world.Generating coins is anonymous, so un-traded coins are safer. Single use bitcoin addresses are safer. Trading entire blocks of coins at once so there is no forking or merging is safer. Always trading in standard size amounts is safer. If someone created a "trusted laundry service" (danger word) where you could transfer 100 BTC to the service and have it copy 1 BTC to each of 100 new addresses from it's coin cache, (not your previous transaction), that would be even safer.But in all cases, the number of private keys that people have to track is going to get huge. This means the likelihood of key-loss goes up. If they can build an Onion router, I can build a cheeseburger router!Actually, this is the one feature of bitcoin I'm not enamored with. By having every transaction available to everyone whether they need to know or not, It does make traffic analysis and correlation attacks trivial. I don't think people understand how easy that is for the determined. Digital goods don't help in a lot of cases, because vendors still feel entitled to your name and address.If one was to build a large cache of bitcoins, they could create their own bitcoin laundry service. That will probably be worth a considerable amount of N-value in the future. Yes relatively easy... LOL!  :-)Thanks for the explanation, but I'll be taking your word for it from now on! Sorry for the noob question, but how is the 1700 Mh/s number calculated or gathered? I saw my local node's speed in the GUI. Didn't notice a network speed.Are there also stats for the number of nodes running over the same time period? I'll contest you on this point. But I'll concede if I'm just being ignorant in your terms. :-)I have dollars in coins/bills, dollars in my checking account, and dollars on plastic cards. In monetary value they are all worth the same. In my case one Wendy's double cheeseburger.However, if I pay for the cheeseburger using a bill or a coin, I have some semblance of anonymity when the fat police come around. (non-monetary value) If I use a check, or plastic dollars, I lose that advantage. However, if I want to buy my cheeseburgers over the internet, I have only non-anonymous choices, and the fat police are going to track me down. So, if I could buy a cheeseburger using bitcoins over the internet, I would have the same monetary value as a plastic dollar PLUS the anonymity value of a coin.Therefore, by my logic (which could be out of touch with your terminology) it has to be some value other than M-value.
Wow, Thanks! Nice explanation. Far more than I expected!I think what I was missing is that block 70,560 is the next difficulty reset point.I think your math speaks for itself. Thanks for sharing your analysis.I initially thought the "attack on bitcoin" was a simple case of 1) see bitcoin get good press. The most intriguing thing for many people is the ideal of generating "free money". So, 2) during the wave of new adopters run 1,000 competitive bots against a couple hundred noobs. Most noobs succeed only in spinning their desktop fans really fast, and burning their legs on their laptops. (I almost did!)   3) They abandon bitcoin taking their coins in the process, and spawn a wave of bad press, "I ran bitcoin for two weeks and all I got were two roasted balls!"  4) He gloats a little to his friends.His new story makes Bitcoin all the more interesting for me though. I'm hoping he really does have a constructive use for any coins he gathered.Of course, outlandish claims and gullibility are always market forces.It should be possible to analyze the market transactions to see if there was a surge there as well. Just a thought.I've actually been wonder quite a bit about the new Bitcoin Lords.  I know there are stats on how many coins were generated and what accounts they are in... But are there any statistics on 1) How rich is rich in Bitcoins? A sort of Forbes 400 kind of thing.2) how many Real Life node operators are there? 3) now many nodes are running full time and intermittently. Graphed over time kind of thing Actually, I want them because they claim to be anonymous. That was in the title of the white paper, but it seems to be the least examined feature. Is it still a priority? It's a huge source of N value. Could you decode your meaning for me? I'm a little slow.I don't think Nenolod has any intention of screwing with or manipulating bitcoin values in the future. At least not given his obviously announced plans. On the contrary, he is literally "banking" on Bitcoins becoming successful.I'm assuming that he is just going to use bitcoins as backing for his own inter-MMO exchange currency. I'm not an MMO player so excuse my lame examples, but suppose someone was really good at cybersex in say secondlife, but they wanted to trade their services for say a magical sword in world of warcraft. It sounds like Nenolod wants to build an exchange for that. But how do you value orgasms vs magical swords? If you do it in USD, you open yourself to a world of needless regulatory pain. If you do it in Nenocoins, no one will bat an eye.However, if he backs his Nenocoins with Bitcoins, he gets a bonus selling point in that Nenocoins can be converted to USD or fiat currencies, without him suffering any government grief.It really is a clever idea! Kudos!Why would he go through all the grief he did of running 1,000 servers?  I'm sure he started the gag as a hack. But after contemplating it for a couple of days he realized, Duh!  Bitcoins have designed in steady deflation!Say he gathered 60,000 bitcoins. That represents about $300.00 worth of market cap (last I checked). If his claims are true, he was able to collect them at a discount for only $100.00. In addition, he could quietly gather all of them without competing against himself by driving up Bitcoin prices. So now he is done. For $100.00 he has all the Bitcoins he'll ever need. If Bitcoins become successful, he no longer has to deal with the bitcoin market again. If Bitcoins fail, he has lost minimal value for a development task the size he is working on. (about 2 hours of paid programmer time).That was what I meant about early adopter "Bitcoin Lord". I'm in agreement on your points. However you have to admit that what you wrote at the end sounded funny!Gee, why would an anonymous server lie about my money?  :-)In reality you are correct. There are very few things to lie about. I could think of a few things though. lMAO!!! Actually communicating through federated irc servers would probably work as well as anything. :-) I like the balance sheet concept because it allows the network to forget most of the historical transactions. That suits me fine.It is worth pointing out that the balance sheet associated with a given transaction block, will very likely be much larger than the transaction block itself. It is much smaller than the entire block history, but that is a one time transmission cost. A balance sheet would be recurring.If you generated one balance sheet a day, or week, then wiped previous blocks that would suit me fine. I really think what he is trying to point out is that the scarce commodity backing bitcoin's accounting was created by code fiat. Anyone who changes the fiat changes everything.Obviously, everone here already knows that.Also obviously, clarity isn't his first language. So let's be clear. There "by code fiat" can be no monetary deflation of bitcoins. We always know where every coin is. They are all in the block list. That's the only place they can ever be.There will be private key losses. And also by fiat, that means some coins will probably never again be able to circulate. But they are not lost. This situation is indistinguishable from hoarding, therefore they generate the same economic dynamics. In both cases the coins still remain in the block list, and could circulate in the future either by choice (hoarding) or by hash collision (private key loss).That being the case, everything I've tried to point out is for the case of price deflation. Not monetary deflation.As for tv's and computers, they make lousy commodity investments. People buy them for their utility value. Exactly the same reason they buy dollar cheeseburgers. I find it ironic that bitcoins are the first scarce commodity money created purely by fiat!Does that make it fiat-commodity money?  I didn't mean anything other than how does the network communicate now?When I run the network I see 20ish connections. I'm assuming that is not every node running. How does the algorithm decide who talks to who?There are several know distributed hash table topologies. Was wonder if it was using one of those.Granted, it could be everyone talks to everyone at the moment, and to be optimized in the future. I'd find that a reasonable answer too.Cheers! It really isn't about houses. Deflation makes the value of all commodities go down.Three years ago, there were few "dollar menus" at fast food restaurants. They exist because in deflationary times, people are striving to hoard what cash they have. Which makes it hard to pay the restaurant employees, which makes prices drop where they spend their money.In deflationary times you want to hoard cash. That is why when we bailed out the big banks, they continued to refused to make new loans. You can't loan money for people to buy assets that diminish in value. Collateral disappears and people default because they legitimately don't have the ability to pay back the loans.Give people something today that will be more valuable tomorrow and they'll hoard it.Give people something today that will be less valuable tomorrow and they'll trade it.P.S.: I have no ideal what "sound money" means. Put I presume you think you'll be better off under bitcoins monetary policy than you would under existing systems. Isn't that a bitcoin windfall? Does paying the "fee" require the use of the "pay to anyone" signature I read about in another thread? Really, if you are living in California, Nevada, Arizona or Florida you already understand deflation is bad. It really doesn't need to be explained to you. If you are from out of town, home prices have fallen almost 50% in many of those areas.If you have a pile of cash USD in your bank account you are twice as rich in houses. Yay, for you right! Isn't everyone in the country cheering for the people who already had piles of cash becoming richer? I seem to be missing that on the nightly news.Face it. Us early adopters are here because we want to spend $5 (hopefully less) on 1,000 BTC and have those coins be worth say a house or a car in three years. Yay us!That is why deflation seems so much fun in the Bitcoin context. If you happened to stuff a million dollars in a California mattress three years ago, you are cheering deflation too! Yay you! You could have bought two decent houses there three years ago, now you can buy four! And all you had to do wash sleep on your money! No banks, no lending, no interest required.  Thank you! I think you have a pretty sweet idea there nenolod. I have been entertaining a similar idea that involves exchanging pure digital property potentially using bitcoin as a medium to facilitate exchange.Good luck to you!P.S. Would you care to share how many coins your were able to capture during your testing? Pardon me please. Just clarifying for my own benefit. Not trying to call anyone out.I, and from what I've read from other nooks like me in the forum, initially assumed that because of the name, they system tracked coins as individual objects.Counter intuitively, the system tracks transactions as primary objects, accounts (addresses) as secondary objects, and coins fungibly.I see risks to privacy from tracking coins too closely. I'm trying to decide for myself whether or not there is too much risk already.And thank you for clarification on the breaking change. Thanks for your analysis Hepatizon! It was about what I was expecting.However, I don't think this is quite correct.It appears that each new transaction has direct links to each prior transaction being used as an input. To validate a transaction you only need to validate the immediate dependancies. You don't need to validate those dependancies' dependancies as they were previously validated as part of the block chain. That means closer to constant time rather than linear.I'm new though so I could be reading it wrong. Please correct me if I did.The rest of your critique seems well analyzed and a bit frightening. Thanks again!  Thank you both!I understand that all transactions and all validated blocks need to get to every node. I was just curious about the implementation of the broadcast mechanism. At worst case a million nodes would each have a million minus one open connections (bad). A better case would have each node broadcast to log(n) nodes who relayed to log(n) node, and to complete the broadcast in log(n) time.Do you have any details of the thought experiment quantumplication? As I read the code, bitcoins are not serialized or in anyway uniquely identified. There are only transactions listing the value (number of) bitcoins involved. Someone please correct me if I'm wrong about this.However, I do see lots of uses for a system that could track serialized digital property. It's just not a feature of bitcoin.
