Treasury bills only make sense if you own a disproportionate share of them, or aren't paying U.S. taxes. The money for those interest payments has to come from somewhere, and that somewhere is a mix of inflation and future taxes. If you are an average U.S. citizen paying U.S. federal taxes, you might as well just keep your money at zero interest rather than taking out a T-bill and paying back your own interest--at least you'd save on overhead.Or from another point of view, if you really think T-bills will give you a net gain, those T-bills are being paid back from other people's taxes--which means you're investing in and enabling a textbook protection racket. ("Pay your taxes and we'll protect you from the bad guys. If you don't pay them, what you mainly have to worry about is us.") Until the feature is implemented, you can try installing the Save to Phone app. It provides a Share destination which simply saves the shared data to a file on your phone. Works with Mycelium and any other application with a Share action. I used this myself to transfer the backup .pdf to my PC. Hard to believe this isn't built in to Android... The paper isn't quite that crazy. To begin with, they're assuming 33% of the hashrate, not 10%. The idea is that someone with full control over 1/3 of the hashrate might be able to find two blocks in the time it takes the rest of the network to find one, which is certainly possible. When the rest of the network finds its first block the attacker can release both blocks. At that point the rest of the network has wasted a block's worth of hashing, since the block it found doesn't make it into the blockchain. The attacker's costs are 1/3 of the total, or about half of what was spent on the main blockchain, and the attacker gets the reward for both blocks while the rest of the network gets nothing. On the flip side, of course, the attacker can't claim the rewards for all the times it only found one block rather than two, since it has to keep the first block private.If the attacker holds out for three blocks rather than publishing after the first two, the situation gets a bit worse. At that point they can wait until the network finds a new block (N) and then release two (N, N+1), while maintaining a one-block head start. Then they can continue working on finding a successor to their remaining hidden block (N+2) while the network is still searching for N+1. If the attacker wins that race they can keep going, releasing the older blocks and holding the newer ones in reserve. If not, they'll have to start over, but in the meantime they get all the rewards and the rest of the miners get nothing (while spending twice as much).There are some suggestions that the minority pool could improve its ability to stay ahead by carrying out a Sybil attack and promoting its own blocks just ahead of the "honest" miner's blocks through superior connectivity, but I just don't see that working in any realistic environment. Resistance against Sybil attacks is always welcome, of course, as is better connectivity among "honest" miners.The main flaw, as I see it, is that the paper assumes 33% of the hashrate is controlled by someone willing to undermine the network in this way. There are pools with 33% of the hashrate, but the pool's administrators can't do this on their own, and I can't see a majority of the miners going along with this scheme to make some short-term cash at the expense of long-term trust in Bitcoin. If miners were purely profit-oriented we'd probably end up with a monopoly anyway--larger pools are more efficient and have less variance than smaller pools. As long as miners continue to keep an eye on the pool operators' policies with an eye toward maintaining the long-term value of Bitcoin, there is no issue.The paper suggests selecting the active blockchain out of two equal-length candidates randomly to thwart Sybil attacks. My own proposal is a bit different: implement a hysteresis function to make it more difficult to switch blockchains. Instead of switching whenever a new chain is strictly more difficult than the current chain, switch when the new chain's total difficulty is strictly greater than the current chain's difficulty, plus the square of the difficulty of all the blocks which are only in the old chain. To extend the old chain by one block, no penalty. To undo/replace one block, your chain has to be at least two blocks longer rather than just one. To undo two blocks, your chain has to be more than four blocks longer. To undo six blocks, more than thirty-six blocks longer, etc. As a bonus, this could probably replace the current checkpoint system, since no one is going to get the four million block lead which would be necessary to undo the last two weeks (2016 blocks) of progress on the main blockchain, and checkpoints are generally less frequent than that. I would suggest adding a "share" option. Provided my understanding of it is correct, that should allow you to export the key to a particular application, rather than directly exposing it to all running applications like the clipboard option, or all programs with SD card access like the file option. If you use the key more than once then it isn't a One-Time Pad. It's one step above a substitution cipher, and if any of your unencrypted private keys ever does leak, so will the encryption key. It's possible that someone more experienced with cryptoanalysis than myself could even derive the encryption key from multiple encrypted private keys. The whole point of a OTP is that you use one bit of unique, never-used-elsewhere entropy to encrypt each bit of the message. The fact that each bit of the pad is unrelated to anything else the attacker might know is what makes an OTP resistant to cryptoanalysis. Why "A&B"? Either A or B would be sufficient by itself, so there is no reason for Electrum to combine them into a single transaction. It probably used the output of the first transaction (address A), sending the remaining ~0.45 to change address C, and left address B alone.Technically you can still receive BTC on any of your receive addresses, even ones which have already been used as inputs. Some consider it less secure because the full public key is known from the earlier transactions, as opposed to just the hash of the public key which appears in the outputs. Personally I don't think that's worth worrying over. The savings from that approach seem negligible. You still have to design the system to handle the worst case, which is a script just short enough to get past the filter. A malicious attacker would design the script to use the maximum amount of time without triggering the filter, so you have the cost of the script plus the cost of checking its complexity. The only case where you would save anything would be where someone accidentally created a script which requires too much time or memory, which should be rare (akin to creating malformed scripts which fail on valid input for other reasons). This is an interesting experiment, but in my opinion it's unrealistic at this point to expect to be able to pay for everything you need (particularly local services) with Bitcoin, even in places where it's relatively popular.Rather than trying to go a week with just Bitcoin expenditures, I would suggest targeting a certain percentage of your normal expenses to be in BTC--say 20% to start with--and repeating the experiment with higher targets as time progresses. In other words, if you normally spend $200 in a week, buy $40 worth of Bitcoins and limit USD expenditures to $160, and see what (if anything) you have to do without to meet your budget. Sure, but under what circumstances would anyone care about the cost of a script which they wouldn't be running anyway? A simpler approach might be to simply assign a CPU and memory cost to each operation, and fail the script if it goes over preset limits. The precise costs and limits would need to be defined at the protocol level to ensure compatibility. The script language could the be opened up to permit arbitrarily complex processing (loops, subroutines, recursion, etc.) without worrying about complexity. This might be a good time to bring up the phrase "Turing Tar-Pit". To summarize, while any Turing-complete language can solve all computable problems, there are still significant differences in their expressive powers.The fact that you can solve any problem in C or LISP does not imply that you should attempt to solve all problems in C or LISP. http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Haskell.All the languages mentioned up to this point are imperative (or "multi-paradigm", which is still mostly imperative). Learning how to program in a functional language, like Haskell or ML, should broaden your programming horizons and improve how you think about programming, even if you're still writing most of your code in C++. That would be bad enough if the tax was just on increases in actual value, but don't forget that the tax is assessed on the nominal price difference in USD, so when they devalue the dollar you pay taxes on the relative "appreciation" of the gold even if its purchasing power hasn't changed. Dumping the gold standard was defaulting. The loans were denominated in dollars when a dollar meant a specific amount of gold. Going off the gold standard meant the payments were in redefined "dollars" worth far less than those originally promised. The loans were never actually repaid per the original terms.The fiscally responsible choice would have been to not take out the loans in the first place. Short of that, admitting that they were in default would at least have had the virtue of honesty. This is actually based on a misinterpretation of Gresham's law, commonly abbreviated "bad money drives good money out of circulation". If you look at the full form of the law it's actually referring to money which is overvalued and undervalued, respectively, when compared to the market price. For example, under bimetallism in the U.S. there was a legally-fixed exchange rate between gold and silver coins, while the actual market values of the two metals fluctuated. When the law caused gold coins to become undervalued, people hoarded them and spent their silver, and vise-versa. The coins were legal tender, so merchants had no choice but to accept them in payment of debts at the fixed exchange rate, even if the coins were currently worth less than their face values.In the case of Bitcoin there is no fixed exchange rate; if the value is generally expected to increase over time, that will affect the net present value to the merchant as well as the buyer. The increase or decrease will not cause bitcoins to be under- or over-valued with respect to other free-market currencies. Gresham's law would only apply if there was a fixed exchange rate between bitcoins and fiat currency. For example, if the U.S. government declared that USD $1000 was equivalent to 1 BTC for the purposes of legal tender, when the actual exchange rate was $1100/BTC, people would have an incentive to settle their debts with the overvalued USD rather than the undervalued BTC. Simple, because money (or rather, the economic surplus it represents) is scarce, and has uses other than investment. This is like asking why more production and competition don't get directed to a particular good and drive its price down to zero. As for why different investments have different rate of return, the answer is uncertainty. An investment with a guaranteed return will tend to reach equilibrium with the interest rate, but a more typical investment involving a degree of risk requires a higher return to compete.From the depositor's and bank's points of view it makes no difference whether the loan is for investment or consumption. The loan itself is the investment which provides a 5% return. In the case of a business loan the return will generally come out of the proceeds from a capital investment, while the return on a personal loan is typically funded by foregoing future consumption. The former is easier to analyse in terms of accounting, but economically the personal loan is just as productiveit corrects an imbalance involving an excess of future income relative to the desire for present consumption, just as capital investments improve the balance between future supply and present supply when future demand is projected to be higher than present demand. (When future demand is expected to be lower than present demand, capital investments are malinvestments.) If you're getting a 5% real return, then it doesn't matter how much fractional-reserve banking is involved; it's still a waste to put the money into planting trees at 2.3%. Changes in the money supply just make it much more difficult to determine what the real return is; this impacts the estimated return of the tree investment just as much as everything else. That $1000 you're expecting to sell the tree for in 100 years may be worth less than the $100 you're spending now to plant the tree.Neither interest nor fractional-reserve banking is evil. Fraud is evil, and FRB can be fraudulent (even if it is spelled out in the fine print). However, that is not always the case. It is only when people try to manipulate the interest rates, by whatever means--printing money, lowering FRB reserves, demurrage, fraud--that we are prevented from measuring wealth properly. In this money is no different than any other good whose price is being manipulated, save that money is the one good against which everything else is measured, so when its price is manipulated the effects are felt throughout the economy. Whether you buy it or not, it's true. Planting trees at a 2.3% return is more wasteful than "sitting on your money" (a.k.a. investing the excess production that money represents) at a 5% return. Remember that the only reason you can get interest (or deflation) and thus gain anything from "sitting on your money" is that your deferred consumption is allowing others to make investments with a return which exceeds the interest/deflation rate. It's not a matter of whether investment happens, just whose investment--yours at 2.3%, or theirs at 5%. This isn't really surprising at all, if you understand time preference, which obviously you do not. The revenue stream is only infinite if you defer consumption forever, and no mortal being can rationally be willing to wait forever. Eventually you and everyone you have ever cared about will be dead, and beyond caring about any further revenues. Any production past that point might as well not exist.Consider this: under what circumstances would eating the goose be valued more highly than twenty years worth of golden eggs? Starvation, perhaps? Would it really makes sense to preserve an unending supply of golden eggs at the expense of starving in the present?Put as simply as I can manage, you aren't qualified to tell anyone how much they should value future goods relative to present goods, any more than you are qualified to dictate any other form of economic preference to others, and yet that is exactly what you are trying to do with demurrage. You yourself act in a manner which is consistent with having a positive time preference--since you haven't starved yet, you clearly do not always choose to defer consumption--and yet you fail to perceive or understand this unchangeable fact of mortal existence and call it "irrational".And yet, it is a wasteful act, precisely because it isn't the first thing worthy of funding. You are diverting present resources from high-ROI investments to a low-ROI investment. This is wasteful.Compound interest doesn't reduce your return in the slightest. It just means that there was a better alternative. Put another way, you could have put $7 in the bank at 5% interest (i.e. into other investments earning 5% annual ROI, as opposed to the tree at a mere 2.3%), and gotten the same $1000 in 100 years for your grandchild, and still had $93 left over in the present to spend or invest as you choose. I would like to take the opportunity to distance myself from this line of reasoning. Investment is not inherently better than consumption, or vice-versa. The sole point of investment, however, is to enable future consumption. Consumption is not waste; it is the whole point of economic activity. There is nothing noble about a currency designed to force its users to abandon it in favor of something more stable; that is just one of the reasons why such a currency will not become widely adopted (at least not voluntarily).Saving to buy a car is neither more nor less productive than going into debt for that car. In order for you to go into debt, someone else had to save so that they would have the excess resources necessary to make that loan. This is true even if the only two entities involved are you and the maker of the car. Either your savings (loaned to the maker) or the maker's savings are what allow the maker to survive while working on the car rather than gathering necessities. Regardless of whether you saved up for the car, someone had to, so in the broader economic perspective there is no difference.BTW, introducing a third party (a bank) who makes a "loan" without any actual saving doesn't change that fundamental equation; without the saved surplus, the bank can issue as much money as it wants, but there won't be anything to buy with it. Money has no value without savings.Yes, and interest can and does become negative in real terms when there is an excess of capital. You see this when the economy is undergoing inflation--people accept below-inflation levels of interest because there is nothing better available to invest in.If capital goods were superabundant then their marginal ROI would indeed be zero. I assume that was what you meant by "sufficient competition", but it's not a realistic scenario. Capital is scarce, not superabundant. The interest rate reflects the ROI on capital throughout the economy; if the ROI in a given sector falls below the interest rate, that is a signal that there is enough investment in that sector, so in that sense it does act as a "floor" for a particular sector. If the ROI were to fall across all sectors, however, then so would the interest rate "floor". If there was no expectation of return on investment then the interest rate would be zero (or even negative, given inflation), because no one would be interested in taking out loans.
While this does seem to be what they have in mind, I really don't see how demurrage changes anything with regards to interest. As I understand the concept, demurrage means that you lose actual currency over time, as opposed to inflation, where the amount of currency remains the same but the value decreases. In my example, however, no one was actually holding currency for any significant length of time. Either I spent it immediately on capital, or I lent it to someone else who would in all likelihood spend it immediately on a different sort of capital. Either way, neither of us is affected by the demurrage.Demurrage and inflation both have the effect of driving people to get rid of the affected currency as quickly as possible in favor of more stable assets. The advantage of demurrage, to the extent there is one, is that it is neutral with respect to things like interest rates--it doesn't create the same calculation problems as forced inflation. However, Impaler seems to be claiming exactly the opposite. If you want to make people overvalue future goods relative to present goods (i.e. eliminate interest), inflation is a much more effective tool.As for time preference being "irrational", I would like to see Impaler put off all consumption for a year (or even a week!) and report back on whether future goods are just as valuable as present goods. Let's put this discussing into terms simple enough that even Impaler can understand them.I have $1000. I have the choice of buying a capital good for $1000 that will return 5% ROI over the next year, or lending the $1000 to someone for a year. If I choose to make the loan, I'm giving up not just $1000 now, but $1050 a year from now. It would be irrational, all else being equal, to make such a loan for less than 5% interest.Time preference and the general "risk-free" rate of interest are just the aggregate effects of these sorts of opportunity-cost considerations being made by all the holders of currency in the market. Most of the time the ROI is more subjective than the fixed 5% return in the example, but it is no less real for that. No one is taking advantage of anyone else; lending at interest is nothing more or less than redistributing ready capital and future income to where they are each most valuable, which is fundamentally the basis for any economic activity. This is essentially what I was referring to when I said that the assumption of an infinite supply of people willing to borrow at interest was unrealistic. If you drop the assumption of infinite velocity of money--which would otherwise allow the situation to continue indefinitely--you will eventually approach a point where people realize that they've already signed away most of their future productivity, and consequently stop taking out additional loans. As long as the money continues to circulate, the existing loans can still be repayed, even if they exceed the total BTC in circulation. However, the total debt will stabilize, not spiral out of control. The most likely results of this scenario is that some of your loans end in default. There is no contradiction in contractual claims for repayment in BTC to exceed actual BTC; it just means that some of those claims may not be fulfilled. However, even that isn't actually inevitable; whenever you receive a payment, you're sending that BTC back out again as another loan. Thus, it becomes available to make another payment. As long as we're assuming ideal conditions, there is no limit on how much people can owe you, provided the rate of reinvestment is at least equal to the rate of repayment.There are other problems with your assumptions. The first is that the supply of people willing to take out loans at 10% interest (or any interest) is not inexhaustible. The more money you inject in to the economy, the less demand there is relative to the supply, and the less interest people are willing to pay. The second problem is that your own needs and wants are not insignificant (and the wants become more significant, in relative terms, as the interest decreases). Money which you spend on your own needs and wants becomes available to others to repay their loans. Yes, we agree up to this point.You're saying that any venture which results in an increase in real value is a good investment, which ignores opportunity cost. An investment with a 900% increase in real value is a bad investment if there is an alternative which would generate a 1000% increase.I agree that deflation has no effect on "inherent productivity", but these "moderately productive" investments are actually destructive, not productive, because resources expended on them take away from even more productive investments. Thanks to prior saving, there is a certain amount of surplus available to be expended on various investments. If you hold on to your money, that surplus is available to be used by existing ventures, with an expected return equal to the rate of deflation. If you invest your money in a venture with a lower real rate of return, that portion of the surplus is no longer available to be used by the ventures with higher returns. The opportunity cost is thus greater than the expected return.Ah, but (price) inflation doesn't cause malinvestment. A money supply which is manipulated to cause inflation results in malinvestment. Assuming a fixed money supply, inflation signals that existing investments are averaging a negative real return. The correct response in this case is to cut back on consumption--a natural side effect of the rising prices--and look for new investments. If inflation is costing you 2% per year in real value, an investment which only loses 1% annually is a good investment (assuming you can't find anything better) and will actually bring up the average return.If the inflation is due to manipulation, however, rather than negative economic growth, then that 1% loss may look good to an individual investor faced with a 2% loss to inflation, but it will bring down the average for the economy as a whole and reduce economy growth.On this point I think we are in perfect agreement, though our interpretations of "productive investments" and "stable money" differ. I define "stable money" as money with a stable supply, i.e. free from manipulation in favor of inflation or deflation. There are cases where postponing a purchase may make sense, but it isn't as simple as saying that constantly decreasing prices lead to indefinitely postponement and economic collapse. Presumably you're considering buying a car now because you have an immediate need for transportation. If you don't buy the car now then you'll need to find an alternative form of transportation. If the alternative costs more than BTC100, it makes sense to buy now rather than wait.This is similar to the electronics industry. Despite general price inflation, ever since consumer electronics were first introduced there has been strong expectation that you will always be able to get a better device at a lower price if you are willing to wait a while. However, people still buy electronics, and the industry has not collapsed. A $100 good which you can use now is sometimes preferable to an otherwise identical $90 good which you won't be able to use for a year. You are reversing cause and effect. With a fixed money supply, as Bitcoin will have in the long-term, price deflation is a consequence of wealth being created. The economy is growing while the supply of money remains constant, ergo the purchasing power of each unit of money increases. If the economy were not growing then you would have inflation, not deflation.It's not exactly "just sit and wait", either. In order to gain purchasing power from deflation you have to hold currency, meaning that you earned currency in the past and are choosing to defer consumption. If this sounds familiar, it should; it's exactly like receiving interest on a loan or a return from an index fund. You have contributed to the general economic growth by putting more into the economy than you've taken out; your reward for that investment is that your currency grows more valuable over time.When economists talk about the problems with deflation they're generally alluding to the Great Depression. The problem with that example is that it happens to be one of the only cases where there was a significant correlation between deflation and economic stagnation. Where deflation has occurred elsewhere, it has not generally been accompanied by any economic problems. What makes the Great Depression different is that the deflation was the result of a major decrease in the effective currency supply due to the runs on the banks and the consequent sudden increase in reserve requirements. Basically, the economic system was rotten to begin with, with liabilities far exceeding actual deposits, and the deflation and economic problems were both symptoms of that underlying rot being exposed. The deflation didn't cause the Depression; the collapse of the banking system caused both.The other aspect of deflation that sometimes causes concern is that no one will invest in anything which loses money in nominal terms, even if the net purchasing power increases. With inflation you're more likely to see a nominal increase. The problem with that reasoning is that an investment which loses money in nominal terms in a deflationary economy with a fixed money supply is necessarily providing a below-average return; putting money into such an investment would decrease overall economic growth. In a word, it would be malinvestment. The same thing happens when the currency supply is deliberately manipulated to cause inflation, but in that case the necessary price signals aren't available, and thus malinvestment is practically guaranteed. (You would have to adjust for changes in the money supply--not price inflation--to determine whether the investment was a net gain.) DeathAndTaxes is correct about the need for multiple inputs and outputs. The network doesn't support spending just part of an input, so unless you happen to have an exact match (including the fee) you must combine outputs from previous transactions until you have at least the amount you want to spend, and then split that total between the destination address and a "change" address.However, the reason for having multiple addresses basically does come down to privacy. If a new address is generated for each "change" output then it becomes difficult to say which output was the destination and which was the change--at least until you link the change address with one of your other addresses in a later transaction. There is no fundamental reason why the change couldn't be sent back to the original address, however, and some clients work this way. Personally, I agree that the limited privacy benefits of unique change addresses are not generally worth the extra complexity. First, the only thing Bitcoin appears to do here is allow this scheme to work without the expense of running their own servers. The effect would be exactly the same if the game just "phoned home" each time it was installed. Second, as a limit on the number of installations, this is more of an attack on the used market than anything to do with copyright infringement.The integrity of the blockchain has absolutely nothing to do with the resilience of client against being "hacked". The application is looking for some external signal, in this case a transaction on the blockchain, to decide whether to allow the game to run in the uncrippled mode. The rest is no different from any other contemporary DRM scheme, and the conventional DRM code, not the blockchain, is the part which will eventually be hacked. No, I understand what you meant, it just doesn't match what you said. Information being scarce and monopolies being scarce are not interchangeable concepts. The former is false due to the nature of information, while the latter is inevitable due to the nature of monopolies. The only "pretending" going on is the pretense that they are equivalent.All of that is really beside the point, however, as bitcoins are not private keys, and none of the other information in the Bitcoin system is private. Even revealing all of the private keys wouldn't result in the creation of any additional bitcoins; it would just create a "gold rush" as people raced to transfer the existing bitcoins to new private keys. If bitcoins are scarce (and they clearly are), it isn't the result of any hypothetical scarcity of information. OK, sure, electronics will be involved at some point. However, there's no requirement for you to have any electronics with you while crossing the border, or if you do want to bring your own hardware, it doesn't need to contain any software or data relating to Bitcoin. You can download the software and enter your private key or seed passphrase from memory after you reach your destination. Who said anything about electronics? Use an Electrum wallet, and memorize your seed passphrase. They haven't come up with a way to search your brain (yet). You don't even need to install the software until you reach your destination; there won't be anything for them to find. This is getting way off-topic, but to answer your question, if I did choose to give you the key, we would both have it, so the key itself isn't scarce. It can't be consumed, only replicated. There is value in having monopolies on certain kinds of information, however, and it is these monopolies which are scarce. If I agreed to tell you the private key, I would be consuming my monopoly, trading my exclusive knowledge of the key for other goods.Scarcity is fundamentally the idea that there isn't enough of a good to go around, no matter how it's distributed, implying that some uses must be prioritized over other uses. Information benefits those who know it without being consumed in the process; there is always enough of it to go around, though it isn't always to the benefit of those who know the information to share it with others. No, my argument is that if all members of a set are not scarce, then members of a subset of that set cannot be scarce. That is clearly true.In other words, bitcoins are not information. I'm glad we agree.I'm not quite sure where you're going with this. It would be more correct to say that there is value in the fact that others believe and act on the information, which is a service, not a good. If they simply knew it, but didn't act on it--for example, if they accepted conflicting or otherwise invalid transactions--then it wouldn't matter how widely the information was distributed. No, because you can't destroy something which never existed in the first place.A house is a durable capital good which is consumed gradually, through age and wear, as you use it to produce the more immediate good of shelter. Consider the case were you receive a house for services rendered and then turn around and sell it for money. Selling the house isn't an act of production, aside from the minor sense in which all voluntary trades improve the overall allocation of resources. If the mere receiving of the house were considered consumption then there would be an imbalance--you would have consumed the value of the house and still had the money to spend. Rather, the house represents just as much saving as the money it's sold for (or could be sold for).I do agree with you on that, if nothing else. My problem with the rest of your argument is that information is not scarce, so if bitcoins were nothing but information then they wouldn't be scarce and couldn't function effectively as money. It's worse than that, since "this Amazon thing" isn't even transferable (except to Amazon). How can non-transferable credit be considered a currency? At least some stores offer gift cards which aren't tied to a specific owner, making them a kind of currency-substitute, though still less valuable than cash. No, I would not. It's up to me to keep my private keys private. If you can photograph my private key from your property then I've essentially given it to you, and have no cause for complaint. There is no such thing as "stolen" bitcoins. The final authority on the ownership of bitcoins is the Bitcoin protocol, which defines ownership exclusively in terms of the ability to supply an input satisfying the output script in the block chain, typically equivalent to possession of a certain private key.On the other hand, unauthorized (physical) access to your computer is a violation of your property rights, and entitles you to seek compensation (from the perpetrator, not third-parties) for all damages. That includes damages resulting from unauthorized use of any data found on the computer, including private bitcoin keys. Both the blockchain and private keys are indeed just information, but they aren't bitcoins. They're information about bitcoins and their owners, respectively. The bitcoins themselves, while completely virtual, are not information--they're a scarce commodity.One function of money--a side effect really, and not the reason people use it--is to convey that information. However, that isn't what money is, that's what it does, and it's not the only good which can convey that information; all goods do, really. If I do a job and receive a house in exchange, that house represents value produced but not yet consumed. We could talk about the market value of the house, of course, but only for the sake of convenience, because you can't directly compare the values of a house and a car and a week's worth of groceries without reference to some common good they could all be traded for. This is the economic calculation function of money, allowing most goods to be assigned a market value in terms of a single widely-traded commodity.Put more simply, people don't value money and accept it in trade because of it's information-carrying abilities, they value it because it's a marketable commodity and they expect to be able to trade it for other goods later. That any good can be priced in terms of money is merely a nice bonus. That money allows you to add up the estimated market values of various goods and determine net worth and the balance between production and consumption is if little real interest to non-economists. Or perhaps inflation was really only 220% per year rather than 250%. With that level of hyperinflation, accurate estimates must be rather difficult. Personally, I would trust the gold market over researchers' estimates of the inflation rate.
No, the idea that "money is merely information" is wrong to begin with. Trading with money is just a special case of barter which happens to involve highly-marketable commodities. Your net worth conveys information about your past balance between production and consumption; money is just one component, one which happens to be easier to account for than most, and more convenient for economic calculation. To be of any use, money has to be a marketable good, and anything which isn't scarce can't remain marketable, because no one would trade scarce goods for "money" anyone can get for free.Note that Ripple doesn't eliminate the scarcity of money; not only does it have an even more restricted cap on the internal currency (XRP) than Bitcoin--the supply is not merely capped, but actually required to decrease over time--but the other currencies are limited by the participant's credit-worthiness, as measured in more conventional terms. In theory I could grant a trillion BTC of credit to a few of my closest friends, but no one would trust me to actually pay it back. In practice, the total credit actually traceable back to a trusted source, typically a gateway, will probably be limited to little more than the total amount on deposit with the gateways, or perhaps by the real-world property they can seize in the event of non-payment.Ripple's problem isn't any lack of scarcity, but rather they it's trying to make a currency out of something non-fungible (loans with variable likelihood of default). Gateways mitigate this somewhat, by providing "trusted" centralized organizations with a low perceived risk of default, but if you have to rely on them for most trades you might as well employ the existing banking network. I just started using Coinbase, but so far as I know they don't keep USD accounts. Your Coinbase account is denominated solely in BTC, and USD is transferred from/to your external bank account whenever you buy/sell. The ACH transfer (which is started as soon as you enter a buy or sell order) takes 3-4 business days to clear. Precisely, and under free/uncoerced trade, the value of imports always matches the value of exports. You either import goods and export money, or import money and export goods. Either way, the value is naturally balanced. Trade protectionism and money supply manipulation create an imbalance between imports and exports. In particular, inflating the money supply to encourage exports amounts to marking down the prices of export goods, impoverishing your own citizens (who receive less valuable currency) to enrich foreigners (who receive non-inflated goods)--at least until prices are adjusted to account for inflation. That isn't true, because the value of money, like the value of everything else, is subjective. Each person may have the same amount of money, but that does not make them equally wealthy, and it is wealth, not currency, which is you are fundamentally trying to equalize.The root economic cause of most wealth inequality is simply that some people choose to save and invest, while others choose to consume and live paycheck-to-paycheck. No amount of redistribution will bring about equal outcomes in the face of unequal preferences and goals. To make people truly equal you would have to take away their freedom to choose. There are no "standard" checksum programs which are always present by default regardless of your operating system, without going out of your way to install something, at which point you might as well just install software to validate standard Bitcoin addresses, or find a web site capable of the same, without bothering with a separate "check number".Most desktop and server versions of Linux do include tools to calculate MD5 and SHA checksums, but if either side is using a Windows, Android, or iOS device then you're out of luck so far as a "standard" checksum is concerned. Even on Linux, manually calculating a checksum is less user-friendly (and more error-prone) than just pasting the address into a field on some Bitcoin address validation web site, and adds work for the sender rather than just the recipient. Exactly. For any checksum to work, the sender would need software to generate the checksum, and the receiver would need software to validate it. A "mental checksum" is infeasable for addresses of the necessary complexity to ensure security. You might as well use the Bitcoin client, or simplified special-purpose software which merely validates addresses, without any extra "check numbers".Note that bitcoind even includes a "validateaddress" RPC command for just this purpose. The second definition isn't really meaningful. Gold coins, for example, aren't "backed" by something tangible; they are something tangible. Physical Federal Reserve Notes are exactly the same: they aren't backed by something tangible, but they are, in fact, something tangible in their own right.What people really mean when they talk about whether a currency is "backed" is whether the price of the currency is determined by voluntary supply and demand, like gold, or by coercion (legal tender & anti-counterfeiting laws), like FRNs--which brings us back to the first definition. The problem with both of these examples is that there is nothing tying the funds to my organization. In the first case, even if the key was only shared between the two of us and hadn't been posted on a public forum, ownership is still joint--we both have the key. In the second case, everyone has access. I presumably have a list of accounts which belong to the organization, and neither of these is on it. They are indistinguishable from any other anonymous Bitcoin account. The issue is money suddenly and inexplicably showing up in an account known to be associated with the organization, and which the organization needs to account for. Unwanted access to accounts created by others is a separate matter.If you ran a business, and someone made a sizable anonymous deposit into your business's general fund, don't you think that would result in a lot of extra paperwork? The lack of payee endorsement when funds are transferred between Bitcoin addresses makes that easy to pull off. And what about the idea of "tainted" coins? I don't approve of it myself, but others do, and there is currently no way to prevent "tained" coins from being mixed in with your "clean" ones. You could easily end up party to an investigation just because someone decided to lay a false trail by transferring funds to your addresses. Even that wouldn't be equitable. You would also have to adjust all prices and contracts, taking into account that the marginal utility of money relative to other goods will vary from individual to individual, and that the existing contracts may already have taken into account a greater or lesser expectation of change in the money supply over time. In short, absolutely equitable manipulation of the money supply is an impossible goal. The necessary information simply isn't available, even if you had the power to make those changes. No, that is incorrect. The funds are transferred as soon as the transaction is signed by the payer and included in the block chain. At that point the first transaction is "complete" in that the payee controls the funds, not the payer. The payee can choose to ignore the transaction, of course, given a suitably modified client, but so far as Bitcoin is concerned, those Bitcoins belong to the payee whether the payee wants them or not.In the latter case--for example, if the payee cannot legally accept the funds--there needs to be a way to either ensure the transfer does not take place, or to reliably and provably return the funds to the actual payer (which may not be the same as the originating address); otherwise the payee is left with more Bitcoins under their control than they can legitimately account for, which is sure to cause problems in the event of an audit.I agree that the courts need to understand the issue, but involuntarily receiving the key to an account created by someone else is not really the same as being unable to prevent funds from being deposited into your own account. For one thing, importing and using a private key from an external source is a deliberate act, but users do not generally get to pick and choose which transactions to use as inputs among their existing accounts; all unspent outputs which the client has a key for are candidates when sending funds. That isn't a complete solution, because addresses are not one-time-use. Once an address becomes publicly known (for example, by being mentioned in a transaction in the block chain), anyone can send to it. Individual contribution addresses would have helped, but it's still only a voluntary protocol; someone inclined to cause mischief could still send them funds which they cannot accept, since they have no data on the source, and which they cannot reliably return.The idea was that this would be a superset of the existing transaction protocol. The receive script would be optional (or a standard accept-all script could be used) such that those who prefer the current style could have addresses which accept all incoming transfers.However, even for those who want to sign off on receipts, there is no reason why you couldn't do that (for single-payee transactions) and still spend the money right way. As long as the incoming transfer only lacks your endorsement, you should be able to broadcast it and the outgoing transaction spending the funds at the same time. OpenTransactions requires payees to sign off on all funds received before the account balance is updated, and it really doesn't add very much overhead. It just presents a list of outstanding balance transfers to your account, and you go through the list and check off those you approve of.Yes, the scripts for each output would have to be satisfied before the transaction would be considered valid, just each input scripts must be satisfied now. Ideally, partial transactions would be broadcast through the network to collect signatures, and those with different subsets of the required signatures (input and output) could be merged until the transaction is eventually completed and accepted into the blockchain. While that is a nice touch from a UI / accessibility point of view, it's not quite what I meant. The problem is in the underlying protocol: transactions are considered valid when signed only by the payer. Under the proposed system, there is still nothing to prevent someone from uploading a transaction on their own without involving the merchant. The cases I had in mind are those like the political campaign which was accepting Bitcoin contributions a while back; they had specific rules regarding which kinds of contributions they could accept, but no way to block transactions which failed to meet those rules, and no reliable way to know whether it was safe to simply return the funds to the originating address--which may belong to a wallet or payment service or exchange rather than the contributor.What I had in mind was essentially P2SH with two scripts, one to send from an address and another to endorse receipts. To receive funds you would take the incomplete transaction and add the address's receive script, a signature for the amount received, the memo field, and (optionally) the originating address(es), and then broadcast the updated transaction. For multiple payees, partial transactions could be merged until all the signatures are present, at which point the completed transaction can enter the blockchain. The private key for receipts could be different from the key for payments, so "cold storage" is not affected. It sounds like what is really needed here is something OpenTransactions uses: a memo field. Human-readable names instead of addresses would help, but they're not foolproof; someone has to verify the owner's identity, which introduces centralization and (sometimes unwarranted) trust, and there are numerous issues with alternate and confusingly similar forms of names (amazon.com vs. arnazon.com vs. amazon-bitcoins.com). A freeform memo field in each transaction would allow the payer to indicate what the payment is for, greatly reducing the scope for these sorts of MitM attacks. The hypothetical diamond dealer would know better than to ship an order for diamonds when the memo field of the payment states that it was meant to cover an order for an iPhone.(The other major missing piece, which would probably be harder to implement, is the ability to refuse payment. Transactions should require the recipients' signatures in addition to the senders' before being accepted into the block chain, similar to the requirement to endorse a check before it can be deposited. The current system where anyone can deposit funds, from any source, into anyone's account without their approval could get a lot of people into fairly serious trouble, accounting-wise.) It's nice to see a reference to Bitcoin, but the premise of the article is nonsense. A currency is not a fiat currency merely because most or all of its value is in its marketability rather than direct use. All currencies have that property. The "fiat" in "fiat currency" refers to the source of scarcity (e.g. anti-counterfeiting laws; scarcity by fiat) and/or the reason the good is used as a currency (e.g. legal tender laws; acceptable payment by fiat).Currencies which are naturally scarce, like gold and Bitcoin, and which are traded as currencies voluntarily, are not fiat currencies. How can they be, when there is no "fiat" involved? There are also the problems that (a) no property was involved; (b) as bitcoins cannot be possessed, nothing was stolen; and (c) we only have one individual's word (revised multiple times) that the transaction was mistaken in the first place. Nothing has been proven.My recommendation? Return the 4.xxx BTC, less a 4.xxx BTC storage and handling fee. The trouble they've put you through by erroneously sending you those couple of bitcoins, and the unwarranted damage to your reputation, must be worth at least that much. The certainty you associate with face-to-face delivery only exists if the two people know each other by sight, and is subject to exceptions--identical twins, for example, or simply people who look very much alike. If you sent someone out with money to be delivered, and gave them the wrong address or showed them a picture of the wrong person to deliver to, the situation would be very much the same.Certainly I would request it back. However, that would be an appeal to their good nature, not the assertion of a right.Moral responsibility is a personal issue, and for them to decide. Ethically, I would say that there is no justification for taking any of their property in compensation; that would be an escalation of force. If they ever erroneously send their property to you, however, you can feel free to hold on to it. Turnabout is fair play, after all.Bitcoins are a bit of a special case, not being property to begin with. Keeping their actual nature in mind, they have no physical location and are not in anyone's possession; neither are they some sort of contractual claim, like a bank account balance. A balance in a Bitcoin account is nothing more or less than an informal agreement among most Bitcoin users that the holder of a certain private key has a certain number of bitcoins--an entirely virtual unit of account. Claiming that the bitcoins still belong to you after broadcasting a valid, signed transaction transferring them to another user's private key runs contrary to the nature of the system, and undermines its design.There are some differences here. One is that you're talking about whether the bank would take the money back, not whether they should, or whether they have the right to do so. Certainly they have the power to reverse the change, as the manager of your account. Bitcoin transfers are somewhat more permanent by design, and the block chain and private keys are supposed to be an authoritative record of ownership.The second difference is that your relationship with the bank is governed by a contract, and such contracts typically include a clause nullifying transfers or changes resulting from human error. In other words, when you set up the account you agreed to return the money if they could show that it was given to you in error. A similar clause could be inserted into the standard account agreement for Bitcoin merchants, but it would naturally only apply to their customers, not anyone who happens to receive bitcoins from them. There are no central organizations governing Bitcoin accounts to enforce such terms among all Bitcoin users.Agreed. If they asked nicely, and had reasonable evidence that the money came from them in the first place and was transferred by mistake, then I would probably return it. However, the odds go down significantly if they lack evidence, and become negligible if they start making demands. So far as I'm concerned, the money was given to me freely, and accepted in good faith; I did not request the money or do anything to cause the transfer. In the absence of a formal contract, it's up to me whether I choose to give it back. The analogy of finding cash on the sidewalk fails because it was only dropped, not given to you. This is more like someone walking up to you and handing you $50 with no explanation, and then later demanding it back, claiming a case of mistaken identity.Note that this is consistent with postal rules, at least in the U.S.; if someone sends you a package, unsolicited, it's yours, and they have no right to demand that you return it or pay for it after the fact.This goes doubly true for Bitcoin, where ownership is defined exclusively by possession of the controlling private key. It's up to the sender to make sure they're transferring their money to the right account. Returning money mistakenly sent to one of your accounts is nice, and maybe even the "right" thing to do, but I see no obligation here. They sent it to you, ergo it's yours. Intent is irrelevant. Don't sign or broadcast transactions you don't want processed.My recommended mitigation for this would be to require your customers to agree to return excess funds on request as part of setting up an account. Then there would be an obligation, though you would obviously need to prove that the address belongs to someone who has an account with you and agreed to those terms. If you mistakenly send funds to some random third party, that's your problem, not theirs. I'm sure this is just a lack of comprehension on my part, but what would prevent someone from calculating the SHA256 of a bitcoin address on their own, and using that to look up the wallet? Does the SHA256 include a secret key as well as the address, to prevent others from calculating the hash? It's not really as much of a difference as you're implying. The distinction here is whether the other party intended to cause you harm. We overlook minor, commonplace things like catching a cold from someone for two reasons; first, it's rarely deliberate, and second, we all expect to accidentally give someone else a cold or similar at some point, so on the whole it evens out and isn't worth getting upset about. However, if someone deliberately exposed you to a disease, however minor, that would be a form of assault, just as if they'd beat you up or broken your leg, or injected you with poison.It's worth noting that "illness" can refer to conditions which are not contagious; cancer, for example, or malnutrition, or a chemical imbalance. Merriam-Webster gives the medical definition as "an unhealthy condition of body or mind". It's a very general term. While mental conditions certainly do not seem to resemble viral or bacterial infections (unless you count certain memes...), one can hardly argue that they aren't "unhealthy conditions".I would say the term illness is more applicable, the the general sense, than injury, though injury (abuse) may be involved in causing the illness. A blow to the head is an injury; the resulting concussion is an illness. A similar relationship applies between mental abuse and mental illness. +1 for type-2 deterministic walletsAs currently proposed, if you have the master public key you can, in principle, iterate over the serial number to generate all possible addresses. However, there is no hard upper bound on the serial number, or the sizes of any gaps in the sequence of used addresses. Would it be possible to include some identifying information--in particular, the serial number--in the address itself, so that one could easily check whether a given address matches a known master public key without scanning through all possible serial numbers? Or is the address format too inflexible for that?
False analogy. The apartment or resort has a contract; you agreed, voluntarily and without duress, to pay a certain amount in exchange for their services. If you render services which were not requested, the recipient has no obligation to pay. The government chooses which "services" it renders, and the amount of the "bill", and does not accept "no" for an answer.It's not their property. It takes more to make something your property than simply laying claim to it. The government claim over the land is backed only by force--the assertion of a thief--and not traceable to any legitimate act of homesteading. There is no comparison. The merchant can refuse to sell to you, but doesn't claim the right to actively harm you. If you ask for help and the merchant refuses, you are no worse off than you were before. The government, on the other hand, does claim the right to harm you; taxes are but one example. The government can and does leave you worse off, whether you want to interact with it or not.Back on-topic, the effect of the IRS's demand for USD is similar to the effect of a merchant's demand, with two glaring exceptions. First, the IRS is far larger than any mere merchant, and thus has a proportionally greater effect. Second, you can't choose not to "do business" with the IRS. If any other merchant insisted on USD you would have the option of shopping elsewhere, or going without. Not so with the IRS.On the other hand, the IRS only creates demand for as much USD as is actually paid in taxes. What that is quite a lot, it remains a minority of the total USD in circulation. The larger effect of the IRS, or rather the tax code, in propping up the USD is that other currencies are subject to capital gains taxes and the like--even if their actual purchasing power is the same, and the increase in nominal USD value is entirely due to devaluation of the USD. (This is yet another way in which inflation is a hidden tax.) Minimum wage laws and other USD-denominated price floors also contribute; the influences are not mutually exclusive.No, you do have to accept it as payment of debts, such as credit extended for goods or services, but you are not required to accept it where no debt exists. If you require payment up front, before the goods or services are provided, then you can insist on any form of payment you wish.Put another way, if you are a party to a contract, and you break that contract (for example, by refusing to pay in the specified currency), the courts will permit you to pay the damages you owe to the other parties for the breach of contract in USD, regardless of what the contract said. A private arbiter could insist on similar conditions; alternate forms of payment are sometimes necessary, such as when there is dispute over damage to or loss of an irreplaceable item. If you won't accept standard forms of payment, the arbiter won't hear your case. It is your property to use and consume as you wish, absolutely. However, there are limits to the actions you can take without infringing on others' property rights. These limitations have nothing to do with your own property rights, and in fact it doesn't matter whether your property is involved at all. Hitting someone over the head with someone else's brick is just as off-limits as shooting them with your own gun. It's your action and the impact to their property which matter. You have an absolute right to use your own property. You don't have any right to use theirs without their permission. Any action which would infringe on the property rights of multiple individuals requires the unanimous consent of all involved. "Articles should be based on reliable, third-party, published sources with a reputation for fact-checking and accuracy." <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:V>So pastebin obviously wouldn't count, and neither would your average blog. Thanks for the vote of confidence, but I really do know how system breaking works. I'm a software engineer with a focus on real-time operating systems and device drivers, not a computer novice. I'm familiar with the techniques from a theoretical / defensive perspective, though I've never been inclined to put them into practice against someone else's system.Your description of arbitrary code execution vulnerabilities is reasonably accurate. However, what you're overlooking is the fact that it is the software already on the computer which takes the data supplied by the hacker and reinterprets it as code. The code came from the hacker, but the software already on your computer ran it. This happens all the time without any harm or fault attached; most web pages include executable code that your computer downloads and runs, for example. Even bitcoin transactions include executable scripts. Most of the time the computer's owner is not even aware of the code. In many cases (e.g. ads and tracking code in web pages) it is even true that the owner would not approve of running the code if he or she was made aware of it.The question is whether it is sufficient that the computer accepted the code and ran it, or if the owner must be expected to approve of running it given the choice. I would argue that when you own a machine that is designed to receive and process messages, and connect it to the Internet, it is your responsibility to make sure it processes them safely (or accept the consequences), even in the case of malformed or maliciously crafted messages. If that places an unacceptable burden on the participants, I've already suggested a system of contracts which would suffice to enforce some basic etiquette while remaining consistent with the natural rights of everyone involved.Consider this: What we have here is basically a case where you have some information you don't want to give to anyone else. Forget the computers; if this was simply information in your head, and someone else, by asking the right questions, managed to get you to reveal it despite your attempts at concealment (by observing your involuntary body language, for example), that would not make them an aggressor. Like I said before, of course, all analogies are false to some extent, including this one. I'm not basing any conclusions on it. However, I think it makes a decent illustration. That sounds a lot like "original research", which is against the Wikipedia policies (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WP:NOR). It needs to be based on attributable primary sources, not "empirical evidence and logic", unless you want to see it quickly reverted. A message can't "force" the computer to do anything. The computer only follows its instructions, and the instructions in effect at the time the message is received are those the owner put there.Anyway, to try to steer this conversation back on-topic, the original question was whether private keys are a form of "IP"--specifically, whether you could claim copyright infringement against someone else for possessing an unauthorized copy of your key. It looks like we're all agreed that private keys are not covered by copyright, being random numbers with no creative aspect, so that argument won't work, regardless of whether "IP" is a meaningful concept. Does anyone disagree? I find it hard to believe that you're actually advocating legislation-by-analogy. Analogies are bad enough when they show up in normal arguments, since they're always false to some degree. Using them as the basis for legislation, as justification for the use of force, is even worse. An analogy can provide a useful mental image, to illustrate an argument, but you have to keep in mind that the image is deceptive--and analogies involving computers and "cyberspace" are more deceptive than most, because the underlying realities are so much more complex.The "trespass", if there was any, is not because the hacker "entered" your computer, but rather because they caused it (by whatever means) to do something you didn't want it to do. It's a tenuous argument, however, because they can't really make your computer do anything. The computer is only reacting to eternal stimuli according to its programming. Even if you didn't intend that specific result, you are responsible for your own property, and you chose to hook it up to a communications system capable of receiving messages from anywhere in the world. Ensuring that your computer operates securely regardless of which messages it might receive is mostly your problem. Or, to flip that around, are you seriously going to claim that sending a message addressed to your computer which it happens to process in a manner you did not intend is equivalent to the use of force?Property is more than a social convention. The law exists to uphold property rights, not to define them. Property rights are an artifact of scarcity, which is to say, the nature of the universe, and human nature. I recommend reading Bastiat for a full treatment of this subject.The government can pervert the law to enforce their monopoly, and even make that monopoly permanent rather than temporary, but it can't grant them "ownership" of information, because whatever the law might try to claim, information is not property. It lacks the critical qualification of scarcity. In any case, ownership isn't about exclusive control, it's about having the right to use the property. Copyright and the like turn the concept of property on its head, attempting to enforce exclusive control over non-scarce information at the expense of denying others the right to use their rightful property.The phrase "store of value" refers to another false analogy. It invokes images of possessing value, of staking a property claim to it. But value isn't something you can possess. You can only possess property which is expected to remain valuable. That value fluctuates, since it's not a physical aspect of the property, but rather a result of people's thoughts and preferences. It can change in an instant. Gold, for example, is widely considered a "store of value", and is obviously property, but if someone were to invent, say, a cheap way of extracting gold from seawater, the value of your gold would evaporate overnight, and you would have no claim against the inventor for that loss of value. You still have the gold itself, which is all you ever had a right to.What contract would that be? Anyone can join the mining network. You don't even need to identify yourself, much less sign a contract. If someone wanted to start mining blocks, but follow a different set of rules, I don't see anything that would give anyone using the blockchain a legitimate claim against them. Of course, no one else needs to accept their blocks as valid, either, but if enough people got together and agreed on a set of changes to the rules, however arbitrary or discriminatory they might be, those who dissented and kept to the original rules still have no justification for forcing anyone to stick with their branch of the blockchain, or to compensate them for the lost market value of the bitcoin balances stranded on an unpopular fork. Unfortunately for your argument, "loss of value" is not a justification for use of force. Loss of property is.Which, as I already pointed out, is about as far as you can possibly get from a useful analogy, but whatever."Entry into that device"--another bad analogy, this time based on the mythology of cyberspace. Hackers don't "enter" other people's computers, they send messages addressed to them, which those computers are (deliberately or otherwise) programmed to respond to in fixed ways. Applying reasoning based on trespass to "computer crimes" is a dubious practice, at best.Assuming, however, that there is some legitimate basis for the reasoning that giving orders to your computer without your consent represents an infringement of your rights to your computer, then I agree that this would be the actual crime, and that you could claim damages based on all its consequences, including the financial value of the bitcoins lost to you through misuse of your private key.That's true enough for fungible property, like currency, but it's only a matter of convention and convenience. For less fungible property, like a car, or an heirloom with mostly emotional value to the owner, it's obviously not acceptable to simply substitute a facsimile of similar market value. Your property right is not simply for "an object like this", but rather "this object". In some cases it's easy to convince the owner to settle for a close substitute, but they are under no obligation to do so.I don't know where you get your insurance, but all of my policies have specific limits on the amount payed out, which may or may not equal the estimated value of the item being insured. The insurer is not taking on any open-ended obligation to "make me whole", and I am not forfeiting my rights to the stolen property by accepting compensation from my insurer for its loss.The thief has a different obligation--that of returning the stolen property to its rightful owner. This is where the concept of "making whole" applies. The thief is not absolved of the crime simple because I have an insurance policy which covers the theft.The only reason the thief would owe the insurer anything is if my contract with the insurer required me to give them the rights to the stolen property in exchange for the insurance payout. That is a reasonable step, but it's not automatic. Without a specific clause in the insurance contract transferring the property rights, it would be perfectly reasonable to accept the insurance payout and still claim the rights to the stolen property.Remember, I payed for that insurance. The payout is coming out of my premiums, and those of my fellow insurees. Saying that the insurance payout can "make me whole" is equivalent to saying that I can "make myself whole".I might be upset, mostly at myself for failing to secure my private key, but I wouldn't consider you a criminal solely on the basis of losing control over my bitcoins. Force would not be justified. Of course, by the same token, I am free to respond in kind.You seem to have misunderstood what I said. It doesn't matter that the Swiss Franks aren't U.S. government currency; what matters is that they are physical property. They may only be bits of paper with pictures, but they're still your bits of paper, just as if it has been bars of gold or important legal documents or an unpublished manuscript in that safe instead of Swiss Franks.Bitcoins, on the other hand, don't exist. You can't possess them, and they aren't property. Your bitcoin balance is just a number in other people's computers, one which they are in no way obligated to recognize. In many ways it's a lot like a reputation. You don't have a property right to your bitcoin balance any more than you have a property right to the way other people think about you.Obviously, whether "most places" consider it theft has no bearing on whether it actually is theft. However, this is worth analyzing. I wouldn't consider the electricity itself (the electrons and/or electric field) to be property. However, the electric meter itself, and the supply side of the power lines, are certainly the property of the utility company, so connecting to them without the company's permissions would be a violation of their property rights. A similar argument applies for running a power cable to your neighbor's house. Having infringed their property rights, you would be liable for the full cost of the consequences. The difference, obviously, is that while they may both be "abstractions of value", the fiat currency is also physical property, while the bitcoins are not. Wrongfully taking possession of physical fiat currency you don't own is theft. Claiming that someone else has a contractual obligation to give you that property, in the basis of a false identity, is fraud. You can't take possession of bitcoins, as they have no physical presence, and the rules of the bitcoin system don't require you to make any claims regarding your identity to move bitcoins around, only proof that you possess the correct key, so there is no fraud involved.First, you're the only one talking about network errors. I was referring to deliberate action. If a majority of bitcoin miners were to get together and chose to rewrite the protocol to exclude your transactions, or to accept transfers from your accounts which are not signed with your key, you would have no legitimate claim against them. Bitcoin is based on consensus, not property rights. (That isn't meant to disparage bitcoin--in many ways, its consensus-based system is more secure than property rights which must be defended with force.)Second, someone who impersonates you and tricks the bank into transferring your balance to a different account has not stolen from you, but rather from the bank. They had no authority to request that transfer, ergo (once the fraud has been uncovered) your balance should be unchanged. No third party has the authority to alter your contract with the bank. The fraud, and its consequences, are legitimately between the thief and the bank.Finally, the analogy between bitcoin balances and bank accounts is false. Your bank account balance represents a contract between you and the bank. A bitcoin balance is just an entry in a ledger; there is no contract. There isn't even an organization to contract with. If the bank decreases your balance without your consent, they're in breach of their contract with you. If the consensus within the bitcoin system is that a transaction spending "your" balance is valid, however, that's the final word on the subject, no matter who generated the transaction.Now this is just nonsense. First and foremost, value is subjective, ergo "denominated in value" is a meaningless phrase. What you mean, I presume, is "denominated in currency", which is an artifact of the concept of "legal tender", the idea that the government can force you to accept their currency as alternative payment despite the fact that what you're really owed is the property which was taken. Second, a loss of value is not sufficient, by itself, to give you a claim for compensation. The most obvious counter-argument here is competition: others who compete with you reduce the value of your property, by increasing the supply, but that doesn't mean your property rights have been infringed. Your rights cover the property itself, not its value. When something is stolen, it's the stolen property which the thief has an obligation to return, not its value--though the harmed owner may be willing to settle for something of equivalent value to them when the return of the original property is out of reach.This is completely irrelevant, as the insurance agency didn't steal your car. Your contract with the insurer obligates them to compensate you for the loss with a specific amount of currency in exchange for your premium payments. The contract could just as easily have specified compensation in the form of a new car, if that was what you and the insurer agreed to, but cash is more flexible for both parties. In any case, the thief still owes you your car back--not the value of the car, or even an equivalent car: the car itself. It never stopped being your property just because you lost possession of it. No, with traditional fiat currencies what is stolen is the physical notes, or contractual claims to the physical notes. The bank balance you refer to is a contractual claim against the bank for a specific amount of fiat currency. If someone shows up at a bank claiming to be you, and withdraws currency from your account or transfers it to a different account, they are committing fraud against the bank. (This is important: the fraud is against the bank, not you, though your contract with the bank may attempt to make you responsible for it.) They are claiming that the bank has an obligation which it does not, in fact, have. Their contract is with you, not the one impersonating you. Using fraudulent claims to trick the bank into giving you currency they do not owe you is theft; you're taking currency which still legitimately belongs to the bank. With bitcoins, there is no property and no contract, only a consensus-based accounting protocol.What is stolen is always property, not "the monetary value it represents". The value of the property is only relevant when determining damages--but for there to be damages, property must first have been stolen. This argument, and several others similar to it, are predicated on the idea that bitcoins (a) exist, and (b) are property. Bitcoins, per se, do not exist. They are not physical objects you could stake a claim to, or even contracts granting you a claim to property, like your contract with your bank.What does exist are entries in a distributed database in the form of "A transaction signed with the private key matching this address can transfer exactly X bitcoins to another address of their choice." However, this database exists only by consensus. There is no contract. If the other participants in the bitcoin system fail to recognize your signed transactions, or rewrite the ledger such that the balance is associated with some other key you don't control, that is just too bad for you.You are completely reliant on others choosing to follow the established bitcoin protocol--and the protocol does not have any regard for ownership in the sense you refer to, only possession of the associated private keys. Use of a key to sign a transaction is only proof of possession, which is true (and thus not fraud), however you came by the key. Any claim you might make against someone misusing your private key would have to be based on the principle that acquiring the key in the first place involved a violation of your rights to the physical property in which the key was stored. Obviously, numbers (including private keys) are not property. Using them to misrepresent yourself as someone else may, in some cases, be a form of fraud. I do not think that applies to Bitcoin, however, since the only thing you are really representing is that you have the private key, which is perfectly true. There is no actual property involved to substantiate a claim of fraud.Hacking isn't really a question of IPR; the central question is whether, by sending commands to your PC and causing it to act contrary to the wishes of its owner, the hacker has trespassed on the owner's physical property rights in the PC. The counter-argument would naturally be that a hacker can't cause the PC to do anything it wasn't programmed to do by the owner, by accident or default if not deliberate intent. I lean more toward the latter camp, but I will admit that the trespass argument has some merit.Assuming the trespass argument is discarded, where does that leave us regarding hacking? I would say that we are left with contracts. Specifically, the end-user's contract with their ISP, the ISP's contract with their upstream provider, and contracts between ISPs and backhaul providers. These contracts should prohibit use of the connection for hacking, specify administrative procedure and penalties, and require similar provisions on the part of anyone connecting to the same network. Anyone caught hacking could then be kicked from the network and/or fined for breach of contract. As long as we're defining terms, I would like to clarify that "more mining" in this sentence was a reference to more coins mined (more time having passed), not a higher hash rate. Regarding the hash rate, the causal relationship is the other way around: people start mining because the price increased relative to difficulty; the price doesn't increase because more people are mining. You're using "supply" to where I used "increase in supply", but we're really in agreement here. The supply of bitcoins is the total amount which have been mined (minus any which have been permanently lost). Mining is the process by which that supply increases. The rate of increase is mostly independent of the amount of mining, due to the difficulty adjustments. (But note that difficulty adjustments lag mining changes, and can only change so quickly, so increases in mining can have some influence on the rate of increase in supply.) (Emphasis added.) I really hope that isn't their entire investment strategy, because it's completely backwards. Mining bitcoins increases the supply, devaluing the coins. Right now, the price is going up only because the market for bitcoins is expanding even faster than the supply. The system is still highly inflationary (as it must be at the start--the coins have to be introduced somehow). Long-term, assuming the project is successful, the cap on total bitcoins mined will reduce the inflation rate to near zero, meaning that any increase or decrease must reflect a change in the size of the bitcoin economy. In either case, more mining works against an increase in market value.They also implied that only 50 bitcoins are mined per day, when the actual number is 50 BTC every ten minutes (7200 BTC per day), on average, soon to be 25 BTC every ten minutes (3600 BTC per day). Of course, it will drop to 50 BTC per day eventually, but that day is still a long way off. Only if the proposition that the law is moral is consistent with the moral framework you plan to use to work out those limits. If the maximum moral punishment is to be determined by reference to a system of natural rights, for example, then someone's natural rights to use their property must first be infringed before any punishment is justified. Simply assuming that punishment is justified and then asking "how much" leaves you trying to reason from a contradiction. First, "proportional" is not the same as "equal". Trebled liability for deliberate harm has a long tradition in common law, and is generally considered to be within the bounds of proportional punishment.Second, punishment is only one part of the equation. It comes on top of the requirement to "make the victim whole", meaning that (in your first example) the thief must return the $100 in addition to paying the $100-$300 of proportional punishment.Finally, from the last example, the thief didn't steal $20 or $1000. The store was deprived of a bicycle, their property, and consequently was unable to sell it. If the reasonably expected sale price was $1000, then that is how much damage was done to the store; it makes no difference whether the thief would have been willing to pay that amount. The claim, however, rests on the loss of the use of the bicycle, not the loss of a potential future sale. If the thief had simply copied the bicycle, or acquired a similar product from a competitor, the "potential sale" is still lost, but the store would have no claim. Nonsense. Legislation only codifies morality; it does not determine what is moral. The "maximum moral punishment" depends only on whether the copyright infringement violates the natural rights of the copyright holder, not on the presence or absence of copyright laws. You cannot answer the question of "maximum moral punishment" for violating a law without addressing the question of whether the law is morally justified in the first place. It's a standard CSS2 property, and http://www.w3schools.com/cssref/pr_dim_max-height.asp claims that it's supported in all the major browsers (though not in IE6 or earlier). If it's not supported, the only side-effect is that you see the entire signature instead of just the top 30pt.
Why bother parsing the signature markup when you can just put this in the CSS?Code:.signature {  max-height: 30pt;  overflow: hidden;} Agreed.If "loss of a potential sale" was "actual damages" then all competition would be considered a tort. The "potential sale" isn't yours; you don't have any inherent right to it on which to base a claim.When something is stolen, the damages are the loss of that item, which is something the shop actually had a right to. It is the value of the use of that item for the time it was missing which the punishment should be proportional to. Obviously none of this applies to information-based, non-scarce goods, at least not unless they were actually taken, depriving the original holder of the use of the information, and not just copied. I would define greed as "desire without purpose", wanting something just for the sake of having it. In most cases there is a purpose behind the desire to keep what you have earned, even if that purpose is only to act as a hedge against the uncertain future. A desire to take someone else's money may be greed, but is more likely to be envy, jealousy, or pride (in the sense of thinking one could make better use of it than the rightful owner), and in some cases it could even be due to an actual or perceived need.Of course, none of these emotions are necessarily bad in themselves; it's how you choose to act on them that counts. Anarcho-capitalism is defined by the NAP. What you have just said is akin to "We do live in a world where most people follow the NAP, it's just that most people don't follow the NAP."Actually, it's not entirely true that "most people don't follow the NAP". Most people, as individuals, do informally follow the NAP in their dealings with other individuals. Theft and assault and other forms of aggression between individuals are rare, and not generally viewed as legitimate even by non-anarcho-capitalists. Where we differ is that the average person gives the State a free pass to violate the NAP. An anarcho-capitalist applies the NAP in an even and unbiased manner; aggression undertaken by the State is no more legitimate than than aggression practiced by any other individual or group. Not "overthought", just carefully and precisely reasoned. The issue wasn't as simple as you're pretending it was, and precision is important when reasoning about crimes, particularly when it relates to the identity of the victim. Anyway, that's a rather serious charge to be throwing around so freely. What crime are you accusing me of, exactly? For that matter, you also accused participants in the derivatives market of criminal intent for no better reason than your own failure to understand it. Perhaps the problem isn't with me or with them, but rather with you.For the patience-impaired, here's the short version: Yes, a crime was committed. The victim of the crime was the property owner--the bank--not the account holder who was impersonated. The crime was fraud, possibly compounded with theft, but there wasn't enough detail in the original story to be sure of the theft. Not theft exactly, more like fraud committed against the bank. The money in the ATM belongs to the bank, not the account holder. You're tricking the bank (in the form of the ATM, though it would be the same with a human teller) into handling you $300 by claiming to be someone you aren't. Even though the machine dispenses the money, it doesn't become yours, because you have no contract with the bank. Even in cases where there would be an implied contract, any contract based on fraud is void. Since the money still belongs to the bank, if you walk off with it then you have, at that point, committed theft (against the bank, not the person whose account was on the screen).Whether the account holder is liable for the bank's loss of $300 is a matter between that person and the bank. Leaving their card at the ATM could be a violation of the contract governing the account, and the contract may stipulate that they will reimburse the bank for losses owing to insecure handling of their card or other authentication credentials. I agree. There is no security advantage to having the public key if the private key is also visible. To verify the balance, or even load the address securely, you need to know that the private key matches the public key anyway, so the public key isn't sufficient. You might as well include only the private key, from which the public key can be generated; there is no need for a special encoding. That also simplifies the design (one QR code per certificate). "Mythical" is correct. Your "third option" is just a point close to the boundary line, but still on one side or the other. If the way a resource is allocated matters--if there is any need whatsoever to balance competing demand for it--then it's scarce. Otherwise, it's superabundant. There is no middle ground.This is a blatant non-sequitur. If businesses can't get loans in BTC because the rate of deflation is higher than the prevailing interest rate, that means BTC is more valuable, and the demand for BTC as payment will be higher, not lower. Businesses are not going to arbitrarily turn away a form of payment which will increase in value after they accept it. The problem (if any) is getting buyers to part with it.The more typical complaint regarding appreciating currency is that no one will want to spend it, knowing that if they wait it will buy more in the future. Of course, that doesn't take into account that at some point present demand exceeds the net present value of the currency, even if that currency is appreciating, or that the seller can take appreciation into account when setting the price (which generally works out to the seller's benefit, as the party with the lower time preference). There have been markets with consistent relative currency appreciation before (e.g. electronics), and trade didn't come to a halt because of it. Scarcity obviously does matter. The alternative to scarcity is superabundance, and why would you offer goods or services in exchange for something you already have in whatever quantity you happen to need? A currency has to be something people desire, and thus will trade for, and that means it has to be scarce.Of course, there are different ways of ensuring scarcity. You can trade in something that is inherently scarce, like gold (due to nature) or bitcoins (due to math), or you can take something which is not inherently scarce and use force to make it so, as in fiat currency. This seems like a third way, where the scarcity rests on the difficulty of getting existing currency-holders to agree to devalue their own shares, with no apparent benefit to themselves. I'd say that represents a fairly strong guarantee of scarcity, though why anyone would expect others to prefer it over BTC is a bit of a puzzle. A society where aggression is universally permitted is compatible with the NAP, in that it clearly would permit the self-defense / punishment for aggression which the NAP says is justified, albeit labeled as "counter-aggression" rather than "defense". It is not necessarily compliant with the NAP, though those "instincts of self-preservation" you refer to, along with the general social tendencies bred into the human race, would probably bring it fairly close.A society isn't incompatible with the NAP until you start saying that some people should (morally/ethically/legally) be able to get away with practicing aggression without fear of reprisal, and the system you described does nothing of the sort. Abiding by the NAP then becomes a matter of individual choice. On the whole, as a straightforward application of the Golden Rule, it works out better for each individual to avoid initiating coercion against non-aggressors (i.e. follow the NAP), and to join together to defend others against aggression wherever it does occur (i.e. help to enforce the NAP).The critical question is whether the same rules apply to everyone, or whether some individuals, for whatever reason, are permitted to act aggressively without opposition from the group. If the society treats aggression identically regardless of the source, it complies with the NAP; otherwise, if the society approves of aggression by some and not others, then the NAP is violated. First, there aren't many people who could write that with a straight face. If you're one of them, I'm not sure whether to feel depressed or take pity on you. In practice, "separation of powers" means that the government is divided into warring political factions and everyone else is caught up in the cross-fire. Laws are made by people you probably didn't vote for to serve vocal (and typically lucrative) special interests. If you're accused of a "crime", you may get a fair trial or you may not. Either way, the verdict will be based on your compliance with the written law rather than anything resembling justice, and the punishment is often out of proportion to even the made-up crime you were accused of, to better ensure compliance.Second, in "NAP-land" you have not only real but maximum separation of powers, since there is no monopoly on defense. Arbitration and defense services are distributed through the market. There are no written laws to adhere to, made up by people you didn't vote for, just the self-evident and universal principle that if you want others to leave you alone, you have to be willing to do the same.Finally, if you should happen to be accused of violating the NAP and punished without a fair trial, those who put you through a kangaroo court and punished you unjustly are not shielded from the consequences of their actions by the monopoly provider of defense services. Government courts have written rules and procedures, but there is no punishment for government officials for violating them. If you're lucky you may get an early release, maybe even a formal apology. In "NAP-land" you can seek redress against the private arbiters and enforcers who harmed you; they have no special protection. Forget everything else; these are the questions anyone who opposes the NAP needs to answer.The alternative to the NAP is the principle that some (or all) people should be able to initiate or escalate the use of force against non-aggressors while simultaneously being able to claim that a reprisal in kind by the victim would be unjustified.If you oppose the NAP, please explain the rational basis by which you distinguish between those permitted to act aggressively and those prohibited from doing so. "Backing" is a concept which applies to currency substitutes. When a bank issues a note, the backing is whatever the issuer promises to exchange for the note on demand. Back when the U.S. was on a gold standard, for example, the Treasury committed to exchanging each Treasury note for a specific amount of gold (albeit increasingly below the market value, and eventually only in large quantities). These days Federal Reserve Notes are no longer currency substitutes, and no offer is made by the Treasury or the Federal Reserve to exchange them for anything. Ergo, like Bitcoins, they have no backing, and stand (or fall) on their own merits as an independent currency. I agree with cytokine that there was no harm, as the holder of a few BDK.BND shares myself, and I'm not opposed to private or partial buybacks. However, I don't see how you can read the contract that way. Clearly bonds were sold back to the bond-holder, without meeting the conditions listed under "buyback"; namely, that (a) all the bonds will be bought back, (b) at a price of 0.101 BTC each, (c) using the forced buyback feature. Perhaps the intent was merely to reserve the option of a forced buyback, while leaving open the possibility of other, voluntary buybacks, but in that case the contract should probably have said so explicitly.For what it's worth, I think I would have worded the quoted clause more along the lines of "No guarantee is made that bonds can be sold back to the bond-holder, except in the case of a buyback." The contract listed on GLBSE (https://glbse.com/asset/view/BDK.BND) would seem to prohibit private and/or partial buybacks: Gresham's Law (the simple version): Bad money drives good money out of circulation.In this case, BTC is the good money, and dollars and other fiat tend to drive BTC out of circulation. We want to keep our BTC (which are holding value, or even becoming more valuable) but get rid of our dollars as quickly as possible, before they become completely worthless. Normally Gresham's Law only applies when the exchange rate between the currencies is fixed, but a similar principle is in play here due to the contrast in monetary policies: market-based vs. deliberately inflationary.In general, the currency people demand and hold and save in is the stronger of the two, and more likely to hold its value long-term. However, the weaker currency will have a higher "velocity" (which mainly benefits those imposing a tax every time wealth changes hands, not those spending or receiving it).Given the current trends in BTC value, it really would make more sense for vendors with a stake in BTC to give discounts for paying in BTC, rather than surcharges, then hold on to those BTC rather than immediately exchanging them for USD, and make up the difference through the change in market value. It might be more precise, or at least clearer, to say that the NAP is a natural law because it state that "no person has the right to initiate force against another person" while also having the right to not have force initiated against them in turn. In other words, if you do initiate force then others (the victim in particular) have the right to respond with a proportional punishment. Of course, this is what is generally meant by "one does not have the right to...", that one can legitimately be punished for doing so, but in this case it helps to make the symmetry explicit.This is a natural law in the domain of logic, as opposed to physics. It is a natural law for the simple reason that if you can justify initiating force against someone else without provocation, they can use the same argument to justify initiating force against you, regardless of whether you're claiming that it is right to initiate force, or that it was wrong but you should be able to get away with it anyway, or that the rules are not necessarily universal... whatever argument you use can be turned back against you. No matter how you argue, the fact remains that you initiated force against a non-aggressor, and if you can justify it, so can they. If you can't justify it, then you effectively admit that you deserve the punishment. It's not a matter of how many more IPv6 addresses there are in absolute terms. The database would only store prefixes, so the increase in table entries is just from having individual prefixes for each end-user where currently you might block an entire ISP due to dynamic IPs or high-level NAT. This is the price for avoiding the false positives which are inevitable with IPv4, but not with IPv6. If you already have the end user's IPv4 address in the table, or don't care about the existing false positives, then there is no change in the number of entries.However, IPv6 addresses are 128-bit rather than 32-bit as in IPv4, so each table entry would go from five bytes to 17 bytes, including one byte in each case for the prefix length. That's assuming you use a flat table with fixed record sizes rather than prefix compression or similar.NOTE: You could cut the IPv6 record size down to 9 bytes by assuming the prefix is no longer than 64 bits, which is reasonable since each end-user is supposed to have at least a /64, if not a /56 or /48. There are actually several ways to encode an IPv4 address as an IPv6 address, though only one--6to4--is in common use. This version associates a /48 IPv6 subnet with each 32-bit public IPv4 address. To filter these you would extract the IPv4 address and look it up in a normal IPv4 database.However, most IPv6 addresses will not correspond to any IPv4 address. Only networks which have been assigned an increasingly scarce public IPv4 address can use 6to4 as a substitute for native IPv6, and the remaining IPv6 addresses have no connection to the IPv4 namespace. However, each end user is to be assigned a single, contiguous subnet, ranging from a /48 to a /64. Tracking these subnet prefixes in a database for filtering should be no more difficult than tracking individual public IPv4 addresses, and less prone to false positives due to address sharing (dynamic IPs and NAT). The databases would be somewhat larger, due to the longer addresses and more specific targeting, but not unmanageably so. If you're not considering the increase in currency, the numbers should be 100 units currency and 100 widgets, i.e. no change, not 100/90. Either way, the supply of widgets doesn't decrease just because some of them changed hands.Anyway, we're in agreement that someone who can introduce new currency "for free" has an advantage over those left to deal with the resulting inflation. Naturally, this is only a problem when the market value of the currency is kept artificially high via a monopoly or other market manipulation (as with USD); otherwise, save for a genuine currency shortage, the cost of introducing new currency would already be approximately equal to the market value of the currency, leaving little incentive to introduce more (as with precious metals, or Bitcoin after the introductory block incentives go away).
Shouldn't that be 110 currency units (including the counterfeits) and 100 widgets? The ten widgets bought with counterfeit currency are still part of the economy, at least until they're consumed. The effect is similar, but the price is 1.10 afterward, not 1.11. (Assuming an idealized equilibrium economy with no goods other than currency and widgets, where the people are perfect widget-producing, widget-consuming perpetual-motion robots...) A static IPv6 subnet with privacy extensions enabled is no worse than a static IPv4 address and NAT. Dynamic IPv4 addresses don't offer all that much protection if someone really wants to find out who you are; the ISP can always look up who was assigned that address at the time.For anything more than superficial anonymity, you need onion routing, al la Tor or I2P, to disguise the sources of your connections among a pool of other addresses with multiple independent levels of indirection. These are all very good points. Unfortunately, the original subject of the thread was deletion of off-topic comments, not the forum's administrative load. Under a strict interpretation of the forum's rules--the alternative being arbitrary censorship at the moderators' discretion--this perfectly reasonable comment must be deleted.Personally, I would prefer to see off-topic replies merely hidden by default (with a show/hide toggle) rather than deleted outright, doubly so if the forum does not retain a copy of the deleted comment in the poster's profile. It's much easier to delete a comment than it is to get it back, and a comment which is off-topic can nonetheless be insightful and/or informative in a more appropriate context. In any case, the problem of off-topic replies is really more a reflection on the forum's lack of threading than any fault of the users. I understand that, and agree that an action (which may also be theft) which threatens someone's life may justify jailing the offender (though strictly speaking one would probably have to offer the choice of jail or being placed in a similarly risky position; most would probably choose confinement). However, theft alone does not, even in the case of a repeat offender. There is some leeway in the rule of proportional response to allow for sentimental value, etc., but only in terms of the degree of response, not the kind. What's missing here is the rationale behind the right to self-defense. However, that's easy enough to grasp: if you steal someone else's property, you have no rational objection to raise when they come to take it back--or to take your property in retribution. What you do to others, they can legitimately do to you.I do have to object to the "jail the offender" bit, however. Taking alienable property is in no way equivalent to coercively restricting someone's freedom of movement. Self-defense has to be proportional to the offense to be justified in this way.The problem with claiming slaves as property is simply that they are, by definition, stolen property. The slave holder is laying false claim to another's inalienable rights of self-ownership. Yes, that's what I was referring to by "the fine print". It doesn't change the expectation people have that their deposits are theirs, whatever the bank may really be doing with them.Agreed. You don't normally have serious bank runs due to mere liquidity issues. In a pinch, a bank in need of liquidity, but having sufficient equity, can always take out loans from other banks to cover short-term demand. The disconnect between depositors' expectations and reality is only revealed in the event of a large-scale economic downturn, such as at the start of the Great Depression, when the banks' investments are revealed to be systematically bad.Moreover, in a situation like that--precisely the one the FDIC was supposedly instituted to protect against--the FDIC would be useless. They don't have anywhere near enough reserves to make up for a wide-spread run on the banks without printing up so much new money that the dollar would become worthless. The FDIC's only positive influence, if you can call it that, is to generate enough false confidence to keep people from demanding immediate withdrawals once the crisis is revealed.Not a surprising result. The honest bank is in a similar position to someone trying to operate a self-sufficient toll road in competition with the public (tax-funded) roads. When people are already forced to pay for the public option, even a reasonable price for a private alternative is too much. The FDIC isn't exactly tax-funded (unless you count inflation), but it does come with the "reassuring" backing of the federal government and access to the Treasury. It's hard for a completely private insurer to compete.Rather than a vault-only bank, I think I would offer two types of accounts (time and demand), and clearly explain the risks involved with the time accounts. The demand accounts would charge a fee, but have 100% reserves. The time accounts would pay interest, but withdrawal requests would be subject to delays and/or interest penalties, as with CDs, plus a prominent disclaimer that they are subject to investment risk and may lose value. By mixing the two you can get the same effect as a modern-style savings account, except with full disclosure and control over the level of risk. The only real problem in the first place was blending the terms of time and demand accounts while obscuring the details. There probably are a small but measurable fraction of account holders who really think the bank holds all their money in a vault. That's the way banks are normally portrayed in popular fiction, after all. However, even those who understand how banks really work tend to assume, deep down, that "their" money will always be available for withdrawal when they need it. Just look at how betrayed people act when there is a run on the bank and they can't get at "their" money.Being a firm believer in caveat emptor, I'm not going to claim that fractional reserve banking is an outright fraud. Somewhere in the fine print the banks do state that your money may not be available immediately on request. However, it's not hard to see why people call it that, or why a strict separation was required between interest-bearing time accounts, like CDs, and fee-based demand accounts. The only sense in which economics "assume" rational behavior is, in fact, a tautological axiom. The axiom states that given a choice between two or more goods, an actor will choose the good which is highest on his or her internal scale of preferences. The scale itself, however, is an unknown and unknowable element outside of the individual's own psyche; they are probably not even consciously aware of all their preferences at any given moment. Preferences can also change over time. All one can know of another person's preferences are the snapshots revealed through their choices. Therefore, there is no way that any set of observed choices could possibly contradict the axiom. Given the choice, it is simply more productive to think of action in terms of objectively rational choices between subjectively-valued goods than vise-versa.The well-founded economic models take the subjective theory of value as a given, being careful not to exclude non-material goods, and consequently are able make perfectly good predictions. The less-well-founded (e.g. utilitarian) models assume objective relations between the values of various goods, based on unreliable indicators such as historical prices, surveys, and "common sense", and are left trying to explain why people seem to behave "irrationally". I considered that, but any such split would necessarily be after the fact; there are any number of ways blocks B and C, and possibly other blocks, could be recombined into block D, and then into block E, and so on. Reducing the reward after a valid block has been discovered doesn't seem very fair to the miners. Similarly, splitting transaction fees ex post facto would introduce chaos into the miners' transaction selection process. It also seems like a much more involved protocol change than simply adding multiple parent blocks and merging their transactions. There is a serious problem with reintegration which I didn't consider before: the fees and block rewards will inevitably conflict between the different chains. Assuming B and C were discovered by different miners, the fee for transaction t3 in block B would conflict with the fee for the same transaction in block C, and the {B,C} set, while still representing only a single link in the chain, would have double the combined block reward. Actually, they're not implemented all that differently. True, shifts are not implemented via division; it's the other way around. Division can be implemented in hardware as a series of right-shift and subtract operations (a naive binary version of long division), and division by two reduces to a simple right-shift, though there may be some wasted cycles. For that reason, any decent optimizing compiler will generate the opcode for a right-shift operation rather than integer division when the code specifies integer division by a fixed power of two. As you said, it's exactly the same mathematical operation. The compiler is just unrolling the loop implied by the division algorithm.Would it be possible to re-integrate the forks instead, provided there are no conflicting transactions? It should be rare to have forks which cannot be reconciled. Example:Chain 1: A(t1, t2) -> B(t3, t4)Chain 2: A(t1, t2) -> C(t3, t5, t6)Next: A(t1, t2) -> {B(t3, t4), C(t3, t5, t6)} -> D(t7)Instead of a single parent, Block D would list the heads of all the chains its compatible with. The height would be the maximum along any path from the genesis block (i.e. height(D) = height(A) + max(difficulty(B, C))). In the event of conflicting transactions, it would be up to the miner of block D to choose a non-conflicting subset of the available chains. You could, but the absence of such a message does not mean the transfer was not authorized. Moreover, unless everyone timestamps their keys this way, anyone who does not have such a timestamp is left with the task of proving a negative--that they do not have a timestamp to sign over. Actually, that could be a problem even if you do sign over a timestamp, since nothing prevents you from having more than one, dated earlier than the one you signed over, which you've been keeping to yourself.You could mitigate this by only considering timestamps which have already been made public, but it seems easier to me to simply secure your private keys. How do you intend to prove that you didn't deliberately give someone the private key? Private keys have become a form of payment in their own right; for example, you can provide one to MtGox to fund your account. A key isn't necessarily "stolen" just because you had it first, and now someone else also has it.So far as the bitcoin system is concerned, possession of the private key is ownership. The damage is in the unauthorized access to your computer, and for that you need to show that the key was copied without your consent. This is incorrect. Opening a file merely returns a reference to it; the contents of the file are not read into memory. At most a few blocks from the beginning of the file (at most a few MB) might be read in under the expectation that the application will ask for them next. The rest of the data is only read from the hard disk due to requests from the application. Once the data has been read into memory, future requests for the same data may not require access to the disk--but there is a limit to how much can be cached. In general, the total sizes of all the open files add up to much more than the amount RAM available to cache them. If the data isn't in the cache it will have to be re-read from the disk.Requests from multiple applications can be interleaved, and a good I/O scheduler will make sure that requests from one application do not completely prevent other applications from accessing the disk. There will be a impact on performance, of course, since the disk is shared, and if a lot of seeking is required to access both files the slowdown can be significant compared to linear reads. Minimizing seeking by grouping nearby requests is also part of the I/O scheduler's job. I was having similar performance issues myself. I've been running the official Bitcoin client since the blockchain was only a hundred MB or so, and it was taking several minutes just to get past the splash screen. Defragmenting the blockchain database reduced that to a few seconds. Apparently growing a file by over a gigabyte in small increments, over a long period of time, leads to very inefficient access patterns. Who would have thought?  Anyway, to defragment the files I just made copies of blk0001.dat and blkindex.dat in the wallet directory ($HOME/.bitcoin by default on Unix platforms), and then renamed the copies over the original files. To avoid corruption, be sure the program isn't running at the time. I agree that "didn't pay attention to their elected officials and didn't care to think about any possible future consequences, is no excuse". However, not personally choosing to borrow the money in the first place is a perfect excuse. No one who didn't vote for it--whether they weren't around yet, voted against, or simply abstained--can be held morally responsible for what others chose to borrow.One of the many problems with democracy is that it pretends that people can be held morally responsible for the choices and actions of others. It rather sounds like you're describing http://bitcoin-otc.com/, a person-to-person trading site with a secure pseudonymous reputation system based on OpenPGP signatures. Exactly. Bitcoins aren't physical goods. They aren't even digital goods (data). They are more like points in a game, existing only in the minds of the participants. The rules of this game say that whoever can provide a valid, signed transaction controls the bitcoins. Within the rules of the bitcoin system, there is no such thing as stolen bitcoins. If you have the private key, however it may have been obtained, you are a legitimate (co-)owner. This is not to say that no crime has occurred, but that crime--unauthorized access to the computer holding the private key--is independent of the bitcoin system.The real problem is that the "decentralized" bitcoin system can essentially be held hostage to the demands of a single organization (MtGox) involved in over 80% of all bitcoin transactions. We need more diversity. Given a reasonable amount of competition, no exchange could afford to pull stunts like this. More to the point, we need to rely less on exchanging BTC and USD and instead develop a proper market involving only non-monetary goods and BTC. Currency exchange should be on the fringe, not front and center. Exactly so. They represent an amount of bitcoins, which is not the same as representing actual bitcoins, in the same way that the number written on a check represents an amount of dollars, not a specific set of dollar bills.It certainly isn't an obstacle so far as the bitcoin system is concerned. The bitcoins are just placeholders; it doesn't matter what they are, or even if they really exist. It does make a difference when trying to determine what we're actually trading--if anything--for legal purposes, however: commodities, currency, information, etc. Currency is particularly slippery. Outside of the bitcoin system, even fiat currencies which exist almost entirely in the form of digital records represent physical objects. We're expected to believe those computer records are equivalent to actual Federal Reserve Notes, even though there aren't really enough FRNs in existence to balance the accounts. It seems likely to me that if bitcoins can't be considered commodities, then they can't be treated as currency either, even if the bitcoin system as a whole amounts to a currency system.The closest non-digital analogy for the bitcoin system seems to me to be a multiplayer game, where the bitcoins are the points. So far the legal system does not attempt to regulate gameplay, intervene in disputes over the rules, or tax people on their scores; hopefully this will remain the case in the future. The relationship between bitcoins received and electricity/computation spent is extremely elastic. It varies not only with the current difficulty, fees, and mining reward (and the vagaries of probability) but also with advances in the method of computation and the underlying technologies. As such, it would be quite a stretch to consider bitcoins a "unit" of either electricity or computing power, which at any rate already have perfectly adequate units of measurement.
Inches and meters are units of distance. Megabytes are units of information. These are both properties of the physical universe, defined in terms of experimental measurements.What are bitcoins units of? Can you offer a non-circular definition?A currency is any economic good routinely used within a community for indirect exchange. Local currencies are still currencies, and in a sense all currencies are local--none of them are accepted universally.The bitcoin system may have novelty value, but bitcoins were never novelties because, as has already been stated, they don't exist in any sense other than as completely abstract units of measurement, like points in a game.If the bitcoin system can be considered a system of currency, the economic good it is based on is not a commodity, but a service: the distributed service offered by every other bitcoin user of recognizing your participation as an equal, and enforcing the rules of the game.No, because gold has unique and valuable physical properties, even if you completely disregard its use as a currency. There would be value in direct use even without anyone to trade with, and likely even more value in terms of direct exchange. It's "theoretical" in that it would be hard to make it truly impossible to pay off the loan by taking all the money out of circulation. The original comment implied that the mere existence of a loan where the interest exceeded the reserves would inevitably result in "guaranteed default". Clearly that is not the case, so long as some of the money keeps circulating. Equally obviously, the less effective demand there is for your product (whether because the bank is being "stingy", because others are simply hoarding their cash, or because they're spending it on other things) the harder it is going to be to pay off the loan, and the more likely you will be to end up in default. You can end up in that situation without any fractional reserves. It is possible to insure your business or set up a limited-liability company to ensure that you won't lose "all your stuff" in the event of default.I'm not trying to say that fractional-reserve banking is a good thing. I may side with the free-bankers, but I still think full reserves for demand accounts are a good idea (and more likely absent central banks, federally-mandated deposit insurance, and federal bailouts), and feel that loaning out demand deposits is at least a bit shady, even if permitted by the written terms of the account--which, in all fairness, the depositors should be aware of. Interest-bearing accounts are investments, with liquidity constraints and the potential to lose value, and should be advertised as such. That's an interesting article, aside from the nonsense regarding "import certificates". However, he glosses over the important point that "intergeneration inequities" are a result of the legitimization of aggression (specifically taxation) in the form of government. In short, it's the government of Squanderville which is in debt, not the people of Squanderville; but the government is going to take what it needs to pay off that debt involuntarily from the people living in the area, even though they may not be the same people as lived there and voiced their approval when the bonds were issued and thus have no legitimate responsibility to pay it off.In a free market you can't inherit other people's debts. Any estate which has more debts than assets is simply in default, leaving nothing to be inherited. The next generation always starts out with a clean slate. Considering that they had over 40,000 BTC in their "hot" wallet, it doesn't look like they were limiting it to small transactions.Consider the way this would work at a brick-and-mortar bank. The bank needs to be able to handle large withdrawals, but it doesn't start out each day with $10,000 in every teller's register. Small withdrawals can be handled at the register, but large ones require access to the safe, which comes with some extra oversight. True, you wouldn't want to just expose "withdraw X bitcoins to address Y" as an RPC call. You need to tie the withdrawals to specific accounts and validate the amount against the account balance so that no one RPC call can wipe out the entire wallet.Ideally, you would have one or more cheap, low-security systems to handle the front-end traffic. These systems would not hold any private keys or sensitive customer databases. A separate, secure, low-traffic system would deal with authenticating users and withdrawing coins (or you could use two separate servers). Authentication should include some form of challenge-response protocol (e.g. a public-key certificate) or one-time password to avoid exposing the user's credentials to anyone breaking into the front-end server.When someone logs in, their credentials would be forwarded to the authentication server, which would then issue a time-limited one-time authentication token. When they want to withdraw money from their account, the front-end server would send that token, the amount, and the destination address to the secure wallet server, which would validate the token and the amount and then sign a transaction to send the coins to the destination address. A compromise of the front-end systems would expose, at most, the balances of those accounts which were active at the time.For even better security, you could require the login credentials to be re-entered for each withdrawal (limiting the exposure to those accounts making withdrawals), and/or only allow withdrawal to pre-registered addresses. This last option is more cumbersome, but it also almost completely eliminates the incentive to break in to the front-end systems, leaving only the more hardened secure servers as a worthwhile target. It's not true that the interest can only be paid back with debt, so long as some money remains in circulation. To illustrate, let's say that the community has 20 coins, which are deposited in accounts at the Low-Low Reserve Bank (LLRB). The LLRB then issues a loan of 500 coins to Josef at 50 coins total interest, leaving them with an initial reserve ratio of about 3.8% (20 real coins vs. accounts for 520).Josef buys 100 coins' worth of raw materials from the community (Josef 400 - 550; community 120), and then turns around and sells the finished products for 120 coins (Josef 520 - 550; community 0), applying the difference toward his loan (Josef 500 - 530). The LLRB puts the 20 coins back in circulation, either as new loans, or by purchasing goods from the community (Josef 500 - 530; community 20). Josef buys another 100 coins' worth of raw material (Josef 400 - 530; community 120), sells more finished products for 120 (Josef 520 - 530; community 0), and pays off another 20 coins of his loan with the proceeds (Josef 500 - 510). Repeat until the loan is paid off.It is a theoretical possibility that the bank could make it impossible to pay off the loan by taking all the repaid coins out of circulation, but is that really any different from the much more common case where you are forced to default because you misjudged your operating costs or the effective demand for your product? My mistake. I assumed the points would not be transferable because having an exchange rate between savings points and regular current goes even further toward undermining their argument that the loans are interest-free. How are you not being paid interest if you receive "savings points" for your deposit which you can turn around and sell for ordinary currency? That there is an extra step involved seems like a very minor technicality.There is no rule that says you must go to a bank to get a loan. Credit unions are an example of a deposit and lending institution where the profits go back to the community (or at least the members). Perhaps not. I was responding to the claim in the original comment that the JAK system would encourage saving, presumably above the level of saving which would occur in a more open system permitting normal interest.It was the principal which was being put back into circulation, but no matter. Sure, there's nothing forcing banks to put currency they hold back into circulation, but there's also no point in keeping it unless they plan to use it eventually. So long as there remains some currency in circulation, it is possible to pay off the loan, even if total loans exceed total circulating currency.They wouldn't be able to profitably constrict the supply if they hadn't been permitted to expand it many times over through semi-deceptive deposit and lending practices. That only works because they're effectively stealing from their depositors, regardless of whether you place that theft at the time when they loan out the deposits (anti-fractional-reserve) or when they inevitably default on their obligations during a later bank run (free banking).I left it out because I didn't feel it made any difference to the argument. It's an aspect of the "banks are bad" issue, and has little to do with interest in general.Still, some points regarding the spread between deposit interest and mortgage/credit card interest rates: Checking accounts are pure demand accounts, so any interest you're receiving has to be added to what you would otherwise be paying for the bank's services, which could easily be a couple of percent, particularly if you hold a low balance. Mortgages and other loans also have to factor in the possibility of default and other overhead on top of the plain time-preference interest rate, whereas money in checking and savings accounts is considered extremely "safe". (It doesn't matter how true that really is, so long as people believe it to be true.)There is also the fact that if you're a large organization in need of some money these days, you ask the government for it, since they're handing it out practically for free. Ergo, there isn't much demand for private loans. Individuals have to go through intermediaries, who are naturally going to take their own cut. The savings points aren't free; they're the payment (i.e. interest) you receive for leaving your savings on deposit. Because they're restricted to buying and selling loans, they're disconnected from the rest of the economy, which limits their usefulness as a measure of the time demand for money relative to other goods. The requirement that interest on loans can only be paid in the form of non-transferable points received from previous deposits unnecessarily limits access to currency where and when it is needed.Encouraging (over)saving and "an interest-free economy" are not positive outcomes. Interest plays a vital role in regulating the balance between present and future consumption. Eliminating it (which the JAK system does not do, despite the claims) would be tantamount to saying that there is no reason to ever save; if money saved is of equal or lesser worth as money spent, you might as well spend the money now and receive instant gratification. Incentivising (over)saving errs the opposite way; there is a balance point where the sum of present value from immediate consumption and present expected value from future consumption is maximized. Deviating from this balance by over-saving is just as bad in terms of wealth/quality-of-life as deviating through over-consumption.Neither is it necessary to create more currency to pay interest in the same currency as the principal. Once you've paid the principal back, that money reenters circulation and thus becomes available to pay the interest.The slight-of-hand is in the pretense that their customers are not receiving interest on their deposits, nor paying interest to take out loans. The interest may be in the form of "savings points" rather than a more marketable currency, but it is no less real for that. The problem is the conflation of "demand accounts" (e.g. checking), where the depositor is led to expect that the money deposited with the bank will be available for immediate use on request, and "time accounts" (e.g. CDs), where withdrawal before the maturity date is subject to the bank's discretion. Savings accounts fall somewhere in between, but on the whole are closer to checking accounts than CDs.With a time deposit you are explicitly making a loan to the bank, accepting the temporary loss of use and risk of default in exchange for interest. Few libertarians seem to have a problem with this arrangement. The problem is with interest-bearing demand accounts, where the depositor has a reasonable expectation that the deposits are really his/hers, not the bank's, and yet the only way the account can earn interest (profitably) is for the bank to lend the money out to others.It's true that Jon and Josef control the coins, and Bill does not; however, it is not clear that Bill really intended to invest the coins (and risk illiquidity and default) rather than merely deposit them for safe-keeping, whatever the bank's fine print may say. Based on Bill's understanding of the arrangement, he still owns the original 20 coins. When he considers the amount he is willing to spend, he is going to base that on having 20 coins, not just the two held in reserve. There may only be 20 real coins, but when you add up what people believe they have, you find that economic calculation is based on there being 28--right up until Bill tries to withdraw his 20 coins and finds he really only has two.The difference between the written terms permitting the bank to refuse withdrawal for lack of reserves and the common understanding that one's money in a checking or savings account is available on demand can arguably be considered a case for fraud on the part of the bank, though there is certainly blame enough to go around.Anyway, that's the argument as I understand it. I'm more of a free-banker myself, though I do feel that a low reserve ratio would be impractical given free competition in banking; any bank with lower-than-average reserves for its demand accounts would be the subject of targeted bank runs initiated by its competitors. The JAK system seems to be little more than thinly-disguised slight-of-hand. All they really did was force the interest paid/received to be in a different currency ("saving points") than the principle. It's still a form of interest. This is similar to the case where someone is executed for a capital crime which they were believed to have committed, but as it later turns out did not actually commit. The death is deliberate, but not an act of aggression, because it was believed to be in self-defense at the time. "Voluntary manslaughter" would seem to be an appropriate label. Man A would be liable for "making the victim whole" (paying restitution to Man B's estate), but not subject to retribution so long as that obligation is met in good faith.    The last part, Man A shooting Man B in presumed self-defense, is merely situation 1, with the shot from Man C playing the part of the "explosion ... of unknown origin". That Man C was acting in defense of Man B is irrelevant unless there was an agent/principal relationship in effect between them (e.g. if Man C was Man B's bodyguard, or otherwise acting under orders). Without such a relationship, Man C was acting on his own authority, and cannot claim to be acting defensively as he was not the one threatened. Since the shot missed, there is no harm to Man A requiring restitution; however, since it was both deliberate and non-defensive, Man A would have a claim to retribution based on Man C's intent in firing the shot.On the other hand, if Man C was acting as Man B's agent (under orders), then liability for restitution would lie with Man B should it later prove that Man A posed no danger to him. (The scenario presumes that Man C believes Man B to be in danger; if that were not the case, then acting "under orders" would not shield Man C from direct liability for his actions, which he knew to be aggressive.)    Man A shooting Man B in presumed self-defense is, once again, the same as situation 1. Since the first shot missed, there was no harm done to Man A for which restitution might be sought from Man C. However, Man A would have a claim to retribution against Man C based on his intent. Man C may also be in breach of his contract to Man B, depending on the specific nature of the contract. The whole point is that current societies are neither peaceful nor stable. The law is in constant flux, riddled with special cases and loopholes, and driven by political expediency and the whims of special-interest groups. Aggression of all forms--theft, fraud, assault, wrongful imprisonment, even murder--is not only widespread, but systemic.Government is force. That is its defining characteristic. If it did not practice aggression it would not be a government. There is no such thing as a peaceful society which endorses the use of force against non-aggressors. It may prove impossible in practice to have a peaceful society in the absence of government, but one thing is for sure: you will never have a peaceful society with government. The reason bitcoins are so hard to classify is that they simply don't exist. They are not physical objects, locations, or data, or even legal obligations, like contracts.The only thing which actually exists is a distributed ledger with entries along the lines of "X bitcoins are now controlled by the private key identified by address Y". These "bitcoins" are merely placeholders, however. They could stand for anything--dollars, cars, ounces of gold, acres of land. In practice they're just abstract units which can only be defined in terms of themselves.You might as well try to determine the legal classification of the number one. You're right in that I do favor the contract approach. The main difference is that breach of contract is a civil matter, between the owner of the theatre and the patron/prankster. As such, the prankster voluntarily agreed to pay the compensation beforehand; the question of justification does not arise. There is no violence involved, only the voluntary exchange of alienable property. It seems to me that an arbitrarily high contractual penalty, plus non-violent responses such as social ostracism, should prove a sufficient deterrent against these sorts of pranks.I would argue against the idea that "yelling fire in a crowded theatre" can result in deaths. Even assuming that people have the right to assume the trust of such a statement, and hold the speaker accountable for the cost should it prove false, responsibility for the harm lies with those who caused the injuries. Fire or no fire, if people are injured during the rush to exit the building, they have the right to seek compensation, but only from those who injured them. The people who caused the injuries can't really transfer the blame onto the one who shouted "Fire!", as the injuries would be their fault even if the fire had been real. The fact that it was a prank changes nothing. I'm sorry you feel that way. Perhaps someone else will respond more constructively.I think we can at least agree that the real victims are those who were injured in the rush to escape the "fire". I never said that they were responsible; I said that those who injured them were responsible. Even if they were acting on accurate information--if there really was a fire--they would still be responsible for causing those injuries. Panic is not an excuse.The worst offense the one who shouted "Fire!" is guilty of is deliberately providing false information. Everything which comes after that point is due to the choices of others, and thus their responsibility. They could have chosen to ignore the warning, or check for an actual fire, or at least exit the theatre in an orderly manner. Instead, some of them panicked and trampled others in their rush to escape. Sorry - you have no idea what "freedom of speech" means if you think that you can retain it while simultaneously being under threat of punishment simply for speaking.There is no sense in which it is meaningful to say that you are free to do something while also arguing that the action justifies a violent response. Under that interpretation, you have unlimited "freedom" even if you're living under the most oppressive totalitarian regime imaginable--you can do whatever you want, you just have to accept the consequences. That would make "freedom" a null concept. No, freedom of speech means that you are free to speak; i.e., speech alone is never a justification for punishment.The "fire in a crowded theatre" ruling is a particularly bad example. The responsible parties in that case are the ones who trampled others in their haste to escape, not whoever yelled "Fire!", whether or not there really was one. Ruling that the (presumed) prankster is responsible for others' actions is pure laziness on the part of the court, allowing them to punish the one person they could identify rather than actually hunt down those directly responsible for the harm.Semantics aside, the real question remains: how can you justify violence as a proportional response to speech? No, what I am saying is that ordering a killing does not justify actual killing in response. The topic of "forbidding" never came up.That depends on the form of the retaliation. If the intended victim orders a reciprocal killing, this would be a proportional, defensive response. As such, they would be in a superior moral position, assuming one considers mere organization of a killing to be aggression in the first place. If they retaliate by personally killing whoever ordered their death, however, that would be a disproportionate response, and thus an inferior moral position.Those who chose to accept either order would be morally equivalent; neither could claim to be acting defensively.I'm not saying that you can't respond preemptively to an intended action. In this situation the speech can be taken as a declaration of imminent intent to shoot you; however, you're responding to the shooting, not the speech. It would be a different matter if he said "give me $200 or I'll hire someone to shoot you".On the contrary, that's pretty much exactly what it means: that speech, per se, has no legal consequences. (There may be other, extra-legal, non-violent consequences, but they are not relevant here.) Intent can have legal consequences, and certain speech can be taken as evidence of intent, but that's not the same as being punished purely for the content of the speech. I disagree. If they "organized" it, but didn't actually commit the murder, then any violent response is proportional only to an action (actual murder, not just offering money to someone else to commit murder) which the target of the response never took. Naturally, if you chose to "organize" a murder of your own in response it would be governed by the same rules, so you are free to respond in kind. However, anyone who chooses to accept your hit job would be acting just as aggressively as whoever chose to accept theirs; they could not claim self-defense, even as your agent, any more than the first party's hit man could shift the blame onto his employer. Even if you consider this "conspiracy" or "incitement" and/or a form of aggression, there is still the principle of proportional response to consider. How would one defend the claim that violence, of any sort, is a proportional response to a spoken statement, however threatening?Threats matter when it comes to contracts because contracts agreed to under duress are void. They also matter when it comes to self-defense, as one consideration in determining whether there is an imminent risk of irreversible harm. Outside of those domains, only deliberate harm can justify a violent response, because only then is a violent response proportional to the offense. How is that any different from using a single key, and withholding it until he delivers? Half a key won't help him very much if you decide to back out.It may be possible to combine an assurance contract (https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Contracts#Example_3:_Assurance_contracts) with an M-of-N key scheme such that the payment is made when a majority of representatives agrees that the politician has delivered. That would be safer from the politician's point-of-view, while still leaving his supporters a measure of control.
