My favorite exchange: https://steem-engine.com/ I know.  Frankly, I don't know why "they" bothered.  It's not like anyone can find "them," right? That's the message you get when your claim has been submitted, whether or not your balance ever reaches you. I doubt it.  But the MyBitcoin database now has the wrong balance for my account, of course.  Grr. Ok, this is partly UI trouble, but it's blocking my claim now, permanently.  Yes, I'm aware that MyBitcoin originally truncated the password, this is not the root cause of my problem at the moment.  Before the claim, when I re-installed 1Password after the Mac OS X Lion update, the default behavior is to auto submit the form after filling in the username and password.Basically, I had 1Password fill in the claim form authentication.  But it automatically submitted the form right away.  Right before it submitted, it filled in my username as the claim address.  Now it says my balance is zero. MacBook Pro (6,2 NVIDIA GeForce GT 330M), Snow Leopard, -f 1 -w 647845 khash/s http://inertia.posterous.com/bitcoin-mining-cartels-a-total-non-threat http://blockexplorer.com/address/1N9vKDweKCF9Yibapky7UmqRJ8PKgnvM2s Hey, jiffy, did you install ibdb4.8++-dev before trying to compile on Ubuntu 10.10? I think the MyBitcoin address problem will be solved.  As I mentioned, I gave MyBitcoin more details.  His reply: I have the same problem using a MyBitcoin address.  I reported a problem to them, and got this reply:So I got more specific with them and sent the block explorer info, the amount I was expecting, as well as the address that should have the credit.  I'll report back what they say. So if enough people switch to the new client, could that theoretically increase the capacity of the server due to fewer TCP connections? Ok, I think I see the address I might have used for testing a while back.  Wow, this pool really does remember everyone who contributes.  The pool mining service just happens to run on the same machine.  But the payment address did not come from the client in question.And besides, I wouldn't expect the pool mining service to cause any "Generated" message in anyone's client.  Wouldn't it just come in as a regular payment?Is there a keyword I should look for in Bitcoin.app debug.log file? It's been a long time since I've generated any bitcoins on my Mac, and that's one thing.  I understand it has to do with difficulty index and popularity.  Stuff like that.But I don't know what to make of this:http://cl.ly/0p3e1G083o2k2d3Y0z3UI'm on Bitcoin 0.3.17 (Mac). @FairUser asked a very good question and I'm glad he did.  It took me a few days to discern the rules by observation.  Since this is totally experimental, not to mention donation driven, I wanted to just watch and learn.  I really appreciate all the effort @doublec put into this, to just let us pound away at this.  Ok!  Everybody back in the pool!   http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YV-3wV7gfo8 For the CUDA miner arguments, I can see what -gpu=X values might be as well as -aggression=X, and perhaps -gputhreads=X is obvious.  But what would go in -gpugrid=X? That is the problem.  He didn't have the developer drivers.  Now it's working.  I'm getting ~5600 khash/s.  He's getting ~2700 khash/s.
