History is not on your side. There was a stable supply of money once in the form of gold and silver but from about the 16th century onwards people picked an expansionary one - this was not forced on them. The first formalised  bills of exchange preceded the formation of central banks by somewhere in the region of 200 years.I guess we will see in time - though in actual fact while people are also using other possibly expansionary monies this grand austrian experiment will be somewhat corrupted in terms of experimental purity. if you presume that price deflation is OK and monetary deflation is bad, presumably you'd also hold that monetary inflation is bad and price inflation is OK? the answers to your questions should be in the FAQ at ripplepay.com or one of the other ripple sites. The routing is explained in quite som edetail, but I haven't got the link right to hand just now.. a bubble is a bubble. bubbling money will soon destroy itself the same way bubbling assets come to a sticky end.P2P credit, cryptocurrency and so on are supposed to be decentralising forces that act to dampen bubbles in money or assets, which is why it is always a shame to see these initiatives corrupted by bubble-thinking.the idea of perpetually divisible, deflating bitcoins is bubble thinking - being the polar oppositie of the recent bubbles doesn't alter that. [Edit: the hard coded coin limit embedded in the bitcoin concept is a clear example of centralisation. The centralisation is determined by fiat at the beginning and then embedded into the code] why? all fixed quantity money schemes must be deflationary by definition under conditions of economic growth."The correct view is that the free market should determine the amount of money that is available."I agree. Which is why money can't and won't be shackled to any given commodity, whether bitcoins or gold or seashells.price deflation and monetary deflation are equivalent when viewed from the point of view of the scales that weigh money against everything else, which is all that most people care about. The same applies to monetary inflation and price inflation.suggester is correct when he describes a deflating money supply as a bubble - its a bubble in money. Likewise inflation is a bubble in assets. A bubble is a bubble.The narrative that suggests that if you cause the scales to tilt full swing in one particular direction or another then everything will be well is a delusion whether it is peddled by austrians or keynsians.That much should be obvious to anyone except an austrian or keynsian fanatic. Some Mouse, I'm inclined to agree.Decentralised credit clearing is however fundamental to a free private money system - and I think bitcoin makes some useful progress towards this goal, if not the final word.Are you familiar with the ripplepay concept? the inflation/deflation and hoarding vs spending and austrian vs keynsian debate is eternal and to be honest rather tedious. in simple terms, consider a set of scales. on one side is money and on the other is everything else.now to those who prefer perpetually deflation currency: you get thisand for the keynesians: thisnote that for the last two I could swap the pictures and you would still not be able to tell the difference between a monetary system that 'targets' deflation and one that 'targets' inflation. Both are unbalanced and both are as wrong as the other.unless both the quantity and circulation of money is in balance with the real economy it will end badly. the unbalanced scale views of money whether keynsian or austrian are both simply products of extreme ideology both of which are incompatible with what people actually need and want from their money.in the end money is only used to settle debts so fundamentally debt/credit is what needs to be balanced and the means of clearing between them (money) is a means to an end (balanced clearance of debts and somothing of deferred consumption), not an end in itself. So I suggest focus on debt dynamics first (e.g. ripplepay) and then determine what form(s) of money help lubricate that clearing process. .. and presumably, value also comes  from the privacy aspect. privacy, security and simple realiable automated transactions - what you'd expect from a crypto currency! hopefully!I think bitcoin is pretty cool, and my issue is mainly as to the exact nature of the value proposition it provides. That it provides value, I have no doubt, the question is where.that's the rub for me. A bitcoin has no value in itself that I can see. I wouldn't want to own them for themselves, and judging by the level of debate neither do many others. What it can do though, if a bitcoin can be redeemed later for a little bit of gold, is to allow transactions in gold (or whatever) to be cleared between two parties without the need to contact the clearing house. So I would like to be able to take my bitcoins and at some later date be able to exchange them for a previously agreed quantity of gold or dollars.Bitcoins give us a non centralised double-spend database that is maintained by the community. That does raise for me some issues of how these people would be comensated for their CPU cycles if they are not actually minting the coins tho... gold declined as a currency because there wasn't enough of it, so credit was invented, and then fiat.if bitcoins are made artificially scarce they will suffer the same fate - people will use something else.what is more valuable, an random encrypted number or a someone's promise to pay you, which is legally enforceable in court? that is the 'money as a veil over barter' theory.actually looking at the history money has always been an item desired for itself. gold because of the human magpie instinct, and fiat because you can use it to make the taxman leave you alone.are there any instances in which an abstract number has ever been used as money? quite. the relevant graph is total gdp, not gdp per capita. And of course the graph of that tells a very different story: ah, my mistake. I should have said. I don't think you can create money by twiddling numbers in mysterious ways.Otherwise the geniuses who invented CDOs etc would have made the planet rich by now. has it? I don't think so.Do you have some data to support the above? I have never believed and never will (until proved wrong by reality) that you can create actual value by bit-twiddling numbers in mysterious ways. But what bitcoin style twiddling does offer, and what you can do, I think is to implement decentralised clearing houses for some other substance of actual value.that capability is worth its weight in gold  , though I guess it too may prove impossible at the margin (hope not though)  The FAQ talks about how some coin recipents may want to wait long enough for "a few blocks to be verified' before accepting the coins.Can anyone enlighten me what sort of time frame we are talking about here? millseconds, seconds, minutes? The FAQ didn't quantify this from what I could see.its seems a rather vital attribute to me, when thinking about the competition with traditional POS technology.Thanks. the same argument is applied to the infinite divisibility of gold. considering that, you would presumably hold that at some point in the future it would be reasonable to swap a car for a microgram of gold?historically gold has always bene valued in the region of 300 loaves of bread. Thats about the value we humans have always attached to the shiny yellow stuff for 6000 years. To posit that 300,000 loaves of bread would be a reasonable exchange rate for gold - has no basis in reality.items are not given value by scarcity alone. Everything is scarce to some degree. consider that parties A and B wish to transact but neither has bitcoin or gold, because they are too scarce. The free market has a habit of inventing money where it is needed so parties A and B are likely to use ruthenium/myCoin if the latter are available and the BC/gold are not.Why would they wait to aquire BC/gold?ever deflating BC will not work because the deflation implies a very high real rate of interest. because most business is conducted on a credit basis (e.g. delivery of goods preceeds payment), this makes the currency untennable  because of the usurious rates of real interest.assuming the two parties A and B are traders who value the ability to exchange more than the asset used to clear their transaction, then they won't be disposed to use a deflating currency since its skews the relationship too far towards the seller. if BC are successful under the current model then they will become more scarce. Therefore there will be an incentive to make up the shortfall of BC liquidity, and people will do it. There will be no appreciable difference at all between bitcoin and another cryptocurrency denomination.at the limit then, cryptocurrency by itself will not be limited by scarcity for this reason. it seems to me that the value of cryptocurrency is to confer a peer-to-peer, offline payment clearing capability on mainstream currency. SO I could generate say 21,000,000 cryptocoins (cc) of a particular denomination and sell them for $21,000,000. I put the $ in a safe place and then people can clear their $debts securely using the cc. Then when someone wants their $ back, they redeem their cc at a later date. you could take the same approach with gold, or anything else.if people want more CC than I have, then I can mint one new CC per new $ that wants to buy CC. If there is an excess of CC over demand, the unused CC (that are not backed by $ in the safe) are simply kept out of circulation until the $ demand for them arises.
