There is more to it than not paying.  For Netflix, they are missing out on the market segment that can't run Microsoft Silverlight, namely users who only have linux desktop (although I am able to watch netflix just fine with a special wine emulator hack...on ubuntu: sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ehoover/compholio && sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install netflix-desktop). Apparently, all the major premium video content producers require strong protections on the video stream. Currently Netflix uses Microsoft silverlight browser plugin.  They don't want people copying the raw contents of the compressed video stream (of course you can always screencapure the raw frames of an entire video, but in order to redistriubte the video contents on a torrent for example, it would have to be recompressed so it can download in any reasonable amount of time, which would of course produce many undesirable artifcats.) http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/04/netflix-coming-to-html5-just-as-soon-as-the-drm-ducks-are-in-a-row/What do bitcoiners think?  It's DRM, but the fact that the EME is an open API is reassuring (they do say most or all CDMs are likely to be proprietary, unmodifiable code).  It would be great for bitcoiners to sell selective protective access to video/audio and other media content to be easily viewed through a browser in exchange for bitcoin... Finally someone gets it! A small room somewhere safe, preferably near the village where the jazz clubs are. I suppose someone that either has a lot of bitcoin or a lot of USD on mt gox could easily influence this result by swaying to the exchange rate to one side or the other... 2013-04-14 "The Joy of Tech" (Comic) "Champ at the Bitcoin"https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=176649.0 http://tapastic.com/episode/3686I don't know if this belongs in "Press Hits", but I don't know where else to put it. Here's what Eric Schmidt says: http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/04/google-head-worried-about-privacy-risk-posed-by-civilian-drones/But what do my fellow bitcoiners think on the matter? paypal's micro-exchange rate is 5 cents + %5, so that's 10 cents for a 1 dollar transaction.  But if I do a 1-dollar bitcoin transaction and if the transition fee is .0010, then that is worse than the 10-cent paypal fee when the exchange rate is >100 USD/BTC.  Transaction fees for these micro-transactions really need to be significantly lower (like no more than a cent for a dollar) if bitcoin is going to be a competitive micro-payment solution, such as for instant music downloads for $1 in BTC. Here is an article that argues that it is really wireless & 4G networks that energy-concious people should be concerned about, not bitcoin or datacenters: http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/04/12/what-bitcoin-teaches-us-about-the-internets-energy-use/ (and the corresponding post I just made on the bitcoin forums: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=175429 2013-0412 WashingtonPost.com - What Bitcoin teaches us about the Internets energy usehttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=175429.0 http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/04/12/what-bitcoin-teaches-us-about-the-internets-energy-use/Later makes the point that it is really wireless and 4G networks that consume the bulk of energy costs, not datacenters or bitcoin, citing: http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2013/04/cell-networks-are-energy-hogs/274961/ Sweet!!!I'd like to know of places to stay in nyc that accept bitcoin. Actually I do send the *ok* confirmation when blockchain.info sends a callback with 0 confirmations, but still take 1-10minutes (I see this in the log).  Same if I go though the shared wallet (which is protected against doublespending at 0 confirmations).  I have the browser's page be redirected to a page ready2download.php that refreshes every 10 seconds until this 0th confirmation is received, at which point that page turns into an file download. I'm interested in such a script...  How does it work?  What interface does it use to detect transactions?  How long is the delay between sending money and initiating the download? I'm interested in instant download...but I notice yours doesn't work right now.I'm trying to implement the same thin using blockchain.info websockets api to get notification when transaction occurs.  I currently have it set up to download file after 1-10min delay to get in block chain...you can try example here: http://efjz.in/?d=test.mp3If anyone has ideas, please let me know. Here is my band website: http://livingtrio.com Here is our latest studio album: http://artists.behiprecords.com/LivingSpace/NarrativesVol1/Here are links to flac recordings of ~30-40 minute live shows that you can download for between ~.002 to ~.003 BTC:http://efjz.in/?d=20130212_smiths_livingspacetrio_withoteil.flachttp://efjz.in/?d=20130304_theearl_livingspacetrio.flachttp://efjz.in/?d=20130330_elliottst_livingspacetrio.flachttp://efjz.in/?d=20130404_flatshoals_livingspacetrio.flacI used blockchain.info shared wallet as an intermediary to protect your anonymity, but it takes between 1 to 10 minutes to download.  Try this test link if you want to make sure the code works: http://efjz.in/?d=test.mp3 I am actually trying to implement instant downloads also.  I have investiaged many options, and I beleive the best and freest way involves opening up a websocket to blockchain.info via their api (http://blockchain.info/api/api_websocket) and tell it to listen for notifications for whenever there is a transaction to your address.  Then it is just a matter of providing a secret download link for a particular ip addresses or account.  But again I'm still trying to implement this, so please let me know if you have any ideas or luck.Currently I am using the blockchain.info Receive API (http://blockchain.info/api/api_receive) but it takes like 10 minutes for blockchain to send confirmation.  I modified their example program...You can try my test link: http://efjz.in/?d=test.mp3 http://www.marketwatch.com/story/what-can-you-buy-with-bitcoins-2013-04-06
I fixed the title...sorry I didn't know the policy.  I've disconnected from bitcoin forums for 1.5 years. I downloaded the lastest code and was able to compile and run on both my x86-64 machine and my Raspberry PI arm marchine.  However, when I try running netsync, both machines fail and say all the ip addresses are unrechable:Regular bitcoin client works fine on my x86-64 machine, so I don't think my router blocking ports could be the problem.  Any ideas?(I am wanting to turn my PI into a lightweight pay-to-download fileserver...so any suggestions are helpful.  I'd want to set it up so people can download a file after their bitcoin transaction gets a couple confirmations.) haha!!!  Hey good to hear from you...I had voluntarily disconnected from bitcoin forums for a year and a half!yeah...I've been very frustrated with all the news attention recently...so many incorrect facts by writers who don't fully understand bitcoin technical details, or just plain biases in reporting. http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-04-05/bitcoin-really-is-an-existential-threat-to-the-modern-liberal-state.html Trying to survive and do shady black market bitcoin transactions without getting caught, I guess...  Just another entry in the stupid criminal database, lol. usually the customization is simply just extra ceramic radiation protecting packaging around the chips, and fabricated the chips at a much lower and more stabale process.  And the redundacy isusually just standard triple-modular redundacy with voting.   Lol!  Yeah, of course.  I forgot we live in a democracy where we are the government and there fore simply owe it to ourselves, right? I was partially writing that just for the lolz, but I admittably don't know all the intricanncies and particularities of copyright law. Don't talk to the police.  They will try to get you to talk, but remember that police can legally lie all they want and they are incentivized to charge you with something to extort money out of you.  It's a business. There is no reason to conclude that just because the government helped fund certain endeavors or because the government grants private monopolies to inventors via patents, that therefore these things would never have been invented without the government. Everybody knows NASA still uses Intel 8086's.  NASA has always and continues to purchase microchips from private companies.  According to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microprocessors#Firsts, microprocessors were first developed by the private companies:  Intel's 4004, Texas Instruments TMS 1000, and Garrett AiResearch's Central Air Data Computer (CADC).  I think you meant to say that computers were brought to us by the government.  While it may be true that many of the initial computers were built with government funding at universities during WWII era, those were huge bulky slow machines.  And there is no reason to conclude that without the government, computers wouldn't be invented.  Computers may have been built later or even earlier, considering that the government wars diverted many resources away from consumer electronics.  Same deal with the internet. Ahh I love state capitalism. Wait, wut? What's the tl;dr summary? Thanks for posting the readme for those of us who are to afraid of self incriminating ourselves by getting our ip logged when downloading the illegal torrent.Yup, the cat is definatelg out of the bag.  In fact, the cat has actually left the room that the bag was in.  The cat has since decided to never enter bags again, for whatever pretense or reason.  Cat + bag do not mix. If parasite a forbidden, then please provide a technically equivalent term.  Free rider, as has been discussed before, doesn't quite cut it.  The humorous atheist cartoonist youtube.com/nonstampcollector has just uploaded a great two-part animated short about Noah and his company loading the ark:http://www.youtube.com/nonstampcollector#p/u/13/j_BzWUuZN5wThere is some really insightful deep stuff at time 7:00 of part 2, quick link here:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XLr5vl-n0Bo#t=07m10sAnyway, watch it yourself... In related news, on July 19, 2011 the open-source programmer dude who tried to release JSTOR journal articles was arrested.
from http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Aaron_Swartz_arrested_and_charged_for_downloading_JSTOR_articles agreed. +1. very bold and inspirational manifesto.Wow...I read that too!  Very interesting read.  The tl;dr summary is: "Copyright is immoral, the academic journal publishing system is obsolete, and forcing people to pay $19 to JSTOR for 80+ year-old public domain journal articles is wrong.  Lobbying the government to release thm will take too long and waste too much resources, so I'm just going to upload my previously downloaded repository of Papers from Philosopical Transactions of the Royal Soceity to piratebay instead."Is it okay to post that entire manifesto text right in here to bitcoin forum.  People may be afraid to visit the piratebay website. I do share some of those concerns, although I do secretly admire them for hacking into corporate servers that may have contained my passwords (of course non are unique) and my credit card info (of course I would have cancelled my card immediately a company I used was one of those compromised).It's complicated.  There are a lot of interesting moral questions.  For instance, is it necessarily immoral to hack into a computer system that isn't secured?  Just like how it's not necessarily illegal to walk into a business if the door is unlocked.But very inspirational pastebin anyway.  You can't trust governments or corporations.  I only trust cryptography. Well, I would have to know what context the term free rider is being used.  For example, if we are talking about someone who happens to be born in, grew up, and is currently living within the boundaries of some geographic region being defended by some security force but is passively not funding that security force, then that could be considered a commensalist relationship, since one entity (the non-payer) may be receiving some benefit while the other entity (the security force) is not necessarily being harmed or benefited.  Supporters of the state might call that person to be a "Free Rider" and for him to be a "Problem".Now, the literal term "Free Rider" actually comes from a situation where someone actively uses a transportation system that allows anyone to ride without paying any fare.  What happens is the buses/roads/subways become crowded and overburdened.  Then the managers of the transportation system can't bring in enough revenue to offset the costs of operation.  In that case (and assuming no other interactions for arguments sake), one entity is benefiting while another entity is incurring additional costs, so this "free rider" might be called a "parasite".  (But note that in this case, it is hard to equate this particular "free rider" with a "parasite" since the transportation system managers agreed and voluntarily permitted him to ride without paying.)Anyway, this all goes back to my original point about the importance of defining terms and how it seems that these debates may essentially be fundamentally about the definition of crucial terms. Not quite.  "Free Rider" is different from "Parasite".  "Free Rider" more closely corresponds to the biological relationship known as "Commensalism":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commensalism ROFL!   OH NO!!!!  Without the government to organize and fund missions, how will we ever be able to go back into space!? at Porc Fest 2011, uploaded to YouTube a few hours ago:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mG5uL4tkvhA You can try to get the two sides of the debate to agree on terminology.  They won't.  But you will discover that terminology itself is the actual debate...  "Parasite" is an entirely legitimate term for the debate.  Each side may level the charge against the other side provided that they are drawing an analogy to biological parasitism to enhance their argument:Wikipedia: Parasitism (Social Offense) He who defines the rules of the debate and the meaning of terms wins. Correct.  Obama has been building up the tyranny of the previous administrations, as all newpresidents do.Protip: newspaper articles and forumn threads typically use titles that will elicit response and commentary. Sure.  However, the risk is that by perpetuating these wrong and dangerous beliefs and passing them off as OK, you increase the likelihood that a child or a non-initiated would come to accept these flawed beliefs as truth.  Then they live their entire life for a lie.Explain.  You mean they would submit to states and/or corporate brands?  So since people would anyway submit to something, it is OK to have them submit to religion?  Why not instead empower these helpless people to controlling their own lives instead so they can resist being controlled by the people who seek to control you?  It doesn't necessarily follow that if there were no religions, then people would still be controlled by something else.Well, the greatest problem, IMHO, is ignorance.  Ignorance is a problem even greater than just religion.  Which is why it is best to focus on dispelling ignorance whenever possible.  That is why it is important to attack religion on internet forums as we are doing here. Who says there is even a need for a collective "identity"?  Of course we may individually desire a personal identity, but why should you be able to force your concept of an identity upon everyone living in your geographic area?Why do you need the concept of "rights"?  Just agree to not aggress against your neighbor, and set up contracts for cases of disputes between shared resources and inevitable interactions.  Hire a private dispute resolution agency for security.Why should people be "citizens"?  While it is one thing to identify yourself as part of a racial/cultural/ethnic group, it is not OK to force people to submit to the taxes and numerous laws enacted by your legislators and enforced by your armed gangs. No.  It can't be decrypted in a few years.  Parts of the key are stably lost over a specified time.  Brute force cracking a 4096 RSA key will take a way much longer time, even assuming generous computer improvements.I don't know why you would want to rencrypt it.  The whole idea of the Vanish Project is to make encrypted data you put on the internet to vanish. The analogy is that you open your safe, but all that is in there is apparently innocuous stuff hiding the real incriminating stuff. +1.  And dont forget, religion is also a product of ignorance.  As science and knowledge improves, religion decreases. For those of you interested in another perspective, I'd suggest reading the book "Education: Free and Compulsory" by Murray Rothbard, available for free (ironically) here:http://mises.org/daily/2226 Yes that is most likely what I would do as well, and that is what julian assange's game theory logic argues as well.
because you want a preferred situation whereby they don't obtain the very important encrypted data and they hopefully give up on torturing you indefinitely.We obviously agree here.No they don't.  They think they got sensitive jpeg out of you and send it to their superiors and mistakenly report that they successfully obtained confidential enemy info.I didn't imply you would be a magical Houdini who can escape any jail given enough time.  But prisoner exchanges happen all times in most wars, according to game theory this is often a rationally preferred decision for both parties.  Admittedly, I have never been tortured and don't have a clue what goes on in government torture camps, but I do know prisoner swaps occur all the time.  Just google prisoner swap or prisoner exchange.    There you go.  Both of you hit the nail on the head.  Little serfs, please stop wasting your time debating on internet forums about deniable encryption.  Get thee back to the farm and produce more resources for you to share with master. Julian Assange explains the game theory logic as to why Rubberhose encryption may protect you from having to reveal data:So no, Rubberhose encryption doesn't guarantee that you won't be tortured infinitely, but for very serious confidential information, it may lead to a preferred situation where the torturers simply give up, and decided to not waste time and resources in trying to extract info from you, considering that the opportunity cost of those expensive and highly skilled torturers could be better spent elsewhere on easier subject.  They will instead just leave you locked up indefinitely and use you as a bargaining chip for prisoner exchange negotiations, as that may be better for them then simply killing you.Anway, Rubberhose isn't the only type of deniable encryption.  There are other methods of deniable encryption which may be better suited.  For instance, you encrypt a jpeg.  Then you cooperate with your tortuers to decrypt that jpeg.  The tortuers are then satisfied at this point.  However, what they don't know is that you actually used stenography to embeded secret encrypted data inside the relatively innocuous jpeg.  According to the wikipedia entry, deniable encryption includes such a scheme I just described in the following bolded section: Casey Anthony free, but in another kind of prisonI prefer ostracism.  Imprisonment is a negative sum game for everyone involved: the criminal, the prison, and the taxpayers. But same with regular encryption.  You can decrypt your bits in question, but your adversary may still claim that there is still something you're hiding... No, but you don't tell them about the existence of the real data. It's very complex.  A lengthy legal analysis on "Self Incrimination and Cryptographic Keys" is available here:http://iq.org/~proff/rubberhose.org/current/src/doc/sergienko.html LOL!I appreciate you correcting me, in any case. Very interesting stuff there.  In particular:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RubberhoseAnd it may protect you from indefinite beatings, as Julian Assange explains:http://iq.org/~proff/rubberhose.org/current/src/doc/beatings.txtIt would be nice to have two different encryption passwords.  The real one decrypts your file into the actual potentially incriminating data, and the fake one decrypts your file into entirely innocent data. Lol.  Guilty as charged. I have been calling them labtops ever since i was a little kid.  I don't consider it a typo.  well that is the point of having the recorder encrypt the video before writing to the micro SD card.  But yeah, with the way the DoJ is going, you will probably be charged with storing child poem by default for having an encrypted file on your dash cam.   Yes.  If you know what you want and how it works, then its great. +1.  Exactly.  Well if you have smartphone with internet, then it is possible to set up.  I wish I had done that.  But it is easy to forget to press "record".  I have actually been wanting to make a simple open-source dash cam.  Something that you don't have to remember to press record and you don't have to worry about it running out of batteries, and it always stores the incomming video to an encrypted micro sd card.  If it is late at night or you have been partying too much, it is very easy to forget to press record before driving home. No.  Basically the key is stored in a global bit-torrent distributed hash table such that different parts of the key are placed in different nodes which gradually drop-in and drop-out of the bit-torrent network.  If all segments of the key are available, then the file can be decrypted, but as bit-torrent users drop-out, sections of the key are lost, and if there are not enough backups, then the file can't be decrypted. +1.  I wish I had a camera installed in my car dashboard recently...  I don't want to talk about it on the internet, though. Yes, but Vanish is it is not meant for stuff you want stored long-term.  Its for stuff that you want to automatically vanish after a certain period of time.  So you put some sensitive stuff on your labtop before you cross the border, but incase you get detained and you are able to stall long enough without being drugged to reveal your passcode, then Vanish would ensure that no one could decrypt that data. Are you familiar with Vanish? http://vanish.cs.washington.edu/Basically you don't have to even press a kill switch.  The encrypted data automatically becomes un-decryptable after a certain amount of time. next time encrypt your seatbelt and use decentralized P2P vehicular transport options...Oops, I forgot that not every problem can be solved by encryption + P2P.  I am reminded of the Satoshi quote in my signature... http://news.cnet.com/8301-31921_3-20078312-281/doj-we-can-force-you-to-decrypt-that-laptopWhat happened to the The Fifth Amendment of TCOTUS which says that "no person...shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself."
Well there was an electronic civil liberties defense organisation EFF which used to accept bitcoin donations but stopped out of fear:https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/06/eff-and-bitcoin Maybe not real coins, but the government does have guns to back up their currency.  Basically you must pay taxes in FRN even if your business only used bitcoins or some other commodity for transactions.  That gives USD some value. This is excellent.  Ill try to integrate it with the opensource php podcast podcastgenerator i use for podcast.ericfontainejazz.com +1.  Don't say.  Just do.  Others will be inspired and join you.  Agorism. Yup, in most jurisdictions.  You are the property of the state. Incorrect.  Voluntary communism is perfectly permissible inside of an anarcho-capitalist society.  Just not the other way around  Suppose Action X is wrong/immoral.Suppose it is okay to use force to prevent activities which are deemed to be wrong/immoral.Suppose Action X uses force.If one subscribes to a moral system that claims that any use of force is wrong,   Then both engaging in Action X and/or using force to prevent Action X is immoral.Else if one subscribes to a moral system that only permits use of force against activities which are deemed to be wrong/immoral,   Then engaging in Action X is immoral, but using force to prevent Action X is morally permissive.Since libertarianism is a moral system that only permits the use of force against activities which are deemed to be wrong/immoral by said philosophy, therefore according to libertarianism, it is permissible to use force against a rapist.  However, according to a philosophy such as extreme passivism that claims all uses of force to be immoral, then it would not be permissible to use force against a rapist.  Q.E.D.Libertarianism != Passivism. Actually Rothbard believes one form of IP is legitimate: copyright.  Rothbard argues that copyright clauses found in the beginning of a publication or book or music album for instance can be considered a contract binding the purchaser of the work from duplicating it.  However Rothbard argues that patents are illegitimate, because they bind 3rd parties who never consented."Patents and Copyright" by Murrary RothbardNow where Rothbard goes wrong is failing to recognize that many times when you purchase or some other way come into contact or obtain a copyrighted work, you may not actually be presented with an explicit copyright contract.  Additionally, copyright contracts can not be enforced upon 3rd parties who came into contact with the copyrighted work voluntarily through the purchaser of a copyrighted work who breached the supposed copyright contract.  Basically that 3rd person can't be held legally liable for duplicating that work since he came about it voluntarily.  Only the person who entered into an explicit copyright contract may be held legally liable.  well im pretty bad at lying, so oh well. Lol!  I just noticed that!  Looks tacky, but im keeping it. Wow, looks like this thread has devolved into the issue of Sweden.Is Sweden a Social Democracy?Is Sweden a small government city-state smaller than most US states?Have the Voters voted for the Social Democratic Party?Is unemployment in Sweden high or low?Is Sweden culturally and racially homogeneous?Is Sweden cultural and racial homogeneity good or bad for the economy?Is Sweden generous to immigrants?Are there a significant number of immigrants in Sweden?What are the attitudes of ordinary Swedes towards immigration?Is Sweden's actual tax rate higher or lower than in US?Is Sweden's economy good or bad?Does Sweden's government actually help make the disadvantaged more Independent and self-sustaining or does it create an entire social class dependent on government welfare?I could go on.  I've been to this thread before...Umm...have you ever checked out something called "Google" or "The Internet"? Making a claim that bitcoin achieves an equal distribution of wealth is a little bit too extreme.  However, I would say that since bitcoin facilitates transactions in a peer-to-peer fashion and allows anonymity and no central authority getting a slice of revenue throughs fees/taxes/inflation, therefore use of bitcoin can promote more equal distributions of wealth than what we currently have with VISA, PayPal, the Federal Reserve, taxation, etc.Here's the deal. It is much more difficult to coerce an armed man.  If some criminal sends a letter each year asking for X% of your income on condition of kidnapping, then that criminal most likely won't walk out alive after attempting to break into your home.  Unfortunately, of course the current democratic government has an aura of legitimacy which enables power hungry psychopaths to use deadly force against innocent non-violent people.  But yeah, provided that every man has a gun ready at all tames and provided that it's considered legitimate to use deadly force to protect yourself from all robbers, then Joe's inexpensive hunting rifle functions effectively enough to nullify the ability of Tom's armored vehicle to make you a slave.  It is very difficult to tax dead people's income.  Cadavers aren't very productive. Well there wouldn't be a centralized authority using violence to enforce the blacklisting.  I'm guessing it would be something like bitcoin.org putting up an alert to block a certain range of questionable ip addresses or if there was a way to identify the questionable blocks then send out a quick patch for miners to voluntarilly install.  Note that you wouldn't need everyone to comply, but instead just enough miners to shift the advantage from the forces of evil to the forces of good.  yeah, great way to lump me in with Red Beard, Johnny Drop, violent Somali maritime extortors, and no to mention those throngs of illegal filesharers.  Thanks a lot. +1.  Can anyone say "paradigm shift"? Yes indeed, especially considering that most of the scientific research labs are optimized for floating point computation, not integer code which is what SHA basing uses.We will have to do the math.  I don't know. Thiago, I had similar concerns when I was a noobie as well.  Most of the answers to your questions are well documented in the bitcoin wiki and faq, or have been answersed extensivly in this forum, which you can easily search the achives for answers.  I will give quick incomplete answers below:The process of mining is essentially verifying the legitimacy of transactions.  The more GPUs mining for bitcoins, then the stronger the legitimate network is, thus making it very difficult for adversaries to overcome the strength of the network by passing off bogus transactions as legitmate.But when a lot of miners "cashes-out", then the bitcoin client will automatically lower the mining difficultly level based on a hard-coded protocol.  Since it will now be easier to mine, then that means that other people, including noobs like yourself, would be incentivized to mine at the easier difficultly level, since the bitcoin payment for solving a block would remain the same (50 BTC/block solved currently).As has been discussed many time, it would be REALLY REALLY difficult and expensive.  At this point, only a huge collusion of powerful governments and corporations would be able to do it.  Keep in mind, there are tons of teenagers out there with free GPU & electricity from their parents who can hash for basically zero cost (to them, not to the parent  ).  Plus all the thousands of businesses out there who deal with bitcoin and thus are incentivized to mine and maintain network security.Yeah, but again...very hard.  And you couldn't reverse all payments, just a few recent ones if you are sucessful.pretty much.  And network bandwidth.Possibly.  They would have to retool all the US government supercomputing research centres in order to mine for bitcoin.  But I almost feel at this point, there is are more legitimate ordinary people mining GPUs that the US government would be incentivized to instead join us legitimate miners! No problem.  Again, I had similar concerns when I was a noob as well.  Anyway you get a gold star in my book for using Ubuntu Linux and for asking simple & clear, but non-trolling questions/concerns. It would be miraculous if you even make it past the initial juror screening, especially with your anti-state beliefs!  I myself was called up for jury duty once, and went through the questioning by both defendants and prosecution, and then for some reason the judge told me I could go.  Then they sent me a little joke of a check for some trivial amount like $15 for wasting my morning time. +1.  Excellent points.  Critics somehow that us anarchists trying to form some sort of utopia.  But in the weakest utilitarian form, all it means to be an anarchist is that you believe that "Private courts/law/security are preferable to monopoly courts/law/security".  Again, it is simply a preference in its weakest utilitarian form of the argument.  (For right now I am ignoring moral arguments about self-ownership).  You don't even have to have a strong belief that anarchy would work or that it would last forever or that an anarcho-capitalist world would come about within the next millennium.  But since I strive for a better world, and since my logic and evidence lends me to believe that anarchy is preferable, therefore I call myself an anarchist and seek to bring it about (by promoting technologies such as bitcoin).+1.  It gets worse under statism, since the state considers the armed boatjacking as a Statutory law - essentially a crime against the state - instead of only a common law offensive crime against the boat owner who momentarily had his boat seized.What this means is that even if the boat owner decided that he did not wish to peruse criminal charges against the boatjacker (for whatever reason...maybe the "victim" realized that based on the circumstances at that moment of crises, that he himself would have done the same thing that his "attacker" just did), then the state can still charge the boatjacker with boatjacking (I'm sorry, I don't know the proper term...if hijacking is stealing airplaines and carjacking is stealing cars, then I'm calling stealing boats to be boatjacking, since maritime hijacking or piracy doesn't quite have that right connotation here).  And you can bet that the state will press charges since the looters could always use some more money from fines and bail bonds. I don't know.  I tend to be a firm believer in Emergent Order.  I usually assume that everyone is a self-interested bastard by default.  But Cooperation is more preferable to Sabotage in most cases, especially with bitcoin.  If the governments and banks cooperate with us, then they can profit from mining legitimately.  That's a positive sum game.  But spending billions of dollars on a ton of AMD GPUs simply so that you can destroy the bitcoin network is a negative sum game.  There is a reason why successful governments like US & China don't tax %100 percent of your income, but rather realize that after about %50 then your people aren't incentivized.  And there are reasons why most Nations and Businesses are not engaging in constant battle sabotage against their competing Nations and Businesses (sure, there is some of this going on, but it is not the major component of expenditure).I suspect that eventually the US government, PayPal, and banks will reluctantly embrace bitcoin.Governments will still be able to tax, even if they can't arbitrarily inflate.  Sure they will have to tighten their fiscal responsibility belt, but they will be benefited by a robust bitcoin economy, and will simply tax visible transactions.  And I suspect they will be using the resources from government supercomputing labs to mine bitcoins by default when they aren't running more valuable experiments. PayPal will start accepting payments with bitcoin as just one of many accepted international currencies the moment they realize that they can make more profit by embracing bitcoin instead of attacking it.  PayPal would rather offer secure online storage of your wallet and insurance against loss from scammer transactions as eBay currently does.  I can image some clever paypal employee submitting a bitcoin proposal which eventually reaches the CEO, who then sells it to the rest of the board and shareholders, and then someone might get a raise. Banks wouldn't completely disappear, but would rather have to refocus on being investment vehicles which facilitate people with long term monetary preferences to loan out their bitcoins to borrowers with short term monetary preferences.  Sure they won't be able to artificially create bitcoins at whim out of thin air, but they would instead form clearing houses with competing banks and try to keep their liabilities as closely matched to their available assets as possible.  The banking sector will be stabilized and return to sanity, not destroyed.Hmm... Yes I forgot about the lulz factor.  The lulz factor totally throws off anyone's refined security analysis model.  Serious, it's true.  Just look at everyone they hacked.  Totally not expecting it.  Totally were prepared for anything but a lulz attack.  (I'm only being 25% sarcastic those last 3 sentences, since it is true that the lulz factor will definitely screw up anyone who's not prepared for a lulz response.  Maybe it will become standard operating procedure for major internet companies to develop a "lulz response protocol" soon  .)  But I do suspect that deep down, lulz security was motivated by something more than just the lulz...
+1.  LOL ROLF!     That slogan should totally be trademarked.    Ahh...the age old question: "Why the hell am I paying taxes to fund these police parasites when they aren't even legally obliged to protect me" Sorry my bad.  I was alluding to some lame Limp Bizkit tune "Nookie" where he raps:As Wikipedia explains:My apologies for reminding people about this song.  I in no way endorse Fred Durst.  In fact I think most of the music from bands like Limp Bizkit are just playing to teenager hormones.  Sorry.But yeah, I did it all for the black and yellow. +1.  On a side note, I have often wondered how much percentage of the population would have to subscribe to private security agencies in order to protect against fledging statists reasserting control.  I estimate 20% would be sufficient. +1   Thanks for sharing that article.  An interesting read.  It's amazing how many corporate types and lawers are completely confused and taken off-balance when they come across the notion of free licenses.As a musician myself, I share many of the sympathies with this artist as well about how copyright and contracts get in the way of art. Just say no.  If you are a juror and the defendant is being charged with a law that you believe is unjust, then you can nullify it by voting not guilty regardless of whether the prosecution has proven its case.http://www.economist.com/blogs/democracyinamerica/2011/06/jury-nullificationSorry, I would normally use facebook to post articles that I like, but I have been off facebook for 6+ months, and all most of my internet friends now exist on forum.bitcoin.org anyway.  But this is totally legit post for "Politics & Society".So what are my fellow bitcoiners' thoughts on Jury Nullification? +1.+1.+1.    You hit the nail on the head, my friend!Actually I wasn't referring to having PayPal allow users to exchange bitcoin for other currencies, but rather have PayPal accept bitcoin as one of their many payment options. Robert Wenzel points out some glaringly obvious flaws in Stephen Metcalf's Slate attack article on libertarianism.  Primarly, Metcalf incorrectly thinks that Nozick is "the philosophical father of libertarianism". Sure, paypal is the big kid on the block right now, but who's to say they won't start accepting bitcoin as one of many international currencies?(Edit: I just added "after 5 years" and "never" as additional poll choices.) But due to Sathoshi's genius clever design, would-be-attackers are instead incentivised to use their resources as legit miners instead, thus increasing the strength of the main block chain. BitCoin is our savior.  Satoshi Nakamoto is a saint. I did it for the black and yellow... Good point.  Time to setup a bounty.  I pledge that I will pay 10 bitcoins to anyone who rescues me/saves my life in a life-or-death situation. Ahh, yes, I see what you are saying.  But I guess if the attacker is using a higher difficulty, then he would need much much more than %50 of computing power since higher difficulties require significantly more hashing resources. One thing that hasn't been mentioned regarding "If an attacker gets more than 50 % of mining power", is that the attacker could double spend coins.umm...Fact: blocks are generated at the same average rate of 1 block every 10 minutes regardless of difficulty.  So it wouldn't be possible for a disconnected attacker network to generate a significantly longer blockchain. +1.I think the killer app will be BandCamp but payment with bitcoins instead of paypal.  Or for that matter, any downloading or filesharing site whereby you don't have to give 35 cents out of your dollar donation to paypal's corporate behemoth. Looks like the topic has already been derailed (I was hesitant to derail it when it first appeared since I didn't want to be that guy), so here goes:I reject the premise of your question.  We don't need elections to begin with.  We don't need to be ruled over. I don't know if the parents have any claim at all on the children.  The parents made a concious decision when creating the child, but the child was not consulted about which parents he/she would be ruled by.  The child was not a contracting party, so he/she should be free to leave. Hence the question of this forum topic: "Why does the Left Fear Libertarianism"?
I was just about to post this.  Looks like the tides are turning over at LRC.  I guess it takes some time to figure it out.  How dare this blogger question the claim made by von Muses that money must arise out of an already existing commodity!? +1.  It is interesting. This is why im hesitant whenever i hear someone advocate that the government become more lean and efficient.  Or maybe both you, myrkul, and smellyBobby are satoshi... +1000 huglop! +1. The state relies on an aura of legitimacy in order to excercise power.See my signature for the classic Satoshi quote on this matter...  But first honest abe will issue a glorious proclamation stating that if Atlas agrees to join abe's gang, then Atlas can keep his slaves. +1.  Wow, that's some deep insight. It seems to me that not voting in 2008 would have been the best choice.  Politicians depend on an aura of legitimacy in order to excercise power.  By refusing to check any boxes next to their names, you are denying them the ability to claim that they received the consent of the governed. Looks pretty cool!    WTF is "The Bitcoin Foundation"?  Last thing I want is some board deciding what is or is not necesarrily the official position of bitcoin.Please folks, start your own forums.    Good point.  Ill have to remember that rule of thumb! "Can shills wrap their tiny brains around decentralised concepts?  Are reporters competent enough to learn that bitcoin isn't beenz or flooz?" Sorry to revive an old thread, but people might be interested in an update on our ps2 hacker friend george holtz (geohot).  After getting legally screwed and settling with Sony, george has now taken a job offering at facebook.  Any thoughts?  It seems to me that the price must have been right, since I don't necessarily consider facebook to be that much friendlier than sony, considering that facebook regularly sues competitors for all sorts of nonesense like trademark infringement.  lmgtfy.com/?q=facebook+sues Anyway, ill be at the Five Spot tonight around 8:20pm tonight (1123 Euclid ave, ATL).  I am always happy to talk about bitcoin, economics, philosophy, politics, the weather, music, etc. so if anyone wants to join me, feel free.  I play in the house band which starts after 9pm, and then there is an open jam. I stand corrected!  Why is it we don't see this quite as often? What does camp bx people mean? +1.  Yeah, it's a double whammy.  And most of the folks in prison haven't done anything that harmed another person orproperty.  Usually it's trivial stuff like drug possesion, etc.  And then for those crimes that do harm another person or property, it would be better if the criminal compensate the victim monetarily or otherwise, instead of forcing the victim to fund the cost of imprisonment.  And for the really bad crimes like murder, etc., I would think it should be up to the victims' next of kin to have what ever from the murder....and this includes capitial punishment, forgiveness, or even long term indentured servitude (but alas, the Constitution forbids indentured servitude and slavery).   oh that's right...you're name is Charlie Sheen... "How I spent a coin with bitcoin (and liked it) - How I bought lunch with bitcoins"http://nymag.com/daily/intel/2011/06/i_spent_a_coin_and_i_liked_it.html I've already had an unofficial bitcoin meetup in atlanta with two other bitcoiners at the Five Spot when I sold two tickets to one of my shows.   Anywhere that is Marta accessable should work for me.
Trade or any other exchange between humans doesn't necessarily have to be denominated in some numerical amount of currency, dont cha know?... Haha!!!  While I personally consider the set of all voluntary human interactions to be the market, I am aware of the smellyBobby type who has a kneejerk reaction to the term because they word associatte with nasty things like exploitation, theft, coercion, hierarchy, bossism, Republicans, etc.  Which is why I just call myself a Voluntaryist instead.   Maybe, but I don't know when.  Bitcoin->decentralized wealth.  With other technologiese and social advances, then just maybe.Reading his wikipedia article...seems like an interesting guy: Good advice.  Time for me to buy myself a 3D printer... Someotherguy is most likely bluffing.  I've been on these fourms long enough to be able to recognize thevfalse bravado.  Obviously compensating for something...possibly low self confidence or self worth. So they make up for that by pretending that they own huge mining GPu clusters, as if that is a genuine contribution to the bitcoin economy.Keep in mind, someotherguy, that it is more difficult to obtain access to GPU device than to just user level access to just user-level CPU cycles since GPU access needs OS permission.  Of course these mining bots will arise, but hopefully the popular use of bitcoin will lead to the public using more secure OSes like Linux. The whole argument that "we all benefit from so-called 'public' roads, therefore we should fund them through violence" is so perverse to begin with.  Assuming no such thing as 'public roads', then that means only those people who use roads or purchase goods/services that used roads would bear the massive costs associated with construction and upkeep of the roads.  So businesses that produce and use goods/services locally would likely be more prevalent in a society without tax-funded roads and highways. Well, actually walmart gets a huge advantage through the use of the tax-funded federal highway system that we all are forced to fund.  It artificially lowers the cost of long-distance transport of goods, thus giving walmart an unfair advantage over your local mom-and-pop store that acquire goods locally.Regarding tarrifs, most of them end up intentionally or unintentionally benefiting the big players. Anarcho-Capitalism/Voluntaryism isn't necessarily opposed to hierarchy.  We are just opposed to coercive hierarchies.  Read any Rothbard?In a sense, I am simply promoting an alternative method to control Justice Dragons.  Build up alternative non-taxable and non-regulatable markets, using tools such as bitcoins.  Learn to control Justice Dragons by forcing them to be subservient to the butte force of the unregulated free market.   Anything by Rothbard is great, for that matter.  He is my ideological hero as well. Indeed, bitcoin is one small part of this test.  By using bitcoin, everyone here is helping us construct a voluntary system in the shell of the coercive money monopoly, whether intentionally or not .  I thank everyone here for their participation and help.  Bitcoin is a crucial piece of infrastructure necessary to build up the voluntary society, as we have been seeking an unregulated peer-to-peer currency for quite some time now, unlike gold which is too heavy and impractical to carry around or exchange over long distances.So thank you, smellyBobby. You're exactly right.  Anarcho-Syndicalism is perfectly permitted to exist within an Anarcho-Capitalist society, but not the other way around.  The anarcho-syndicalists don't even necessarily have to purchase the property in an anarcho-capitalist society provided that they legitimately homesteaded it or otherwise voluntarily obtained ownership of their commune.  But since "Anarcho-Capitialsim" is such a scary word to the uninitiated, I prefer to instead just say "Voluntaryism", since it has a much more positive connotation and doesn't specifically favor one particular economic arrangement over another, provided it is voluntary. [Facepalm] dude,do you even know what Anarcho-Capitalism is and how its propenets claim it operates?  Have you at the minimum looked it up on wikipedia? Dammit!!!  I'm debating in the Noobie forum!  Nooooo!!!    I can't wait for this whole aregument to become irrellvant once the open-source 3D printers and CRC routers mature and become commonplace..."Son, back in the old days before a little kid like you could own a 3D printer, we were all held hostage by evil corporations that deliberately designed their products and toys to fail after a certain amount of time."  Good point! But still try getting over the border during draft time...im sure it would be difficult either way.  So not "protect", but I guess you could say bitcoin "facilitates" draft evasion.Hmm, interesting.  I wasn't aware of that. Does your musician friend *strongly request* that people don't copy the music he creates, or does he *threaten violence* or some sort of legal (including non-government court) action should you copy? I think the point is that there are many ways to extract resources from people without actually taxing the currency via inflation or taxing currency transactions.  If the government has guns & legitimacy, and the people have resources/goods/services/labor, then the government people will find a way to get stuff out of the people.  Case in point: using bitcoin does not protect you in anyway from getting drafted or having to pay property tax on your house.  Also, they can enforce all sorts of their licensure laws to extract fines out of you for your agorist business failing to comply. Maybe I'd like her services.  Maybe not only can she dominate me physically, but she can then dominate my emotionally by advocating to shutdown the Political sub-forum.    Wow.  It gives me such a rush whenever she makes a post that threatens to "crack down" on us anarchists...          I bet she is just a troll, and likes the power and attention gained from pissing on libertarians in public forums.    Don't worry, my friend.  In several years, there will be so much inflation that it wouldn't even be economical for the Fed to waste the cotton and ink to print denominations lower than $10. be careful, the IRS has recently started cracking down on charities...
Don't forget Lysander Spooner, you spoony bard! It's well known that the Federal reserve funds the debt of the US Treasury.  So the Fed is basically funding the entire US military, all the politicians, the CIA, the FBI, etc.  I think it is safe to conclude that the Fed funds terrorism just from that.But yeah...lol!  Since the FRN are used to as methods of payment by drug dealers and mafia organizations, then just like bitcoin being used as payment for SilkRoad, then I guess using that logic, then one can conclude that the Fed funds terrorism and drug sales.   Oppps!!!  I missed that!  Wow...they screwed up there.  Yet another journalist who doesn't bother to fact check.Encrypted wallets need to be by default in future client downloads. Dear Jessy,Bitcoin is open source.  FLOSS.  You can download the source code, retitle it as citizenCoin and modify you client to require the user's Legal Name, SSN, Birthdate, Physical Address, Telephone #, and then have your modified client automatically report all your users' transactions to the IRS and FBI.  I notice that the url citizencoin.org is available.  Please register it in your name, and then you can let people download your modified client, and they can post topics to your politically-monitored forum.Saying that bitcoin has no political/economical view built-in at all is just wrong. It does.  Admittedly, part of the current market value of bitcoin comes from the fact that it is an unregulated alternative to state currency.  If it weren't for the FED, and most importantly the bailouts of 2008/9, then I doubt Satoshi wouldn't have been inspired to code bitcoin.  (in a way, society is better of for the fact that the bailouts happened and inspired Satoshi, since we may have instead had to be lugging around gold&silver if the RonPaul folks got their guy into office.)Realize that us libertarians are have a great traditions and are partly responsible for many great advances in history.  Lao Zi's Taoism philosophy, The Enlightenment, The Magna Carta, Liberalism, The Colonization of The New World, The American Revolution, The Abolitionism Movement, Crytography, Servers, Gnu/Linux, Illegal filesharing, drug trade, etc.  PayPal, for instance, was started by an anarcho-capitalist lunatic Peter Theil who sought to create an unregulated international supercurrency.  He unfortunately failed since he used proprietary software and was bought up by the eBay corporation.  But now that The Great Satoshi has gifted humanity with bitcoin, we have another chance.  Please you may use paypal or USD if you wish.Damn...I may have to make this Satoshi quote my new signature: Yes, there is some very empowering thing about becoming *post-suicidal* if you could call it that.  Basically, then you realize that you can do just about anything.  Become a full-blown agorist.  Don't worry about cops shutting down your business.  Go out and be civilly disobedient.  Go change your name, reinvent yourself, move to a random country, learn their language, and spread the ideas of anti-statism to them.  Take more chances.*Disclaimer: I don't necessarily advocate that you go out and try to get yourself in trouble with the police.  All I'm saying is that now your can raise your risk threshold.  Now you are enabled to do so much more that was previously out of question.  Although as a voluntaryist, I would advise against any acts of violence, needlesstosay.  But there are so many other things that you can now do.But yes, I do enjoy your posts here on bitcoin forum and would definitely miss you're insightful inputs. Ahhhahahaha!!!!  Now I get it!  Took me about 20 seconds thought!  The trick is realizing *what* is always *available*... Haha!!!  Yes, let's bash newbies!  Blame it on the newbies!   But seriously, for some reason I don't think a higher post count would not solve the issue.  Some very clever newbie troll managed to lure me into a debate on the newbie forum which took me all last night (I couldn't tell he genuinely had a misunderstanding of bitcoin which I was trying to correct, or if he was indeed a troll), which didn't end until he reached his 50 post count requirement and graduated.I don't know, I think many of the sarcastic image posts can be constructive.  Humor is often a great method to point out a flaw in reasoning or highlight a mistake.  Now the downright "op is a fagg*t" posts ofcourse don't belong, and those should be reported to the moderator automatically.Hehe!!!  Yes!  We will give the newbie a new hoop to jump through every time they think they are about to graduate!  Let's humiliate them since they are newbies!  Again, it's not their fault, it's just that they are newbies.  I like the idea of forcing the newbie to take a multiple choice test to ensure that they have some basic competency of bitcoin operations before they graduate.  Quesions like, "Assume that I have n GPU miners producing m Mhash's each and consume w Watts each and the exchange rate between USD and bitcoin is x USD/BTC, then what is my expected monthly profit for a month of 24/7 mining?"  Then they would have to look up some bitcoin mining calculator like http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.php to figure out the answer.  Then you get a special certificate next to your name in the forum, so that everyone else knows that you are not an idiot.  Then have other questions that would just take a simple lookup to the bitcoin FAQ to answer correctly.  (No essay  ) I'm just tuning in.  So basically this guy used the same password for all his accounts!!!WOW.This isn't 1992 anymore...I'd like to laugh, HAHA!!!, but the poor guy is in some serious trouble now...But I like to be optimiztic and think of how we make the best out of bad situations.  Maybe he could become a new role model that does "The More You Know" infomercials and have his picture with GOXED on internet billboard ads allover the world, which would say:  "Public Service Announcment: Dear all netizens, don't be like me.  Don't get GOXED.  Please use different passwords for each account.  It isn't 1992 anymore, you know..." If you do it right and know how TOR and bitcoin internals works, then you can remain anonymous.  Knowledge is power.Well, again, if you know what you're doing, you can remain anonymous.  Take a reading of http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tor_(anonymity_network)#Hidden_services:So first off, don't provide any identifying information on your hidden server.  Second, in order to avoid correlation attacks and intersection attacks, I guess you'd have to make sure server is resistant to DDoS attacks so that there is do downtime that can be oberserved, and also I would think that if you also setup your server such that is works as a TOR router in the background when not servicing requests to ensure that there is always a constant stream of TOR traffic flowing along the wires from your government-monitored ISP.  That way there is no way for an adversary to identify your location by monitoring the response to your TOR traffic to some DDoS or other attack indented to cause a break your TOR traffic.  Keep in mind, I'm not an expect on this, so if anyone else can offer advice, I would appreciate it.I'd suppose if the government or your ISP suspects that you might be running a hidden service, they could momentarily disconnect or throttle your internet bandwidth, and then see if they can detect a momentary lapse in service to your hidden service.That and always make sure you are operating with a constant background of TOR packets flowing to/from your physical location to camouflage traffic to your hidden service.  But ultimately, the problem is Silk Road is a centralized hub.  What is needed is a distributed peer-to-peer network marketplace... +1.Aha.  Have you considered the possibility that possibly planned obsolesce for some products is indeed the most effective use of resources?  For instance, cars should be assumed to have some accident after several years, so it is actually a waste of resources to design the engine and machinery to last forever.  Computer parts are most likely to become obsolete after ~5 years, so it is a waste of resources to over engineer the reliability at the expense of lower performance and higher cost.  Now, mind you, if you do want a piece of equipment to last forever, then you will have to pay.  Most of the computer logic that NASA sends out into space is designed with triple modular redundancy such that if one copy of a module fails, there are two other copies.Anyway, just look at all the old stuff you can buy on ebay...some of it is really good.  I have purchased a lot of great but really old saxophones for really cheap off ebay from people who had them sitting in their basement for years.  I fixed them up, and they play just fine.  Sounds like an efficient allocation of resources to me.  But then you also have these crappy student models that are designed to break after 4 or so years, because it turns out most students don't end up playing their instrument for life.Have you considered that maybe because silica and aluminum are so plentiful, it may actually not be worth the resources and labor (depending on the economics of a particular situation) to recycle in some cases? Finally.  It seems like every week since 2008 that Obama announces a new plan to solve the economy. Yay!  Likewise.  And yes, you are correct in that I am heavily influenced by the Austrian tradition.   Ahh yes...those were the days.  I remember when I got to use my 9800gx2 when the first bitcoin GPGPU miner code came out about a year ago.  I was a happy miner back then when the difficulty was much easier.  Yeah, I know that the AMD cards are much better at integer code.  This was a card I got as a freebie from NVIDIA 3 years ago.  Again, if you are experienced and known how to fine tune your hardware and code for optimal hashes/Joule, then I'd say go for it.Basically, that's the thing.  You don't have the cash to buy since you either weren't making enough profit or you have a better opportunity cost for you money.  And you don't have space to put your GPU mining rig.  There is an opportunity cost in terms of the physical space (and possible noise pollution) that it takes up, in addition to your cooling, energy, setup/monitoring labor, and fixed hardware costs.  Bitcoin mining should be profitable for those who know what they are doing (due to market forces), but I'm am just cautioning the Newbies that TANSSAFL.Yes, that is my point.  If you are a PC Gamer who continually buys the latest GPU hardware already and leave your computer on already, then it probably does make economic sense for you.I think you hit the nail on the head here.  There are market forces at work.Yes, that is significant risk.  Try to maintain that profit margin.  I made tons of money early on too, but I realize that the network will be flooded with extreme gamers with idle GPUs and energy-efficient mining specialists that I know to not bother competing.  In fact, I know enough to realize this thread is not worth my time.    Nice talking with everyone!Go figure.   He is a tried and true troll.  Very experienced troll I must say.  And has enough guts to admit he's just trolling to increase his post count.   It's rare to find an honest troll nowadays.   Sgt. Spike, I was directing my comments towards newbies who might be fooled into thinking they can make an easy steady profit by mining.  At the current difficulty level, mining doesn't make sense unless you already have a GPU cluster, since the likelihood of solving a block chain is so high.  I just did a calculation using http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.phpCurrent difficulty: 1379223.42967Mega Hashes / second: 30.0 (that was on my dual-card Nvidia GPGPU I had used previously)Assuming exchange rate of $15 USD/BTC, since that is about where Mt.Gox was before the big hack.Then the average rate of return, assuming you are engaging in pooled mining is:   Coins   Dollarsper Day   ฿0.02   $0.33per Week   ฿0.15   $2.30per Month   ฿0.67   $9.98That $10 average expected revenue per month doesn't justify the energy cost of me leaving my computer on with the GPU running 24/7 at full blast.  Sorry.  Again, maybe if you are experienced and have highly optimized energy efficient equipment, then if may work out for you, but I am advising the newbies focus on using whatever unique skill set or trade that they have and offer goods & services in exchange for bitcoin instead of wasting their money buying a mining rig.  Your economics may be different though, so you may make your own decision. Reality Check: Bitcoins are created at the average rate of 50 bitcoins every ~10 minutes until 2013 (at which point it will only be 25 bitcoins every ~10 minutes) regardless of the number of people mining.  Therefore you are factually wrong when you say that someone should mine in order to create more bitcoins to go around.FYI, Mabsark, it has already been determined that Domokun doesn't understand the internal technical workings of bitcoin and he has admitted to being a troll.  Basically he wrote a long post where he claimed he was 12 years old, only knew about bitcoin for a week, has 20,000+ machines mining coins in South Korea, and had already written a bitcoin virus and an anti-virus!  But there were enough obviously glaring technical misunderstandings in his post that it was clear he didn't understand bitcoin.  He then admitted that he hadn't even read the whitepaper!    I would take most of what he says with a grain of salt and assume he is just trolling for the lolz.  And please don't spend any money for licensing "version 2.1.22 of my AlgoCalc solutions program" because it is obvious now that he hasn't written any version 2.1.21 of AlgoCalc to begin with.   So you hadn't read the whitepaper yet, but managed to write both a virus and an anti-viurs: Yeah...I figured you were just trolling!  But I appreciated the troll.  Good effort.  Exactly, he never wrote a virus...  He just read the whitepaper! Sure you just started writing an anti-virus.    +1. Thank you.  This is the most sane post I have ever read in the Newbie forum.  The market equilibrium profit rate for mining should be close to 0 profit.  Just enough revenue on average to cover the energy, cooling, hardware, and monitoring/setup labor costs plus a small risk premium to account for the uncertainty in mining.  At this point, I strongly advise that Newbies don't waste their time mining unless they are experienced computer hardware specialists.  Instead, please offer goods/services in exchange for bitcoin.  The whole point of bitcoin is that it is designed with the goal that a single person or group can't print currency willy nilly.  +1. Thank you againKeep in mind the current USD bitcoin value is very speculative, and I don't think the current total market value of all bitcoins currently in existence accurately reflects the size of the bitcoin economy.  Please offer goods and services in exchange for bitcoin instead.  Bitcoin is not about mining for the same exact reason that gold is not about mining. No, such a dictionary wouldn't be practical.  The SHA-256 function can use a message input size of numbers anywhere between 1 all the way to 2^64 − 1 bits and produces a digest hash output of size 256 bits.  That is a huge huge possible number of inputs, basically it is ~2^(2^64).  Now of course the size of each block of transactions is currently rarely no bigger than ~64kb.  And, keep in mind that the entire bitcoin network only *publishes* 1 solution every 10 minutes, whereby a *solution* is nothing more than a pair of one number (of a string of 1's &  0's representing all transactions after the previous block) and a nonce such that it's SHA-256 hash is a 256-bit number with a certain number of topmost bits (depending on the current difficulty...currently 53 bits out of 256 bits) equal to 0.  Do you realize how long it would take to fill up, store, or even access an inverted hash table with 2^203 inputs?  And keep in mind these solutions are utterly useless (someone in the forums a few months back mentioned possibly to break cryptographic salt, but I don't see how).  And realize that the network only produces ~6*24*356=52,560 *solutions* every year so I couldn't even begin to fill this huge table.  And please, if you are trying to build a password cracking dictionary, realize that the binary format for a block of transactions looks nothing like the ascii text of passwords (if that is what you are referring to by brute force 'dictionary').tl;dr summary is basically that all those hash cycles spent mining bitcoins all over the world is not producing anything useful other than ensuring bitcoin network security.(edit: I see that other people already pointed out that the bitcoin block solutions are useless, but since it took me so long to write the above, I don't feel like deleting it.  And I apologize for any typing errors, since it is late at night.) Myrkul, I was agreeing with you, just elaborating.  Just like my previous miscommunication with you when I commented about the bitcoin symbol.  Anyway, I'm in the same boat as you...I switched exclusively to Linux and almost exclusively to Free/Libre-Open-Source-Software about a year ago and have never looked back.  Only every once in a while when I use some proprietary software like dropbox or whatever that I have to click "agree".
Sorry my comment unintentionally came across as belittling you, but I actually liked your design myrkul.  Simple and sleek.  I was actually intending to just make fun of this newbie peak for being so late in the game. As I explained as a comment in the topic "Who or what is this math being done for?":To which I replied:I should also mention why it is that us humans have reached this mutually-beneficial agreement with the bitcoin gremlin.  Long ago, there was a great conflict between us humans and the gremlins.  Basically, these gremlins would eat anything, and I mean anything!  This is all explained in an excellent 1984 dramatic theatrical documentary entitled "Gremlins" by Steven Spielberg.  Gremlins are descendents of cute sentient creatures known as Mogwai.  According to the Wikipedia article on Mogwai, there are 3 "rules" for keeping a Mogwai:Unfortunately, one of the humans who obtained a Mogwai failed to follow these rules.  Chaos ensued (i.e. lots of gremlins eating lots of humans' property).  The issue still wasn't resolved even by the next decade as can be shown in the 1990 documentary "Gremlins 2: The New Batch".  As I said before, basically these gremlins would eat anything!  It wasn't until late 2008 when a genius Japanese security researcher called Satoshi Nakamoto figured out a clever solution.  The key was to realize that these gremlins would eat anything.  Satoshi devised a clever mechanism whereby large numbers of humans would be incentivized into running their CPUs and GPUs at maximum utilization rate producing needles strings of 1's and 0's such that their SHA256 hash would have 0's in their most significant bits.  It turns out that these gremlins really like the taste of bit strings that have SHA256 hashes containing 0's for their most significant bits.  Yes, the gremlins like to eat your hash cycles, but they really really love these tasty SHA256 hashes with the 0's at the top.  Furthermore, Satoshi's figured out a way that the humans would be non-coercively incentivized to produce on average one of these so-called "blocks" every 10 minutes.  This was a significant discovery, because that rate just so happened to satisfy the gremlin community's demand rate for these tasty 0-topped SHA256 hashes (although there was some very tough negotiation on behalf of Satoshi representing the humans to reach this amenable agreement).  In return, it turns out that these gremlins excrement something in their feces from eating one of these special 0-topped SHA256 hashes that we all know and love dearly called bitcoins.  Peace & Happiness ensued between the humans and the gremlins.  And thus this concluded the great conflict between humans and gremlins.  If you are curious, this will all be animated in an upcoming documentary entitled "Gremlins 3: The Bitcoin Accord".Anyway, back to your original question of "What is backing bitcoins?", well the answer is that mining for bitcoins is the price society pays for peace and social stability with the gremlins.  Failure to meet the gremlins' appetite will mean utter destruction of most tangible human property and most likely a return to the stone age.  Yes, you could say that mining for bitcoins is the price we pay for civilization.  This is why these bitcoins are valuable to humans, and is why humans will gladly exchange valuable goods, services, and fiat currency for bitcoins. [facepalm].  Wow.  This brings back memories of July 2010 when this thread was started almost a year ago.  People think they're clever by adding a new curve or slash to a "b" or extending a previous design with an extra loop or rotating.  Wow.  That's all I can say. OMG, I don't belive it.  That was a suprizingly balanced non-hypey straight-forward, relatively-factual article.  It's nice for a change!!  Wow.... surprisingly wise and simple advise.  I think people actually will be smarter off after reading this article.    OMG, this is about to turn into one of those threads where each side presents graphs and statistics for the same metric yet somehow manage to directly contradict eachother!  How could it even be possible!!   Yeah!  Double-Wammy.    And it gets worse, since voters and politicians aren't held legally liable for damages caused by their policies. Well the whole premise of voluntaryism/market-anarchism/libertarianism is that disputes should be handled through reason (through contracts & agreements) first, not guns (from legislative fiat).  That's why we like to debate.   EULAs are totally invalid contracts.  There is no "meeting of the minds" whereby two parties come to a mutually-understood agreement.  There is almost zero effort by these big corporations to communicate in plain English what exactly all that legalize BS is saying.  And then they hide some little innocent looking phrase cleverly hidden in the 20 pages of dense text that gives them carte-blance to do whatever they want.  Each party must understand what he/she is agreeing to inorder for there to be a valid contract.  At the minimum, there would need to be some multiple-choice quiz after the end of reading the damn EULA to ensure that I, the user, actually understand what I am agreeing to.  The other glaringly obvious flaw with EULAs is the fact that I don't actually have to sign it until after I have purchased it from the store clerk!    It is hard to say.  I don't think market-anarchists claim to create a perfect world, but rather they simply think that competing peer-to-peer dispute resolution agencies where law arises through a common law-like mechanism is preferable to monopolistic top-down hierarchical legal systems (ala USA) where law is enacted by legislative fiat.  It is strange how people commonly accept that competition areas such as biological evolution, business, sports, etc. will produce desirable outcomes, but, for some reason people have been conditioned to assume that competition in such fundamental areas such as security and law is unfathomable.  Market-anarchists simply extend competition to these essential areas.I actually tend to have the same view.  I am reminded of a David Friedman (anarcho-capitalist son of minarchist economist Milton Friedman) lecture on the related topic of market failure.  His argument is that while market-failure may admittedly exist in a free-market, there is even worse market-failure in the "political-economy" due to the concept of rational ignorance.  The tl;dr summary is basically that both voters, interest groups, lobbyists, and politicians are not exactly incentivized to understand the effects of their policies on the public good.  Each entity in this "political market" is just incentivized to do the "best" thing for themselves, which may not be the best policy for the 300million people making up the public.  He gives a great and entertaining speech just on this topic on youtube: "David Friedman's speech on market failure @ the 2010 Free State Project Liberty Forum : Part 3/7"(update: for those of you who are ambitious readers, please check out Chapter 18 "Market Failure" of David Friedman's book on Price Theory http://www.daviddfriedman.com/Academic/Price_Theory/PThy_Chapter_18/PThy_Chap_18.html where he talks about the market failure of voting under the header "PUBLIC GOODS AND EXTERNALITIES") Dude, it has been almost a month since the last post on May 26, and all you can say is "+1"?    Yeah, it's amazing how many times the small decentralized states of the Nordic region are used as examples of big government.  People forget that folks in the US have to deal with both oppressive state and federal governments.  European citizens don't have to worry about an overarching oppressive federal behemoth EU just yet...Anyway, what is the tl;dr summary of your post, smellyBobby?  I just saw the first bold phrase, "they are held accountable to the collective market known as the electorate", which doesn't even make sense since it is so perverse.  Voting is the opposite of voluntary trade.  Voting is stealing from your neighbors.  Voting is forcing debt onto the unborn future generations.  Voting is coercion. I was referring to the fact that in that case, the polluter may have legitimately homesteaded pollution rights to that neighboring land.  I can't predict what a free market peer-to-peer legal system would rule in this particular example, of course. ZombieRothbard, what a great name!   Yeah, I picked "Anarcho-Capitalist", although honestly Rothbard himself coined that term with tounge-in-cheek, since a free-market voluntary society based on peer-to-peer legal structures with private courts and police isn't really what is historically understood to be "Capitalist" nor "Anarchist". LOL!  Yeah!  It just so happens I did a post on this the other day: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=alreadyhaveapostonthisOh!  And here is another post I did on a related topic: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=anotherpostonarelatedtopic Well now this gets more complicated.  The issue here depends on whether that land next to the factory was previously unowned or not.  Provided that the factory owner was the first one to construct his factory on the unowned land, he may have gained rights to pollute the neighboring land assuming it was legitimately homesteaded. Although I can't think off the top of my head of any form of money that is guaranteed to *never* loose value, I would say that gold and precious metals have proven themselves historically to not loose value over the long run. The word "Socialism" is an "anti-concept" as far as I'm concerned... +1.  Yeah, that is one of the main reasons I became an anarchist.  Too many aspiring politicians out there who think they can implement the perfect system. jon_smark, I just wrote a relatively long post answering some concerns as to how a free market peer-to-peer court/legal system could handle negative externalities such as pollution:http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=17426.msg277907#msg277907Basically, pollution is a form of trespass on your property, and therefore polluters can be sued for legitimate damage to your property. Actually I used to identify as an Anarcho-Capitalist.  But since about 2 years, I have dropped that label.  Now I consider myself a "Pragmatic Agorist/Voluntaryist", since I no longer see capitalistic businesses or social arrangements as necessarily always the best.  I'm perfectly happy with many forms of Voluntary Communism or Syndicalism, provided there is no coercion and all relevant parties consent.
   Yup!  tl;dr...sorry, AyeYo. Back in the old days, it was relatively easy for one to travel between "countries".  No we have all this visa and passport crap to deal with. Babylon makes a good point here.  Indeed, sweatshops would be very rare if not nonexistent in a true free market. Just make a bunch of posts.  How about we start a chat?  What type of bitcoin educational company are you starting exactly? Only in a statist society could you have a government build a nuclear reactor directly on the coast of a highly-population region with a history of earthquakes and tsunamis.  No, the inhabitants were not included in the decision.  An anarcho-capitatlist insurance company would never agree to sign off on the construction of that nuclear reactor since there would be 10's of millions of potential claimants.  Governments like to pretend that they are some benevolent insurance force protecting everyone.  But since there is no legal liability for the government, and since all their money is stolen from the people via taxes in the first place, they continue to engage in such risky behavior.  I don't have to point out all those floods in the mississippi river and new orleans, and all those helpless flood victims being "protected" by the army corps of engineers... The private courts/defense/legal/insurance/dispute-resolution agencies (I've heard various names and various formations).Just recently, my car was involved in a collision.  My insurance company provided me with a list of various collision repair shops which they had selected as meeting their standards for accurate cost estimation of damages.  I then chose one.  Most likely you would see something similar in free-market-landia.  Assuming there would be a large body of past knowledge about the damage done by various pollution factors on various pieces of property and on humans health.  There would be different companies out there who would specialize in measuring and assesing the polution damage.  Your insurance company could then obtain an estimate from them.Assuming there is a large body of scientific study on the effect of the pollution on human health, there experts could estimate the damage done to a human's health based on a certain degree of exposure to the pollutants.  (I guess one issue right now is that we simply don't know the effect of many pollutants on humans).  Depending on which insurance company you subscribe to, they  would have a certain rate of payment based on such factors as the number of years your life would be shortened or other damage to your family's health.  Since your insurance company would have to pay monetary damages to your family due to premature death or damage to your health, your insurance company would be inventivized in measuring and minimizing the damage done to you, and would either forbid you to live near dangerous polluters, or if a dangerous polluter attempted to build a factory near your place, they would pursue legal action against the aggressor company.Eventually, such a peer-to-peer based legal system would reach precise monetary damage rates and threshold, and possibly a universal damage rate and threshold would arise through the emergent order.  Through a large history of legal precedents, a Common Law may emerge.Even if you are a homeless nobody, there will still be a legal claim on damage done to you.  This claim can be "homestead" by any lawyer to take to court and receive damage.  Market-anarchist Roderick Long does a great job explaining this in his "Libertarian Anarchism: Responses to Ten Objections" under objection ( The Rich Will Rule copied below:So under libertarian law, since lawyers can still initiate legal action posthumously representing a homeless nobody, then therefore polluters could still be held legally responsible for damages done to homeless nobodies, and will therefore be incentivized to avoid treading on the nobodies. Hmm...I guess this really depends on whether this is an actual scientifically proven correlation and is measurable.  All I can say is that science and accurate measurement is important.  This issue remains the same for both statist and non-statist societies, though.If food prices go up, then the market will incentivize people to purchase less food and grow more food.  Then will reach a new equilibrium, so problem solved.  Just like what happens when there is a drought or massive disaster in some part of the world today.Hopefully people plan ahead by stocking up on food/emergency supplies and purchasing insurance to handle significant but rare problems that are out of their control.  For instance, once I got into a collision with an uninsured driver.  Fortunately I had enough foresight and included uninsured driver coverage in my insurance plan, so it was not a big deal.No problem.  I used to have these doubts as well.  You just have to realize that people are smart, and if there is a problem that needs to be solved, some entrepreneur will think of a creative way to solve it.  And again, the ideas discussed above are just one possible way to handle such problems.  I don't claim to be able to predict all the massive number of alternatives ways that a libertarian society could handle such problems. In free market landia (where property rights are respected), pollution would be treated as a form of trespass.  Company A will be held legally liable for any damage done to neighboring property owners affected by the pollution.In free market landia, Company A and Company B will be shutdown immediately.  The stock owners and the managers responsible for the pollution will be held legally liable for any damages done.  Therefore they must provide restitution.  If not, then the private defense agencies of the homeowners and other property owners affected by the pollution will collaberate to arrest the managers or otherwise forcibly shut down Company A and Company B.In free market landia, ordinary people will not be forced to use government fiat currencies that are regulated by the FED and banks.  Ordinary people will be able to use bitcoin, a peer-to-peer distributed currencies which makes the entire banking industry obsolete. Congratulations.  I once had self-identified as a "social democrat" as well.  Every time I discover a new convert to "libertarianism" such as yourself, I feel hope for the future of humanity. I subscribing to this thread.  When anyone tries it out, please respond and give feedback. +100.  The EFF used to be very bold.  Just read http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_Frontier_Foundation#History and you will read about how the EFF was formed in response to raids by the FBI and Secret Service upon many of the early great 'hackers' (using the positive connotation of hackers, that is) such as John Perry Barlow.And for those that aren't aware of Operation Sundevil (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operation_Sundevil):So yeah, EFF was taking some pretty bold positions at that time.So we might not have had public access to as much encryption software had it not been for early EFF activism.Now it seems that all EFF does is battle patent and copyright trolls, which is a noble goal and important to the free exchange of information on the internet.  However, that is much more safe than promoting bitcoin.  Anyway, I wouldn't depend on EFF for too much defense of bitcoin users.   I tend to avoid the whole concepts of "rights" all together.  There are only humans, and there are agreements between humans.  Simple. Welcome to the journey, my friend.  Many of us have gone through the same path as you. Makes more sense to just strike the root.  http://strike-the-root.com/How about hiring some private competing Justice Dragons to protect us from neighboring Justice Dragons? http://www.copblock.org/I'm watching the police, army, and government.  Nothing much effect, though.   How about instead of watching these nasty dragons, we simply terminate them? What is the tl;dr summary? And I'm still trying to convince myself whether or not Gavin has or has not or will or will not visit the CIA.    I have no idea where this is going.  Seems like you are going in circles.  I must, reluctantly, assume you are a troll at this point. No.  Neither this nor your original thesis can be proven. This quote always gives me a chuckle, since it completely ignores the possibility that anarchy may indeed be better than democracy. Wrong.  It's entirely relevant, among other issues not mentioned.  Basically the Swedish economy hasn't been drained by the massive costs of war.
Non sequitur. Sorry I only read a few comments in your post.  But it reminds me of an article by the "Center for a Stateless Society" called "Do Sweatshops belong in a Free Market?".  Here is the tl;dr summary (last sentence):So yeah, in a free market without current day barriers to entry (such as immigration/emigration restrictions, licensure laws, ignorance, etc.) then you would most likely see far fewer sweatshops. over 1.5 hours long.  Please, what is the tl;dr summary? And the Swedish haven't been fighting multiple wars half-way across the world since Nixon administration.  And the Swedish are relatively cultural homogeneous.  SO what? +1 +1.  Simple. tl;dr summary: in a free society, two contracting parties may create contracts restricting duplication of information by each of them, however, they may not enforce such contract against non-consenting 3rd parties. So-called "intellectual property" violates real property rights, plain and simple. Wiki-what?  Nevahoidovit. Well, I was thinking of mechanism that uses the so-called "Trusted Computing Module" in your motherboard, or uses a secure key generated by your CPU's unique private key.   Meh is the stage at which we have won.  Once the masses start using bitcoin *without being aware that they are using bitcoin*, then that will be the Meh stage of social acceptance. Maybe each bitcoin client could have a unique code built in to decrypt with by default so that the wallet.dat stays encrypted on the hard drive but users wouldn't need to remember their password if they use their same client. +1.  Agreed.  This should be default. Wow.  Doug Casey is someone I respect and admire his intelligence and humor.  I think Stefan Molyneux said it best: the hacking attempts are simply proof that bitcoin has value, and there are bad guys out there who will steal valuables.  Eventually there will be entrepreneuers out there who will provide multiple levels on encryption to safeguard your valuables.Anyway, I propose that the bitcoin client code be modified to require the user to enter a passphrase that will PGP encrypt the user's wallet.dat by default.  good point!  Good point.  Your computer doesn't have to be connected in order to receive transactions. More unfortunate news:"EFF Loses Confidence in Bitcoin""Bitcoin's Speedy Fall: EFF Halts Donations and Wikileaks Cashes Out" Here's The Inquieter's take on EFF's recent decision: "The EFF loses confidence in Bitcoin" +1.Electronic Frontier Foundation => "Stone-Age" "Safe-Previously-Explored-Land" "Money-Dumper".  Yeah, I had trouble finding antonyms for those words.  Anyway, looks like I'm going to have to peel my EFF bumper sticker off my car.  
Thanks!  I forgot about the tl;dr peeps out there...  I should have highlighted (bold+italics+underline) the one important sentence: Aha...thanks.  I would like to post quotes from that article here to critique them, but I'm afraid CNBC will sue me for copyright violation!!!       Anyway, its laughable how they think that bitcoin could even be regulated. Incorrect...I believe those are two entirely separate videos.  The second one was apparently FUD by the Canadian government and must have contained some copyright violation.    Lol! Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but this just came across my news feed today, June 20th, 2011.https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/06/eff-and-bitcoinI cross posted this post here: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=804.msg254600#msg254600 Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, but this just came across my news feed today, June 20th, 2011.https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/06/eff-and-bitcoin   Awesome!  Nice Reference to Magic! The intrinsic value of bitcoin (if there is such a thing) is that bitcoin is a secure global distributed timestamp network of transactions.  Mining is just an integral part of the security and global coherence system. No...I didn't buy a computer to game and no I didn't purchase mining equipment.Bingo.  Honestly, although I'm a big supporter of bitcoin, I am honestly worried about the economy when I see so many posts from people who assume the only way to get bitcoins is through mining or speculative trade for USD. I can honestly say that I have never exchanged a bitcoin for USD ever.  I am philosophically against buying or selling bitcoins with USD.  I only trade them for goods and services. Have you tried pressing "Report to Moderator"? It depends on what is the scope of the OP's question, "Did gold ever drop to worthless?".  There has never been a global valuation of gold as 0.  There has always been someone somewhere in the world willing to trade their gold with something of value from someone else.  I suppose that for any commodity, currency, or any economic good/service for that matter, there may always be an isolated situation where that thing is worthless.   Wow.  I don't even know how to respond to such an idiotic statement.  I make a claim that gold has never dropped to 0 [during human history].  In those cases such as WWII when gold was banned by certain governments, it still has a value as a store of wealth or in the black market.  Even with chemical breakthroughs, gold still has value as a substitute, although of course it would be worth much less.dn't umm...who is this "we"?  You didn't write the Japan constitution.  Your friends didn't.  I didn't.  Your parents didn't.  I bet that you don't have any real relationship with any of the drafters of the constitution.  Did you even have a choice in the matter?  What were your specific contributions when you helped write the constitution? wow...civil disobedience for the win. Bitcoin does have an initial use value as a distributed time stamp network.  You can see and verify transactions from anywhere i'm the world without accessing a central server.  Also you don't need to store it in a single location like a safe or harddrive, but you can instead encrypt your wallet, upload a copy to dropbox, stick a copy on usb, and keep a daytoday use wallet on your mobile device without having to hire armed guards to protect your stash.Another thing its funny David Kramer cites Rothbards "What has the government done to our money when that book  is really an example of why bitcoin can work as money. Awesome!!!  I can't wait for it to be ready.  I'll donate then. There is actually a whole body of thought on what is known as "Agorism" on how to provide law and security without government:from http://agorism.info/ Ok, so be organized about it.  And pool your money together.False.  Just look at the Linux and all open-source projects out there.  Proves that you don't need IP in order to coordinate expensive development and testing.Not necessarily disappear overnight, but be relegated as just another struggling dead irrelevant dinosaur.That's windows+apple.  Most of those windows are pirated or free versions anyways.  Anyway, everyone still uses open-sources alternatives for most of their daily programs, without even realizing it. THANK YOU!!!  ^^ This is the most succinct and spot on post in this whole thread.  Again, if you are in favor of regulated currencies, then you are at the wrong spot, fellows.  Stick with your PayPals and your Visas and your USDs.  And pay your hefty transactions fees/taxes as you please.  Just leave bitcoin alone. Awesome FTW association of bitcoin with Jesus!
Congratulations on your first bitcoin transaction!  Welcome to the club!     This has been thought about much on these forums and in the past as well:http://lmgtfy.com/?q=free+net => freenetproject.orghttp://lmgtfy.com/?q=tor => torproject.org (see TOR Hidden Service)I2P Anonymous Networketc. google:http://lmgtfy.com/?q=how+do+i+forward+a+port+a+westell+A90-750045-07yields:"The Default Firewalling Guide for the Westell A90-750045-07"which contains:with pictures!You're Welcome.  I derive great pleasure from teaching Noobs how to use google everyday! I just sent .1 BTC to your address.  Keep the cartoons coming!!!  I would donate more, but I am opposed to copyright notices. A. Freeman is spot on here: here you go, noobie:http://lmgtfy.com/?q=how+do+i+forward+a+port Can the government regulate an open-source project? +1.  Very insightful.  Indeed, bitcoin is the plutonic platonic ideal of what money is...correction: I just realized that I just copied abc.net.au misspelling of "platonic"... I haven't updated my client in a while.  I would be very hesitnat from now on when bitcoin.org says "Time for an important security update...please download latest client"   until there is a proper code review of all recent changes. "BT - CLAWER" you may want to insert a strategically placed hyphen in your domain name...Yes, we are aware of this type of stuff.  We are just questioning Garzik's rational for using up precious media time to associate bitcoin with drugs and money laundering, when he could have used the opportunity to point out bitcoin's benefits to society. You should try Compiz, which uses 3D graphics processor effects ontop of your standard X/Xorg to make some really slick desktop effects.  Much cooler than windows.Wow...that is pretty bad:Win7    Vista    Win2003   WinXP   Linux    Mac      Mobile36.5%   7.1%    0.9%    40.7%   5.1%    8.3%    0.8%But looks like linux has been steadly gaining ground...was about 2% in 2003 and is now past 5%. Hello Mr Troll.  Thank your for using our bitcoin support service system.  Our representatives have just dispatched one of our technical support gremlins to your address 19mWPgy6WBA8JzKjTYe5T3mSpz92Lczk6W.  He will arrive momentarily.  Be warned...he will eat anything.  Just remember that gremlins should not eat before midnight.  Or was that after midnight? Government can't be "fixed".  Institutionalized Monopolies on Violence cannot be "reformed".  The armed gangs can't be made more "benevolent".  The politicians can't be made "less corrupt".  Strike the root.  http://strike-the-root.com/ Sorry to hear that you don't exist.  Wait a minute...why am I wasting my time talking to a nobody? A USER!!!  No!  Only us PROGRAMS are allowed here.  We must ostracize and in other ways humiliate the USERS by forcing them into racing speedy death vehicles to entertain us PROGRAMS. +1.  Yes.  I wish these Noob trolls who come in asking to moderate the forums would actually put their money where their mouth is and report trollerific posts.The price of forum cleanliness is eternal vigilance.  Our founding forum members have mutually pledge their Lives, their Fortunes, and their sacred Honor in an effort to bash the invading hordes of NoobTrolls from our bitcoin.org/smf shores.  We will keep the forum open for all to come.  Those who wish to start private dinner clubs may do so at their own will... Practical anarchy FTW.  I like to call myself a "pragmatist" anarchist. Wrong.  You'd be suprised how stupid average joe can be.  Watch this video Mark Dice tries to sell $1100 one ounce gold coin for $50; no takers ... Very excellent books, I must say.  And yes, even if you are pro-IP, you should at-least familiarize yourself with the anti-IP arguments from reading these books before arguing with us. Please elaborate...I don't understand the (positive?) strategic implications of Garzik's statements.+1.
There is nothing inherently wrong with advertising.  It helps to connect producers and consumers.Wrong.  If properly coordinated, consumers can make an impact.  Just imagine if all that positive energy and momentum from Obama's 2008 election campaign was diverted towards a grass roots strategy to choke the business of whatever his supporters are against (I'm guessing polluters and abusive insurance companies?) instead of through supporting a clunky behemoth that is the top-down monopoly on violence.Monsanto couldn't exist with its size without the help of intellectual property laws.  Patents are the fundamental part of their business model.  From http://www.monsanto.com/newsviews/Pages/why-does-monsanto-sue-farmers-who-save-seeds.aspxIn a free market (that is without intellectual property laws), you would not see these giant top-down vertical behemoth corporations that monopolize entire industries through artificial government protections.No.  Just look at the proliferation of Linux (and open-source software in general), which has basically destroyed Windows' and Apple's domination of the Desktop market.  While it is impossible to say how many people use Linux distros (since there is no reporting mechanism), just take a look at browser usage rates (recorded whenever you browse a website): Internet Explorer - 24.9%, Firefox - 42.4 %, Chrome - 25.9%, Safari - 4.0%.  So in that case alone of internet browser usage, average joes who want to browse free and cheaply, have destroyed Apple's and Window's monopoly. Lol. I guess the proof is left to the reader.  No.  Bitcoin is different from paypal and other currencies in that it is untraceable (if done right), thus it facilitates illegal activities such as money laundering, drug trade, tax evasion, assassination markets, etc.  The politicians are right now trying to get rid of cash transactions as it is, so you can bet that they will not be welcoming to bitcoin.  They are broke, and they need their tax revenue from any way possible, from any transaction between two humans.  And MtGox is not a perfectly legal institution, if you look at all the relevant laws and regulations regarding currency transactions.  PayPal is different, since it is centralized and, after being taken over by ebay, has had to succumb to all the tax reporting and other nonsense of the US govt.  PayPal has been captured.  But the great thing about bitcoin, is that it can't be captured.Facepalm.  Yeah, sure...I doubt that Ron Paul will have the intellectual capacity to understand bitcoin (no insult to his political career), and when his aids discovers that it is not back by silver or gold, he will ignore it. I love homebrew.  What's your area? Ohhh seriously?  I remmmber him posting to the forums.  Sad to hear him dissin folks. more Trolls and Noobs come to ravage the forums... Who is this Garzik person.  I nevaheordofem. No I do not want an elitist bitcoin club.  That type of crap just encourages closed-mindednss and group think etc.  Yea, I myself get frustrated with all the Noobs, Trolls, and all the propagandiitic FUD (fear, uncertainty, and doubt) intended to delegitimize bitcoin, but we must embrace the fact that bitcoin has finally come of age and engage with the rest of society so that bitcoin will gain popular acceptance.No.  Don't moderate.  We can expose the trolls.  We can help the Noobs by holding their hand when they need it most.  Yes we can.  We can mock the Fudders.  We can do this ourselves without assistance from any modulators.Bring the trolls on.  Prepare for battle. Your Congress Critter doesn't really listen to you.  They don't care about you.  All they care about is getting reelected, but if they are in a safe district, then they really don't need to be concerned much.  I learned my lesson when I wrote to my Senator Scumbag Iasakson to strongly advise against bailing out the car industry.  Apparently they got over 20 calls against bailout for every call for bailout, but he still voted for it.  It was around that point that I lost all faith in any positive outcomes from working with the political system.So yeah, it doest really matter if you are a citizen/non-citizen or voter/non-voter or in the district even.  All they care about is getting reelected.  And that usually means wheter you are a lobvyist or major contributor.  So I wouldn't waste your time and ink.And Ron Paul probablly wouldn't read it even.  He is very busy, and all his aids probably read muses.org religiously every day and will rejct bitcoin outright when try discover that it's not backed by silver or gold. It's backed by cryptography.  Math.  Logic.  Anyways there is nothing behind a bitcoin that needs to be" backed".  By holding a secure bitcoin wallet, you are the only person in the world who has knowledge of the private keys needed to spend that coin.  So you are in total control.  Its even better than a gold-backed paper promosary note. Let the battle begin.  And yes, they (The US govt's stooge Schulmer) fired the first shot, whether that matters or not. Excellent! LOL...people are really showing their ignorance today.  Whatever happening to fact checking before positng news articles... And the internet  Nice blog post there.  Yes, these politicans really show their ignorance here... Hoarders have been picked on everywhere all throughout history.  It is time for all the hoarders to get together and form social support networks and stand together to tell the world, "Yes!  We are hoarders.  And we're PROUD of who we are, and what benefits we bring to society!" YES! Thank you for LOL post of the day.  Wait a minute, why am I typing posts to myself? If the price is right, I'm sure the programmers would be happy to release their code, especially considering that their site is underr imminent threat of attack by "the authorities", so now would be an excellent time for them to dump their operation. I like the subtitle: "Shock: people buy drugs with currency" Awesome letter hawks!!!   add my name to the list of signatures.  Thank you schulmer.Lolfest.   Really shows their ignorance.  When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like nails.  Id like to seem them try to shut down TOR.  Ironic, considering that TOR was initially funded by US Navy research money...
Looks.like bitcoin is on the slow path to acceptance. FEDERAL RESERVE likes to keep currency inflating at a steady rate.  This encourages people to spend their money more since their cash looses value over time.  Thus rampart consumerism is bad because it artifically creates extra economic activity when there shouldn't be.  This leads to artificial economic booms which ultimately lead to busts.  So yes, bitcoin will help level out and bring some sanity to the economic cycle. Huh?  Please explain?  Did an "illegal" rob, rape, and kill your entire family or something?  What is your opinion on "illegal" immigration? Which one is paypal and which one is bitcoin?  Haven't you taken graphs 101 sometime during your education?  Unlabled charts are more worthless than norm no chart at all. LoL!!!  The article keeps mentioning "through an anonomyising site" but never mention what it's actually called, "TOR".  oops, and the noobie terrorist/villian accidentally forgot to download the block chain before making the drug deal and got stuck with really bad 56k bays phone line modem for internet access... It's so perverse that numbers can be considered "illegal". Sure.  Illegal drugs have been survivng and flourishing for decades even after they instituted the war on drugs.  Illegal immigrants (how a human being could possibly be considered "illegal" is beyond me) have been continuing to flow across the border and work and live prosperous lives even as they are being hunted down by ICE and Republicans.  Illegal filesharing (how can an idea be "illegal" and how can moving and copying electrons be considered a crime?) has been continuing to go on inside everybodys home network ever through bittorrent and other means ever after they crack. Oh y. eed down on napster.  Oh yeah, and few people bother to come to a complete stop ar at stop sign. Gold has never dropped to 0. IP is theft. Any advice/help?  How does one know if he is addicted?  I constantly feel the urge to respond to posts, or make fun of trolls and noobies, or get into neverending debates on politics and economics.  What should I do? So what?  There is no problem with competition from future emerging P2P currencies.  Competition is good.  Let the weak ones die and the fittest survive. As new bitcoin forks come about, the market will regulate the value and relative exchange rate for each bitcoin version.  New bitcoin block chains aren't as valuable because their coins will not be accepted at nearly as many vendors as the older more mature block chains.  QED I think a betting market in bitcoin would be more appropriate.  And can have smart contract and automatic payout to the winners who predict the correct date. Really don't need a USD to bitcoin exchange.  Hopefully if mtgox gets shut down, then people would be more likely to offer goods and services in order to get a hand on some precious bitcoins, thus improving bitcoin economy. I can rember back when a bitcoin was worth a nickle, and there were polls just like this about when bitoin would reach parity with USD. Meh, I don't care.  USD, banks, and credit cards are all becoming obsolete now, thanks to Satoshi's wonderful creation.Senate, what is that?  So a bunch of special people get to hang out together in a room and write stuff on pieces of paper and vote?  That's cute.  Good for them. Get your weapons ready, connect to google and wikipedia, ready your fingers on your keyboard, and prepare for INTERNET FORUM SEMANTICS BATTLE!!![Insert SEMANTICS argument below] Noobie fear, uncertainty, and doubt.  NoobFUD. A Ghandi quote comes to my mind...
Hilarious statist iPad 2 troll.  I can't wait for the response. I like to call bitcoin "a distributed time-stamp network".  It just so happens that because of human action and economic forces that it acts as a currency, functionally. Peter Schiff has a big mouth and an even bigger ego. Quick, please opensource the mtgox and silk road server code... Our little toy has grown up.  The cat is out of the box.    The big dogs are after us now   Welcome to the grown up world.   Gubbamint can't regulate open source projects.Quick, the owners of mtgox and other BTC exchanges, please open source your server code!Also, what about regular people like myself who have never used mtgox and never have exchanced a single bitcoin for USD?  How are you going to regulate me? I am at your service, oh great One, Satoshi. A lot of Austrians confuse the fact that gold is a form of money with gold being the only form of money.  Menger's account on the creation of money is but one example. All those gold bugs think bitcoin ain't real ... bitcoin is the necessary infrastructure (the currency) needed to build a truly distributed open-source internet.Currently the most important and power links are owned by corporations, universities, or governments... Cool, I used to read anti-state.com when I was still figuring out my political orientation. lol.  We have reached the point in bitcoin's development and popularity that we get attacked by hoards of bitnoobs.  But still haven't hit the knee of exponential growth rate yet... Someone start the bounty!Bitcoin lobbyists is such a perverse idea. Thank you Atlas for this post.  Every morning I wake up to my alarm clock regulated by the US Standards and Time department.  Then I eat my breakfast monitored by the FDA.  Then I drive on government roads.  Then I use government money.  I thank the US everyday for everything that it has given to me and for allowing me to exist.   This is all I have to say in response:[facepalm][facepalm][facepalm] And land taxes.  And conscription.  And tarrifs.  Etc. Bitcoin males Democracy obsolete  Thankyou. Thanks, I love you too and most others in this community. Block generation doesnt stop on 2040.  The bitcoin per block reward decreases in half every few years, but doesn't stop.  Economics will dictate a value for bitcoin.  A miner will produce a block in exchange for the value of the bitcoin reward.  If there are not many people interested in mining due to low reward, then the difficulty rate will be decreased in accordance.  As it is easier to produce bitcoin, then a miner will be more likely to solve the hash problem to generate a block, so the reduced reward rate is compensated by the lowered difficulty rate.
And arse whipping. If Osama wiped his arse, then wiping adds means your are a terrosists.  Only people that wipe their arse are terrorists. OMG, that paper was a joke.  I was LOLing after every other sentence.  The only reasonable and factual statement in the whole calm paper was that bitcoin does indeed enable anarchy. Not only that, but most likely the first concert tickets for bitcoin transaction. Omg that website is just great! Don't get too excited.  The first question is, does it actually work?  Judging from the history of the US Military Industrial Complex, Lockhead probably bought an overpriced crappy computer that doesn't work, and the quantum hashing capabilities are probably no better than a i386.Or I could be wrong. Umm ...and how does that exactly benefit the US? Awesome! Isnt it a little ironic purchasing the bitcoin paper with FRN. And hey, doesnt bitcoin compete with Amazon Payments?    whoever had the guts to upload this ebook to Amazon books is pretty clever if you ask me.+1. This is a good thing.  We should celebrate.  Even better, we should upload the paper to iTunes and charge 50 cents just to under cut this Satoshi (impersonator, most likely). No transaction fees. Awesome.  I trust al-jazeera more than most US papers. The fed will kill fewer cotton plants since they wont be printing any more dollars. +1Or better yet draw pictures of your kill after the hunt with blood on your cave wall.  Seriously, cave painting drawings have and always be the only legitimate form of communication. I wont have the tickets at the five spot tonight, since they aren't currently in my hand yet.  For sure I will have them next week.Also, note that im playing in the Atlanta All Star Soul Review this comming Friday 9:00pm in both the George Hughley Band, The Atlanta Funk Society, and The Soulphonics.  Tickets are $12 USD, but will accept a discount price in bitcoin and put your name on the guest list. And I the titles are always in the form of a FUD (Fear, Uncertainty, and Doubt) question. Regardless of what the current USD to BTC exchange rate is, the fact is that people can buy goods and services in BTC for prices that reflect their value is USD.  This is what give BTC its value. You a wrong G.  Competition doesn't necesarilly lead to one monopoly winner.  As long as there are no government enforced barriers to entry.  Just look at all the fact that there are multiple companies for each industry currently.  Keep in mind that voluntary exchange is not a negative sum game, unlike war/violence/politics.  So while it may hold true that a warlord may kill all his opposition and declare himself emperor, this ks not the case with voluntary exchange. Satoshi might have bought his retirement spaceship filled with hookers and scientists. The greatest resource is other humans.  Not for eating, but for soft-core enslavement via taxes. Key thing to remember, G, is that anarcho-capitalists are opposed to institutionalized monopolies on power.  
It's interesting.  I have a background in computer architecture (Multicore CPU design), and the whole concept of bitcoin as a distributed time stamp network reminds me of the problem of multi-processor memory coherency (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_coherence).  Basically when there are many processors sharing the same memory space, there is the same issue about how to determine the correct global ordering of memory transactions.  For instance, if processor A writes to address X about the same time that processor B writes to address X, then what should be the final value of memory address X?  The problem arises because each processor keeps frequently accessed memory addresses in their local caches (and additionally each processor is most likely speculative and executes out-of-order), so it is difficult to determine what is the "correct" memory transaction ordering without some shared arbitrator.  But for your typical shared-bus multi-core CPU that most of us are proably using right now, there is a shared bus connected all the processors' private caches together with the last level shared cache or main memory, so it is relatively easy since the the shared bus can act as global arbitrator which determines the "correct" global order of memory transactions based on the order in which memory transaction appear on the shared bus.  And the individual caches have special cache coherence protocols (e.g. MESI) that snoop the shared bus and update cached memory values efficiently.However, shared busses are not scalable since they become very slow as the number of connected components increases, making them impracticable for more than 16 cores or so.  Larger shared-memory multiprocessor systems must use slightly more clever systems for dealing with memory coherency since the interconnect fabric is much more complex and may not have any centralized arbitrators.  There are hundreds of research papers dealing with this in the past 30 or so years.  One such solution is distributed directory-based cache coherency, whereby each processor cache controller is responsible for handling the transaction ordering for a certain memory range.  For instance, if there are 256 cores on a chip arranged in a 2-D grid of 16x16 cores, then the memory address space would be divided up into 256 different sections.  Whenever a cpu generates a memory transaction, that transaction is forwarded to the cache that is responsible for keeping track of the ordering and sharing based on some bits of that particular memory addresses.Regarding bitcoin, it seems the current design has the same drawback of a shared bus cache coherenece since miners must process every single transaction (well technically not "every" transaction, since if a transaction is not put in the block chain then that transaction never *really* happened  ).  It seems to me that as the bitcoin network reaches the scale of millions of users, then it will become impractical to broadcast every transaction to every single miner.  A better solution would be along the lines of distributed directory-based cache coherency, whereby a particular miner is only responsible for handling transactions from coins belonging to a certain address range.  Basically, the ordering of two transactions that use different coins is not important to the problem of double-spending.  Rather, it is only important to maintain the proper ordering for transactions that use the same coins.  Two transactions that use an entirely mutually-exclusive set of coins can be reordered with respect to one-another in any manner without having any issue of double spending (of course if two transactions share some coins but not all, then care will needed to be taken to ensure proper global ordering).  So I would be interested in some modification of the bitcoin protocol whereby different miners may be responsible for hashing transactions of a subset of the coin address space.  Of course selecting which address space I am responsible for mining and broadcasting this info to all bitcoin clients is not trivial.  And of course eventually these mini-block chains (which are only handling part of the coin address space) would need to be reincorporated with the rest of the global block chain whenever there are transactions involving coins from multiple addresses spaces.  But anyway, once this network bandwidth problem becomes a real issue, then I am confident that such a fork could be implemented.  (One possible "solution" that doesn't involve *any* code rewriting would be to simply allow multiple block chains to exist simultaneously, and then simply perform a standard currency exchange between the different competing bitcoin block chains whenever there is a transaction involving coins from different block chains.  This would effectively divide up the coin addresses space into different mutually non-overlapping address chunks that could be processed entirely independently.  Overtime, the exchange rate between different bitcoin block chains would stabilize, and would become effectively one currency as far as the layman is concerned.  Of course, the downside is that each individual block chain would be weaker than a single global united powerful blockchain.). Thanks for sharing!  That was f8ing awesome.  Too bad the christians are still here  NOO!!!  Don't trust the above forum member...it is an undercover CIA clone of gavin.   Those are great charts.  Simply enclose them with (img) and (/img) where those parentheses are square brackets: We have mentioned this on the forums when NotHaus was arrested. ok, my real name is Eric Fontaine.  OMG! High-Elf Fire-Magic-Dragoon.  I like spears and heavy armour, but carry around spell books, too. Just checking in from hell kiba. Yup, plenty of fellow victims of demonic armies here... Gavin has disappeared.    As was predicted by many on this thread...   Better yet, I will pretend that I am somehow participating in the Democratic process and am somehow making a meaningful difference when I vote for politicians. But this is old public news: Please report back on the service quality and on the anonymity. Cool.  Feel free to tell your friends in Atlanta to PM me, either from here on the bitcoin forum or from my youtube channel or ericfontainejazz@gmail.com Sweet!  Yes I'll playing at the 5 next tuesday.  Note that ATL funk is no longer doing mondays since about 2 months ago (spot wasn't making enough money), so this masquerade show will be the first time our band is back together for a while. Cool.  I will. Attention bitcoiner music lovers in the Atlanta area, I'm selling tickets at a discount for:Karl Denson's Tiny Universe with opening act Atlanta Funk Society (with yours truely on bari)Wednesday June 1st 7:30 PM at The Masquerade basementhttp://www.masqueradeatlanta.com (695 North Ave, Atlanta, GA)Note that if you want to buy tickets in advance through the offical ticket master site, they are normally $17+$4=$21, but since I'm playing Bari Sax in the opening act, The Atlanta Funk Society, I have a bunch of tickets that I can sell at the discount of $15.  Just PM me, and we can perform the transaction at current bitcoin-to-USD exhange rate (e.g. mtgox).  Then I will either mail the ticket to you, meet you in person, or give you the tickets outside the masquerade just before the concert time.  It will be a funky night!  And for those of you that don't know what I sound like, check out youtube.com/ericfontainejazz or podcast.ericfontainejazz.com.  But the real show you don't want to miss is Karl Denson (just youtube him).Karl Denson has led a storied career as a multi-faceted recording and performing artist who first came to prominence as a member of Lenny Kravitz band debuting on his first release, Let Love Rule. Denson took this formula to the next level by putting more emphasis on vocals and adding some funk, R&B and hip hop elements. It turned out to be a winning combination, which set KDTU on the top of the heap in the touring world from 1999 through 2005, selling over 250,000 records to date. "My style is based in dance" shares Denson. Densons latest release, Brothers Keeper, continues his artistic evolution fusing sounds from Rock to Funk to Afrobeat. Center For a Stateless Society (c4ss.org) today (May 20, 2011): "Bitcoin: More Important Than You Realize" by Kevin Carson I hold a similar position: yes, global warming exists, but empirical evidence has proved that it is too small to be of concern and that it's not a run-away effect, but rather natural processes in the earth and biosphere counter act temperature increases. People can do whatever they want to.  Welcome to the the world of voluntaryism, the internet, open-source, and free-markets.  Pretend that the government doesn't exist.  Don't ask for permission.  Just live free as a free person should.  Just remember that in order to be free, you must permit other people to be free as well. And I'm a free-market anti-capitalist libertarian-anarchist voluntaryist-liberal.This George Lakoff fellow seems to suffer from the Left-vs-Right mindset that views the state as a parental figure:Stefan Molyneux has a great video "The State as Family" discussing this mindset:That was a very powerful video.  So maybe the answer to the question of "Should the government act as an authoritative father or a nanny mother?" is neither.  But before we can break society out from this left-right state-as-a-parent mindset, we need to stop having coercive families.Yes, I have heard the theories about how FDR's giant warfare-welfare state managed to get out of the depression.  The better question is whether or not the great depression would have been so long, deep or possibly even would have happened without the enormous government intervention in the money supply by the FED and other destructive government policies that need an entire book to discuss: pdf of "America's Great Depression" by Murray Rothbard.Your personal guilt about government bribes you received should have no bearing on whether I should be forced to pay taxes to pay back for your lavish lifestyle.Umm...maybe instead because the government has created a bubble in education.  Haven't you heard that ~54% of college grads nowadays are unemployed and ~%85 go back home to live with their parents?Well gosh, I don't have anything against organized labor.  In fact, if you replace "Organised labour is the only reliable way" with "Organised labour is one way" then that would be the only part of your rant that I would actually agree with.+1.+1.  What is thought of as "boss" and "employee" are really just two traders: one who exhanges his labor for money, and one who exchanges her money for labor.
Aha.  Yes, the open wireless movement.  But those protocols still haven't been finalized yet, so for the time being my wireless is closed and hidden  (I used to keep it open though, until I found out about the guy that was jailed for child porn going through his wireless that he didn't ask for). AT&T: protecting society from botnets.  Everyday.  Thank you. The energy is not wasted.  It goes to feed the bitcoin gremlin.  The bitcoin gremlin likes to eat hash cycles.  If you provide the bitcoin gremlin with enough hash cycles, he will reward you with 50 bitcoins.I like that idea... good points all around.  Yeah, too many zombie Garfields roaming the funny pages. good point.   What is wrong with profiting from his comic strips?  How could that possibly cause exploitation?  What is wrong with profit?  Is he some type of communist?  Why would he open the black hole in the first place? We should add code to spy on how power efficient your mining is.  Then the bitcoin code will report to the nannies at the US government.  Then bitcoin can apply for the US government's "Energy Star" certificate of approval.  Everybody wins!   So let me guess.  The politicians and media people are going to yabber about the ceiling and blame the other party for the debt.  Then they will procrastinate in actually raising the debt ceiling until the very last minute.  Then they will threaten a government shutdown and try to frame the other party as being responsible for why any of your friends who work for the US are stuck without a job.  Then they will miraculously stitch together a hideous bill that no one actually likes, but they manage to pass it by strategically adding pork, strangely-worded clauses, and appending entirely unrelated bills to it.  They they will tell us that they didn't want to do it, but that they were forced to and had no choice. I believe in the all-knowing bitcoin block-chain.   Who knows.  We don't have a clue.  Maybe MS would send all your Skype communications to the gubbamint in exchange for lower taxes. The ideal governance is emergent order.--emergentorder Yay!!!  Noobie time!  Welcome to bitcoin! In that case, it is a non-sequentior. Back when metals were standard currency, ordinary people didn't bother mining.  Nor should people of the future have to even bother to think about generating bitcoins.  Yes, I like how satoshi emulates the aspects of gold and mining with bitcoin.  But trade something for an ounce of silver, I do not need to bother to think about how silver mining works and how there is a limited amount of silver.  I simply perform the transaction, and just see the silver as a unit of money. So because of personal nostalgic memories of panning for gold and not finding any, therefore keep "Generate Coins" option.So in order to encourage unrealistic optimism about a newbies' CPU mining capabilities, keep "Generate Coins" option.So in order to perpetuate the belief that the point of bitcoin is mining (not trading), keep "Generate Coins" option. You are concerned that ordinary people won't able to use violence against such kinds of sociopaths.  But this is a non-sequentior against an argument against anarchy.  Anarchists aren't necessarily against violence.  But rather we (I should say "I") are against institutionalized violence by a single organization with a monopoly on coercion. +1Backdoors of any kind seriously complicate any security proofs. Wow.  What a Fail assumption.   ok, fine.  But maybe someone who got filthy rich from engaging in entirely voluntary exchange would have been better for your argument, no?
Forget Skype.  I stopped using it after the US mandated that all Skype communications must have a government backdoor. I use a special program that will convert bitcoin transactions into discussions about anarchy vs. statism. Bill Gates is probably a bad example since most of his wealth is (indirectly) a result of intellectual property. Stefan Molyneux still hasn't accepted our Bitcoin donation  Voluntaryism FTW. Ian Freeman and Mark Edge (hosts of Free Talk Live) finally understand bitcoin...take a listen to the latest show May 12, 2011 from minute 13 to minute 24:http://traffic.libsyn.com/ftl/FTL2011-05-12.mp3I am so relived!  Thank You. I suppose cdhowie deserves some credit. error: administrator Bernanke has not granted you sudoer privileges. The reason I bring that up is that I do hear some argue that "due to global warming, etc., we are in a crisis mode and need implement democratic institutionalized coercion to survive.  Therefore statism." I will permit you to form you non-private property markets.  Will you permit me to form private-property markets with my friends? Oh no!  Now we need to setup a pre-screening line to protect the people in the main screening line! Regarding the question of whether the moral status should change because we've created a crisis situation and those should never be used to make general laws from because "hard cases make for hard laws, one could argue that human society is always in a "crisis" situation.  Since it is no longer a specific isolated crisis situation, then one could argue that the moral rules should reflect this. No  .  左's version of anarchism is simply opposition to private property.  I've met these types of people all over the internet.  It has little to do with opposition to the state and institutionalized monopolies on coercion.On a side note, using the term "free-market anti-capitalist" is a fun way to confuse people like 左. I believe that as well.  However, the SCOTUS subscribes to a different, flawed logic system.   Arguably that was a trademark/intellectual property issue since he used the term" dollar". No...this is real. ToR just f8ing works. +1 Bi TonicBit IconCob in itCob I NitBi Tic OnBi Tic NoBi Con ItBi Cot InBit Con I Good money can be put in the laundry with your dirty clothes and wont get destroyed. Yeah...that's what I suspect as well.  Im thinking that we are probably high enough already that we most likely will be on the show sometimes, since after #1 gets on, we will be the new# 1.And again...Napolitano is not Glenn Beck.
very clever...so anyone of us could setup a tor bridge and then sell to chinese for bitcoin! I'm thinking he's trying to do automatic bot posts.Me: "Hello test bot!  How are you today?"TestBot: "test"   Karma point +1 for you my friend! Cool!  I found that episode: http://traffic.libsyn.com/ftl/FTL2011-05-03.mp3 and I'm listening it to right now.... talk on bitcoin start time 1:13:00Edit: OMG I just listened to it and Ian has no clue how bitcoin addresses and wallets work...I was cringing since I knew how many people listen to his show and follow him... Wow!  I bow to my powerful great overlords.  Great power yields great respect.  The people cheer!   I am downloading it.  I am a little paranoid to run it since I don't know if will steal my coins or not.  Could you provide me a link to the open source code so I can see what's going on under the hood? This was an issue that I myself even was concerned about when the whole Wikileaks/PayPal tirade broke out.  I was afraid that bitcoin would get attacked by the government and other powerful enteties since the wikileaks release had sparked so much negative attention from politicians, the white house, the state department, news commentators, etc.  But this is different.  Freedom Watch is a show promoting many libertarians ideas, so as long as the interviewie doesn't diss gold, ir should be a relatively supportive audience. Plus the cat is already out of the hat since lead developer Gavin accepted invitation to speak at the CIA, and news sources Time, CNN, etc. Exactly.  I wouldn't want freedom to be blamed for all the chaos that would erupt from a government collapse. Well I'm ofcourse not opposed to voluntary Democracy. Just sell gold for bitcoins just above spot price. They'll take the bait.  +1Yeah, BCEmpouriem.  +/- rating system are tools of those damn evil anarcho-capitalists!  How could you participate in such an undemocratic system? For the sake of bringing more public exposure to bitcoin.  Is there a problem with that? Let me guess...you went on a Wikipedia travel? That doesn't even make sense.  What do you mean by democratic meausrement utility? Nice trolling.No, non-imposed emergent standards of how to use +/- is not coercive.  And there is no need to abide by the majority.  High-ranking forum members have decided to grant us the +/- system without invoking majority rule at all.  And if anyone of us don't like this particular forum rules, we are free to. fork ir by downloaing  a backup of the database and uploading it to our own server, and we can feel free to use our own modifed Simple Machines source cods with any plugons we want and can for our own rules and can invite and prohibit whomever we want. +1The only real standard is a defacto standard.  Let the emergent order decide how +/- should be used. Most of those booms and busts are the result of government fed policy, you realize.  And the fact that some industries are doing horrible in the recession is probably indicative that it's time to stop working there. But I don't trust corporations.  They are creations of the state, no?Democracy == Concentrated Lies & Theft. I weakly agree with a hue of lavender. Tucker and George conversation: http://uncletaz.com/liberty/dialogue.html
Lol!  I guess the FEDs will have to arrest your cat.  At least that is better then them just breaking into your house and shooting your pets... What do most socialists (as well as yourself) deem to be the period of time in which a home needs to be unoccupied before it can be legitimately occupied by new people?So I must get the permission of the person who sleeps on the bed first in order to piss on it?  Sounds like that person who sleeps on that bed is the owner.  Or are these community owned beds?Is the issue with the pissing part?  What if instead I sleep on your bed after you leave it unoccupied?  And then you come and want to sleep on the bed?  Are you permitted to kick me out of the bed that you slept on and then left unoccupied?So property is shared in common.  But I can't break into your home or sleep on your bed because that is not approved by society?  Sounds like society is recognizing private property rights over your home and bed... Interesting...so if Person A creates an account with Company C and agrees to their ToS, and then Person B purchases Person A's account voluntarily, then is Person B bound to the ToS that Person A agreeded to with Company C? Benjamin Tucker says that community sucks, and rejects "that there is an entity known as the community which is the rightful owner of all land, Anarchists deny...I...maintain that the community is a non-entity, that it has no existence..." And I will repeat my self [sic] from another thread:I am an anarchist, but I neither call myself a socialist or a capitalist.  I reject the socialist "anarchists" who would steal my legitimately-acquired property and break into my home the minute I stop using and occupying them, but I also reject the extreme anarcho-capitalists that says property rights, upon homesteading, are perpetual.I'm reminded of a great Tucker quote arguing that "the community" is absurd concept:But as I have stated before, I'm an anarchist, but not a socialist.  And Tucker surely wouldn't call himself a socialist according to what it means nowadays (back then socialist meant something slightly different...even I might have called myself a socialist back then).Yeah, they're silly.  "No! That's my bed that you're pissing on!" Keep in mind that when Proudhon wrote those famous words, "Property is Theft", he was actually using it for rhetorical purposes as he explains in Confessions d'un revolutionnaire:Ok...I think I blew your mind there."Anarchism," writes Benjamin Tucker, "is a word without meaning, unless it includes the liberty of the individual to control his product or whatever his product has brought him through exchange in a free market  that is, private property. Whoever denies private property is of necessity an Archist.Did I blow your mind yet?     Trust me, I've met plenty of "Centrists" and "Moderates" who are perfectly willing to put a bullet through my head if I don't obey. What's the latest threat to freedom in America? Ranked 6th place with 3,792 votes!  Keep it up!thanks...will do.Stossel and Napolitano, that's it I think.  I suspect that's its a deliberate and wise business move by Fox...I don't follow the conspiracy theorists that believe that the only purpose of Fox is so Murdoch can elect Republicans. No. STRONGLY AGREE != will impose with force.   Don't worry.  Bitcoin crosses all sortofs of political beliefs, cultures, countries, languages, age groups, races.  It is a truly universal currency.  Also, Freedom Watch is not your typical pro-Republican Fox show.Yes.  Napolitano actually served on New Jersey Superior Court 1987-1995, before getting into writing and media.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Napolitano Yes!  A truly decentralize non-authoritative rule system!  I like it!  Let the emergent order determine ranking! I don't like PM.  What is it about? +1.  Yes...need an additional axis: Degree of Belief and Willingness to Use Force to Impose Belief on Others..  But if was a really clever off-topic trollerific post, then I'm giving it a +1. Not yet a press hit, but a potential one: Please vote for bitcoin to get on Fox's Freedom Watch.  Currently ranked 7th place with 3,164 votes, and need to get within the top 3 ranks (~7,500 votes) to be considered.  Official bitcoin.org/smf thread is here: Vote to get bitcoin on Fox's Freedom Watch for further discussion.  Really easy to vote. Folks, we are at 3,152 votes, ranked 7th, almost half way to what's ranked 3rd at 7,500 votes.  So keep it up and tell your friends on other social networking sites.  This is going viral.BTW, if this gets ranked 3rd and if I do get contacted, would anyone strongly object to me forwarding them gavin's email address in case they want to do an interview?  He seems to be the unofficial bitcoin media representative.  We could also set up a poll to decide.Thanks!  I just gave you a +1 too!It airs on Fox Business Network 8pm and 11pm http://www.foxbusiness.com/on-air/freedom-watch/index.html so I guess you could say it is relatively popular, and yes it is broadcast in the whole country.  You can find a lot of clips on youtube. What I have learned: When Capitalism hits the fan, buy a new refrigerator. +1.  I like your logic, and I like your analogies.  
or "My GPUs are bigger than yours..." It would be nice to know for which post (in addition from whom) I got -'ed for.    Yay!!!  Rejoice!  Cheers! Update: We now have 1,357 votes and are ranked 15th (skipped a rank since last update)!  Already 3 comments on the topic!  It's going viral!  Next target: "The War on Fathers, Marriage & the Family" holding rank 14th.  But who cares about internal family feuds when you can trade bitcoin with anyone in the world!   Looks like you will have rely on the karma system to [-] people who reply and manually delete their post.   Wow...looks like the forum owner has already adopted my suggestion!  That was fast!   Who's you?  I'm counting on the voters... Applaud me and I'll send you .02 BTC.Donate me .02 BTC (138otncA6ZYKMCcPEgqPbbnBn8jtdqEpdd) and I'll applaud you.j/k of course...I don't want to abuse this system  How about "+" and "-"? hmm...that's possible.  "Oh damn-it, I bought up all this money and I don't know what to do with it."  [Facepalm]  "I'll just buy some coffee and server space with it"    Oh dear.  Let's all *NOT* do the Satoshi... Oh dear...I don't like the sound of that...  Please no voting bots.  Humans only.  I don't want bitcoin to be disqualified for violation of voting rules... Update: we are now at 1018 votes and ranked 17th!  Time to beat "Redress of Grievances Lawsuit & Continental Congress 2009", ranked 16th, since there's no need to petition the government if you can instead trade in bitcoins! j/k  Hehe...very sinister.  I'm thinking of something that goes even further: modify the topic description to say something along the lines of, "Put 3 votes in, leave a comment with your bitcoin address, and you will receive .3 bitcoins."  Of course that would likely violate the ToS and get the topic removed for cheating. Yeah...this is why I have stopped bothering using the term "Capitalism".  As Roderick explains, it is an anti-concept.  If I do use the term, I like to hyphenate it as in "I am a free-market anti-capitalist."Roderick Long FTW. BitterTea makes great points all through this thread.  Basically, assassination markets don't need to be legal for them to exist.  But they are inevitable.  So what is to protect innocent people against widespread assassinations?  Simple: a competent legal system that protects innocent lives and a general held view in society that assassination is not the preferred method to handle petty disputes. Yes...and without the tremendous loss of life.  Just think of how many of the president's botched raids have ended up killing innocent women, children, and non-militant-jihadists... UPDATE: Bitcoin is at 961 votes and are ranked 18th to get on Fox's Freedom Watch!  Please visit my thread Vote to get bitcoin on Fox's Freedom Watch! for further discussion... Update: within 3 days of posting bitcoin as a topic, it has already gotten 955 votes and is currently ranked 19th!  Yes!  Come on, we surely can beat the topic ranked 18th ("9/12 candidates")! Update: we are now at 961 votes and ranked 18th!  Thank you to that bitcoiner who viewed voted in the past 5 minutes...you put bitcoin just ahead of "9/12 candidates"!  Update: Now at 1,036 votes and ranked 17th!Update: Now at 1,357 votes and ranked 15th!Update: Now at 3,304 votes and ranked 7th!Update: Now at 4,284 votes and ranked 5th!Please no voting bots.  Humans only.  I don't want bitcoin to be disqualified for violation of voting rules...Tell your friends on other social networks.  This thing is going viral, and we need to get in the top 3 rank (currently with 7,500 votes). But those traditions aren't necessarily opposed.  I used to label myself an "anarcho-capitalist" until I was exposed to the Mutualist and "Left-Libertarian" thought of folks like Roderick Long of The Austro-Athenian Empire (http://aaeblog.com/) and Kevin Carson of The Center for a Stateless Society (c4ss.org).  I have since stopped bothering with labels, although I sortof like the ring of "free-market anti-capitalist".  But fundamentally, I don't see how the "American"-libertarian tradition of the non-aggression principle and homesteading principle are necessarily supportive of landlordism and bossism, since it ultimately depends on what action and time is considered to be sufficient for homesteading and abandonment of property.  For example, even the most hard-core anarcho-capitalist will admit that if you leave you home abandoned for a long enough time, that it will eventually be considered abandoned and thus homestead-able by new parties or the current renters. While I don't agree with the full-fledged socialists that immediately once you leave your door or otherwise relinquish control of your property that some random person can then break in and occupy your home, I do feel it is important to recognize that a robust libertarian legal system should recognize that property rights aren't perpetual.  And by robust, I mean that the anarchist society doesn't revert back into a form of statism run by powerful businesses or a collusion of private owners.  Indeed, as Roderick long has argued, The State is simply an absentee owner, just a very very large one.  The other set of insights that I have learned from the "Left-Libertarian" tradition is to recognize that most forms of economic and social oppression are indeed due to state laws.  For instance, the fact that most people live in homes owned by large banks is largely the result of the special privilege that The State (namely the Federal Reserve) gives to large banks, leading to an unfair economic advantage.  And the limited-liability protections of incorporation.  And of course IP laws that provide private businesses owners with all sorts of advantages which leads to powerful corporations controlling all important creative works, inventions, ideas, etc of society.
interesting point...so it is basically the same computational power to mine towards two block chains, since fundamentally the thing being hashed is just a binary number with a different nonce... I just installed Lubuntu 11.04 on my notebook, and I made sure to *encrypt* my home directory... Sorry, but I read the first question, "If economic globalisation is inevitable, it should primarily serve humanity rather than the interests of trans-national corporations.", and realized that this quiz was totally biased, poorly written, and limited.  What if I want economic globalization to serve the interests of both the trans-national corporations, humanity, individuals, and small businesses?  And by what means am I able to use economic globalization to serve some party?  To me, the presumption implied by the question is that there is some means (e.g. voting) or entity (e.g. a state) by which I can influence the outcome.  The question is almost inherently statist (although I suppose that there are indeed non-statist, voluntary means by which a single person can influence the result of economic globalization). Same here...I was always (initially by default) not entirely opposed to IP, especially since I had worked as a musician/programmer/engineer/teacher/researcher (all industries that currently rely on IP), until I actually worked at an unnamed computer engineering corporation where I was exposed to the reality of the patent system (since I had to review all the gory details of a bunch of patents related to my work), at which point I started to question the whole concept.  Naturally I searched google to help understand, and it really only took a couple pages of reading Against Intellectual Property (pdf: mises.org/books/against.pdf which is an argument based primarily on libertarian ethics) and Against Intellectual Monopoly (pdf: micheleboldrin.com/research/aim/anew.all.pdf which is a utilitarian argument so you don't have to be a libertarian in order to follow) for me to become consistently anti-IP.  On a side note, Stephan Kinsella's writings also exposed me to the whole Mises and Rothbardian tradition, which led me to fully-embrace anarcho-capitalism. The issue is that two competing version of the bitcoin block chain would be incompatible.  The bitcoin network would be split in two.  This means that the total strength of each individual network would be weaker than a single unified bitcoin network.United we Stand.  Divided we Fall.  (as the Statists would say  ) Even as we speak, there are biological entities out there and forces at work that conspire to turn my inner organs into goo.  Cue scary music. BitterTea makes some good points here.  And keep in mind that there are still would be courts, security providers, and insurance providers to protect against asassinations for meager bounties.  And yes, even today and throught history, stupid people have been killing people for stupid reasons all the time.  Hypothetically, an assasination market (or better yet an arrest market) could be set up against random blokes on the street who assasinate people for unjust reasons.  So it works both ways.  Again, assasination markets are a tool, just like nuclear energy or explosives.  It can bw used for good of bad.  But don't blame the tool...but rather blame the criminals. No, I'm suggesting that the US could have called up the major news agencies *after* killing Osama so that reports could be present at the burial within 24 hours. Link please?  Explain.  Im not aware about what you are reffering to. Goatpig's trolling about energy and matter is a distraction - a strawman - that is beside the point.  Ip-freedom advocates aren't at all arguing about energy vs matter, but instead question the restriction on duplication of patterns that were obtained without coercion. Yeah, they should at least hash some piece of evidence (such as picture or dna) inside the bitcoin block chain so that his death can be independently verified. *disclaimer: I don't know how this would work or if it very useful:)But seriously, if the US government was genuinely interested in having people believe the veracity of their claim, then think of how easy it would have been for the US to have invited reporters from all major news outlets (US and international agencies such as guardian, rt, al jazerra, xinhua, pakistan times, etc.) to the burial to see the dead body.  Trust but verify. ok. I shouldn't imply. But yeah, I am concerned that at some point there will be a bitcoin bubble and crash, and I hope it doesn't scare people away from bitcoin. Is that your real name, if I may ask?  Sounds European.  Which country are you from, if I may ask? The answer is in that eff blog: We need WiFi that is open and encrypted at the same time!  So I want to be able set my wireless router to be open only to people who are routing through the TOR network.  This solves the concern about being sentenced because your sicko neighbor who downloads kiddy porn.It's called pay-it-forward.  It's pretty popular, so a lot of people will do it, even if you don't.  According to the eff blog post, your concerned could be solved by allowing your router to prioritize packets coming from your own computers with your mac address. More realistically, how about the libertarian show "Freedom Watch" by Judge Andrew Napolitano.  Looks like someone has just started a new show topic, so please vote for bitcoin for free here:http://freedomwatch.uservoice.com/forums/16625-freedom-watch-show-ideas/suggestions/1778101-bitcoinOnly 3 votes so far...needs more!  A lot of great people in the pro-freedom movement have been on that show.  I used to watch it regularly. I share your concerns.  It is always a good idea to diversify and hold some real income-producing value assets. This post has inspired me to start a real vegetable garden.  I just finished digging the dirt and planting the seeds.  Thank you. PROTIP: Use hyphens ("coercive-government" or "monopoly-government") to avoid silly debates over semantics. That's an interested idea.  At the minimum, hospitals should be using some type of public-key encryption with a signature so that birth dates and names can be independently verified and audited. I like that idea a lot!
FYI, I have a separate thread discussing the cost and alternatives such as assassination markets here: "US kills Osama bin Laden at cost of > $400 billion".Kudos to The Script for beating me in pressing the POST button...I did wait until I actually heard it from the horse's mouth.  But I actually got the news immediately when my regularly-scheduled TV show "CSI Miami" was in its conclusion and David Caruso finally figured out who done it, and I wanted to post to bitcoin forum, but I didn't have my labtop out and ready.   Kiba is right, as usual.  Just because a lot of innocent people died on 9/11 doesn't necessarily mean that a lot of resources should be spent to kill Osama.  Resources that could have been spend on improving transportation safety.  Opportunity cost.  And no one sees the increases in car accidents resulting from people avoiding plane transportation due to additional security fees and tyrannical TSA agents.I suppose it is impossible to answer.  But first off, note that the US government's bounty was not a decentralized assassination market.  It was taxpayer (read: theft) money collected and arranged by the US government and paid for in Federal Reserve Notes.  There are many complications with this:Morally speaking, many people refuse to accept government money because it is stolen from peaceful people.  There are separate threads about whether taxes are theft, so no need to get into that discussion here.Pragmatically speaking, many would-be assassins would be put off by the fact that there would be no guarantee that they would receive the money (the US government rarely honor contracts and is untrustworthy), unlike with a smart-contract assassination market run by a trustworthy computer which could be setup to automatically pay the winner without human involvement (except for maybe a vote to verify that indeed the target was killed on that particular date).  Look, we don't even know for sure that Gavin will not be arrested when he visits the CIA There is no anonymity for the assassin with the US-sponsored bounty, unlike with a bitcoin assassination market whereby the winner would simply use a new address.  News channels are even speculating about possible revenge terrorist attacks since the attack was a US-sponsored operation.  Would-be assassins may be deterred by the fact that there would be jihadist al-qaeda loyalists out there who would want to kill the assassin.  Plus, the fact that the money would be in USD would make it very suspicious if you are some random arab with $20-million USD all of the sudden.The $20-million USD pricetag was not set by the invisible hand of the market, but rather by some government bureaucrats.  It could be that given the difficulties of navigating the rough terrain and getting close enough to Osama to shoot him, the actual cost of such an operation might require a multi-person assassin team composed of professionals with various specialties, but most likely would not have been $400 billion.  The price mechanism can determine the cheapest/optimal cost.Anyway, I'm not necessarily an advocate of assassination markets, as I'm concerned about negative risks.  But they are inevitable given the existence of bitcoin.  Which is why we should be talking about assassination markets.  And now is a great opportunity. http://costofwar.com/Wouldn't it have been cheaper with a decentralized assasination market? I think this game would be better if you add some randomness.  Such as random payouts every so often with random payout amounts.  That gives people more incentive to post now even though it is well below 9999.  Randomness is what makes addictive mmorpgs. +1   Nicely said.  I support mises.org, but yes unfortunately those folks have a kneejerk reaction to any money that isn't gold-backed. Lmao I use duck duck go as well.  Results are usually more relevant for me and it cares about my privacy. There's a bunch of open source wireless routers I bet you could mod to support TOR and bitcoin. Lol, and I coined the term "Web 4.0" while having a beer with Billy Bob Thornton last night. Sounds interesting, but unfortunately I am too parinoid to click that link, not to mention downloading and running that code on my system Thanks for thinking of me, though  Or as the common people say, "JUST FORK IT!" (1) Haven't you heard of President Obama's "open government" initiative?  That was a pillar of his winning campaing platform.  He's already setup the white house website to run on the open-source CMS known as drupal.  Maybe we as the bitcoin community can submit questions for re CIA conference people to answer on an open forum.  Obama's making government "work".  For re people.  Yay!  And the conference videos will be put on the CIA-TED YouTube channel.(2) We don't and we shouldn't.  Gavin is not representing bitcoin bit is rather trying to help explain to out friends in the CIA how it works.That reminds me:FROM THIS POINT ON, WE SHOULD BE LESS TRUSTY OF GAVIN'S (or any other) CODE COMMITS TO THE BITCOIN CODE REPOSITORY. Oh ok. My bad. Lol.  He lost me too at that word.  I didnt bother really reading the rest, admittedly.  Problebly if he had stck to words like "transpart" "independentably auditable" "community controlled" then I might have read his entire post... If Gavin starts his talk by pulling some paper money out of his pocket and burning it, that would be a real attention grabber and would wake up the conference attendees.  I can imagine audience would be very tired from sitting through a bunch of technical talks. Thanks.  And yes I tend to agree with you here.  And bitcoin is first and foremost a currency to help people.prosper, not a political tool.But I am still curious about pracfical ways to deal with assasination markets, given the existence of bitcoin.  They are inevitable now.  So I think preventing money laundering and trying to prevent assasination markets is foolish now, unless one wants to eliminate bitcoin.  What we can do is study block chains and internet patterns to identify these things and then possibly take action against them, not prevent. A lot of great comments, everyone.  I must say this news make me feel excited.  I dont know if this news is a good thing or a bad thing.  I dont know if this is the beginning of the end for bitcoin or if this marks the beginning of the widespread adoption of bitcoin.  I dont know if the government will squash bitcoin like a bug, or if the government might end up accepting bitcoin as legal tender and for payment of taxes.  I dont know if bitcoin will destroy the US or if bitcoin will "save" the US.  I do know that there are uncertainties and that I am proud to be alive at this historic time and part of the bitco community.  And I know that Gavin probably took great and difficult moral questioning and pragmatist thought in order to reach his difficult decision, and I thank Him (the great Satoshi) for providing Gavin with the guidance and knowledge, and lastly thank Gavin for being considerate for atleast giving us a "heads.up" and being forthright by informing us of his opportunity and decision.A few quick comments:1. The continued existence of TOR and its initial government funding proves that the government doesn't necessarily eliminate things which can partially be useful to them.2. Governments will still be able to exist and tax its citizens even with universal adoption of bitcoin as the sole legal currency.  ever heard of property tax or head tax?3. If bitcoin has some fatal flaw and if the government chooses to take action against bitcoin and succeds in destroying it, then that means that bitcoin is not good enough.  Survival of the fittest, and it fails.  Learn from mistakes and live on to try something better. Omg, another twist to the "who is satoshi" mystery story...
So the internet is just a series of tubes, but it is still intelligent in ways that humans have never anticipated.  Bitcoins intelligence would result from global knowledge of all monetary human transactions.  Just like google is able to accurately predict what I will read on the internet, with bitcoin it will be able to predict what I am going to buy. since bitcoin enables money laundering and asaasination markets and tax evasion and promotes anarchism, then why do you support it? Im curious.  You have great tools with democratic-state-regulated currencies already that dont have these issues as much, right? Depending on how the contract is constructed, it is possible to avoid any liability."This FRB note can be redeemed for 20 ounces of gold, pending availability*."*Our bank only holds %10 of all outdtanding notes as reserve in gold at any moment. I'm an non-aggressionist adherent of non-aggressionism. Omfg rofl!  And the carrot!!! Bitcoin is not about democracy.  You are probably in the wrong forum.  Bitcoin is about having total control over your money. Way to go strawmanning the anarchocapitalists, I dont know where to start.  First off, anarcho capitalists arent nexessarily opposed to force, but rather are opposed to coercive monopolies. No. They would just shut down the ps3 network.Oops, already happened... In a free market, FRB would simply be a form of gambling.  Nothing wrong with that. +1Murray Rothbard FTW I bet that China government will adopt bitcoin before US. Wait, there are still people who use paper money?Gavin looks pretty badass!  Great article! If there is an unusual increase in mining or other strange pattern, an alarm can be sent to tell bitcoiners to temporarily halt transactions... great, so all the bitcoin activists travel to The Capital Police Statism (London) for BitCon, then they all get arrested for anti-government conspiracy, and then bitcoin gets setback. LMAO!  great job mizerydearia. +1 +1 My apologies, FatherMcGruder...I have edited my earlier post. That's not a bad idea.  Gaddafi or Hussein would have been taken out much more quickly and easier without the disastrous human and financial damage of statist war.  Like all tools and technological innovations, assassination markets can be used for good and evil.  I think we must must accept their inevitability thanks to tools like bitcoin, and focus on how to handle, manage, and in other ways deal with assassination markets rather than foolishly attempt to prevent them entirely. I agree.  Bitcoin is a distributed peer-to-peer currency.  It should be spread that way.  Meetups should be held that way too.  Also having a big centralized conference would attract all sorts of negative attention from the authorities, since it would have "giant money laundering operation" written all over it (as far as the state is concerned).Anyway, at this point it is better to share bitcoin with other groups that have goals that may be advanced with bitcoin.  For example, your local libertarian meetup or local trade network for whatever it is you do.But it would be cool if PorcFest 2011 has some talk on bitcoin...
Oh, thank god that was not one of those damn annoying "who is john galt" videos... Interesting...in a way, I guess it's not possible to isolate the bitcoin market from the coercive power of the state.  As long as states exist, they can use coercion to forcibly extract wealth from people (via head tax, property tax, etc) and then use their tax revenue to purchase bitcoin to "smooth out the bumps" (or whatever other reason they come up with).  If the state buys up a ton of bitcoins all at once, this will undoubtedly cause disruption to the bitcoin economy, and likewise if they sell all their bitcoins all at once.  So they could attack bitcoin without even bothering with mining, simply by destabilizing the economy.  But on the otherhand, such government actions would also provide great trading opportunities for traders in the bitcoin economy to get great deals, so I guess the net result of all this action would be a net wealth transfer from the victims of taxation to traders in the bitcoin economy...That whole "smoothing out the bumps in the economy" is a very tempting argument for government control of the money supply.  But as you point out, assuming one accepts the necessity of smoothing out the economy, it doesn't necessarily follow that there needs to be some sort of central bank managing money supply, as there are other means, such as adjusting the tax rate for booms and busts.  Or it may be even possible to have enitrely voluntary means to ensure stability.  For example, those people who are concerned about smoothing the economy (I'm guessing rich affluent people of the take-care-of-economy persuasion) could pool a large part of their savings into a combined "smoothing" fund.  That fund would switch between buying/selling stock market indicies, commodities, bonds, etc. depending on what the managers of that "smoothing" fund deem the best action to smooth out the economy.  I would suspect that such a fund could profit by buying cheap stuff during the busts and selling them for high prices during boomtimes...  Anyway, I guess I could use such an line of reasoning to defuse the "we gotta have a government to smooth out the economy" argument. Interesting point...I forgot about that... That's pretty funny!!!  And relevant to this thread.  Here's that cartoon embedded so other forum readers can see it: if I had a bitcoin for everytime someone proposed to "fix" bitcoin by adding inflation...They just don't get it. No problem    That's what the bitcoin community is here for! bitcoin mining is not a terribly profitable  endeavor.  I suspect that over time the market world drive the profit margin of mining to just a little over breakeven. So the government would just be one of many miners in a highly competitive playing ground. However, if the government could limit the ability for ordinary folk to mine, then the government could generate reasonable revenues. But that would destroy the appeal of bitcoin if we cant mine competitively. Thanks for including that poem I wrote I like the idea of starting a "Who is Satoshi Nakamoto?" internet meme.  Maybe instead of one big movie, we make a bunch of short little mini cartoons/videos/stories, with each one possible version of who Satoshi might be.  And no need to coordinate...we can generate this meme in a distributed fashion whereby each of us bitcoiners writes our own stories, youtube videos, songs, poems, cartoons, etc. and each of us post to our favorite social networking sites.That being said, I pledge 10 BTC to the first person to make such a video. Unfortunatly the mises and lewrockwell folks tend to be gold-bugs and tend to automatically dismiss any currency that is "backed by nothing"... Thanks kiba!  It's public domain now! What's wrong with storing the block chain on the SD card (no need to be SQLite) and just swap in and out chunks to memory when needed? You forgot the sub-sub scenarious, the braching scenarious, alternate scenarios, and possible mixed, merged, and parralel scenarios.  The Satoshi conspiracy theories never end and never get tired.  Someone always comes up with a new one.  One day there will be a tv series just focusing on satoshi conspiracy theories.Satoshi is everywhere and nowhere.Satoshi could be all of us, or none of us.Satoshi came from nowhere and dissappeared to nowhere, but his coins are everywhere.Satoshi has no past, no future, and no present, but his creation is immortal.Satoshi is an idea.  Satoshi has inspired all of us.  Satoshi is a legend. Re: "How much hashing power the CIA can organize ?"I pu "organize" in bold to emphazise that the question wants you to think outside of the box.  BUT most ofl the responses have been dealing with purchasing power of the government from taxes.  But there are non-monetary ways to organize hashing power.  For instance, most desktop machines run Windows, and have a lot of security holes.  If the government people were smart, they could take over a whole farm of zombie machines (CPU+GPU) from ordinary americans.  Or they. Could declare emergency power to legally seize compute power from ordinary citizens. Grondilou, except for raw materials and energy.  But yes, i suspect that a free (NO IP) market, over long enought time, will reduce costs of everything else to zero. TANSTAAFL. (Adding thread to my watch list)Id be interested in a simulation of such an attack.  Maybe try you attack on the test netwoekand report back results? What is "Goonies android client"?  I was just about to take your java implementation and port it to android.  Is someone else already working on this? I just got this new Android, and I might try porting the JAVA Bitcoin client to Android.  What would be the minimum requirements to claim this bounty?  If I can get a simple text or menu interface that is able to download the hash chain, mine coins, send coins, and do everything else that the regular client can do, does that mean I qualify for this bounty?  What is the approval process to obtain t he bounty involve? Is this going to be open source so I can set it up on my own server?  What language will it be implemented in? Power efficiency will become more important as summer approaches (in the Northern Hemisphere).  I was running my dual card Nvidia GTX 9800 Gx2 during winter just fine, but recently now that the weather is warmer I have noticed my screen start to flicker.  After a little investigation, I discovered that my GPU temperature approached up to 85C, but when I killed the miner, it returned to a much more reasonable level in the 60s.
How do I install this on my Android device?  Fyi I have a rooted Motorola Attic 4G running Android 2.6.1. and have terminal access.Actually i just now found it in the bitcoin market.  Installs fine and runs, but I need to setup a server with a static ip I guess.But what I would really like is to run bitcoin daemon locally on my Android... death to the flow capitalists!!! cut the flow off to the flow capitalists!!goto bitcoin faucet and turn the nozzel which will drain the flow capitalists of their stream of green.flow capitalism is the leak.  bitcoin is the patch. sure...and you have 0- years as a hot chick running ayoutube channel promoting linux. i look forward to the day when every open-source project has a bitcoin donate address... i know a great way to get more donations to the faucet: allow donators to leave a short piece of text.  since the bitcoin faucet is such a popular url, donators could leave a link to their website or company, acting as an advertisement.  public pilanthopy to new bitcoin users as a way to promote your company/brand image... kiba, one question: will bitcoin be usable as an in-game currency to allow players to purchase units, upgrades, trade with other players, or as prizes, for example?  xkcd waycool! looks cool! adding thread to my watch list.awesome idea!  plus these bots could be used to spread anti central banking propaganda and talk about rothbard and stuff... who said anything about following any rules?  dont make these bots associatable with your real legal identity.  try to not get your bot banned, but it happens, no sweat.  move on to another game.i wish i could buy some advanced mining bot on minethings.com with bitcoin... Answer: pooled mining. Oh my god! Those patents are downright hilarious! There is no pegger.  Please read the bitcoin faq. increase my pledge from 5 to 50 btc.  but i want a nice product. Wrong. I guess I don't have couchdb...Awesome!  Works on my Google Chrome!  A bit jagged movement, but I guess some indication that kiba can code (I assume you coded this). These RBE folk seek technology to allow humans to allocate resources effectively.Bitcoin IS THE TECHNOLOGICAL breakthrough that these RBE people seek!Bitcoin will allow humans to allocate scares resources effectively!All RBE people should start adopting Bitcoin!Q.E.D. Knowledge is Power. (K=P)Time is Money. (T=M)Power is Work over Time. (P=W/T)Basic algebra tells us:K = W/TK = W/Mor Knowledge equals Work over Money.Therefore:The More You Know, the More Work You Do, andThe More You Know, the Less Money You Make.(sorry, this doesn't relate to the current discussion, but while we're using equal signs to equate complex subjective ideas, I thought I would share this joke for a laugh.)  Time to get used to it.  There are ~8 billion people in this world who haven't heard of bitcoin yet.  And bitcoin's exponential growth rate is just beginning.  Some will embrace it without question.  Some will reject it outright.  But most people (myself included) will be curious, and start asking questions about it, and will point out what they think are fundamental flaws, and will post what they think are necessary modifications to improve the protocol.  We will learn to be patient and helpful, and alleviate their concerns by calmly explaining how the network and market are incentivized.  But yes...be prepared for the much anticipated hordes of steelhouses that will come.BTW, we I suggest we augment the simple machine forum's source code to allow for the [facepalm] and [/facepalm] text modifiers...   Sorry, my bad.  I didn't know. But if anyone can generate bitcoins, they're worthless!!!j/k  
Excellent.  It's possible that the command line version was only reporting CPU hashes, and simply didn't print GPU cycles, but you should stick with the GPU version.You realize that Ubuntu will provide you with an option to create a seperate partition to install on. Enjoyed that post!  Indeed, most current aggregations of wealth would not be able to sustain themselves in a free market. You don't need a new hard drive.  Download the latest Ubuntu and burn to usb/cd and restart your computer.  Try the Ubuntu setup using the commands described here:http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2636.0If it doesn't work, tell me what specifically went wrong, as well as a bunch of info about your machine.  Please reply with the output of the following commands:cat /proc/cpuinfolspciuname -aThen maybe we can help you out and diagnose the problem. Kiba, what am I doing wrong?  I created a multiplayer game with one browser tab, then tried to join it in another browser tab, but nothing happened: I think it's more about changing the *mindset* for newcomers...   Here here!  That's the spirit!  But yeah...it would be nice to have some automated way to fund such things as setting bounties for software development, putting pledges in escrow, and collecting the money once a final product is actually released... Excellent Point!  I second this!  The mining analogy works excellently! Wow!  This is a fun game so far...  I think its addicting...  I just bought two mines with bitcoin, to help speed up...  I guess this is one of those games where you login once per day to check on things...sortof fun.  Bitcoin payment was very smooth...good job integrating the code!I like that idea!!!  It would help expose new people to bitcoin, and it would be fun to occasionally mine some virtual good that is actually a real currency! Jacob Spinney has an excellent YouTube video critiquing the Venus Project he just uploaded an hour ago:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yhNoUW4UTpIIt's 54:13 long, and I have only watched the first 5 minutes, but he has already exposed and destroyed several logical fallacies. Try booting your computer into terminal mode only, such as by typing init 3 to enter run level 3 (Multi-User Mode with Networking but no display manager).  It's possible that your desktop or something else is eating up your GPU cycles. Awesome!  Here's the money quote: It's probably satoshi.  That's why he's not online.  He's probably rented a nice pad and is getting strippers with bitcoin as we speak.  Or maybe Gavin or one of the other main developers...But, hey.  Satoshi deserves the pussy. I have a 9800gtx2, using Ubuntu OpenCL code and I get around 27 MHash/sec for each of the dual cards, totaling 54 MHash/sec plus another 2 MHash/sec for my CPU.  I have a strong feeling that those numbers you are quoting are for your CPU, not GPU. hehe!!!  Oh crap...that already exists!  It's called "New Jersey". Coincidentally I just now searched the internet for an "html5 dungeon crawl" and I stumbled upon this fun (but uncompleted) HTML5 Dungeon Crawler called "Cardinal Quest".  It turns out that the developer "received $4,800 ($4,421 after 8bf's 5% fee + paypal transaction fees) which should go a long way in helping finishing the game" by using some website called http://8bitfunding.com/ to crowdsource investment funding for his game.  Unfortunately, they use paypal, and charge 5% fee ontop of paypal's 2.9% + $.30, but it's a great idea.  I'd like such a website that accepts bitcoin...I suppose you should feel free to post your game there once you have a working demo, if you care for paypal USD. I'm laughing!!!  Hilarious! I second this.  Gparted is the only partition tool I use.  I don't trust my hard drive with proprietary code. So basically as chodpaba says, "the Zeitgeist Movement makes [media promoting the movement], holds events to promote the [media] they make, and raises money to make more [media]."  lol.  good point.  It would be wise to first test for oil, and only start building this free state if they don't find any... 
[facepalm].   Dude, I totally dig the distributed urban farming stuff.  But saying that decisions "are arrived at by using the scientific method and analyzing all relevant and available data" just creeps me out and sounds like some sortof elitist selected group of scientists and engineers will be picked to centrally-plan society and tell me what to do. [/facepalm] Tons of stuff, I don't have time to list all, but great free pdf books on market-anarchy here:http://freedomainradio.com/ (maybe "Practical Anarchy" is a good place to start, he also has a great youtube channel "stefbot")http://mises.org/ (most stuff by Rothbard is good)http://agorism.info/ (Agorists advocate building up the untaxed counter-economy)http://c4ss.org/ (Center for a Stateless Society: building awareness of the market anarchist alternative) Oh Dear.  I hope the solution doesn't involve forking the bitcoin client into one that automatically sends a portion of every transaction to your friendly neighborhood gang, cause that's the only obvious solution I can think of.   Please see previous forum threads:"Printing bitcoins : could it work?"and "Printing bitcoins, an implementation" I am a musician and computer nerd, and am very interested in such a thing.  I have been wanting some sortof Wikipedia/CreativeCommons that would contain all sorts of music (original composition as well as previously-composed music) from all generes and in all sorts of formats (midis, audios, sheet music).  And bitcoin could be used to incentivize uploading of music (and maybe downloading of high-bitrate versions to save bandwidth), for example people can put up bounties for someone to transcribe their favorite solo. If someone builds a sky-scraper farm to feed a significant portion of a city, then economics will lower the cost of living in that city, and then before you know it there are more people moving into that city, and then that skyscraper couldn't supply enough food.  Anyways, reminds me of some cities in foreign countries where it is very common for most apartments to have a small garden on every balcony.  But yeah, sounds like something for an entrepreneur to do, or even some non-governmental community/collective organization could pool their money together and fund such a skyscraper garden.   Again, this is a matter of just investing and doing it, no need for converting all of society into a RBE.  Oh yeah, I forgot, you would have to get by City Zoning Laws and Property Taxes...How exactly do you advocate "we" arrive at your system.  Sounds like you are advocating some form of central planning to do what is best for "ourselves", but I'm not sure.  How will decisions be made in your society? I love the concept of only being able to use indirect operations!!!  Makes for very interesting and unique gameplay.  Looking forward to it.I pledge 5 BTC. That's more like it!  It is debatable.  I do pay a lot at the grocery store for fresh produce (of course canned or long-term storable food is much cheaper at the grocery store).  So I do think that for fresh vegetables that grow well in/around your home that don't require much maintainace with your natural climate, it is very possible that  this type of urban homesteading is economically practicable.  But no, not always.  I do grow my own tomatoes, rosemary, oregano, sage, and other spices at practically no-cost and no-maintance, which is definitely more cheaper than going to the store to buy spices in some packaged container.  So it depends. I've been thinking about buying one of those open-source 3D printers and starting a bitcoin=>3Dprinting service, but I think the government would think it extremely suspicious if I am shipping out a bunch of random plastic parts from my home without seeing any detectable trace of income money... Ditto.  This is definitely a resource blackhole.  I feel sorry for the webhost.  It could even be possibly considered some new type of virus. From https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/WTFPLAnd the actual license:Excuse the French.  Basically you just DO WHAT THE F*** YOU WANT TO. That's a shame...I actually usually like FSK's articles and his humor.  But of course he does have some reasonable concerns about bitcoin that I can't fault him too much for.OH MY GOD!  I forgot that Bitcoin uses the OpenSSL library for cryptography and is Open-Source!!!  OpenSSL has been certified by THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:We shouldn't trust them!!! Cheers!  Here's a toast as a raise my glass made with open-source makerbot 3D printer containing home-brew beer as I type on my Ubuntu Desktop into an open-source Simple Machines Forum onto a server running Linux. Haha!  I was trying to be humorous, since I was sure that RBE proponents would be opposed to IP.  Where are the open-source Hydrophonics Gardens? License is WTFPL!  Hehe!   Awesome!  Now all you have to do is sell those Omega Garden Hydrophonics Volkgarden® (Copyright © 2011. All rights reserved.) for bitcoins and also setup a market to buy produce from it in exchange for bitcoins, and you'll make friends with us bitcoiners.  BTW, what is with these Resource-Based Economy folks and Intellectual Property?   Atlas has a bald head and is a male.  How is that for challenging one's assumptions?   Huh?  Really?  Don't most profit maximizers simply want to make profit?  The only case where I suppose what you say is valid is where there are high barriers to entry, in which case a loss to a competitor would grant you a greater share of the pie, thus bringing you close to monopoly power.  But in the case of competition with free market entry, as is the case of distributed peer-to-peer legal systems with mutually-agreed-upon 3rd party arbitration, than any effort and resources spent on damaging an opponent would make you worse off overall since other agencies that don't engage in warfare would get an advantage.Wait, but with the current state system, don't most conflicts end up with someone pointing a gun and locking someone in a cage?  But this is not the case with mutually-agreed upon 3rd party arbitration (which is what the agorist/market-anarchists advocate) where rulings are focused on restitution (not punishment) and enforced through ostracism. Don't worry, epii, I got your joke right away...BTW, what i find hilarious about that "I am John Galt" video was how Rule #2 for the video response state that you can't violate any intellectual property.  Typical Randians!   Well if you or your friends know how to make these automated agricultural systems that produce far more food than we can today in a fraction of the land, water and harmful fertilizers and insecticides, then why don't you be an entrepreneur and do it now?  Create a business plan, share it with some investors, buy some land, do it, and prosper.  Then use the profits to continue to further your goals.
Great!  I just sent her 1.41 bitcoins!  I love her cartoons! +1.  That should be the end of the discussion right there.Why would you want to support bitcoin money, if your goal is the abolishment of money? I don't know what you mean by relative-gains maximizers, nor why people would be forced to act as "relative-gains maximizers", nor do I know why relative-gains maximizing is necessarily a bad thing.  But now that you bring it up, Roderick Long has some things to say about the last resort objection in "Libertarian Anarchism: Responses to Ten Objections": NixiePixel, please post a video to your YouTube channel about bitcoin so that we can verify that you are real. Atlas, you should write your bitcoin addresses with permanent market on your head with a "me love bitcoin" and make it your profile pic...And since we're posting pics, looks like you have joined the club: Hmm...date of article is "Thursday, March 31, 2011", so it's not an April Fools Joke.Well, I guess bitcoin's time has come.  (actually I thought it's time was earlier, namely when the whole wiki-leaks pay-pal incident broke, so take my predictions with a grain of salt).(btw, I didn't bother reading the entire article) I wonder who's paying for the bitcoin.org hosting?  Yeah, I used to run an "anarcist" Meetup and was the leader (i.e. paid the fee)!    Yes!  There are anarchists, and then there are anheirarchists! In The State of Georgia, you can't have an open container of alcohol in public places.  It is always a fun adrenaline rush to figure out clever ways of concealing your alcoholic beverage while walking on the sidewalk.  But yeah...you'll get locked in a government-run rape cage (that is if you get caught and don't pay the fine, of course). Except of course for the fact that the bitcoin miners actually have to expend useful energy and resources when supporting the network unlike what is commonly understood as democracy where you simply mark some boxes on a piece of paper every couple years...   Ok, I'm donati.....WAIT A MINUTE!!!  That bitcoin address 146g.... is identical to your donate address...   Mr State Prosecutor, I bought these bitcoins under the impression that they were backed by US dollars, since I used real dollars in paypal to pay for them.  Then I find out that these bitcoins are mathematical digital figments, with no bearing to reality, and are backed by nothing!  Please, sir, could you lock up these evil deceitful scammers who tricked me into a ponzi scheme! A Fractional Reserve Bitcoin Bank.  Its inevitable that someone will create it someday.  But at least it will be disciplined by the relentless and unforgiving forces of mathematics and reality. +1.  Yes, I've found "Voluntaryist" to be a much more palatable for introducing our ideas to most people.  At least you can have a reasonable discussion.  Just be sure to avoid mentioning the "A" word, and if it does come about, you can distance yourself from it. Unfortunately.  However, two examples don't make a universal rule.  Additionally, those societies were not anarcho-capitalist societes, but rather Murrary Rothbard provided them as examples of historical societies that had some *elements* of anarcho-capitalism.  It does good to study these historical examples so we can learn from them to know better why they failed.  Primarily what was lacking was a commonly understood and accepted philosophical opposition to the initiation of violence and failure to build enough decentralized voluntarily-funded defense agencies strong enough to, collaboratively, resist statist aggression.  Oh yeah, and they didn't have bitcoin back then to protect individuals against (most) taxes .  So while I do not necessarily agree with the maxim "might makes right", I do acknowledge that it is important to defend what you believe is important. Wow.  Amazing.  Didn't answer my question, "What exactly should be done to me for not paying taxes?".  Danced around it a lot, though.Good point.  The better question for eMansipater is: "What specifically do you, eMansipater, advocate be done to me for not paying taxes?  What actions does your community deem appropriate towards an individual who does not pay taxes?  Would you condone the use of violence against me should I not pay taxes?"Exactly.  I did not request such services.  I did not have a choice in what services to use or not use.  And I don't even think the *quality* of the services supposedly provided are even acceptable.  Yes, it is morally disgusting.  And frustrating to debate.  If they would be forthright and simply state, "Yes, I advocate initiating threats of violence against you for not paying taxes", then you can at least know to dissociate from them. Discouse is not a waste of time.  It is very important to nail some things out. For instance, was your non-support of the war a voluntary decision on your part or was it because you happend to be too young in the first war and happened by chance, for various complex political reasons, that the country you next lived in choose not to support the second war?  I am getting the impression that you think taxes are voluntary somehow, however your taxes not going to support the war was apparently entirely by chance from external circumstances outside of your control.Come now.  I'm being quite civil since as you're well aware I've advocated neither.  Rather, I've advocated the availability of access to alternatives.[/quote]What exactly should be done to me for not paying taxes? +1Yes, it is very hard to have a civil discussion with proponents of the so-called "social-contract" when they advocate deporting or locking up in government-run rape cages anyone near their geographical area who disagrees with them. You don't live in a UN member nation?
I like how the the status on this forum is merit based (based on your number of posts), rather than democratically or monetarily.   I've reached the point where I try to reject political concepts.  All I can do as a human is to act.  Therefore, acting is what is important.  And how do I act?  By promoting bitcoin, when possible...  Does this make me an "anarchist".  I guess so... The governments you pay for helped invade Somalia:and earlier https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Battle_of_Mogadishu_(1993).Oh yeah, and for the last time, Somalia's current political situation is as follows: Ahh, the social contract...it's not very social, and it's not really a contract. Lol!  I hope you guys realize I'm being sarcastic!  Anyway, I doubt that very many people would choose to use the client that skims of part of every transaction for the government. Hard to say.  There are a lot of ignorant consumers out there who have no idea what's inside their computer.  A lot of people have really fancy cpus and graphics cards, but are totally unaware of it and then only use their computer to browse the internet... a wise man (kiba FatherMcGruder) once told me: 6) How long before such a Bitcoin Company selling organs gets taken over by a self-aware bitcoin network that farms humans for organs to support bitcoin lifeforms? I'm afraid that eventually someone will write a bitcoin virus.  It basically infects your computer, runs bitcoin miner, and sends any proceeds to the virus creator.  I don't want to give anyone ideas, though , but at least it would strengthen the network .  My question is:3) How long until some government starts accepting bitcoin as payment for taxes?I mean, it's inevitable...  Governments always seem to grow and eventually collapse under their own weight after a long enough time, and by then, their currency would probably be worthless (couldn't even pay government employees with their own fiat currency), so states may reluctantly accept bitcoins while on their death beds. I suggest eMansipater and friends fork the bitcoin client code to automatically send a percentage of each transaction to the government.+1.  Yes.  Indeed, I have come to realize that market-anarchism is inevitable.  Thanks to disruptive technologies such as the internet, cryptography, and bitcoin, it is only a matter of time.  The seeds have been sown.  The next evolution of human society has begun. Yes please  Oh dammit... I just sent 10 bitcoins to 14bfFHNybWP8BQak2iDdHdBC9pmUEthQff...I hope you recieved it and can use it towards either this Agora I/O's ad or someother advertisement.  Anyway, there are some very great youtube videos from the Agora I/O Unconference uploaded by http://www.youtube.com/georgedonnelly, some better than others.  I would recommend Brad Spangler's lecture on Agorism. excellent video!  Great explanation/introduction for your average Joe. Ditto...yup: http://stossel.blogs.foxbusiness.com/2011/03/22/starting-a-new-currency-is-%E2%80%9Cdomestic-terrorism%E2%80%9D/ has a quote from the U.S. Attorney who prosecuted Bernard von NotHaus for coining a competing gold dollar currency:I think it's time for you, eMansipater, to reluctantly accept the fact that your efforts to promote bitcoin make you into a domestic terrorist, as far as the US Government is concerned, whether you like it or not.  Admittedly, it took me a while to embrace the fact that I'm an "enemy of the state".Thanks for introducing me to concept Stand Alone Complex.  Yes, there is no conspiracy, but rather The State is an ecosystem/organism that, through natural processes of the self-interested individuals making it up, evolves it into a parasite living off of its subjects.Exactly.  BTW, please stop implying that anarchism is a political ideology.  Anarchism is a lack of political beliefs, just like Atheism is a lack of religious beliefs.I think you are conflating anarchism with pacifism.  Anarchists of the market-anarchist variety are not necessarily pacifists, but rather simply believe that voluntarily-funded competing providers of law, security, and any other good are preferable to a coercive monopoly.Wait a minute...can't people simply use a new address for every transaction?  But yeah, anyway, I sometimes wonder how long it will take for some government somewhere to reluctantly start accepting bitcoin as legitimate payment of taxes...  Just like how some 3rd world countries have ended up pegging their currency to the dollar or simply just declared the US dollar as their main currency.+1.  I'm tired of all this "go along to get along" harmonious BS too.  I wasted so much time in Libertarian Party and Ron Paul politics where they would always tell me to shut up whenever I tried to point out the gun in the room.Anyway, another great thing about bitcoin is that it introduces a lot of statists (def: staism is the advocacy of the state to solve social problems) like eMansipater who are intrigued by the secure, distributed, p2p nature of bitcoin to the wonderful world of secure, distributed, p2p law/security of market-anarchism, even though they really didn't want to be!   I bet you could get the core workings of bitcoin much smaller, maybe < 4kb. thanks Mike! LOLFEST going on here... once I see a public bitcoin address on http://www.openleaks.org/content/support.shtml, I'll donate. Japan is relatively wealthy, which is why you don't see so many building collapses.  People who have enough money to invest in a good home/building and who live in earthquake zones will obviously make sure it is earthquake-resistant.
WTF:Sony wins subpoenas revealing visitors to PS3 jailbreaker site (5th March 2011 00:57 GMT)Dammit...I shouldn't have visited his site!   Sony wins subpoena for PS3 hacker's PayPal records (16th March 2011 23:53 GMT)Poor fellow should have used bitcoin for donations    according to https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/Operating_system:key words: "Provides common services for efficient execution of various application software."  Let's be aware that we wouldn't be able to efficiently execute software without a terminal script (GNU's bash), coreutils to provide commands for humans to navigate computer and run programs (GNU's cat, ls, rm, chmod, cp, mkdir, cd, mv, printf, su, etc.), a compiler to convert high-level code of Linux kernel to various machine language (GNU's gcc), the ability to make common libraries and link them together with compiled object files to make executable files (GNU's ld), and many others key GNU components, at the least.Apparently the long and complex Wikipedia decision making process has reached the verdict that GNU/Linux is indeed an operating system.But yeah, I don't really care about Stallman's whining. Oh dear.  That time has come.  That time when we start seeing Satoshi impersonators popping up everywhere.  Just like Elvis.  It's archetypal. Sweet!  I just donated 20 BTC... Reminds me of the concept of an "Illegal Prime" - a prime number that represents information forbidden to possess or distribute.  Example:Its binary representation corresponds to a compressed version of the C source code of a computer program implementing the DeCSS decryption algorithm, which can be used by a computer to circumvent a DVD's copy protection. Great idea...  You are a very smart person...  I wish I could have thought of such a simple idea. I think the distinction should be made about new creative works.Enough with the ad-hominems, gene.Kiba's grammar skills is irrelevant to his arguments.As for the ponzi schemes, I'm fine as long as they are honest and free to enter/leave.  Unlike social security. Those names are cracking me up. That's why I call myself a "free-market anti-capitalist". But didn't Thomas Edison rely on the patent system to make a living off his inventions?  -Gene.(I couldn't resist) Yes, and I had to walk on the public sidewalks (created using eminent domain) to get to my car (paid by the GM bailout money) and used gas (subsidized by the US imperialism in the Mideast) to drive on the roads (funded by taxes) to get to my research job (oh, did I mention that I attended a public school funded by State monopoly lottery money?), ... , ... , ... , ... , etc.Folks, this discussion is going nowhere.  I am reminded of a concept called "Falsifiability":https://secure.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/wiki/FalsifiabilityGene simply has to show that the inventor or researcher lived for some part of his life on a plot of land claimed by some monopolistic government, thereby proving that the research depended on tax money.  Since every plot of land on earth is claimed by at least one state, Gene's claim is unfalsifiable.  I am going to treat Gene as another internet troll from now on and focus my efforts on my research and on promoting bitcoin.   She looks very nice.(FYI, for you next art project, maybe don't have too many intermediate stages, it causes your followers to loose interest.  Remember, "Less is More".) Gene, you may be unaware that us anarcho-libertarians refer to the minarchist pseudo "libertarian" outfits funded by the Koch brothers using the derogatory term "Kochtopus" (type it into your favorite search engine).Here's an 1984 article by anarcho-capitalist Murray Rothbard dissing the Kochtopus: "The State of the Movement: The Implosion".  The term "kochtopus" was first used by the agorist (a form of libertarian anarchism advocating for counter economics to bring freedom) Samuel E. Konkin III.Btw, does Gene actually use bitcoin?  Freedom of money seems to go against everything he believes. Visualizing... ... ... ... ... ...yes! +1 +1 +1 +1 +1       Folks, Campaign for Liberty has posted a YouTube video of Ben Bernanke criticizing the Franklin/Dodd Audit the Fed bill at The National Press Club 02/03/11.  I think this is a great opportunity to reach out to them and find some new converts for bitcoin, by trying out your "Bitcoin in 15 Words for Laymen".  Note that most of the C4L folk are probably gold bugs, so don't say anything that might possibly insult gold...for example this is what ericfontainejazz wrote: Time to start a poll: who will be the first government to start accepting bitcoin as payment for taxes? Today's LRC (lewrockwell.com) has an article by Bill Rounds (who wrote "How to Vanish") which mentions bitcoin as a privacy-protecting alternative banking system to the heavily regulated US banking system which forces your bank to spy on you:"How to avoid springing a wikileak" (http://www.lewrockwell.com/rounds/rounds22.1.html):Lew Rockell, whether you like him and his cohorts or not, is a very respected libertarian blogger/thinker/activist, and his site is "the most read libertarian site in the world"... I think it is safe to declare that Nenolod was wrong.  Case closed.  Or else, you will never get any sleep.I put forward a motion to close this thread.  Does anyone second?
I'm not letting the GUBBAMINT take away my IPv4 router!!! This is where Steganography comes into play.Do you see the cat embedded below in the picture of the tree? =>  but now that just sounds like an advertising slogan, that even your average joe sixpack will identify as propaganda. that was great background music and animations to go along... You mean grammar?"That mean all the future works that ever put out by me..." => "That means that all future works that will ever be put out by me...""I don't mean just consume, but to modify and commercialize as well." => "I don't mean just to consume, but to modify and to commercialize as well." OR "I don't mean just consume, but to modify and commercialize as well.""Rather, I believed it make rational sense(confers economic benefit) for me to do so." => "Rather, I believed it makes rational sense (confers economic benefit) for me to do so."  (previous tense was not past)... Ok...that explains a lot. Don't talk about a plan to do nothing.Instead, engage in direct action that does something to build up alternatives to the government. Uugh.  PayPal is yet one more example of a pro-freedom "thing" that got corrupted into a pro-slavery "thing".  I read a Cato article by the supposed "hard-core" anarcho-capitalist Peter Theil explaining that he founded PayPal to create an alternative currency outside the control of governments and central banks...but now look at what it has become.  Yet another example of being corrupted by money and power, or atleast being forced to give-in to the government's demands. interesting.  This BPP seems more close to raw data...doesn't try to fudge stuff like CPI does... read half of it so far...interesting article.  And I guess it's from a non-liberty-orientated magazine. +1Indeed, computer CPU cache's work on the principle of not cleaning up.  Basically instead of putting modified data back in memory after it is last used, they instead wait for that cache space to be used before putting the modified data back. The time has come for us to not be ashamed of our political beliefs.But all we wish for is that people treat each with respect and respect themselves as well.We no longer need to fear who we are.I was a closeted anarcho-capitalist for too long. When there is a will, there is a way.http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9207078/Without_Internet_Egyptians_find_new_ways_to_get_online We will have to keep secrets by not sharing them... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y4tWwY02dj8time 0:56 - "Obama calls for Mubarak to refrain from initiating violence against his people." -AP News Narratortime 1:00 - "The people of Egypt have rights that are universal."-Obama This is precious.  The NAP and Universality principles together in one small 5 second AP news clip. Awesome!!!!  I have donated both fiat USD and bitcoin to EFF.  They are one of the few inside the system organizations doing *something* for freedom. I would donate bitcoins to freedomainradio... works now.  Thanks for taking care of that, and I'm proud of you for making such a public declaration. I enjoyed that youtube a lot.Keep in mind that that text is a transcription of verbal spoken youtube video spoken word, so it makes much more sense when watching it as a video rather than reading it on paper. Good point.  While I dispute anything that any government does, I must admit that an argument against feeding koala bears as a tourist attractment to make money while there are homeless people starving would be an argument against voluntary exchange.  Of course, since the government is doing it, we can complain that that money was stolen from people.I'm suprised there are so few homeless people in Japan  .  How can anyone possibly pay rent in Japan ?  I visted Tokyo for about a week, and that city ate up my whole life savings ...
I do get concerned about Facebook's market share.  I'm liking them less and less.  Even though I'm a voluntaryist/anarcho-capitalist, I don't like how everyone keeps all their stuff in centralized servers and uses Facebook as their internet browser.  There are some voluntary actions that, when taken in the aggregate, are potentially damaging to society. HAHAHA, great comments, everyone.  kibabase.com is not loading on my computer.   I have noticed that too, JohnDoe.  I think it also has to do with psychology whereby you trust gold and silver because you feel comfortable with them.  Then bitcoin is the new kid on the block, so you are immediately skeptical. JAZZ LESSONS for BITCOIN!!!    For those of you who don't know, I'm a jazz saxophone player...here's a couple links to hear my playing:my podcast with 20gigs of live mp3 recordings - podcast.ericfontainejazz.commy YouTube channel that I updated regularly - youtube.com/ericfontainejazzAnyway, I have started accepting bitcoin to review anyone's jazz playing.  Basically if you want some advice on improving your jazz soloing (and music in general or anything else for that matter ), just upload a video to youtube, send approximately 1 bitcoin per minute of video (but suggested minimum is the equivalent of 1USD) to mybitcoin.com address ericfontainejazz with a link to your youtube video, and then ericfontainejazz will write comments on your youtube video (or send a private message if requested) on how to improve your playing.  I might even send a video response if you send me extra bitcoins  (send a youtube message to ericfontainejazz first). Answer: bitcoinAnswer: contractsAnswer: New workers would get paid by whatever means the current workers and the new workers agree on.  I like the idea of new workers being paid partly with stock, so they gradually come to own a share of the brewery in proportion to the amount of effort they put in.Who says anarchists expect to avoid wage labor?  I guess I need a more specific definition of "anarchist" and "wage labor".  In order for humans to exist, they must consume resources.  If they are unable to produce enough resources on their own or trade for them, then they starve to death.  Some may say that humans are compelled to work for an employer.  However, Stargazer gives a very good explication that so-called anarcho-communists do not actually solve the problem of wage slavery, but rather just shift the distribution of resources around so that you are compelled to work for a different employer (e.g. the commune's majority rule): http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=urASFJClhdIShort answer to the solution to wage-slavery: you need to own skills, resources, and/or capital that can produce things demand by society.  For example, start your own home-brewery (as a sole-proprietorship or cooperative with friends). congratulations!  I switched to Ubuntu from Windows about six months ago and have never gone back.  If you run into any problems, just post to the Ubuntu forums, and someone will help. I liked that one. Thank you FreeMoney, that is what I mean.  In the past, freedom of speech may have included freedom to publish or print any writings unencumbered without censorship or limitation, provided you can to pay for the paper, ink, printing, and postage.  With telephones, this of course includes the ability to call anyone provided you have a phone and pay the phone bill.  So Freedom of Speech in the internet age, by extension, includes the ability for anyone to send any packet to anyone else on the internet unencumbered without censorship or limitation, provided that you of course own a computer and pay for internet connection.As FreeMoney's signature quote used to say: "Free as in Freedom, not Free Beer..." I just realized this today: Thanks to bitcoin, Freedom of Speech implies Freedom of Money.  First off, I'm assuming that freedom of speech includes the ability for anyone to send any packet to anyone else on the internet (and also implied is that you own an internet-connected computing device).  If you have this ability unrestricted, then you can mine and trade bitcoin.  So you have Freedom of Money, or the ability to exchange entities of value without interference from 3rd parties. How does I2P work in China, Nefario?  I read that Tor has been effectively blocked there... 啊！ 你好！  你在中国吗？  我可以说中文。  你可能设置互联网服务器吗？ 我要互联网镜像站点。 Yes I do.  But I didn't realize that this was illegal.  Anyone know the relevant laws?  Surely trading a few hundred yuan can't be illegal. Ok, just sent you 10 bitcoins. "Man took oath as is...""Ass akin to ham too...""Ass hat motion A-OK!""Man hiss at oak too.""Ask sin too ham oat.""As anti atom shook...""Hoist mason at oak."and many other meaningless nonsense.  But possible. I'll buy bitcoin at 3.01 yuan for 1 bitcoin! How about BernankeCoin, whose interest rate changes at will of Bernanke.  It would be pegged to the US dollar.  I think it'll be just great!  And look at how many people use the US dollar...that means BernankeCoin will be very popular!   Green Lizard Aliens from the Future working with the Government and George Soros and, and, and...The Bilderbergers...What does it mean??Bitcoin was an INSIDE JOB!!!! The messenger brings good news!  The Great Creator, Satoshi, speaks though His chosen disciple on earth, Gavin Andresen, to tell us that He exists! Interestingly, Smedley Butler is widely quoted by us anti-statists as an argument for precisely why we shouldn't have a state.  The State is used by private interests to advance their private goals at the expense of the rest of society.I'm curious, gene.  If you are so much opposed to private control over money, then why are you supporting bitcoin?
Looks like gene took my bait Excellent point...Any reasonable study should be comparing apples to apples.+1Stefan Molyneux has a nice little video "Anarchy in Somalia".  He makes the clever point in his introduction that:  Righto.     I wasn't implying any intents or reasons.  I was just making a factual statement.  Yes, I agree...that's why I'm saying make it as similar to bitcoin as possible, for ease of support. Thanks for this article.  I always like to read stuff that supports my view.Looks like the author Peter Leeson has done some books on "The Economics of (Ocean) Piracy":Reminds me of the US government...  The US government people have their own little internal rules and incentive structures allowing them to work together to achieve their criminal ends... That doesn't seem wise.  Planning ahead is one of the great abilities us humans have.  We should use it to anticipate potential problems so we can avoid them. This is the point I made after my draft proof about market-equilibrium: there will be those who flat out reject any inflation-limited currency, and will therefore ignore the many benefits of the distributed p2p network proof-of-work cryptographic currency model.  These people simply won't join bitcoin.  So they currently aren't helping the cause.  But if someone creates a timecoin mod of bitcoin, then they will help the cause.  Only drawback, I think is that it might take away contributors to the bitcoin network.  But as I argue, in market equilibrium, these arguments about inflation vs. deflation currency are in a sense irrelevant.What is the cause, you ask?  Why, the cause is freedom, of course.  More specifically, allowing people to trade freely without the control of governments.Think about Linux.  There are soo many varieties of Linux out there.  Various Linux kernels: embedded linux kernels, desktop linux kernel, cellphone linux kernel, supercomputer linux kernel.  Various Linux distributions: Ubuntu, Fedora, Suse, Arch, etc.  Various architectural to compile for: x86, arm, sparc, etc.  Everyone has their own little niche, and their own little silly preferences (even though they may be silly).  But all this variety is good, because it gets more people behind the cause of freedom!Edit: another negative drawback of having timecoin (in addition to splitting the network power) is that vendors will have more currencies to support (in addition to whatever fiat currencies, paypal, google checkout, visa, mastercard, etc.).  So if you do intend to go the route of making a timecoin client, please make it as compatible with bitcoin as possible.  I'd say it is even possible to have one client program that can generate both bitcoin and timecoin, and maybe switch between the two with a simple command-line option or menu option.  That way, a supporter of timecoin could easily change into a support of bitcoin.  (heck, it would even be possible lateron to have a slider to select the percentage of hashes spent for timecoin vs bitcoin). Damn Holograms!  Dey Terk Eur Jeerbs!!!  (At least we won't have to deal with prima donna pop stars anymore...)USA technology is﻿ mostly weapons.  Japanese people use their technology and money for entertainment, not war. No one can predict what prices will be.  That is all a function of supply and demand.  Some things get easier to produce with increased technologies and efficiencies in the economy, so their supply curve will drop, leading to decreased price (other things being equal).  Some things, such as non-renewable resources, will have their supply curve increase due to lower availability, so prices will increase (other things being equal).  But assuming a fixed amount of bitcoin currency at 21million, and assuming that there is technological improvements and growth in the number of goods in the economy, then the price of goods in bitcoin will drop. They might get paid a higher numerical amount for their salary if paid in inflatable timecoin, but the purchasing power of their timecoin salary will not necessarily be greater than had they been paid in bitcoins.Dude, you can do whatever you want.  It seems to me that implementing timecoin would just require modifying a few lines of the bitcoin code.  Go ahead, do it.  It will divide the network.  People will put their money in what they think is a better store of value and medium of exchange.  In the end, I just see there being some steady exchange rate for price of bitcoin in terms of timecoin, which will gradually increases as timecoin inflates but bitcoin doesn't.Fundamentally it doesn't matter either way.  The (profit) incentive for people to mine bitcoin or timecoin equals the revenue generated from the current market exchange rate value of the coin produced minus the costs to generate the hashes for the block (which includes energy, mining computer equipment, opportunity cost, etc.).  Note that the bitcoin network continues to produce blocks and coin even when there are 20,999,999 bitcoins in existance.  Due to economics (i.e. incentives and assuming rational, self-interested bitcoin miners), the profit margin for block production in perfect competition at equilibrium approaches 0, so the market value of coins produced will be roughly equal to the mining costs.  Therefore, at equilibrium, the value of the bitcoins produced in the last marginal bitcoin block will be roughly equal to the amount of energy (and computer equipment, opportunity cost, etc.) spent in that 10-minute time period (on average) to solve the block.  Likewise for timecoin, at equilibrium, the value of the coins produced in the last marginal timecoin block will be roughly equal to the amount of energy (and computer equipment, opportunity cost, etc.) spent in that 10-minute time period (on average) to solve the block.  Assuming that there are negligible transaction costs for trading between bitcoin and timecoin and assuming that miners could freely choose to mine for bitcoin or mine for timecoin (and will chose which one to mine for based on expected profit), the phenomenon you will see occur is that the market value of the last bitcoin block produced in that 10-minute time period will roughly equal the market value of the last timecoin block produced in that 10-minute time period.  And even though the nominal coin inflation rates may be different, the nominal rate of block production will be the same for both bitcoin and timecoin.  Therefore, regardless of different nominal rates of coin inflation, the market value of added bitcoins in each 10-minute period will equal the market value of added timecoins in each 10-minute period.  Q.E.D.  (Please point our possible errors, aside from grammatical and language, in my proof.  I could have more easily communicated this using calculus with mathematical equations, but that's a quick verbal draft of the proof.)Dude, money is just the medium.Anyway, despite this proof, I'm sure your average layman will not care or be able to understand market equilibrium.  And they are likely to be many people who are believe in the false promise of "price stability" by timecoin and who desire a (nominally) inflationary currency.  Therefore, I encourage them to jump on and build a timecoin network that will exist besides the bitcoin network.  (And hey, redundancy is a good thing).  The more people using distributed peer-to-peer cryptographic timestamp networks, the better...I should emphasize that the government currently uses violence to force us to use an inflationary currency.  Without force, you will have competition between currencies. I stopped reading after this phrase. Don't pay taxes!  That money is used to support the government! Same with a currency that's infinitely divisible, no? Why would people convert from hard bitcoins into an always inflating currency?  (of course, I won't stop them from doing so...they can feel free...but I doubt in the long run that people will be storing their money in it.)  Fundamentally, as long as the two currencies are freely exchangeable, and there is no state forcing everyone into one currency instead of the other, then the two currencies could be freely traded with eachother.  But since timecoin looses value over time, I would think that since there is a fixed number of bitcoins, the number of timecoins needed to purchase a bitcoin (after bitcoin is close to its 21mill limit) would gradually incase according to its rate of inflation (other things being equal).Of course, people should feel free to mod the bitcoin client into a timecoin client, and maybe the will be proven right if people for some reason prefer to trade in inflating currency, but I doubt the market would choose that. ROFL!      I'm worried that "CoinPal" will get sued by "PayPal" for trademark violation.  I've heard so many nasty stories about companies like "Facebook" suing any social networking site with "Face" or "Book" in the url.  And I remember the Liberty Dollar was ultimately taken down under the pretense that it violated the US trademark on "Dollar"... Sounds interesting...Could you provide me a link to this discussion?  I am very much interested in the scalability limits and minimum hardware/bandwidth requirements for bitcoin to 'work'.  If there were some way to proove that a functioning bitcoin client needs {some minimum hardware requirements} to function, that would be useful...  Ultimately, I would like to see bitcoin clients running as embedded devices inside smartcards, cellphones, etc. If the current number of blocks in existence (C) equals 15, and the block number that a transaction was filled in (T) equals 10, then that means that there were C minus T = 15 - 10 = 5 confirmations for that transaction. Fair enough.  I suppose there is nothing inherently immoral about the whole prey-on-OC-behavior thing, and someone is going to do it anyway...Excellent point.  That's why I suggest we focus our targeted lobbying efforts to try to get the "Humble Indie Bundle" (http://www.humblebundle.com/) to accept bitcoin.  There is a great deal of cultural overlap between the bitcoin community and the DRM-free gaming community:  "Free" as in freedom, not "free beer".  I almost  bought from them this December, but I didn't want to use the evil paypal, google checkout, or another proprietary payment options. My apologies.  I guess I was thinking of the Cuda stuff. I voted. Won't work.  Bluetooth on cellphone is no more than ~10 feet.
I second this.  I'm using Ubuntu right now, getting 56,000 khash/sec on my Nvidia GeForce 9800GX2.  Was easy to setup and install, but keep in mind that Ubuntu won't install any proprietary drivers by default.  You have to go directly to the manufacturer's website to install their linux drivers.Here's the setup code to get the OpenCL miner running: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2636And here's a little script I wrote to automatically start the GPU miner when screensaver starts: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2636.msg37461#msg37461 Yes, that's your free low-resolution preview picture which I linked.  Here's the pay download: http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/77Why do you think Satoshi is a male, not a girl?  You don't have any evidence!  You must have some precontrived notion about gender roles, and assume that Satoshi must be a male because you think girls are not as good at programming or cryptography.  I was simply using an artists public rendering, but I never used "he" or "she" in the bio, since I don't know.    I am not a miner!  And I refuse to be called a farmer!  Such occupations are suited for the lower classes!I like to think of myself as a...Mathematician!Transaction Verificational Engineer!Financial Fraud Detective!SHA256 Explorer!Numerical Investigator!... This would not happen to a large extent with bitcoins, since your wallet is your bank.  There is no need to store your money somewhere else.  Of course if you like gambling, you could lend your money to some BitCoin bank in exchange for a promissory note... I'm thinking "Farmville".  Yes.  Let's exploit weak humans by preying on their obsessive-compulisve behavior for profit.   No.  I do not think so.  I would rather pay a (legal) girl honest money (bitcoin) to see her naked. I like this guy.  Walter Block is very intelligent.  And he says "voluntary" a lot, so I like!   ^^^ Alert: This post is full of many logical fallacies and false claims about anarchists. I think we will have to start preparing for funeral expenses. Since kiba did not accept my nomination, I have taken the initiative to do so myself:Please contribute to the "Friends of Satoshi Nakamoto, R.I.P. 19XX-2010" funeral fund:1Aosrnd568Sh1PSXeCfBFgKYz6kBdv2awKI am preparing a brief bio generated from what information I can find on the internet.  I have included an artist's rendering of what Satoshi is believed to have looked like below:bio: "Satoshi Nakamoto was a pioneer in the frontier of crypto-anarchy.  Satoshi is most widely known for the creation and development of a cryptographic decentralized peer-to-peer digital currency, dubbed 'bitcoin', which uses a clever proof-of-work scheme to solve the infamous 'double-spending' problem without resorting to the use of a centralized authority.  The currency soon grew, with several millions of dollars worth of bitcoins currently in existence.  This, unfortunately, drew the attention of the authorities, namely governments and banks who felt threated by the erosion of their monopoly power over the issuance of currency and control over trade.  It is presumed that Satoshi was taken down in a raid on his home, due to the potential ability that bitcoin could be used to fund the whistle-blowing journalistic organization 'Wikileaks', which lost its main sources of income (PayPal, Visa, BoA, etc) after exposing government conspiracies and providing transparency to the US State Department's foreign affairs.  However, since bitcoin is a peer-to-peer currency, it will be able to continue to grow despite the death of its creator and spiritual leader, Satoshi Nakamoto." When you say "be mathematically proven it won't go awry using finite state machine models" do you mean that incase the bits holding the registers for the finite state machine get flipped (and thus may enter into a random state), that the state machine transitions must be robust such that it will gracefully return the state machine back to a known legitimate state?Regarding finding peers, what about something like what TOR uses, or maybe even better I2P Network Database, which is a bit more decentralized:I'm still trying to understand it all.  There seems to always be some sort of bootstrapping for any p2p network (anyone know if this is always the case?).  Is maybe selecting a "URL at random" from the list of hardcoded directories a better idea than just picking them from the list in order?  It seems having different locations for directory lookup has less likelihood of centralized point of failure... Bitcoin block generation is entirely probabilistic, where each hash attempt is completely independent on others.  According to http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.php the probability of time you will have to wait to generate a block are as follows:You will have to wait.    That's why you are on it, idiot!              I sent them 10 bitcoins...was a very interesting podcast! I want to know that the girls are receiving my bitcoins.  I don't want to be exploiting anyone. shameful.Could you impart some of your knowledge about this to us.  I am very interested.  Are you saying that SSL Certificate Authorities are centralized possible points of control?  How?  Are there decentralized alternatives?Is it not possible for me to setup my own mail server on my own VPS, such that all my mail could be provably private (without my VPS or anyone else being able to decrypt my messages)? My apologies everyone for using that horribly misunderstood term "democracy".  I should have instead used the term "democratic State" instead of "democratic government", since a democratic government formed entirely by consenting adults is perfectly permissible (and may even be a more efficient form of government for a business enterprise or management of shared resources than the typical hierarchical dictatorship with CEOs and board members running everything top down), while a democratic state is by its very nature must initiate violence against unconsenting inhabitants inside its territory.  Indeed, I am very much open to the concept of democratically controlled infrastructure at the local level.  For instance, each of us could go around our local neighbored, solicit money to fund a local high speed internet loop on our local road, form a democratically-governed contract detailing how decisions about purchasing and maintaining of the network routers, switches, and fiber cables on our little neighborhood should be determined, and what routing protocols should be used to ensure fairness (and how fairness of bandwidth usage should be defined).  For every neighborhood road, there is likely to be at least one geek/nerd like us who would be competent in setting up such a network.  And then connect each local highspeed networks to neighboring networks to build up a new internet in an decentralized mesh-like fashion, rather than have big ISP control the passage of your bits between your home and the centralized Internet Exchange Point which connects to the rest of the network. A synchronized audit by everyone who has an account in those banks.  Secretly pick and have everyone agree on a random time (without the bank's knowledge), and at that time, simultaneously login to the bitcoin bank (or mybitcoin, or mtgox, or whatever), and have everyone withdraw all their bitcoins.  If that bank is unable to provide anyone's deposit on demand, then they are in breach of contract and are thus criminals.  Sue them, ostracize them, or use (legitimate) violence against them. How do they impose distortions? I listened to that podcast as well.  Very interesting guy that Perry Metzger fellow is, and we should heed his points questioning the ability of bitcoin to withstand a serious government attack.  First thing, and I think this has already been proposed/done, is a big bitcoin bounty for anyone who finds a security bug in the code as an incentive.  Second, and this has been discussed before, is to decouple the specifics of the bitcoin protocol from the current C implementation.  This will help each of us understand what exactly is going on in the code (admittedly, I don't know the entirety of what is happening in the code), and allow bitcoin to be implemented in other languages, hopefully more secure languages that have explicit type and error checking built in. You are making an excellent point.  I was also listening to the latest "Thinking Liberty" podcast, and they mentioned this same thing.  The fact that us internet users do not actually own the wires and switches that make up the internet is a serious issue.  Of course having a democratic government take over the internet from the corporations would probably make things worse.  The crux of the problem is that the current structure of the internet is not a p2p, but rather extremely hierarchical with the major corporations and the governments controlling the backbones.  I think the solution is that 'we' actually need to start wiring up our neighborhoods ourselves. Oops!!!  I feel like an idiot!  (But I included the error message so that a smart person like you could read it and copy and paste it for me)  Yup!  That's exactly the problem. I just fixed my sources.list, and it installs just fine.Don't worry, I'm a vim user.  
Intel(R) Celeron(R) E3300  @ 2.50GHz, Dual CoreUbuntu 10.04Bitcoin 0.3.19~2,200 khash/snVidia GF 9800GX2 @ 600 Mhz, Dual Card, with 128 cores/card~26,000 khash/s on card running display~28,000 khash/s on card not running display I didn't belive you, but apparently it's true that China is getting better at blocking Tor. "Here's a graph of returning users to the Tor Network from China":So looks like they blocked the regular channels a little over a year ago, but according to blog.torproject.org, "most Tor users in China switched to non-public relays, called bridges, over the past few months. Interestingly, the GFW has also started blocking some of the more popular bridges":So what that means, is we should help out our chinese bretheren and setup a Tor bridge.This is when Steganogrphy - the art and science of writing hidden messages in such a way that no one, apart from the sender and intended recipient, suspects the existence of the message - comes into play.  Basically you have to embed your cryptographic messages inside 'whitelisted' communication channels disguised as legitimate media. Nor rent...and they probably got their GPU from Santa.    Maybe we should try to get The Humble Indie Bundle to accept bitcoin payment.  They seem to have bi-annual releases of a package of games, where they let you choose your own price and how much you want to donate to your favorite charity.  I was going to buy one for myself over the holidays, but didn't want to use paypal... Where's the "Like", "Thumbs Up", or "+" button on this simple machines forum?  So many great quotes here... ^^^ WIN.Yes, the cat has been released out of the box.  PGP has been released to the public.  All networking standards by the IEEE are open.  It is too late for the government to turn back.  It will be an epic battle, but we will prevail. Dude...wait a minute here.  I never had to sign any contract when I purchased my PS3 new from the retail store.  It is only when you log into the sony network that you have to "agree" to any ToS.  works.but how do I know the girls are getting properly compensated with my bitcoin? http://www.betanews.com/article/Sony-sues-Hotz-hacking-group-over-PS3-hacks/1294869035Wow.  Poor fellow.  That kid is a hero, not to mention an inspiration to humanity, in my book at least. Good point!  Actually, I've set the screen saver to disply my photo image gallery, so it doesn't consume many GPU cycles.   ^^^ Spot-on.   Looking good! Maybe the US government setup an assassination-market and placed a bounty for Satoshi's head...in BITCOINS!!!How many bitcoins is Satoshi's head worth to the government? Glad you are using GnuPG.  Here's my PGP public key, if anyone feels like sending me an encrypted message for fun: I modified this Ubuntu python script http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=498631 which runs a command when the screensaver is invoked, to instead make it run the OpenCL miner on DEVICE 1 (which is the GPU controlling my video screen) and also modified this script to ensure it kills the OpenCL miner properly when exiting screensaver.  Then I added this script to my startup programs (in addition to the python script to run on DEVICE 0), so that I now have DEVICE 0 startup mining on login and then have DEVICE 1 startup mining when screensaver is invoked.  That's a total of ~56,000 khash/sec when my screen saver is on using both cards of my GF9800GX2!Update: I fixed a small bug...what you see above is corrected. Thanks to this OpenCL bitcoin miner, I'm getting 28,000 khash/sec on my Nvidia GF9800GX2, on an Ubuntu 10.10 machine, with an additional 2,000 khash/sec from the regular bitcoin client running on my low-end Core2 Duo.UPDATE: that 28,000 khash/sec is only using one card (DEVICE 0) of the dual-card GF9800GX2.  The other card (DEVICE 1) currently renders my desktop screen, but when I run DEVICE 1, I get an additional 26,000 khash/sec.  That is a total of ~54,000 khash/sec when both cards of my GF9800GX2 are being used.UPDATE: I modified a script to invoke this OpenCL miner to run DEVICE 1 upon detection of screen saver: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2636.msg37461#msg37461 Awesome!  I just did a fresh upgrade from Ubuntu 10.04 to 10.10, and followed your above instructions, and it worked for me, no problems.  Do you have a bitcoin donate address?I'm getting 28,000 khash/sec on my Nvidia GF9800GX2 GPU using this OpenCL miner in addition to the 2,000 khash/sec on my low-end Core2 Duo CPU.UPDATE: THAT 28,000 khash/sec was on just one GPU, but the GX2 has two GPUS.  When I also spawn a second process using -d 1, then I get an additional ~26,000 khash/sec for the GPU running my main display (but screen is clunkly, of course). Who should we nominate to organize the funeral and hold the money?  I nominate Kiba! Oh yes, you can always "opt out", since America is a free country.  They will provide you with the "freedom" option.  At the airports, the "freedom option" is to not fly or get physically molested.  So with the internet, there will be the "freedom" option of not using the internet, or maybe you will be able to go to the public library computers and have everything you type logged. Did not install on my Ubuntu 10.04 x86-64:
pretty cool! Looks like there is atleast one poor client in Thailand.  Poor fellow will have difficulties using ฿ for Bhat and Bitcoin. I'm guessing that this would be a very very very small space agency...possibly only serving mice or mini-robots/computers?    Keep in mind the entire value of all bitcoins in existence is only on the order of a million dollars. I like that idea of using multiple keys... For some reason, I don't remember reading that phrase "the homosexual agenda" when I first read this post yesterday... It's not entirely bad news...check out this Wired story: "Twitters Response to WikiLeaks Subpoena Should Be the Industry Standard" Let's call that KIBA'S LAW!!!     Also keep in mind Bill Clinton's law: "It all depends on "what the meaning of the word 'is' is."   So I would argue that we should decouple the following two related meanings of "is" as relevant to bitcoin:the fundamental physical structure that describes the entity known as bitcoin: a distributed electronic network-based peer-to-peer cryptographic timestamp network of transactions that uses proof-of-work to ensure that the official mutually-agreed-upon list of transactions could only be generated by nodes with a majority of network power of computers solving for SHA hashes based on a difficulty that increases with network size and over time.the functional ability that describes what the entity known as bitcoin does or can be used for: a distributed electronic network-based peer-to-peer medium of exchange where issuance of new units of exchange (i.e. rate of inflation) is limited to a fixed rate per unit of time which gradually decreases over time and which prevents double spending without requiring a centralized agency.Of course I am not the best with words, but I hope you understand that the difference between fundamental structure as a distributed timestamp network and functional ability as a distributed inflation-resistant electronic currency.  There are further relevant definitions of "is", such as it's legal definition as possibly a currency/monetary instrument versus a commidity.  This separation between structure and function is important since bitcoin's fundamental structure could allow it to be used for other functions, such as DNS registration or email spam prevention. Me too...I look to the bitcoin community for all my answers to philosophical and economic questions.  Vinnie says a lot of wise things...  Also many other great comments by the bitcoin community.  Anyway, my two bitcents on this whole topic would be:with the guidence and direction of our god, The Market, human society will eventually reach an equilibrium population and per-capita rate of energy consumption where the electrical energy consumption and food consumption of each human would be provided by a certain sustainable square meters of surface area of the earth to produce primarily vegetarian food from photosynthesis and energy from solar power.no more suburbiapeople will be consuming less physical goods, slowly replace them with services, and eventually consume almost entirely informational goods This whole discussion reminds me of the "Printing Bitcoins : Could it Work?" discussion.I like that idea.  Where can I buy a NFC chip today for a dollar?I like the idea of backing gold with something of real value, like bitcoin.  Heck, fundamentally, gold is currently "backed by nothing!" (deliberate scare quotes)   EXACTLY!  Excellent idea.  Just embed this bitcoin smart card chip with NFC inside of a plastic rep-rap or makerbot plastic 'coin' and you have a "real" bitcoin!However, is there a way that you can verify the bitcoin wallet that you embed inside this smart card chip has NO OTHER COPIES?  Potentially, couldn't the manufacturer or distributor of these bitcoin smart cards keep a backup of the wallet at their company headquarters when they first create the bitcoin smart card?  I guess maybe you can't trust a pre-loaded bitcoin smart card, and instead can only trust bitcoin smartcards that you generate a new address inside it yourself which gets sent a bitcoin. Yes I installed Yellow Dog Linux...but eventually uninstalled it when I realized that the PS3 wasn't much with the graphics card disabled, and then I was one of those idiots who upgraded to the infamous firmware version 3.21 which disabled OtherOS.  However, I just tried out geohot's latest jailbreak and could successfully run custom code.   I'd like to figure out how to run bitcoin on my PS3 now...unfortunately, I usually get frustrated when compiling with libraries...and I am admittedly not enough of an expert with bitcoin's code to know how many libraries it depends on.  If there was some version of bitcoin without library dependencies, I would be happy to try compiling it and running it on my PS3.(I also have idiotically upgraded my iPhone OS a few times and lost the jailbreak, but hopefully I have learned my lesson by now.)You wouldn't believe how easy geohot's jailbreak for firmware v3.55 was...just simply put file on usb, put usb in PS3, do System->Update via other media, and then wait for restart.  Then just put custom .pkg on usb root folder and put in PS3 and run it from the game menu.  Again, I would be happy to try compiling a bare-bones bitcoin miner client (without any libraries) using the http://psl1ght.com/ framework, so if anyone wants me to try something out, feel free to send me some bare-bones bitcoin code (or even try compiling a bitcoin.pkg yourself with psl1ght and send it to me) and I'll test it out on my jailbroken PS3 with the latest firmware v3.55, Here's an even sicker idea...Using Linux and open-source to improve the functioning of the military-industrial complex:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-CXLCnHBcWwOf course.  Maybe I should have been more specific: maybe a business wants to stream the free low-quality version of their media to only their specific proprietary player (that likely includes ads or costs money), so they use open-source DRM to ensure that their media produces garbage static (or simply can't play) on players that don't provide revenue to the business.  Of course people could record the audio going from the computer output terminal to their speakers, but by that point it would be of so low quality or be so difficult that people might instead simply purchase the DRM-free high-quality version.Exactly.  Basically apply the Interoperability, Bug-free, and other positive qualities that result from the open-source model to DRM so business can profit from their investments of paying coders, musicians, artists, actors, producers, desigerns, or other creators of intellectual property content.  Just take a look at the PS3, where SONY's complex and multi-stage DRM system was completely hacked by clever hackers exploiting poor code (likely because SONY used closed-source non-peer-reviewed security systems) with basic algebra. Yeah, I've attended a few of his lectures at gatech.  In fact, that's why I bought a PS3. AWWEEESSSOOOOMMMEE!!!!!         oh god, this makes me sick.  I guess we've got to keep up with the Chinese. A great man once said,"The only real standard is a defacto standard." That video was great!  Here's an animated version: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ety2FEHQgwM Very fascinating...didn't know that US tried to take over the Yukon.  Makes sense, a lot of gold there. Great Job!  I just used this generator to update my profile pic and sent the developer a bitcoin! May the number of decimals in each of your bitcoin wallets grow over the next revolution of the Earth!(translation: May you have a prosperous new year!)...sorry for the belated wishes... Great!  I just sent Ian 10 bitcoins.  I included in my message that "I look forward to FreeTalkLive.com someday posting a bitcoin donate address" and that I will donate more if he does so. Damnit!  We should invade Canada again!Unfortunately our first attempt at invasion of Canada in The American Revolutionary War failed, but of course we tried again in 1812:Of course, that failed too.  But third time's the charm, right?  No reason to give up now.  We will be greeted as liberators!
What clever h8ckers!  How pathetic that the US government can't secure their satellites.  /Does not make me proud to be an American!    What a great inspiring fellow!  That little puppet would make The Founders proud! Since both Ⓑ and ⓑ were listed as separate choices, unfortunately, that means that votes by people who supported a "b" or "B" inside a circle were split.  A better voting system would have used multiple stages (whereby the choice with the least number of votes was removed between each stage), or would have allowed people to rank their votes first and then automatically perform multi-stage voting.  The results of the above poll should by no means be taken as any sort of formal decision by the bitcoin community. interesting.  didn't know it was possible. ocremix is awesome!  So many great arrangements of video game music.  And they typically distribute the original flac (compacted wav) along with the mp3 in the free torrent download for each alblum.Oh yes, I agree that open-source DRM is sortof a sick idea.  But it may be useful on occasion when you wish to give out a free low-quality version but make people pay for the high-quality DRM-free version. This was an extremely good interview.  I didn't really entirely get how bitcoin really works until now after reading this interview.Gavin, you mention that you use VPSes for your bitcoin apps.  May I ask which VPS providers you use?  I am currently looking for VPSes for my own bitcoin apps. LOL...I accidentally read this post's title as "Terminology for Fractional-Reserve Bitcoins" and thought why would anyone want that?  But I suppose implementing FR-bitcoins is entirely doable, and there may be reasons why private bitcoin lenders/banks would engage in such activity. I actually discovered bitcoin by browsing liberty-related topics on Wikipedia which led me to Wikipedia's page on crypto-anarchy, which introduced me to the cyperpunkers, and of-course, naturally, bitcoin.             Agreed.  Which is why Eric Fontaine releases recordings of all his live jazz performances DRM-free at http://podcast.ericfontainejazz.com and http://youtube.com/ericfontainejazz... yes...as the quote under my avatar says, "change_masters ≠ freedom" I just stumbled upon this open-source DRM software infrastructure:from their company page http://mutableinc.com:and from their open-source code repository http://sourceforge.net/projects/openipmp:Now, me personally, I don't like DRM.  However, I can see how it is possible to enfore so-called "intellectual property rights" using voluntary means, such as embedding DRM codes inside of a media file and using ostracism, such as making such DRM "protected" media files unplayable, of course, using entirely voluntary and peaceful means (no threats from men with guns).  So I was thinking, what would be a great way to complement an open-source DRM management software with some sortof open-source currency...maybe bitcoin? I don't like assassination politics either, although I must reluctantly accept that such markets may arise in a libertarian society, as they are permitted by libertarian ethics.  However, I do not condone their use.  I will ostracize people who use assassination markets in an unjustified manner to go against people that I feel do not deserve to be assassinated.I like to think of libertarianism as a legal theory.  Not necessarily a moral theory, since I do not necessarily believe that all actions that are permitted by the NAP are "ok". This is a great service!  I provided 1 bitcoin ten minutes ago, answered a question, and I just see that it sent back my bitcoin as requested (with 1 confirmation)!  Seems to have worked correctly for me.Is the web code open-sourced? To add what kiba is saying, I would also suggest that (out of fear of assassination) Bill could encrypt his wallet with multiple keys such that his backed-up wallet could be decrypting with the combined requirements of (1) a cryptographic confirmation code for Bill's death certificate issued by his specified hospital/DRO/court/insurance provider, (2) one or more keys (depending on the specific terms of his particular will) of Bill's heirs, (3) Bill's lawyer.Or for this case described above, I would think Bill's 10 million donation would be put in some sortof escrow, whereby there would be specific mechanisms (think *smart contracts*) where the money could be dispersed automatically in monthly .1 million increments.  No need to keep a human around, right?  Cut out the points of failure from dumb human operators.Sorry, but a dumb government operator just pressed the red 'nuke' button accidentally.Sorry, but a dumb government person just lost the physical key to the US Bullion Depository.Ok, but seriously, we can do a thought experiment.  If some rich dude's gold stock pile suddenly disappears from the face of this earth (by some black hole or anti-matter), then what happens?  Well...obviously that rich dude wouldn't be able to spend as much, so the overall aggregate demand curve for society would likely decrease by a small amount.  This would cause the equilibrium supply-demand price point to drop a very small amount for all goods in society that that rich dude would have demanded. 13fpigil, what will your organization do to me if I refuse to pay the claimed taxes? What exactly is your claimed society?  How is it comprised, or how is membership of this society determined?When and how am I presented with a choice to be admitted or not to this supposed civilization of yours?What if I feel that the quality of the nation's army is not effective nor efficient at protecting me and my freedom?  What if I feel that the nation's army is infringing on my rights?What if I want to pool money together and hire construction workers to clear trees, make tar, lay it into asphalt, and pave the road?  What if I don't want to pay taxes at gunpoint for your supposed society's roads?  What if I feel your organization's roads and ineffective at providing my transportation needs because they are always clogged up with too many cars and poorly maintained?What if your society mandates that I pay taxes to it for decades after I leave and relinquish citizenship?... Linus Torvalds totally disses svn/cvs in this google tech talk video on git:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4XpnKHJAok8"When I designed git, it was 'what would cvs' never ever do. ...for the first ten years of maintaining linux, we actually used tarballs and patches, which are a much more superior method than cvs..."and the dissing goes on thought his 1-hour presentation. At first I thought this was an interesting idea to discourage hoarding.  But then I realized that the hoarders would just use brains to figure out how to launder money back to themselves to avoid expiration.  Or even worse simply find alternatives stores of wealth  as is described here http://p2pfoundation.net/Brakteaten_Money:So you would probably see people dump a brakteaten-bitcoin currency.  Or you could enforce mandatory use of such a brakteaten-bitcoin currency with a violent monopoly.   All this talk about porn has led me to take a peak at kiba's progress on his softcore porn drawing of a female anime fantasy version of satoshi:http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/67Just sent in .1 BTC for the current full size version.  She's cumming along nicely.  Just satisfied my porn craving.  I can't wait for her to finish. Excellent!  Basically bitcoin and open transactions are complementary means of exchange.  Do you have any good recommendations about relatively cheap and high-bandwidth VPS or other server that I could purchase anonymously with Loom or Open Transactions?  Unfortunately, I'm not terribly impressed with the price/GB for the VPS servers listed in the bitcoin trade (and again am a wee bit concerned about the potential traceability of bitcoin by a clever adversary), but maybe there are other servers that could be purchased with Loom or Open Transactions instead.This is sortof like Rock-Paper-Sissors, or one of those RPGs where you have Water weak against Lighting, Fire and Ice weak against eachother, Black Mages with high MP but low HP, Warriors with high HP but no magic, White Mages with poor attack but can restore HP, etc. (you get the picture).  But then you get to put together your team which combines their special powers and is able to defeat any enemy/boss!    Sorry for the lame analogy.   
Oops!  I Lost The Game... creepy story.  wtf... I see a bitcoin graphic with a bitcoin address when I move my mouse over it.  Very nice!  oh dear.I wouldn't call Glen Greenwald a "lefty"...that is an insult.  "Civil libertarian" is much more appropriate.thanks for sharing.Who will wikileak for the wikileakers? Doesn't change the fact that they're windows victims...  Yes.  Wikipedia is the first place I usually go to get relatively unbiased info on anything.  And I get my unbiased news from Wikinews (has replaced google news).  And my search engine, Duck Duck Go usually puts a snippet of a Wikipedia article as the first search result...and that is most often all I need to get the jist of some new topic I am unfamiliar with.  In the long run, as more and more editors from different backgrounds and different knowledge bases come across some new topic, it will eventually converge to an accurate and unbiased result.  Patience is key. See http://tahoe-lafs.org/source/tahoe-lafs/trunk/docs/quickstart.html and http://tahoe-lafs.org/source/tahoe-lafs/trunk/docs/running.html and http://tahoe-lafs.org/trac/tahoe-lafs/wiki/TestGrid for directions to connect to public test grid.  Here is what I had to do on my Ubuntu machine:sudo apt-get install tahoe-lafstahoe create-clientvim ~/.tahoe/tahoe.cfgedit the following lines into its tahoe.cfg file:tahoe startAnd that's it!To view public grid files, go to: http://127.0.0.1:3456/uri/URI:DIR2:ctmtx2awdo4xt77x5xxaz6nyxm:n5t546ddvd6xlv4v6se6sjympbdbvo7orwizuzl42urm73sxazqa/To view your personal gateway, go to: http://127.0.0.1:3456/then click "Create Directory" to get started uploading files!  I just setup Tahoe-LAFS on my computer.  Now I am excited to use bitcoin with it somehow.  What should I do? download the program: http://sourceforge.net/projects/alliancep2prun the java .jar and do the setup instructions.Click "add friend".  It will generate a special one-time code to add a friend.Send me (or someone else) a private message with that code. Genjix's post is full of win!  Putting parenthesis around police totally made me ROFL!This is an excellent point!  TANSTAAFL.  I envision a future where a micropayment system, such as bitcoin, could be used to charge for bandwidth on a bit-per-bit basis.  And ideally, individuals would own their own networks routers, servers, and cables, so that they wouldn't have to send all their traffic through a hierarchical ISP and store their data on some distant server or corporate-owned cloud.Fascinating...never thought of DDoS like that.  Indeed, it is very similar to a street protest determined to disrupt normal functioning of institutions.  People who call for making DDoS attacks illegal should analogously call for making street protests (including critical mass) illegal. Oh. No problem.  You can keep the 15 BTC to help support your art. I second da2ce7's suggestion as well.  Makes it more flexible.  It is similiar to the last suggestion in theymous's http://privwiki.dreamhosters.com/wiki/Bitcoin_DNS_System_Proposal#Overcoming_potential_resistance_bitcoin_developers.2Fcommunity here:Separating the data part of the DNS transactions from the p2p distributed timestamping part means that we all don't have to be carrying around all this DNS transaction queries in our block chain, and it means that DNS transactions aren't limited to 120 bytes.  Theremous, could you elaborate a bit more on how this above suggestion would work?I second this.  Limiteing TLD is totally arbitrary.  Major internet entites like Wikipedia or Google or YouTube or Facebook or blogspot should be free to compete for and obtain a TLD with their name. Very tasty.  Delivered promptly (approx 3 days to get to me!).  I just finished a nice cup of cappuccino with it.  I will be buying from them in the future. of course, I didn't mean I wanted to redesign the whole DNS.  The conclusion of my musing is: maybe there is some way to associate bitcoin addresses with a unique and human readable (memorable) name using a petname system.I think this is important, and I encourage people to work on this.Ok, thanks for clarifying. Yes Anyway, this experience (and others) has convinced me to never buy a nVidia or other heavily proprietary/closed product...I will probably use ATI/AMD next time I upgrade. While it is true that the FreeNet network will forget stuff put up there once and never viewed, however, there are enough people using bitcoin forum and site that there will be plenty of people who can reseed it on FreeNet if it ever gets forgotten (which is unlikely, since hopefully there will be plenty of people accessing it regularly). I was doing some reasearch into alternatives to DNS, and I was reading about how TOR's hidden services assigned .onion address, and I came across the concept of Zooko's Triangle, which argues that names cannot be global, secure, and memorable, all at the same time:"Domain names, for example, are global and memorable, but as the rapid rise of phishing demonstrates, they are not secure".  Basically, there will always be imposters who try to claim the domain name of your brand or some misspelling.  So I'm almost wondering if the whole concept of domain names is fundamentally flawed to begin with.  And it seems there is always has to be some sort of centralized means of allocating domain names.  We can't even decide what should be the rate-of-issue for new bitDNS domain names, what the starting price should be for transaction/purchase, how many top Alexis domain names (if any) we should reserve, where/how should the domain directory be located/stored. Maybe we need to stop using domain names entirely, and put our focus more on search engines, links, coupled with public-key cryptography to authenticate the genuity of an internet brand/website/address.  I'm looking into some system called Pet Names...and am trying to figure out a nice way they could be used to assign unique, human-readable (memorable), and global names for bitcoin addresses.  I will start another thread for this, and provide a link here...Anyway, I think NoAgenda is right here that the Bitcoin block chain, from now on, should be a pure financial vehicle, considering that the latest bitcoin version update removes the ability to include extra text in transactions: ROFL!!!  Sad, but true. Yes, email him again...and feel free to include the above direct quote of Ian in your appeal.  Also, I think calling live on air is always great promotion, so I encourage you to do that as well...Doesn't it make more sense for Ian to setup an account himself?  I tend to not trust that I have sole access to any accounts that someone provided me the password for in plain text email, because that means that two people know the password.  Or Ian could download the bitcoin client himself and provide us an address.  Anyway, if we start a donation thread here, hopefully we can raise enough donation funds as a one-time incentive for FTL to post a bitcoin address on their website.Good point.  Surely this could be easily implemented as a cron job on mybitcoin's server (or on the subscriber's own local computer) to send a fixed amount at a specified time.  Anyway, subscription is going to be something that the market will demand...so we should start thinking about ways to implement a bitcoin subscription system. haha...but no, I think this "solution" misses the point  LMAO!!!Denial of Service Attack => Providing of Service Contribution  Anyway, I was listening to yesterday's Free Talk Live, and during minute 22 of that mp3, they talked about Mastercard/Visa's inability to process transactions, and did make the astute point that Visa/Mastercard are highly insecure, considering the fact that yesterday's DDoS attack was able to take them down.  So, this should be a great way to market bitcoin: it is DDoS resistant.  Do you think this is an accurate claim?  Or do you know of any actual DDoS *attacks* on bitcoin?  If I was listening live, I would have called in to promote bitcoin's superiority in this regard.Later during minute 32, the two hosts Ian and Mark did their regular request for donations to their AMP marketing program...but they had to reluctantly admit that they use PayPal, Visa, and MasterCard because they don't have good alternatives:time 32:45 - Ian Freeman, "Go to AMP.FreeTalkLive.com, and I know PayPal is on there.  What else can you do?  There just aren't very many convenient payment systems on the internet...unfortunately we have to hold our nose a little bit...we do accept Visa and MasterCard, as well when they are up an running."time 33:02 - Mark Edge, "One a good opportunity presents itself..."time 33:05 - Ian Freeman, "Where's the agorist payment processor!?!"Again, if I was listening to the show's live radio broadcast EST 7pm-10pm, then I would have called in and encouraged them to adopt bitcoin donation and allow bitcoin AMPlifiers.  To be honest, I had canceled my AMP payments after I lost faith in PayPal.  Anyway, maybe several of us can call together to the show to promote bitcoin?  I could call, but I am probably not the best communicator of the details of bitcoin's operation.Also, maybe us bitcoiners who like FreeTalkLive could make a pooled bitcoin donation?  Anyone else intersted?  I will pledge to donate 100 bitcoins.  (I suppose I should start a separate thread for this)
+1When chattel slavery still existed, opponents of abolitionists would cry, "Oh show me where freeing slaves worked before."  or "How are the slaves going to feed themselves???" FreeNet is a good idea.Tor is a good idea.Distriubted forum is a good idea (I have never heard of such a thing before  )IRC is a good idea.Providing a list of multiple forums/points of bitcoin communicating inside each bitcoin distribution is a good idea.Also maybe having a daily-updated tar.gz of the entire history of the forum would be good...and then everyone can download it as a torrent. But...but...but...isn't the whole point of bitcoin, ultimately................SHOPPING!!!   You should marry her.  Or send her my way.  I happen to subscribe to Jeri's youtube channel: http://www.youtube.com/jeriellsworth Lol!!!  I didn't even notice that they didn't have arms!  Now when I look at the picture, I just see a bunch of "i"s. FAILED again on my machine:./DiabloMiner-Linux.sh -u XXXX -p XXXXAdded GeForce 9800 GX2 (#1) (16 CU, local work size of Exception in thread "main" java.lang.Exception: Failed to build program on GeForce 9800 GX2 (#1)   at com.diablominer.DiabloMiner.DiabloMiner$DeviceState.<init>(DiabloMiner.java:319)   at com.diablominer.DiabloMiner.DiabloMiner.execute(DiabloMiner.java:186)   at com.diablominer.DiabloMiner.DiabloMiner.main(DiabloMiner.java:89) hmm...not much change from last version...I WANT MY MONEY BACK!!!  Kiba is wise beyond his years!Anyway, I've been thinking outside the box a little bit...and wondering maybe to scratch the whole idea of domain names.  I'm thinking somehow be able to associate a bitcoin address, or maybe some hash of a transaction, with a location on the internet somehow.  Also, it maybe possible to sidestep away from the concept of domain names considering that nowadays search engine technology has improved so much.Wouldn't it be cool to associate a bitcoin address directly with a webpage/internet location for that product/resource/whatever that is being sold with that bitcoin address?  Anyway, let me think about this some more and write out a concrete proposal.  Obviously, this is sortof off topic from this thread... Vinnie is spot on here. Awesome!!!   Great...yes it could use the Chrome extension if available...if not, it should direct user to another page.  Would it be able to generate a new bitcoin address for each tip?  Where would the mini bitcoin wallet be stored, and how could I later get funds from this wallet?Where is a link to how I can install this Chrome extension? For a tip jar, fundamentally all you would need is some URL that you put into your video description that would direct you to a page to donate money, right? Oh yes, I am perfectly aware.  In fact, the prevalence of simultaneous inventions is a strong argument against the necessity of a patent system to "reward" inventors with monopoly. THIS IS AN EXCELLENT DRAFT SKETCH!!!  I am soooo glad that you are using pictographs to communicate the concepts behind bitcoin.  PICTURES are the universal language.  Keep in mind that we intend people from all over the world to be using bitcoin, so it is important that is is easy for people of different languages and different cognitive skills and knowledge backgrounds to understand it.  If/when you do add text, make sure the text is simple, does not use complicated vocab, and can be easily translatable. I read your draft bitcoin DNS spec Nanotube and theymous...very interesting.  And it's fascinating that ribuck also came up with a very similar design independently.  I like the idea of piggybacking bitDNS on top of bitcoin.  However, putting the domain name registration requests inside of bitcoin transactions as a message does cause concern about compatibility, should the bitcoin developers decide to remove that feature in the future for security or other reasons.  I would suggest, maybe is it possible to have the domain name registration request message be not included directly inside the bitcoin transaction, and instead use some cryptogrphic properties of the block be used to index to a bitcoin registration request message?  For example, somehow have the hash of the transaction/block be directly indexable to a DNS registration request?  In which case, the information about the sender and receiver of the DNS registration request would be embedded in the hash such that it proves that address X is the owner of that DNS registration request?  Thus the bandwidth/traffic of domain name table info/requests would only be paid by those clients who are engaged in domain name registration.Expiration fixes the "problem" of domain names being lost for eternity.  My question is, what are the relative benifits/disadvantages of using a block count based expiration (e.g. 52,000 blocks) versus a time-based expiration (e.g. 1 year)?  I would think a time-based expiration would make more sense for average people to understand, since they will know that after a certain fixed period of time, they will need to renew their domain, and can set that in their calendar, instead of being completely unaware if the block count reaches some number?  Never mind...I get it...52,000 blocks is approximately the number of blocks that should be produced in 1-year time assuming a rate of 1 block/10 minutes is maintained.What Kiba said.  Speculation is a part of any world where there are limited resources.  Speculation allows the market to come to a subjective valuation of the unknown value of such resources.  The speculator takes a risk by buying domains (even if it is just an opportunity cost), and that risk is entirely held by the speculator. Oh god.  I try not to read the news...it just makes me angry. So now we will all have to pay rent for an artificial government-imposed monopoly on life-saving pharmaceutical drugs, just so that we can live longer.  Intellectual Property => have to pay rent for your body.  IP == slavery.  Just because someone is the first to file a patent on a lifesaving drug, doesn't give him the right to exclude others from reverse engineering or independently discovering and producing that lifesaving drug. I think it is time for a straw poll to determine the relative popularity of the competing designs proposed.  Of course, this will not be an official vote... Well before starting coding, let's make sure we have the protocol clearly written out.  For instance, are we going to take my suggestion of using unitary, non-fractional, bitdnscoins where 1 block == 1 bitdnscoin, instead of having the number of bitdnscoins per block start at 50 and half every few years?  Also, there is no need for fractional bitdnscoins since it doesn't make too much sense to own one-tenth of a domain name.  Keep in mind that people can use fiat money or even bitcoins when trading unitary bitdnscoins, incase they need to make a trade of two domain names with unequal subjective valuations. Having ip address themselves be managed by a bitcoin-like system is a very interesting idea...I never liked how the government and major corporations get to dish out vast swaths of the ip spectrum by dictate and privilege...Is this privacy issue because ipv6 address will embed your MAC address?LOLFEST!   I agree...there is not as much reason for fractional bitdnscoins. That just complicates the algorithm and operation.  Making bitdnscoin be simple unitary entities is much simpler and easy to understand, so it will increase the likelihood of widespread adoption.  Simpler is better.  Computer hardware and software like things simple.Could you clarify?  Are you talking about because bitcoins have a limited number of digits that it can be divided into (according to the algorithm), that therefore 1 bitcoin could be instead thought of a ~million mini nano-bitcoins that are of fundamental unit of trading size?Awesome!  NO need for the middle man!  rentThis brings up another interesting point: most people will not need to have to pay the yearly ~$10 rent to their domain name provider, if they generate the bitdnscoin themselves.  Of course, this does not abolish rent on domain names, as there will be of course some mega bitdnscoin miners will speculate to purchase domain names they think will be in high demand, and will then rent out the popular domains they own. Exactly.  My points exactly.  The reason for halving bitcoins over time does not really exist for bitdnscoins. hair looks very nice!
That sounds nice.  However, I was always uncomfortable with how block miners get 50 coins, and slowly halves.  It confuses people and makes them uneasy.  I would just say have a constant 1 block => 1 bitdnscoin. This illustrates one of the fatal flaws with Democracy.  There is no way for me, as a voter, to make competent decisions without having access to the real information that the government keeps secret. Everyone wants to be in the driver's seat, NOT the passenger's seat. No I haven't.  Do you have a link?UPDATE: I just found a link: http://www.snopes.com/politics/clintons/bodycount.aspIndeed, if she even is a woman.  More like some demonic Medusa beast.  I had the opportunity to shake her hand maybe 10 years ago.  It was very slimy. Yes, I did hear that part from you, NoAgenda. ARREST BUSH!!!  ARREST CHENY!!!  US OUT OF IRAQ!!!  (looks at calendar...umm...it's Dec 2010) yes, nothing really earth-shattering in the leaks...most is just embarrassing comments.  Although I'm not a conspiracy theorist, I've heard some suggest that this may be some deliberate inside job, possibly to lessen criticism about going to war in NK by hinting that China wouldn't intervene, or showing that most arab countries are scared of Iran as well.  Also, I have heard some suggest that the leaks might be a deliberate distraction for the public while the government people engage in other sinster things.  Of course, I'm not a conspiracy theorist, and I try to not waste my time pondering such things that have no to very fliimsy evidence backing them up.  But regardless, Wikileaks is a great concept, and I hope for more such organizations to appear and leak government dirty secrets for the public. I pledge 20 BTC. I'm an anarcho-capitalist left-Rothbardian, which so I also consider myself a left-libertarian. Where do I pledge? Very exciting...but keep in mind they are still in the brainstorming phase.  Go to http://dot-p2p.org/index.php?title=Main_Page to check out their working draft protocol. her eyes are beautiful! Good point.  Actually someone did make a fully-functional 4MHz computer http://www.homebrewcpu.comrunning a modified Minux OS which currently serves webpages http://www.magic-1.org and even telnet into telnet://magic-1.org to play games on entirely out of 7400 series gates: Nice meeting you.  I am also a "libertarian" of the "market-anarchist" variety who also promotes the concept of "anarchism without adjectives".  I hope you can share bitcoin with your fellow Native American friends. Kiba makes some good points here...let's not be too hasty in communicating with WikiLeaks.  Patience is key.  There is no need to repeatedly pressure WikiLeaks in producing a bitcon donate address.  Since you have already communicated with them once, they may either he considering it or more likely have decided that it does nor suit their needs currently.  Don't get me wrong...I am all for wikileaks to use bitcoin, but let's not push this too hard. Thank you kiba.  As always.  I'm going to have to start a kiba fan page one of these days... I'm sorry...I'm not totally following you...could you elaborate?  Why would Robert Gates want to release videos of US Troops murdering Iraqi civilians? Thanks, NoAgenda.  That was very interesting reading and a great interview with John Young of cryptome.org about his opinions on WikiLeaks.  It is probably best that we do not look at WikiLeaks as our salvation or centralized hub of leaking.Indeed.  I could not have said that better: "Wikileaks should be just another node no different than any other." Great analysis in your post, RHorning...  Decoupling protocol from implementation is a great idea and extremly important for the growth of bitcoin.  People should be able to implement bitcoin however they like, and in the future, I envision implementations on FPGAs, assembly language, micro-controllers, manufactured in silicon, ASICs, inside internet routers, on webpages (eg php, javascript), on all variety of high-level languages, and last but not least: carrier pigeon protocol, just in case WW3 breaks out and the people with the nukes reduce humanity to the stone age. I nominate kiba as escrow! Agreed.  Not as many users will be as intelligent or aware of such security issues with using IP addresses.  It is best to not have that option at all.The bitcoin project is entirely open source.  The older source code versions are all freely available and backed up.  If people want to use ip addresses, they can dig up the old code, and release a forked version for only those people that would want to use ip addresses.  But best thing is that ip addresses are not included in any official versions.  Security trumps usability and extra options.
Agreed.  I'm sorry, I didn't mean to imply that I was against industry members getting together to produce and promote open, cross-platform, royality-free APIs.  That is very important, and is indeed something that I encourage.  I was simply remarking that I was fooled into thinking that it included an open-source implementation...since "Open" has been thrown around as a Orwellian marketing term by some organizations, even though it isn't really open.OK.  I'll try that.Nvidia actually gave me this GeForce 9800 Gx2 as a consolation prize for a GPGPU research proposal I submitted to Nvidia, but was rejected.  So I have this big fancy GPGPU which I haven't really been using.  Oh well. DAMNIT!!!  I was fooled again by the marketing term "Open".  Turns out that according to http://www.khronos.org/opencl, the Open just means "OpenCL is the first open, royalty-free standard for cross-platform"...nothing to do with implementation.  Oh well...  I have this nice Nvidia GeForce 9800 GX2...not doing anything...could be generating bitcoin Do you have a link to the older binaries?DAMNIT!!!  I swear!  I will never again work at a pro-IP tech corporation in any manner! great analysis kiba!  Thanks for starting this discussion.  Bounties for exposing security vulnerabilities is an excellent and very creative idea!  Where do I pledge or send bitcoins to?  How will the review committee that evaluates any claimed vulnerabilities be structured/governed?  How to ensure that coders who contribute changes to bitcoin source code don't secretly deliberately include faulty obfuscated code so that they can fix their broken code to collect the bounty (or avoid similar other conflicts of interests)? Of course.  And yeah, it could have been a voluntary decision.  Also, it could be possible that the secret upper-level anarchist did not intend for Manning to be blamed...but then once Manning got arrested, he realized it would be better if he kept quiet, so that only one person is in jail. It is entirely possible.  Some government agent may have converted to anarchism after climbing up the ranks and then accidentally reading Rothbard or some other anti-statist philosopher or website.  Or maybe just saw the crap going around him and decided he is an anarchist. Damnit!!!  Proprietary crap!!!  I swear, I will never work at a pro-IP corporation ever or buy another closed-source piece of hardware ever!  My new goal in life: develop and release an open source GPGPU.  Or maybe for the time being write an open source bitcoiner FPGA miner and post it to opencores.org...Do you know of open source drivers that I can use instead? I'm glad that you have left the dark side, creighto.  You make an interesting point that a private could not have gotten access to all this (but then again, some of these gubbamint bureacracies are extremely inefficient).  Bradley Manning may simple just be a fall guy, scapegoat, or framed by the real leaker...who may never be caught.  Anyway, it's all speculation.   Good point...Wikileaks would find about bitcoin by themselves (or likely already know about it) anyway, and would thus make a decision on their own whether or not they thought bitcoin would be beneficial to them.  And the argument could be made that it would be best if there were no formal connection from the bitcoin community to the wikileaks organization, whereby a bitcoin "representative" or "leader" speaks to a Wikileaks "representative" or "leader".   Exactly.  I feel the same way.  Survival of the fittest.  If bitcoin has some fundamental flaw, it will not be able to survive a government attack.  Then it is better to weed it out now, so we aren't wasting our time promoting something that will not work, and can instead devote our resources and time to other efforts that hopefully will work and to other currencies to build up the alternative economy.  I have spent many hours reading through the bitcoin forums about its robustness and resiliency to attacks...asking so many questions "What if the government does X?", and I have come to the conclusion that basically, bitcoin can't be shut down absent shutting down the internet.  But the government wouldn't likely not shut down the internet, since they depend on tax revenue for their operations.  If bitcoin has some flaw, then we need to resolve it now. But I thought jazz pianist Tom Flanagan died in 2001?  This would be a Giant Step, no?    At that point, wouldn't it be too late?  Isn't it best to build up the alternative donation methods now so that Wikileaks doesn't have to shut down its servers and operations once the government does cease Wikileaks's bank accounts?Yes...bitcoin's time has come to step up to the plate.What if we do nothing? Amen, RHorning!  As The Voluntaryists argue, Governments must cloak their actions in an aura of moral legitimacy in order to sustain their power.  If the U.S. government wants to tip their hand to expose themselves in that way, so be it.  Without an aura of moral legitimacy, they will be seen as the gang that they truly are. Interestingly, it turns out there is some Wikileaks infighting, probably upset at Assange's leadership:So maybe a leaderless organization is the better direction for WikiLeaks to go?  Opinions? Amen, Father McGruder! bopyright? I am having this error when running DiabloMiner-Linux.sh on Ubuntu 10.04 with GeForce 9800 GX2:This is what clang --help produces:Please explain what I need to do to run your miner.  Thanks. Just paid the .1 BTC.  GREAT JOB, KIBA!!! I meant to write: "Fortunately, Wikileaks is a distributed organization, so it doesn't matter if they take out the current "leader", Assange." Folks at Microsoft are square.I'm actually liking the looks of ⓑ more than ฿.  But the deeper and more philosophical question is: why should a decentralized peer-to-peer currency have an official, centrally planned symbol?   .  Isn't competing standards the way to go?   . Shouldn't we let the market decide?   .  (if course I'm joking around...ofcourse it is important to have a standardized, commonly agreed-upon and recognized symbol).Also, ⓑ is unique.  Anyone know of other uses of ⓑ? Fortunately, bitcoin is a distributed system, so it doesn't matter if they take out   
  When will all these tuition strikers learn about Wikiversity? HAHA!!!  You have fooled me!  You are playing on our deepest secret desires for super-hot Japanese coder chicks.  I want it to be true, but I know it can't be... Don't take it as an insult.  I refer anyone who advocates the use of state power to achieve goals to be a statist, by defintion.Somalia isn't an anarchist society.  It was a socailist state horribly managed by a long-term dictator that brokeup due under its own weight/corruption/inefficiencies/etc, then entered a devastating civil war, and now is a collection of a few smaller states: Somaliland, Puntland, Islamic Emirate of Somalia, The US-backed Federal government, and a few other smaller states:The US diplomats just like to call it an anarchy because their hand-picked government isn't in power.  And even despite its horrible past, Somalis have achieved relatively more prosperous living standards compared to some of its neighbors in the region, likely (of course this is debatable) due to the lack of a strong central government.RHorning, yes I understand the difference between copyrights, trademarks, patents, semiconductor masks, etc.  But this has nothing to do the argument that any form of IP is a violation of real property.  Stop dodging the issue.And yes, people all the time use the phrase "IP Law" to refer to trademark law, copyright law, and patent law together as a group.  This is perfectly reasonable common usage.Yes, I realize that some of the original founders reluctantly included patents and copyright in their constitution, because they thought that temporary monopoly grants to inventors and writers would increase public disclosure and promote the useful arts by providing incentives to creators.  Guess what?  They turned out to be wrong.  Have you ever tried reading a patent?  They are written to be deliberately vauge and convoluted and try to be broad enough to cover any other possible inventions potentially related, while not clearly communicating what is being invented.  They just end up allowing big companies to make a lot of wealth idly and from rent.  Scientific publications, on the other hand, are much better forms of public disclosure and communication of new ideas.  And copyrights are used to stifle free speech by prohibiting what you can write or say, hamper creativity by prohibiting derivative works, and limit the dissemination of new ideas in society.  Oh yeah, and trademarks are no longer necessary thanks to the discovery of cryptography: see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_signature.I don't care about your appeals to authority.  It turns out the founders were wrong on A LOT of things that I won't get into here since those aren't related to the topic of growing the copyfree movement.^^^ THIS IS THE CRUX OF THE PROBLEM WITH IP.  THIS STATEMENT CANNOT BE REPEATED ENOUGH!!!  THANK YOU, NOAGENDA!Anyway, the topic of this discussion kiba started is Growing the Copyfree Movement:Please stay on topic and discuss methods, ideas, or other ways to grow the CopyFREE Movement, or even promote your CopyFREE work.  I don't want to hear some pro-state troll promote the GPL and copyleft.  I have wasted enough hours of my life thinking about the silly differences between the various copyright licenses and the idiotic intricateness of IP Laws.  Now is the time I want to actually do something by promoting alternatives.  Copyright is the arcane way of the past.  It is time to move on. I am in 100% agreement with kiba and theymos here.  I have many issues with the long essay RHorning wrote, but am not going to list them all.  Bottomline is: intellectual property of any kind infringes on real property rights.Anyway, you talk to most Statists, and they (like RHorning) will pretend to be on your side by expressing an opposition to intellectual property, but then you narrow down their position, and you find out that they just want to "Reform" IP Law to suit their desires. (It reminds me of the healthcare debate: "OK, everyone in the room, please raise your hand if you think the US Healthcare system is broken and needs to be fixed.") Ok, I donated 15 BitCoins. That looks much better!  Now it's no longer disturbing, because now it's a picture of a hot chick feeling herself, instead of being groped by some mysterious invisible man.  Thanks! I think we should try again to get WikiLeaks to accept bitcoin donation, as a thanks for their latest leak.  Should we pool some money together to include with a letter? kiba, what address do I send bitcoin to donate? Amen!  Kiba speaks the truth!  There is a reason why kiba has "Hero" next to his name  LOL!!!  I did pay the 2 bitcoins, and I was quite disturbed!!! From http://unlicense.org:LOL!  Yeah, tell me about it.  I've probably wasted hundreds of hours on my life thinking about differences in software licenses and compatibility issues!  And I'm not getting those hours back!    OK, I paid .02 more bitcoins...and I'm still very disturbed by what I see.  The left arm almost looks like a man's.  And it almost look like she (Satoshi?) is being groped by a man behind her, but there is obviously no man behind her.  Anyway, I obviously like your artwork, else I would have not paid for two versions of it already.  I can't wait for it to be finished. Umm...from The US State Department: Renunciation of U.S. Citizenship, renouncing your citizenship doesn't change your tax obligations:In fact, you are still liable for taxes to Uncle Sam for ~10 years after you renounce.  So I don't know if moving to another country for tax purposes is smart...you are likely to have to pay taxes to two governmnets...   Opps, yeah, that is what I meant to link to, the CC0 license.Well I guess the problem is I want people to attribute copies or derivatives to me...it is just that I would never sue anyone...I don't know what this would technically be called.  As Stephan argues, it should already be good professional and internet ettiquite to attribute works, so the CC Attribution License isn't really imposing any significant demands on users, especially if you indicate you will not sue. Hey Kiba,Creative Commons already has what it attempts at a Public Domain License, but unfortunately copyright laws are sooo messed up and different from country to country that licensing for public isn't practical, as Stephan Kinsella explains.  He argues that the Creative Commons Attribution License is sort of the best and simplest tool we got.Have you taken a look at http://copyfree.org already?: "Oops! This link appears to be broken."  -I guess the download expired  Step 1: Create world's first cryptographic, pseudonymous, peer-to-peer currency.Step 2: Be quiet and reserved, while gradually improving the code.Step 3: As time passes, and the currency grows, respect for you will grow, and people will slowly start to revere you.  Slowly by slowly, people start making fantasies and legends about you.The End: You are now a comic superhero rapping economist. I pledge 15 BTC for advertising.  What address do I send coins to, Kiba? Ok, I bought it for the 2 bitcents.  Very distrubing artwork, to say the least!  Just ruined my day    Thanks a lot btw, how did you setup the automatic instantaneous bitcoin payment to allow for downloads?  I myself run a podcast, and I want to be able to allow people to listen to low quality audio for each podcast for free, but require them to pay a few bitcents to download the high quality audio.  Is your system based on ip address?  How long does it remember your ip address, if so?
CCC?  what is the CCC?  (I see a lot of google results)   Looks like it is the annual Wikipedia funding time I know that the wikipedia community has not been very welcoming towards bitcoin  ...however maybe we (the bitcoin community) could try to get wikipedia to include a bitcoin donate address? Glad to see that the world-famous "stateless ex-American" Mike Gogulski is using bitcoin!  Just sent a donation to your website nostate.com.  Those are all fair concerns.  Of course, the best solution (as always) is diversification, since each method (physical gold, electronic gold, loom, barter, state fiat paper, bitcoin, public key transaction processor, etc.) all have their relative benefits/weaknesses. OMG!!!!  OMG!!!  I never realized that the government is reading my forum posts!!!!  NOOO!!!!  I'm going to have to delete all my posts!!!!   EGAD!  But I can't delete my posts!!!Seriously, folks.  Focus on liberating minds.  Ignore the government. I've lost trust with humans.  I'm tired of having to "trust" some single entity, be it a bank or a government, with my money.  I do, however, trust mathematics and the proofs to cryptographic computational complexity.   Agreed.  Simple.And it's analogous to $. "S" referring to State currency.  "B" referring to digital currency.  In case people don't know the story of the origin of $, here it is: $ is derived from U crossed over an S for "United States".  Then the U slowly morphed into two verticals lines over the S.  Eventaully, only one vertical line was used. good quick effort, noagenda, your video is much more understandable for average folk. However, I don't really think these xtranormal videos are the best way to communicate the concepts underlying bitcoin.  I think that a shorter (1-2 minute) visual animation showing a transaction getting verified in a network would be the best way to communicate the concept to average people so that they can *see* how bitcoin works. I liked the video, but your average internet user will have no clue what they are talking about.Hopefully, understanding the operation of bitcoin won't be a prerequisite for average people to adopt it  As has been mentioned by many bitcoiners several times in this thread, why bother printing bitcoins, when the future of payment will be on your cell phone?  From http://www.pcworld.com/article/210735/android_23_will_do_mobile_payments_and_lots_of_bump.html:So it seems that it may not necessarily be terribly important to have to print bitcoins anyway.  Maybe someone can write a cellphone app to handle bitcoin payments via bumping?Any thoughts? Have any of you Russian comrades had any success compiling this for Ubuntu?  I have CUDA properly installed (can compile the NVIDIA tests), but I still get this error when trying to compile the CUDA-enabled bitcoin on my Ubuntu 10.04:even though I already have libjpeg installed (I'm pretty sure).Anyway, if any of you have had luck with this, I would appreciate some help, or if possible, just post a compiled binary.Спасибо. Oh well, DeviceCode seems more suited for traders seriously concerned about their privacy. Nelisky (or anyone else), could you provide the makefile and what system you compiled this on.  I'm really having trouble compiling this.  I have Ubuntu 10.04 with a GFX 9800 Gx2 with the latest Nvidia CUDA drivers installed (and I verified that my CUDA test programs do work).  If no one wants to provide the makefile, could someone explains how I would go about modifying the existing unix makefile to compile the cuda version?Also, what specific SVN reversion are we patching against? Good point!  We should report puddinpop to gpl-violations.org immediately!  Get ready to be sued by Richard Stallman and his lawyer buddies!  Just Kidding!  Bitcoin uses The MIT License/X11 license, which is permissive... AWESOME!!!  Civil Disobedience for the win!!! I love Free Talk Live, I used to listed to them daily.Anyway, my advice when calling FTL is to always be ready to respond to questions asked by the show hosts, so think about how to respond to the common questions.Also, it would be really cool if FTL started using bitcoin as part of their AMP program.  They currently use paypal, which charges lots of transaction fees, which is a waste considering they have a stream of small donations.Maybe we (bitcoin forumn community) could offer a monthly donation that we pay in bitcoin instead of paypal?  If we do some high monly dobation, then the name of the donator (call him "bitcoin") is listed on their website.  Or maybe we can purchase and advertising package from them in bitcoin? Yes, but the general citizens of a country are the ones that get taxed to feed the parasitic class. Interesting.  But really do you actually have to logon to another computer on the LAN, or could you possibly do the transaction directly on the physical computer of the chatter who wants to receive the money?  Example: ssh logon as a guest, scp your wallet.dat over to your encrypted guest session temporary directory, the guest session runs bitcoind on port 8333 or 8332 while the host (i.e. receiver) runs on the opposite port, then when the transaction is sent, the local router would simply reroute the transaction back to the same computer that that transaction was sent from .  Or another example: use a computer running on a virtual machine hypervisor, setup a guest VM for the sender, and then send the coins from one VM to the other VM on the same physical machine, in which case the hypervisor would simply route the bitcoin transaction without actually leaving the network controller? I was reading this story this morning too...very very scary that the Obama administration is trying to push this through...Can it be enforced?  Are they going to get the ISPs to block any traffic that is encrypted and doesn't have a known backdoor for the government to decrypt?  This is stupid.  Will have to start embedding encrypted communication inside of legitimate media traffic...such as what these guys are doing: http://www.cc.gatech.edu/news/collage-combats-censorship-hiding-text-images Actaully, in another thread, we are talking about using OpenSwarm.  I think this OneSwam has great potential because (1) it allows customized privacy per-file and per-search, (2) has performance almost comparable to regular bittorrent, and (3) is compatible with regular bittorrents (so there is already a large base of files connected to the network from the get go).  Would be a great darcnet to use in conjucntion with bitcoin enabled p2p file sharing...From http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/index.html:
Good idea.  Note that this is Washington University research just published less than a month ago, and the program version is only 0.7, even though it has been used for a year and has been downloaded a hundred-thousand times.  I think this OneSwam has great potential because (1) it allows customized privacy per-file and per-search, (2) has performance almost comparable to regular bittorrent, and (3) is compatible with regular bittorrents (so there is already a large base of files connected to the network from the get go). But yeah, this could be the base project for a bitcoin enabled file sharing service as discussed in the other thread.Anyway, I haven't even tried this out yet myself.  I would be happy to friend anyone on this bitcoin forum (preferably those with at least two stars under their name)... BitTorrent + distributed darcnet...very nice!  Ensuring anonymity without disrupting performance has always been an issue with p2p filesharing.  I'm wondering if there would be a way to use this for bitcoin strorage, trading, sharing, backingup, escrow, banking, or use it an anonymnyzing shared account.From http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/index.html: Aarrgh Matey!  That's the spirit!  Spoken like a true pirate!  I don't have an FPGA, or else I would do it myself...I'd like to see what type of results other people get...On a related note, the recently released (Sept 20, 2010) Sparc T3 chip has 16 cores, each with a hardware cryptographic accelerator and 8 hardware threads per core...  I'm wondering how many Hashes/Sec you could get out of a T3 Server .  (on another related note, it is too bad that since Oracle bought Sun, now all their stuff is closed-source...the Sparc T1 and T2 were open-sourced GPL...) I was browsing OpenCores.org and saw that they have an open-source GPL SHA crypto cores:You can download it here.  I'm thinking that it would be cool if someone put this on an FPGA (or even fabricated it) and have it set to constantly generate SHA hashes to find bitcoins .  Probably wouldn't be as fast as a TESLA running CUDA bitcoin generation, but the idea of having a dedicated bitcoin generator piece of hardware sounded cool to me .Anyone have an FPGA and want to try this out?(update: here's another free crypto core - Nugroho Free Hash Cores (NFHC) currently support SHA-1, SHA-256, SHA-512 from FIPS-180 standard.) Hmm...teenagers maybe  Whether or not bitcoins are real property or not is irrelevant.  Of course the physical embodiment of them as a sequence of magnetic polarities in your wallet.dat file stored physically on your harddrive in your computer protected by a password is relevant to property rights, because stealing your harddrive, computer, violating your computer to perform a coldboot attack to get your password, extracting your password by gunpoint from you, etc. are all relevant since they all violate real property rights.  But no, you don't actually *own* the pattern of bits representing your bitcoin wallet or password, but you do own your body and your computer. Thanks Kiba.  Us anti-IP folk are not arguing to "void private contracts".  Kiba has the right answer: while it is permissible for Person A to enter into a contract with Person B forbidding Person B from sharing some intellectual creation, such a contract cannot prohibit another Person C (who may have obtained that intellectual creations from Person B breaking the contract, through some other prohibited manner, or maybe from independently discovering that intellectual creation) from sharing that intellectual creation with any other Person D who never entered into any contract with A or B.  As Kiba says, this would essentially be "involving third parties who have nothing to do with the non-copying agreement".Voluntary solutions are the preferred method for protecting and profiting from your intellectual creations.Yes, currently real property rights are enforced through socialized police and courts.  However, in a libertarian society, private police and private courts will do a much better job. I don't think that value of USD will ever go to zero, because there will always be demand for USD as long as The US exists and demands payment for taxes in USD. Thanks kiba!  Bimmerhead, I encourage you to read the following books:"Against Intellectual Monopoly""Against Intellectual Property"Basically the argument against intellectual property comes down to what kiba says:Intellectual "Property" is the legal right to restrict duplication of patterns you came across voluntarily using your own property that you acquired voluntarily.  I prefer to call IP instead "State-Granted Violently-Enforced Pattern-Monopoly".  And yes, Bimmerhead, you are understanding my suggestion perfectly: VERY GOOD IDEA!!!  You should maybe talk to the bitcoin forum member torservers (http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=1045) who runs Torservers.net.  He has a thread on this forum where he talks about how he now accepts bitcoin donations (http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1004.0) so you should read that thread and talk to him to ask about feasibility...and maybe see if he wants to try it out.  Definitely, adding market incentives to the allocation of TOR bandwidth would dramatically increase its efficiency.  It would allow the TOR network to grow because people would be incentivized to dedicate high-bandwidth low-latency routers for it.  Of course poor people could still use free donated bandwidth, but for the rich people living in industrial countries with high copyright restrictions (e.g. US) that want to share copyrighted files quickly and anomalously, fast TOR bandwidth is in high demand! Good point.  I don't know much about human behavior...maybe what you say is true.  In that case, we should focus on figuring out a way to implement virtual collateral tied into the bitcoin loan, such that if a loan isn't paid, then your internet domain or whatever you put on as collateral automatically changes ownership. I would make one short comment: before we make a lot of public hype about bitcoin, let's make sure that the code has matured enough (obviously the main devlopers should have a voice in this).  Why do I say this?  Because I just read an article about the collapse of the supposedly censorship-resistant Haystack project after it inunintenionally exposed political dissedents in Iran: On Writing, Funding, and Distributing Software to Activists Against Authoritarian Regimes.  Here are some snippets from one of the developer's resignation letter:So basically, let's make sure we are very clear and deliberate when talking to the public and social networking friends that BITCOIN DOES NOT GAURENTEE ANONYMITY, but simply pseudonymity (because bitcoin address are public and because trading patterns can be analyzed to match them to people) and should be used in conjunction with TOR and new addresses for every transaction.  Also, make sure they know that the total amount of bitcoins sent to any particular address is public knowledge with bitcointools.So I think some basic changes to the bitcoin client should be made: For example, having the ability to receive bitcoins by your IP address should be disabled by default, because it presents a small security risk to reveal the ip address of a bitcoin user.  Also, the client should indicate that messages included when sending to an ip address are just plaintext and NOT encyrpted.  Remember, very few people actually read the READMEs and development notes.  Maybe even a "TOR enabled/disabled" indicator should be present on the client.So I would say let's not be too hasty before we make a collective bitcoin publicity splash.  We should wait at least two months, and make it a great shot... Which is why I use TOR proxy. Yes the currency the loan is denominated does matter.  Digital USD are very traceable.  But you can buy things with bitcoin with privacy, such as secret offshore domain names, and other things listen in the bitcoin trading section that would be much more difficult to buy with USD.  Also, USD are not a very good hold of value...Dollar Slides After Fed Statement, so you don't want to have your money denominated in USD.  Also, if you are buying something denominated in bitcoin with USD, the USD must first be converted into bitcoin, costing some currency exchange transaction cost and possibly revealing your identity in that transaction.  Oh yeah, and bitcoin is more of a Universal Currency (like gold/silver and unlike USD), since it can be used anywhere there is internet connection in any country, without needing a bank account or registering your name with authorities.  So yes, what currency the loan is denominated in is important.Also the fact that a loan requires collateral is NOT a strawman.  In lending agreements, collateral is a borrower's pledge of specific property to a lender, to secure repayment of a loan.  If you use collateral for a loan, then you will have to hand that piece of collateral to the loaner if you fail to pay back the loan.  This is worse than just loosing points on your credit score.  So naturally, a lack of collateral will have to be compensated by higher interest rates. Well those 1.6% monthly rates are in Federal Reserve Notes.  Sorry, but people aren't interested in them.  Unfortunately, I don't know of many other bitcoiners offering loans.  Naturally, as there become more sellers, the price will drop.And as I already mentioned, it would be nice to use some sortof collateral, but that is hard to do anomalously on the internet with virtual goods...although if anyone has some ideas, feel free to offer them.  So that is why I have to charge such high interest rates.  You are free to make a lower offer.  It's quite likely that someone wants bitcoins right now to buy something, but doesn't have any at the moment... I read that article today too.  All I can say is this is a great opportunity to focus on exposing people living in the UK to bitcoin...and some foundational Agorist literature as well... I stopped reading the article after this sentence   [facepalm].  This sounds like yet another "magic" word scheme I hear often in libertarian circles.  Supposedly, if you just utter/write the correct sequence of words in court or on legal paperwork, then you are magically except from The State's aggression.  e.g.: don't say "citizen", say "soverign" or "inhabitant"...   A Note on Magic Words and Secret Formulas by Thomas L. Knapp in C4SS.org Ok, I will modify my rate to match yours...here's my updated offer: up to 100 bitcoins for a rate of 8%/month with a maturity of 1 month.  Likewise, I don't have to accept all applications, but I prefer applicants with at least two stars in the bitcoin forums.Interesting.  Well the idea is that the code should be all open sourced, so that the server doesn't have to be hosted at a single website.  And hopefully, even the directory of loaner/borrower addresses, rates/maturities offered, and ratings/credit scores could be designed so that it is distributed and/or duplicated across multiple servers or in a p2p fashion, so that nobody is in charge and there is no one thing/person that can be strangled/shut down Does anyone know of any such open-source distributed type of databases that allow posting, bidding, and rating?  I suppose for the time being, biddingpond can be used...or even this forum... 
How about setting up a bitcoin loan market instead of a bitcoin bank.  Why?  Well, since bitcoins are secure, there is no need to store your bitcoins somewhere safe since you can just do automatic backup of your wallet.  So we can simply cut out the middle-man (i.e. the banker) and trade directly between buyers and sellers of bitcoin loans.  Someone can implement an open-bidding bitcoin loan market, such as an ebay or biddingpond complete with loaner/borrower ratings, but instead of goods/services, people offering bitcoin loans at different interest rates and maturity spans.  With enough bidders, eventually there will be a market bitcoin interest rate for specific loans at specific rates for specific credit ratings.Let me start the first(?) bitcoin loan offer:I'm offering up to 100 bitcoins to be loaned at the rate of 10%/month with a maturity of 1 month (i.e. you borrow 100 bitcoins from me today, and within 31 days, you must return to me 110 bitcoins, so that I take 10 bitcoins profit for the risk involved).  Any takers?  For this loan, I will only trust bitcoin.org/smf forum members who have at least two stars next to their name, since I'm not going to trust some random address or newbies. Now ultimately, reputation will become very important in such a system without any governmental enforcer, thus I suspect that credit ratings will become associated with each bitcoin address.  I will make a public record about the bitcoin address of the person who repays my bitcoin loan on-time, so there is an incentive to be honest and pay.  Collateral will be hard to implement on an online system (e.g. here's the title to my virtual car   ) for the time being at-least.Someone should write an open-source GPL code for such a distributed bitcoin loan bidding market.  I pledge 100 bitcoins to anyone who does such a thing...One thing to note is that short-term loans will be matched with short-term borrowers, and long-term loans will be matched with long-term borrowers.  This is different from the current banking system, which is inherently unstable due to the mismatch between short-term and long-term loans/borrowing (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asset-liability_mismatch).  This is actually a theory for why bank-runs occur (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diamond-Dybvig_model).  Of course, nothing is stopping someone from using his own money and assets and trying to lend to long-term borrowers and borrow from short-term lenders...but he would hold all that asset-liability mismatch risk, since people who do not want to take that risk aren't compelled to trade with him or hold that risk, which happens with anyone holding Federal Reserve Notes. FreeMoney is right.  Unfortunately, hard-money Austrian-economic libertarians are immediately critical of bitcoin when they find out that it is backed by "nothing" !  I myself think bitcoin is superior currency to gold (since gold cost money to store, insure, is difficult to move around as most travel hubs such as airports will detect it, and is not safe carrying around in your pocket on dangerous city streets, etc.).  But you are better of trying to tell gold-bugs that bitcoin is a great *compliment* to gold, not a *replacement*, since bitcoin is great for trading online pseudonymously, but in the case of total war or any distastes that break internet connections, then gold (and general survival skills) are better long-term investments.  For sure, don't tell them they should move all their assets from gold into bitcoin  Was just reading this article today:States working harder to collect online sales taxes - With budgets in crisis, enforcement efforts gather steamOh well.  More reason to promote bitcoin... neilskzy...HILARIOUS!!!I guess Gatsu finally realized that bitcoin wasn't some magical automatic money making machine , so he "gave up".  The only posts I read of his was complaining why bitcoin was not generating money  for him...I guess he never reazlied that the purpose of a currency is not to generate money but rather to trade and store wealth that you generated somehow else  But yeah, as was mentioned earlier, if you never put any effort into something, how can you possibly "give up" on it?bitcoin != magical money fountain I have donated to you in the past and appreciate what torservers.net does for freedom, as I am a user and advocate of TOR.  My question is, how do I know for sure that 100% of my donations go to operational costs of the Tor exit nodes and bridges, other than your word?  It is nice that you post the Overall Exit Node Traffic and Statistics for each node.  I'm wondering if there would be any way to verify the operation costs and veracity of the nodes without compromising the anonymity of your nodes? aha...ok.  thanks for the infohmm...yeah, I suppose so.  They are probably building up the historical record already. hmm...good point.Are you saying that market will develop with OpenTransactions whereby people use bandwidth/cpu resources as currency?  But basically OpenTransactions isn't backed by anything?  It is just that they will allow people to anonymously trade, and will thus produce a commodity of bandwidth/cpu resources?  (I'm not terribly familiar with OpenTransactions) This looks very cool and useful for people running bitcoin on multiple computers in different locations.Is there any easy way to use this tool somehow to back up multiple bitcoin wallets stored on each computer? That's a great idea!  Yeah...social networking is a great opportunity to spread bitcoin!Maybe can you post a draft letter that you would send out to these communities?  That way the bitcoin forum community can look at it together and make it look nice and appear to come from the bitcoin community to them.I wonder if bitcoin could be easily integrated with one of these open-source social networks to allow a "Send Bitcoins" button inside the client.  Maybe one of these open-source social networks is more easily modifiable, and would thus make a good target to start with. EEEEK!!!!  So it turns out mybitcoin.com is just another corporation!!!  [sighs]I'm at the point in my life now that I'm very distrustful of:incorporated companies (why did you file paperwork with the government?  Corporations are just creatures of The State)closed source implementations (what are you hiding in your code?)centralized servers/domains (can be broken into, are easy targets, governments can disconnect easily) instead of p2pbanking schemes where it might be possible to engage in fractional reserve banking (so I have this money stored at mybitcoin.com, but how do I know you are not lending it out behind my back?)transaction schemes where there is no recourse if the transaction is violatedlow reputationnot mathematically/logially/cryptographically provenSo, yeah, how do I know mybitcoin.com isn't engaging in Fractional Reserve Banking with my stored money? Very clever!!!  I like that idea...  Plus, with bitcoin, you can customize your level of security: pay more bitcoins and you can send more false messages and have more security splits...Haha!  Well, that's partially true.  Ususally they have a fixed amount of pre-paid text messages that they can send each month which if the don't use are simply wasted.  But they tend to forget that I still have to pay 25 cents whenever they send me a lousy spam text message!!!   A smartphone bitcoin client with options for encrypted messaging would make for a great alternative text/sms system compared to the high fees charged by most wireless carriers for text messaging.  Now, of course, I know of free text messaging apps, but they tend to contain ads.  But with bitcoin, the small transaction fees for passing the message along would work as a great incentive instead... Right.  Good point!  Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater! I got 4 donations to my address, so I then donated to 12 random people on the list.  Now I'm realizing that this will blow up pretty soon.  I suppose this is your intention to stress the network as an experiment.  I'm wondering if maybe you would want to write code to automatically pay it forward when a donation is sent to the pay it forward address, since I will become hard to manually see coins once it starts to blow up... Great point...I've heard something called hashcash does this for email.  But with bitcoin, one can additionally prioritize messages: .g. the message with 10 BTC attached to it is probably more important than the message with .01 BTC attached. I will donate 100btc only if it works on Ubuntu 10..4with a nvidia gfx9800 gx2. I haven't read this entire thread, but if we are concerned about the directed graph of transactions (represented by the block chain) being visible for a long time, then what about using self-destructing data for the block chains that will expire and erase themselves after a specified time (such as a couple hours) or after a certain number of nodes have confirmed the transaction?  For example, I stumbled upon this scheme called Vanish - Self-destructing digital data which uses on-line distributed hash tables to store and gradually degrade the encrypted data and key over time?  So basically have older block chains automatically vanish after a certain time -that way transactions could be verified in the short time span, but would be destroyed in the long time span...thus preventing the authorities or whoever you are worried about from reconstructing the block-chain and use that directed graph to determine your identity.  Anyway, I'm just brainstorming here, not giving any solutions , and I don't totally understand the internal workings of bitcoin either , but maybe someone out here in the forums is clever enough to figure out some scheme using self-destructing data to protect anonymity. I was just brainstorming now thinking outside the box: maybe instead of thinking that we have to keep all the code inside one piece of paper, maybe we should be thinking about a printed coding scheme that uses one or more of the following operations:split the printed code in half when making a transactionmodify the printed code when making a transactionappend more code to the printed code when making a transactiondestroy and recreate the printed code when making a transactionhaving two pieces of paper with different printed codes for each noteOf course I didn't give any solutions here...just some brainstorming in case this sparks some other ideas the clever people out there on the bitcoin forum...Also, what about the idea of using self-destroying codes somehow to prevent double spending.  Maybe volatile RFID memory that when scanned gets erased.  Or maybe some special ink that changes its chemical properties when exposed to certain light, causing the code to get erased when scanned.  Or maybe some online database that self-destructs when the url is accessed (such as my 10BTC wallet file I stored on-line as a self-destructing message whose url I encoded in a QRcode...that 10BTC wallet is still up for grabs  ).  Or maybe using some expiration date scheme for each note...if we have short-life span notes then that means it is less likely for those double spending in its lifetime.  For instance, I just stumbled upon Vansih - Self Destructing Digital Data which will use on line Distrusted Hash Tables to store an encrypted message and key which will decay in a specified amount of time, say 8 hours. Of course yes, you might want to print a physical copy of your wallet to paper for long term storage, but i think the main topic of this thread is for printing bitcoin notes for day-to-day person-to-person exchanges without having to carry around your gaget or be connected to the network, NOT necessarily long-term storage.  People currently don't carry around cash for long term storage...they just keep enough money in their pocket to handle day-to-day person-to-person transactions...they don't keep their whole life savings as cash inside their wallet. What about Printable RFID Tags with printable transistors that can store, read, and write data:http://www.popsci.com/technology/article/2010-03/cheap-plastic-rfid-tags-promise-replace-bar-codescheap...currently 3 cents each, possibly as low as 1 cent each:and flexible too Or instead just use good old RIFD tags with really cheap embedded memory chips inside of a hard plastic, cardboard, or even paper? If you are trading Federal Reserve Notes over the internet, it can be very easily traced and taxed by the government.  Plus you have to pay high transaction fees to paypal or credit card companies.  Plus, you have to trust centralized entities such as banks to hold your money safely, but banks have a tendency to lend out your money and become illiquid when they have lent out much more money than they have or have only poor assets backing up loans.  This causes bank runs such as what just happened at this Afghanistan bank or during the financial crisis of 2007-10 and most other bank runs in history.And I don't know what you mean by "real cash", I'm assuming you are referring to the fact that Federal Reserve Notes are Legal Tender.  But that just means you have to pay your taxes and debts in FRN if requested.  Great!  But if you promote the use of FRNs, then you are stuck using money that can be arbitrarily inflated by the whims of the Fed chairman when he engages in interest rate settings and quantitative easing, and can by arbitrarily devalued by politicians when they issuing lots of treasuries to finance their deficit spending. Thanks!!!  I'll try that out!
Generating coins is not the purpose of bitcoin.  Trading is.  The strength of bitcoins are their ease of storage/movement, almost no transaction costs, good security, pseudonymity, their limited inflation, etc.  In fact, their difficulty to generate is one of bitcoin's strengths.If you are frustrated trying to generate bitcoins, you should try selling some goods or services for bitcoin to help the economy. OK!  I have thought of a new idea: use self-destructing messages to hold the wallet containing the bitcoins.  And basically the printed part that you carry around in your pocket (outside of visible light) is the printed QR code of the url for that self-destructing message.  Now of course real self-destructing messages only exist in quantum computation, but there are a variety of free internet services that will store messages that will destruct whenever the first person reads them: http://www.google.com/search?q=self+destructing+message.  Anyway, I have put 10 bitcoins in the self-destructing message you can access only once by decoding this QR code below, going to the encoded URL, copying the hex codes from the self-destructing message into a wallet.dat.gz file, uncompressing that .gz file, swap it with your regular wallet file, start your client, send the 10 bitcoins to your own address, and restart the client with your regular wallet file.  Ok!?  Anyone can give it a try and report your success by decoding this QR code below: Ok, I've joined the Pay it Forward Game.  Here is my address:1NWfTrEfFXR7oqxvX3av4gHtqBtKytRVNN aha...so the people who issue the powce would try to ensure that it is not trivial to obtain it, such as by having non-unique codes in each copy of the ebook in your example.  Thanks for clarifying.  So you are basically extending the concept of "proof-of-conceptwork" and "currency" to absolutely anything. Ok, I just bet with 4 coins.  Here is my address:1NAp1ANefnT4QiSCR854esMMq5z7dvi722 I like that idea!  Simply integrate an opensource library library like pgp into bitcoin.  BTW, are the messages attached when sending bitcoins to ip addresses currently clear text or encrypted? DING! DING! DING! DING! DING! SchoolSucks podcast is great! I like your idea.  Any opensource stock market tools out there? sounds great.  My first response would be what's to protect against inflation of these powces?  e.g. some fake online school just issuing powces.  Maybe I don't quite understand your proposal exactly...  Is every powce indistinguishable from every other powce, or are they unique and thus each can have their own market value? Hey fellow anarchist Kiba, what was your luck trying to sell your gameboy games?  I'm thinking of selling my ps3 and all my games now to help boost bitcoin.  What should I use for shipping options?  Do you know what is the best place to advertise such a sale? OK, to help boost bitcoin, I'll sell my PS3 and all my PS3 games for bitcoin at a reasonable rate.  What is the best place for me to advertise a sale, other than just posting this forum?Kiba, what was your luck with trying to sell gameboy games? That's not a bad idea...  Market blacklisting of bad traders... Sounds great!  I can teach jazz saxophone. Oh, btw, I just sent you a bitcoin to your QR-encoded address for your wasted effort trying to get that .05 bitcoins out of my corrupted wallet file. Yes.  I understand this.  But as has been talked about earlier in this forum, paper bitcoins are great if you are dealing offline with someone you trust: ok, my bad...I guess what I thought was my wallet wasn't a real wallet...somehow got corrupted.Ok.  Let me try printing an actual entire bitcoin file.  Here are my steps: I started with a fresh client (with full block chain), got .05 bitcoins from the bitcoin faucet, waited for 8 confirmations, stopped my bitcoin client, compressed my 16kb wallet.dat file into a 6kb wallet.dat.gz, outputted that compressed wallet.dat.gz as a string of hexadecimal bytes (big nibble first, little nibble second) seperated by spaces (od -t x1 -A n wallet.dat.gz), then removed the spaces and returns from that using sed so that I now have a 12kb text file of hex bytes, then I split that 12kb file into six 2kb files (using split -b 2048), and then I used iec16022 -f PNG to convert each of those six 2kb hex files into six DataMatrix images below:now this bitcoin wallet (containing the measly sum of .05 bitcoins) can be decoded by scanning those files with a DataMatrix decoder, and then reversing all the steps above to obtain the wallet.dat file.  Then swap your current wallet.dat file with this wallet.dat file and see if the bitcoins are present.  If so, then you can extract the bitcoins out of them by sending them to your own bitcoin address.Well I disagree.  One of the reasons we want to print bitcoins is to avoid having to connect to the network or deal with computers at that moment, to deal with bitcoins in person-to-person without having to have electronics, to deal with bitcoins in case of temporary network disconnection, to safely store your bitcoin wallet in a non-electronic format incase of long-term power-outage/natural disater, and other reasons as has been discussed earlier in this forumn.  So it seems that some people would very much find it useful to print out their wallet.Anyway, first-come-first-serve to whoever can extract the .05 bitcoins out of that wallet.Also, what is the best way using linux to output a binary file into something that can most effectively be encoded by QRcode or DataMatrix?  How exactly would I use UUE/MIME encoding (i.e. what command would I type in linux to format a wallet.dat binary file)? Great!  I got that coin back from you yesterday!  Now I would like to try something else: send a bitcoin wallet as qr code.  Below is the qrcode for a bitcoin wallet.dat (of size 45 bytes) containg .05 bitcoins encoded as a string of lowercase hexadecimal characters:Please decode that image, export the string of hexadecimal characters (using your favorite hex editor) into a bitcoin wallet.dat, run your bitcoin client with this wallet.dat file, and try to send that .05 bitcoins out of it to your own address.  Tell me if it works.I suppose this "offer" is first come first serve to whoever can decode this wallet and extract the .05 bitcoins...I hope I'm not forgetting some other necessary information that I need to provide you other than this wallet.dat file? Don't give puddinpop any ideas!But yes you make an excellent point: Gradually build up trust and then violate that trust for profit.  That's a common scheme used by scam-artists/politicians/criminals...I don't like what puddinpop is doing...I hope someone releases an opensource version.  Does anyone know of any donation pools for generating and releasing an GPL opensource OpenCL/CUDA client?  If not we should start one. AWESOME!!!  Turns out there are a whole variety of these QR code scanners for all brands of cell phones...  http://delivr.com/11gru.  I just installed i-nigma for iPhone with realtime scanning for Free on my iPhone, pointed my iPhone at your image on my computer screen, and it instantly recognized the QR code as:1MG2EaHRBnL4FPuy2Wu752ZGaqNeyuJ9aJCould you verify if this is correct?  I will send you a bitcoin in a few minutes...please verify if you receive them.  If so, we can mark September 11, 2010 as the first day in history that bitcoins were exchanged by scanning a QR code of a bitcoin address!  One you receive my bitcoin, feel free to return it back to me   at the my bitcoin address below:Thanks!
ok, I sent my 15 bitcoins to your account. I trust kiba!  Kiba makes me feel good!  Kiba is wise and charismatic.  Kiba has a nice smile!  Kiba has a sharp haircut!Add my vote for Kiba for escrow!!! I'll pledge 15 bitcoins. Fascinating.  Unlike bitcoin, which is pseudonymous, OpenTransactions is claimed to be actually anonymous.  I will have to study it some more, though.  Are you aware of any potential drawbacks or flaws or weaknesses? Thanks everyone for addressing my concerns!I have come to realize that (A) there are a lot of smart people out there who would notice the network split and take steps to address the problem, and (B) there are a lot of cheap, open-source technologies to enable connectivity such as:Mesh Potato (open-source mesh router that automatically forms a peer-to-peer network and relays telephone calls without landlines or cell-phone towers)Universal Software Radio Peripheral (an open-source high-speed, flexible, inexpensive hardware device facilitating the building of a software radio, GSM cell tower/base station, digital transciever)openBTS (an open-source application that uses the Universal Software Radio Peripheral (USRP) to present a GSM air interface to standard GSM handset and connects calls)OR a good old-fashioned modem  nimnul, the short answer is that in a free banking-system (such as the bitcoin community), competition amongst banks will lend itself towards 100 percent reserve banking.  Additionally, since you don't need to physically store your bitcoins (since your wallet can be stored, encrypted, and backuped on computers for zero cost), you do not even need to store your bitcoins in any bitcoin bank.  I have actually addressed your concern in another post, so I'm am just copying and pasting that here: Device Code is a secure and anomalous social networking alternative.  I think it would be a great tool for bitcoin users to advertise products and services and trade anomalously.  You simply get assigned a unique 5-character ID paired with a password you choose when you activate (no email necessary). All messages are encrypted with your ID/password pair directly on your browser.  You can then choose a name and select your interests/activities so that other people like you can find you.  But other than that, Device Code doesn't have many other features.  It's just a bare-bones social networking tool.Here's part of their privacy policy: "The collection, procession and usage of any personal data is subject to the compliance of the Data Protection Act of the Federal Republic of Germany (TDDSG and BDSG) and the privacy regulations of the European Union. During the register process no personal data is collected. Additional personal data (such as name, organisation, activities, expertises, interests or e-mail address) are facultative." http://www.devicecode.net/privacy_policy.phpWhat do my fellow bitcoiners think of it? This gives me a related idea (off topic).  Someone could conceivably make a promise to exchange his bitcoins for silver at a certain value, saying something like: "I will back all bitcoins originating from bitcoin wallet address X with Y ounces of silver".  So he wouldn't be backing all bitcoins with silver, just those bitcoins originating from his wallet address, for instance.  In that case, those bitcoins that were created in address X would be guaranteed (assuming he is trustworthy) by him to always hold a value at least equal to Y ounces of silver.  If for some strange reason the value of bitcoin in USD were to collapse, at least those bitcoins originating from address X could be exchanged for Y ounces of silver (again, assuming that he is trustworthy).  Those bitcoins originating from address X (regardless of where they are currently held) could be more valuable than plain old vanilla bitcoins not backed by anything.  Backing bitcoins like this could be a way to help people build trust in bitcoins, since they know that the value of those bitcoins will never fall below Y ounces of silver.Any thoughts on the usefulness of such an idea? Here's my two bitcents:I would be hesitant to waste effort in labeling agorists who use bitcoins with a completely new term "crypto-agorism".  There are already so many political philosophies/terms out there and it seems someone is coming out with a new flavor of libertarianism all the time.  Agorists who use bitcoins are simply "crypto-anarchists"...that's it.  And likewise anyone who engages in crypto-anarchism is promoting agorism in some way.  So let's instead focus on reviving/promoting the term "crypto-anarchist" and encourage bitcoins as the currency for crypto-anarchists.  In fact, the Crypto-Anarchism WikiPedia page mentions bitcoin in the "Anonymous trading" section.  And as you point out, it would take a long long time before wikipedia accepts a page for the new term "crypto-agorism", and much longer for the non-initiated public to learn such a new term.If you want to be more elaborate in your introduction, say something along the lines of "I am a crypto-anarchist who uses bitcoins in the agorist market."  The term "crypto-agorism" itself doesn't necessarily imply to me or to anyone hearing the term for the first time that that person uses bitcoins as their primary currency.I say people who use bitcoins should simply be called "bitcoiners", since being a user of bitcoins does not necessarily mean you are an agorist or anarchist.But then again, you and free to call yourself whatever you want:) I suppose you are right, unfortunately: They can do all those things now...the only real thing stopping them is bad pr.^^^ good points...I suppose that the demand for connectivity in the smaller network would produce an strong incentive to find some way, no matter how primitive, to connect the two networks.  It could even be as primitive as using (physical) snail mail or dialup. This is obviously a response to my post What happens when network is split for prolonged time and reconnected?.I agree this issue will have to be addressed in-case of massive network disconnection.  Some sort of marker for bitcoins and transactions made in the separate network (that have been broadcast and verified with respect to its separate network), perhaps? Thanks for addressing my concern!  I think you are right...I wrongly assumed that people are stupid enough to blindly reconnect the two bitcoin networks (at which point the more powerful network would wipe out all the bitcoins created in the weaker network and transactions performed in the weaker network, if I understand bitcoin correctly).  It seems the proper thing that the bitcoin community should do upon such a massive disconnect is to add some sortof marker to every block chain indicating which network it belongs to, so that upon reconnection, the two bitcoin currencies can coexist.  I suppose each bitcoin community would properly fork the source code to do something along this line.I don't know...I actually think that BitCoin would become popular as a resistance currency in wartime.  The State likes to enact all sorts of totalitarian BS during war, such as massive government spending, massive inflation, collection of all scap or private metal, confiscation of private property.  Even FDR in the economic emergency during 1933 outlawed private ownership of gold.  But bit coin would be resistant to such measures, as long as the government doesn't shut down the internet, which I doubt they would do since it would seriously cripple the economy and thereby destroy the tax base (although, I forgot how stupid can be sometimes), or somehow outlaw cryptography by regular folk, institute a mega police force that can break into people's houses to inspect their hard drive, demand passwords at gunpoint, steal everyone's computer and network cables, shut down power, etc.. Did you even read my entire post?  The rest of my entire post was dealing with credit BitCoin, whereby I explained that under a free banking system, reserve ratios will tend towards 100%.  Your above critique is irrelevant.You are ignoring something very different about cryptographic virtual currency (BitCoin) that separates it from physical currency (gold).  See my comment below...Sure, The State can create laws to allow banks to create credit BitCoin and thereby creating inflation.  But no one needs to use or accept inflation-ridden credit BitCoin for transactions, since people are free to use raw non-inflatable BitCoins for transactions.  And it doesn't matter if The State makes a law declaring that BitCoins are illegal.  In fact, BitCoin is currently technically illegal to trade (as I assume BitCoiners are not paying taxes on transactions:), but people can still use BitCoins without being caught due to its pseudonymous properties if they are careful to not reveal their real identity.The State can make whatever laws it pleases.  Whether those laws can be enforced is the real question.  Only an extreme totalitarian regime could prevent its populace from using raw BitCoins (since it would have to prohibit use of cryptology by regular folk, or would allow police force to enter people's homes at random to inspect people's computers, be able to extract people's passwords at force, or simply disconnect their internet).  And history has proven that extreme totalitarian regimes do not last long, because they must cripple the economy to enforce their laws (see history of USSR), and thus have too weak of a tax base to function. umm...it's not possible to "create credit BitCoin out of thin air".  One must consume significant processing power to find a (previously undiscovered) large number whose SHA-256 hash is below the current target.Now of course private individuals are free to set up their own private fractional reserve bitcoin banks, which could offer on-demand deposits holding people's bitcoins with a certain interest rate and give out loans at another interest rate (and keep the difference as profit), while only holding a certain percentage of total assets.  But then that bank would be at risk of default if all of its creditors simultaneously requested their on-demand deposits.  Even the thought of default in people's mind is a self-fulfilling prophecy, since it would cause a chain reaction of other depositors worrying about the security of their deposits, and likewise would request to withdraw their deposits from a potentially untrustworthy bank.  Murray Rothbard does a great job explaining this mechanism in Chapter VIII "Free Banking and the Limits on Bank Credit Inflation" of his book The Mystery of Banking (you can read the entire book for free).  Basically, he argues that the threat of bank runs are a good thing, since they will keep the banks honest (by engaging in 100% reserve holdings).  Here are the relevant paragraphs:    "The bank run is a marvelously effective weapon because (a) itis irresistible, since once it gets going it cannot be stopped, and (b)it serves as a dramatic device for calling everyones attention tothe inherent unsoundness and insolvency of fractional reservebanking. Hence, bank runs feed on one another, and can induceother bank runs to follow. Bank runs instruct the public in theessential fraudulence of fractional reserve banking, in its essenceas a giant Ponzi scheme in which a few people can redeem theirdeposits only because most depositors do not follow suit."...    "Fortunately, the market does provide a superb, day-to-daygrinding type of severe restraint on credit expansion under freebanking. It operates even while confidence in banks by their cus-tomers is as buoyant as ever. It does not depend, therefore, on apsychological loss of faith in the banks. This vital restraint is sim-ply the limited clientele of each bank. In short, the Rothbard Bank(or the Jones Bank) is constrained, first, by the fear of a bank run(loss of confidence in the bank by its own customers); but it isalso, and even more effectively, constrained by the very fact that,in the free market, the clientele of the Rothbard Bank is extremelylimited. The day-to-day constraint on banks under free banking isthe fact that nonclients will, by definition, call upon the bank forredemption."...    "The beauty and power of this restraint on the banks is that itdoes not depend on loss of confidence in the banks. Smith, Jones,and everyone else can go on being blithely ignorant and trustingof the fractional reserve banking system. And yet the redemptionweapon does its important work. For Jones calls on the RothbardBank for redemption, not because he doesnt trust the bank orthinks it is going to fail, but simply because he patronizes anotherbank and wants to shift his account to his preferred bank. Themere existence of bank competition will provide a powerful, con-tinuing, day-to-day constraint on fractional reserve credit expan-sion. Free banking, even where fractional reserve banking is legaland not punished as fraud, will scarcely permit fractional reserveinflation to exist, much less to flourish and proliferate. Free bank-ing, far from leading to inflationary chaos, will insure almost ashard and noninflationary a money as 100 percent reserve bankingitself."So there you have it.  In a free banking system (which bitcoin is, since there is no central authority), competition amongst bitcoin banks will lend itself towards 100 percent reserve banking.  BitCoin users could conceivably come up with a similar strategy to maintain bank honesty, whereby depositors to a certain bank will deliberately and simultaneously request to withdraw their assets from a particular bank at a randomly chosen (but mutually-agreed) time.  If the bank is honest, it will pass this test.  If it is not honest (i.e. it engaged in fractional reserve banking), it will fail this test.  Or alternatively, a bank could instead not even offer on-demand withdraws, whereby it would maintain a strict policy by having the schedule of payments for loans it lent out to borrowers match the schedule of interest payments to its depositors.But with bitcoin, unless you wanted to gain interest at real risk of loosing your deposit, there is no need to store your bitcoins at someone else's bank, since your wallet is your own bank:).  Unlike with real species or physically holding fiat currency notes, your bitcoin wallet is not at risk of being stolen by common criminals if you keep it encrypted and backed-up in multiple places online.  All you will have to know is your password, which you can memorize.  But of course you would need a password or pin when accessing a regular bank anyways, so memorizing a password is not an extra burden on you.  So there is no serious need to deposit your money at some bank, if all you desire is to hold your money (without gaining interest).  But since there is not significant inflation of the bitcoin money supply, one need not be concerned with gaining interest simply to keep up with inflation.  So just keep your money in your own wallet:). Suppose that BitCoins are being widely used all across the globe.  Suppose that all internet connections between two countries are blocked (eg China and US go to war) and people still engage in transactions inside each network.  Now all transactions within each network are broadcasted to all nodes inside its network, but not to the other network.  Within each network, the longest chain in each would be considered valid, and the BitCoin economy would continue to exist inside each network.Now after several years existing independently, what happens when the two networks are reconnected? That's a very interesting entrepreneurial idea!  It could even be as simple as one of those scratch-off lottery cards, revealing a code to type into a website form! Yeah, I wouldn't expect wal-mart to use bitcoins any time soon, since corporations are creations of The State.  But once bitcoins become widespread, The State will become marginalized (although, I'd suppose the state could still tax land property and maybe find a way to tax bandwidth, road use, and other activities that require person-to-person contact in public).  Once The State becomes that weak, wal-mart may consider to start using bitcoins, since it would be willing and able to defy any laws against trading bitcoins. My apologies.  I jumped to a conclusion.  Maybe Kiba doesn't mind paying taxes (I guess he could use the market rate for bitcoins for calculating his tax liability).  Or maybe Kiba wants to sell the games illegally and hope that the government won't care or notice.  I should have started a separate thread to discuss my concern, since it is off topic from Kiba's question.  Sorry.  I just assumed people using BitCoin for trade would naturally be agorists/market-anarchists/crypto-anarchists do to its properties of psuedonymity, security, lack of central authority, limited inflation, etc. hmm...I wasn't able to apply the patch (I'm a noobie). Here's the command I ran from bitcoin-0.3.6/src # patch < XN1JDb53.txt Output:1 out of 1 hunk ignored(Stripping trailing CRs from patch.)patching file main.cppHunk #1 FAILED at 2555.Hunk #2 FAILED at 2701.2 out of 2 hunks FAILED(Stripping trailing CRs from patch.)patching file makefile.unixHunk #1 FAILED at 45.Hunk #2 FAILED at 58.What's the proper command to type into linux?  Or do you have linux binaries? From http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin"This page has been deleted. The deletion and move log for the page are provided below for reference.10:42, 30 July 2010 Polargeo (talk | contribs) deleted "Bitcoin" ‎ (Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Bitcoin)"I made a new forum post to restart the discussion, now that it's official: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=652.0
