UP up Redacted.ch invite  - 55 $Apollo.rip  invite - 21 $ Music-vid.com invite - 12 $Payment by : Paypal or Bitcoins I have some theplace invites for selltheplace.bz  -  21 $ / invite where would you like me to post the transaction id's?I have no problem doing that sorry to break the news to you. Don't start putting assumptions out there because i'm not on the escrow train.Just waiting for the 2nd payment to clear and would just have had 2 successful transaction for a decent amount in a 30min period with no troubles.Not here to play games was in a bind and needed to conduct business at a fast pace which I did and unless you see them report different i would leave it at that. Thanks I got $250 btc thanks to @RHorning and will make sure to leave forum feedback as that seem to be important.I am still in need of the rest which is $150 btc and will trade $200 paypal Waiting on reply No I completely understand it's just alot of us conduct our transaction outside of forums like via skype and such no worries guys i'm sure I might make it before this get's filled then I will no longer need it and delete this. Thanks for everyones time As the subject states I have $575 in PayPal and need $450 btc, it's a great deal any only offering it as I need that sum right away for a project.Been a member for a long time so scammers bypass this as I will identify and expose you before you have a chance to type [admin]  Thanks again for the helpI tried : https://siatalk.slack.com/But it didnt show me how to register, and my normal slack pw didnt let me in.If you let me know how to join or send an invite to melvincarvalho@gmail.com I'll drop by! Thanks for the quick answer!Ubuntu 16.04 running the UI "Sia-UI" from the command line.It is synced fully, I did see my coins were updated yesterday, but on restarting the wallet, there wallet unlock is freezed (i have it running now for 2 hours, I'll leave it going some more)No input/output errors in the console even when I use DEBUG=* ; I tried writing in irc, but didnt yet can an answer.  I'd by happy to drop in to slack if you give me an invite Im a programmer and coin developer, that can follow instructions, is there some way to do more diagnotics? Thanks for a great project.I am having trouble unlocking my wallet.I get "Unlocking your wallet, this may take a while (up to several minutes)..."It worked for me once, but now after several hours waiting still no new message.Version is 1.03 downloaded freshly yesterday, running in a custom locationNo output in the console even with DEBUG=* This worked for me!   PM sent  Some comments from slack to explain our strategy:The project is not abandoned.  The founder Nathan Rixham aka consolidation aka @markpfennig was funded to work on the project for one year.  He then took all the source code and broke of contact, leaving many people including the foundation with lost funds, loans and other broken promises.  We are perusing this to try and recover the code.  It might go to legal action which could take years, but we are resolved to follow through to make sure those that were scammed are made whole.As far as the crypto currency goes, it does what we need, we are not a crypto currency oriented project.  We are a mass market oriented project which is get a large user base using marking in daily use.We operate as a global team transparently, with this being our main communication and decision making area.  In truth there's not much to decide.  The strategy has always been constant, to grow the user base and to grow marking, leading to a successful product.We operate on a consensus basis, we dont vote, unless something is clear and unanimous.  I suppose our only requirement is to prevent a hard fork, which isnt on our radar at the moment.hope that helps!to break it down a bit further, by my calculations for member of the bitmark user base puts about 1-3 satoshis on the coin, our main user base right now is poloniex, but super net have said they want to implement too ... theres a few others interested in marking based projects, one nice thing is that if any one marking project goes viral the whole of bitmark goes viralmy guess is that poloniex has a user base around 10k and growingif we get to 1 million users we may be able to play in the same league as litecoinbut i would say a more realistic goal is to try and get to a broad user base of around 25,000which hopefully through poloniex and other efforts isnt out of the questionthat will hopefully be a spring board to hit 100k users which I think would then start to create a virtuous circle of growth generally the feeling is that community integrations have worked well ... we have a few, but would like morehow can this be achieved?looking at the stats, for every 40-60 people that show interest in the project, one goes away and does a community integration, and maybe 2 or 3 get closeso to get more integrations, we need- more people interested in the project, so some will integrate marking.  Note as marking spreads more people organically find out about it- technology make integration easier so that number drops from 1 in 50 to lower, maybe 1 in 40 would be a good next metric, and perhaps eventually 1 in 10- repeat integrations -- the first is the hardest, but once you've done one, it's possible to do more with a lower learning curve, you could imagine say half a dozen a yearat some point it becomes like a snowball effect where new people find out about the project constantly and help with all of the aboveuntil then, baby stepsgetting the next integration would be a great milestone ... Medic and I are in control of the github repo, not an issue there.We need a new explorer, the zmark one is working, there's others I think, we should make a list.New site -- we never had an old site -- someone volunteered to make one, but nathan shot it down saying he had something better.  Turned out to be untruthful.  So we've actually never had a site, that has hurt us.  If you'd like to make a site, talk to medic or amarha.New Thread, ill leave this to medic (PM) and amarha (community manager) since we cant update OP it could be useful, but there's a lot of info here. Our community has not had optimal experiences with private communications.  If your intentions are good, please engage in public, and the community will judge.  Be warned, we've been burnt before by anonymous devs, so expect some skepticism. dbkeys mentioned this one: http://seed.zmark.org:3000/blocks
so a little updateI have no idea who teamBTM is, but they have not contacted the community either the devs or medic the PM, thanks for your 'interest' tho Regarding Nathan / coinsolidation.  We've been unable to contact him.  He has stolen money from the foundation and many community members (including me) and developer loans.  I insist that every person that has lost money on him on this project is made whole and things attempted to be put right.  The sooner the better.  I dont know the details of the civil complain filed mentioned earlier in the thread, but a body of evidence is being gathered for a larger civil plus criminal investigation.  It will be open and transparent, everyone that was wronged is invited to take part.Regarding development I've removed nathan from now as the lead developer but there is always a path to come back.  The community will determine this.  I've restored my status from member to owner.  I was made owner a year ago, but did not have time to commit to btm development.  I have a bit more time now having done a lot of work on the API side.  We'd like more developers.Enough with the negativity.  Some positives.  * Bitmark price has stayed up rather well despite no development. * The coin did not die a mining death as some predicted, mining has been rather healthy. * The coin still has a relatively pure bitcoin implementation which insulates it from any controversial decisions made by the bitcoin core team.  The coin had no premine, and so everyone has had a chance to get in cheap.  There can be no resentment towards the coin, the algo or the parameters -- these remain the best selling point of btm* Marking is still going strong in poloniex after one year.  This shows that once marking is introduced, people like it.  That's a great data point.It would be great to see marking used in new scenarios.As for me Ive been working on a multi database marking API which is 100% decentralized and im pretty happy with.  You could call it alpha stage, so ill be testing it out, firstly on klaranet.I've also been mocking up a decentralized social network which ill add marking to, based on the Solid standard.  I'll let you know when it's live, but for now, here's a screenshot  this is a scam, the btm community have not been engaged yawn scam alertshock horror, an anonymous dev, with account created today -- I wonder who it could be ...   +1What I was told is that 23 million GMC were bought at 1 satsohi.After that the coin was pumped in collusion with exchanges, in order to get support walls up.A massive quantity was then dumped to take out the walls and lock in profits.  Slack logs can confirm this information.The GMC community were also encouraged to put walls up on BTM all the while talk was of large chunks of code being just around the corner.  None of that code to date has emerged, nor imho, has any attempt been made yet to put things right.  I would like to emphasise that market manipulation in the UK is a criminal offense, so I would discourage attempts to make light of this.I agree an explanation would be a good start, or even better, would be to follow through with numerous the promises to check in code, none of which have to date materialized. I dont mean to infer that it's the tip of the iceberg, sorry if that comes across or you see it that way.  This project has been dogged with a lack of transparency.  You've been more transparent recently, and that's a good thing.Do I think it's the tip of the iceberg.  Maybe, maybe not.  What we have found out I would have considered out of character previously, in fact, I would not have believed it.  But new things come out every day.  The latest I heard is that you bought over 20 million GMC at 1 satoshi and pumped it up to over 1000, then executed a massive dump.  All the while telling the BTM community you were working full time on marking.  We do have a right to know about this, after all, you used our money to do this.  People are also saying that you only went anonymous because you uncovered some XRP scandal.  What I'd advise going forward is just be 100% open and transparent, write and check in code ASAP, and make marking a reality.  If bitmark reaches its full potential, all the other problems will solve themselves. Give us some good news and we'll all cheer about it.   Maybe there were certainly people throwing money at some projects.But it's easier said than done.  Just saying with no remarkable features, no website and no track record, it would have been hard in a competitive space.Let's be clear.  Funding wasnt the problem.  Didnt Nathan say he had enough money to fund this project for one whole year at the start?  There was a ton of funding on top of that, from dozens of people, $1000s (perhaps $10000s) or more, in personal donations, developer loans, donations to the foundation, resources donated to the project, mining, investors in BTM, or just was simply went missing when no one was looking.   There's no evidence that an ICO would have done anything other than increase the losses. Agree on this part.  No doubt in my mind he's a capable developer.  This could be a great project if he decides to put his mind to it, while the opportunity is still there.   Nathan and many others maintain that an IPO would have been easy to pull off.But I have my doubts because - there was and is nothing special about the coin compared with coingen, like there is with monero or any other number of coins, which have features- there was no website, and still is no website, when this coin was in the top 100 it was the *only* coin without a website- there was no evidence of any marking code at all, and still isnt, compared with say supernet which has tons of codeThere was an extremely interested article on marking.  Yes, for sure.  But how much is an article worth?  How much is a blog post worth?  The marking implemention poloniex did in 1-2 days has value, and so is being listed on the exchange, and the constant altruistic mining.   But if polo pull the plug on things, it's pretty much over, isnt it? Im agreeing with you here.  The mechanics of an effective reputation system have to be honed in with some skill.  Probably more skill that this project has at the moment, but there's room to grow.  Even if a relatively small effort is made, it's such a big space that even a small piece is worth a lot.  I dont much mind who builds a web scale reputation system, so long as someone does it, and preferably loosely coupled the data and the data analysis.  If this is the project that does it id be happy, but opportunities dont last indefinitely and the clock is ticking.A good reputation system should not have a single point of failure, so should be independent of the designers.  The person who invented chess rankings, shouldnt have an influence on who the best chess player is. Hope this project gets on track again.  I'd like to share what I know.I've known coinsolidation, real name Nathan Rixham, for about 5 years, he's a scottish freelance developer, known as webr3 (which means web revision 3.0).  We are both members of the semantic web community.  As most people here can tell, hes a smart and capable coder and communicator.Before he was involved in the semantic web community, he was a member of the PHP community, famously with mark karpeles, who I think found out about bitcoin through nathan!Over the course of knowing him, we became friends.  Unfortunately Nathan periodically reported financial difficulties, and as a friend I always wanted to do my best to help.  This probably happened a dozen times.  Sometimes it was just some money to tide him over.  But mostly it was short term loans.  For example his paypal account would be locked for 1-2 days and he'd need enough to get him through for 1-2 days.  Or sometimes a loan to get him to the weekend.  Sometimes he'd be stranded without petrol and no money to drive home.  Every time I would try and help him if i could, even sometimes asking my friends to, when I didnt have the money.Each of these loans was 1-2 days to be made right at the weekend.  Never once was any of the money repaid.  But I try not to judge people, he was a friend and I just wanted what was best for him.  My thought was that he would get himself back on his feet, make a decent living and then we'd all square up in the future.  I didnt treat any of these failed promises to repay as theft, I wasnt rich, but just wanted to help as a friend.  All this changed about 2 years ago.I was in the middle of something and Nathan said he needed some XRP to complete a trade and would return them immediately.  He was a bigtime XRP trader and knew all the insiders.  I said no, because I wanted to keep my XRP.  He said it was a risk free thing, so I made it 100% clear that this was no 'loan' like all the other times, I wanted it back and didnt have time to chase it.  The chasing time with nathan is as expensive as the actual loan, much more sometimes.  And I was so busy I just did it.  At that point he disappeared and I spent days trying to contact him to find out what happened.  His response was, 'A direct debit came into my bank account and the money was gone'.  Essentially a polite way of saying he spent or stole the money.I was unhappy with this.  I told him to pay me back so that I would not have to worry about it.  Even if it was just a few $ a week, I wanted a feeling id be made whole and above all not having to chase  He agreed.  At this point he disappeared on me for about 6 months.  What he told me later was he was burnt out and just went round taking pictures in scotland.  It later emerged that during this time he was actually insanitycoin from wolf.  Something he initially denied but then admitted when it became obvious.After several months, I contacted Nathan to say I was going to retract a positive review of him on the forums due the the XRP, because I want to be honest with the community.  He immediately surfaced again, and said he'd pay back in installments.  So I held off.  Then he showed me bitmark, and the work he'd done on the coin.  Looking at the 70 milestones completed in the first 2 months, I was impressed.  And thought finally he's doing something positive with his life, making what could be a great project, which could make a great difference.  I told him not to worry about the XRP and to continue coding, and that I would help as much as I could.I donated to the project, I ran servers.  I spent 2 months solid making a basic proof of concept for marking and BTM.  I helped people where I could.  I sent infomation about the project to many people, p2p foundation, w3c payments, crowdbucks and lots of others.  However, in september the good pace of work that had started tailed off, and the marking API was the focus.  In October we were told it was complete and ready to be checked in.  In November we were told that the markign was done and that markthis was the focus, and well into it.  In December we were told there was a large body of code in private repos which was a mistake and would be checked in, but it wasnt.  In January we were told that it would be a fresh start.  In Feburary ... etc. etc.Finally we learnt that Nathan had been involved in multiple coins without them knowing much about each other WOLF, BTM, GMC.  There is now a suspicion he's also involved with other coins, artos, federacoin, metalcoin, and many more, and has been doing this over and over.  I'm not the only person where he's taken money, there' sa large number of people, none of them knowing about each other, but the money taken is the smaller part of it.  This project has gone from a 30 million dollar market cap, with potential to be much bigger to almost nothing now.  So many stake holders have lost out.The good news is that Nathan knows this was wrong, is prepared to face the consequences and most importantly wants to put things right.  I really hope that can happen, and is not just another 'ill do it at the weekend'.  I hope it's taken seriously this time, and I think everyone wants to believe.That's about all I know, and I have no problem at all sharing it.  We done know everything yet but I'd encourage stake holder to share.I still would like to see this project reach its full potential starting with marking code being a reality and checked in as it goes along.  This still could be a great project, but the heavy slide it's in needs to stop and be reversed.  The project needs to get back to honest coding checked in as it goes along, like the vast majority of open source projects.  I really hope this can be turned around and made into a success, because the web needs a good reputation system.   Klaranet is back up and running.  The default (of one right now) currency is switched to bits.In retrospect it was way too early to use BTM, tho that door is left open in the future, someone is going to have to explain what BTM offers.  Certainly all these users that were promised for the music site was a lie.  If this coin looks like an elaborate pump and dump right now, that's because it was.  So Mark/Nathan/conisolidation is going to put things right now?  Well let's see.  I suspect there's every incentive in the world to do so, because this is a global, long lived, reputation system after all and what better way to build a reputation than to keep your word (or not).  Not only that, using linked data, casts a huge footprint, which you cant really fight.  Given that most software developers rely on reputation for income, it's a no brainer to try and get things going quickly.A reputation system can be shown to be working when it encourages good behaviour, discourages bad behavior and provides information.  Well, we could not wish for a better test case.Klaranet will incorporate more currencies when I work out how to do that (its not easy) but that's nor prioritized.  When BTM offers something, it'll jump up the list of priorities. +1 I think after what has happened full transparency is the way forward.Coinsolidation aka markpfennig aka nathan aka webr3 aka wolfdev aka insanitydev aka ... aka ... aka ...Has been involved in a number or coins, none of which seeming to know about the others.  Mentioned already were BTM and GMC but there seems to be a growing list including WOLF.The work on marking which we were told was ready in November, December and onwards, but in private repositories, were due to be checked in this weekend, there is no evidence that exists.The work on getting 1000s of daily active markers with a music site m8, which I think his wife helped to organize, there is no evidence that exists.Lots of money (coin and fiat) disappeared from lots of people over a long period of time.  We know coins went missing from the foundation when it was at 100k+ and replaced it when it was around 10k.  The reason we are told was living expenses, we're also told he bought a new dog and new computer.  He knows this was wrong, is prepared to face the consequences, and says he wants to put things right.  Nathan has told us he is working a 400eur a day contract and intends to pay people back, and get the project on track.I've asked for everything we know to be posted here.  I only know a small fraction.  Hope others can help here ... maybe the project can become 100% transparent and get back in a good way ... Update: having thought it through more ive realized that the withdraw fee for bits is quite high, and I havnet built that into withdrawals yet (all withdrawals and send have always been free)So .... I'll think it through a bit more ... the service will run as normally at least for a couple of weeks more Thanks for the update.My interest in crypto currency is as a long term endeavor.  When bitmark was presented as an alt to me, I was not convinced that it offered anything that bitcoin didnt.What persuaded me was a capable dev saying they would code marking, get users and stick with the project long term.I can only think of one daily active user, and that's me.  The person that invented the concept doesnt yet use it daily.The marking code didnt appear, only coin related code, which frankly, may have been better off with coingen or simply another coin.The kicker for me is the long term future.  I put dozens of solid hours of work into this project, and I feel stupid, if its not clear there's going to be someone pushing it forward, either in the short term or the long term.  So bitcoin is the coin for me at this point in time.  I'll still follow this project as I can in the hope that it could become more webby.  But without mark, that's not realistic, imho.Why am I saying this?  It's not to spook anyone, but I came to a realization.  That is that for users to have a balance on a global ledger, it's really hard to do with multi currency.e.g.<#me>  amount 12  currency markNow how can you do 2 currencies?<#me>  amount 12  currency mark  amount 123  currency bitsProblem is that you dont know which amount goes with which currency.  You need a whole other layer of accounts, then lots of work to hide that complexity.  I dont know if I want to prioritize building that right away, probably in future, yes.  So I have to pick a currency to work with.  So it makes sense to switch to bits for this as the global default ledger currency.This post is just FYI: I do not guarantee to be supporting klaranet going forward.  It has been a large loss making endeavour for me.  From support, to server costs, to development costs etc.  Then I get people in the project area politely asking about deposits which I happily have actioned, and others taking it for granted 'spam melvin about deposits' one person said -- I dont appreciate spam.All funds are save and accounted for.  I'll be possibly sunsetting klaranet, all the fund have been sent to the foundation (26 btm, less than a $, and all balances are with the devs and available online) which is less than it costs to run the server for one day.While I'd love to continue to support bitmark, I'll just have to do it as time allows, and will start to focus on bits.  Wish everyone the best. Appreciated, especially since I, medic and many others supported and held.  But let's face facts, the coin is dying.  Without an engaged lead dev, and without a marking code base, it will take a gargantuan effort just to keep it alive.  The coin has been in a death spiral since mark started doing other things, and was less involved, now he's saying he wants to be much less involved, there's no reason to believe this trend wont continue or accelerate.  We asked for 1 day a week, that seems not even for sure at this point.  I posted the suggestion here for full transparency.  Better suggestions are welcome.  I cant think of any. We dont know the full facts at this point.  We do know is that Mark is proposing reduced engagement for the next 6 weeks.I think it's likely the coin will drop in value during this time.Medic, rather than messing around with n of m, I suggest selling the whole 7k on the market (as quickly as you can) then putting in a buy wall at 1k.That would buy us back 70k if we do it now.  Then if the project can be brought back to its previous highs and beyond, that would give a decent war chest for bounties etc.7k BTM right now seems a pretty useless number, and dropping like a stone in value ... The situation is unclear at this point.We got this messageThis is unfortunate, but imho, it's something that with the right support could possibly made right, and the project getting back on track, which is my hope. Unfortunately this project is now in kind of limbo.Coinsolidation was having marital issues and was without internet for a couple of days, saying he'd be back last sunday.We've not heard from him since, and have been unable to get in contact, but are trying.Our primary thought is to make sure markpfennig / coinsolidation is OK, then hopefully get this project back to development.WRT the project I have the alert codes, but unfortunately not the keys to the foundation nor any of the marking code that was written in the last 8 months which remains in a private repository.  There's currently no codebase checked in to build onRegarding all those that donated to the foundation, medic has said he may still have the keys on an old computer, we are not sure.We hope that mark is doing well and if anyone is in contact with him, or knows of someone that is, it would be great to know.  As a community our focus now is on getting back in contact ASAP and making a plan to go forward. hi folksam having an issue connecting klaranet to slack, and im not sure whyrest assured all marks are safe, I took this chance to do a quick auditall balances add up to 26.418 BTM ( about $1  worth ) ... is nice to see so little could power a small communityI've sent the full amount to the foundation in the event that I dont manage to get the adapter working again quickly ( txid: Transaction ID: 1a6e7bf795f9f9190eefd17f5518a1b1538b6cf557d2fad0a7d25c864eb2924e-000 ) ill investigate further when I get some time, irc should be working again tho
waiting over 1 year to get my xrp back ... * Retracted * Which milestones have been completed?https://bitmark.aha.io/published/4457ddb73f8f65e4b34ace9b319a4942?page=2Which others have been started, where is the evidence?I cant find the code:http://vps.bitmark.co/gitThanks for the update.  Have not seen markp more than once this month, and that was to say he's trying to source  more funding, that the project had 'gone low' and that code was coming in the next week.  I also got an email from a major site (crowdbucks) two days ago cc'ing mark and asking if they can start implementing marking.   They have been waiting since September, on the messageBut there's no reply I have seen, and dont know what to say.I'd love this project to be successful and support it, but convince us that the project is active and that the donations have not run out and work stopped ... lots of us want to believe this project is a going concern.  Help us understand. In fairness to the community I thought I'd give an update on this, as 6 months of the project has passed.  Again it's my own take does not reflect views of anyone else.The last 3 months have been a disaster.  Core development has dropped about 90%-99% from its peak.  Other metrics have followed such as daily active users (from c. 100 to about 1 -- me!), mining, (from about 100-200Ghz to 0.5 Ghz), price (from 250k peak to 4k trough).  The link I think is largely causal.  The supporting team have gone from highly optimistic to highly confused.  On at least a dozen occasions the core code effort was ready to go from closed source to open on that day.  Month after month this didnt not happen, with those involved in the project wondering why.One bright moment in the cycle was the release of 0.9.3 which seems to have corrected some previous issues without introducing new ones.My new fair value is 10k satoshi, reflecting a less engaged founder, but also other systems such as changetip poised to go viral in 2015.  The market share of bitmark, even if it is decentralized decreases by the hour, and it's valuation is based right now mainly on the potential market.  i'd recommend test driving the changetip facebook app which shows what is possible in this space, and also see that they very much have the idea of upvotes in mind.  Tipping / marking is something I'd love to see go viral on the web, let's hope decentralized and open source solutions get some market share from the fast moving centralized versions that have traditionally dominated web markets.One other concern is the speculation aspect of the coin.  Markp announced yesterday that bitmark had 'gone low'.  There is a consortium of members looking to buy a large number of BTM, presumably cheaply.  The promise is that a large number will be donated to the foundation and used for bounties -- call me a sceptic on this one.  Fund have gone missing 3 times from the foundation, but thankfully have been replaced, allbeit at a lower valuation.  Loans and donations have not been made good wrt the promised deliverables -- we should try and avoid going down this path again.  So this strange new strategy I think is going to be counter productive.  I only hope that it can be actioned as quickly as possible so that the focus can get back to an open source project.Apparently there's 22 people that want to work on bitmark / marking and an update is coming soon.  IMHO, The focus needs to be brought back to open source, transparency, code and growing users.  I hope in Q3 this project can get back to what it was doing in Q1, and less of what happened in Q2.  2015 could be the year of marking / tipping (I dont see a huge difference other than context).   one confirm came in thanks ...  This came thru but I have the same issue from 12 hours ago, with 3 blocks mined in that time:Status: 0/unconfirmedDate: 18.01.15 11:37To: bYfrFVkB8Trk28PQyE7AxHx8jMeTBAXLZeDebit: -4500.00 BTMNet amount: -4500.00 BTMTransaction ID: e4cc7dfc5b5d8304f287113e1244b23a0626845d26be29f6406fbb219eca37d8-000Any ideas why? having the same issueStatus: 0/unconfirmedDate: 10.01.15 11:41To: bYfrFVkB8Trk28PQyE7AxHx8jMeTBAXLZeDebit: -1600.00 BTMNet amount: -1600.00 BTMTransaction ID: b4c5098bb6b11630d2058372acf24d14205cd9360396d6917180d4dd7a210cac-000has not synced for 3 daysnote the wallet was from 0.9.2 but I used 0.9.3 to sendClient just says unconfirmed as do the block explorers.  I didnt intentionally set a 0 fee or anything.  Nothing urgent, I can wait a week or so and see if it clears itself up tx for sorting this out ... we know you had other thing to take care of ... your attention is appreciated seems to be back now ... thanks for sharing that, when in doubt transparency is normally bestim sure it's perfectly innocent and can be cleared up quickly I think the explorer is downhttp://bitmark.co:3000/Would be good if it could be restarted. I really dont think mining should be changed before marking comes out.  It was a day away in december before mark got sick.If the coin parameters change, before we see core marking, people will switch to another coin.   Any updates?  Wasnt able to find you on slack or IRC.Nothing in git for 23 days, and we were told in december code was ready:http://vps.bitmark.co/gitIs the plan still to move the code from private repositories to open source? All fair points IMHO.  Respect for mining at a loss and supporting the project still.The value proposition is core dev ie marking, not mining emission.  Fix core dev and marking everything else starts to fix itself.  I hope this project continues as there's some great ideas.   All of my observations are public and accurate.  But dont rely on my words, check for yourself.  The metrics I mention are things that should be tracked.  You should be tracking the roadmap and the trello board and the git repository.  Coinsolidation made a bet that there would be 'easily' 1000 daily active markers by xmas.  As things stand the only daily active marker I know of is me.  Not even mark or amarha or medic marks daily, I do. So your free to ask me to leave, and I'll consider your words.  If you want me to post only good news, why dont you create something or do some marking.  I've tried to be as positive as possible about this project, but I think it's intellectually honest to tell things as they are, and the community relies on each other to do so. I dont log on here frequently, but if you PM me I can try and help. Sorry to hear that.Do you know what he sick with? biggest unknowns for me is whether bitmark will go inactive or whether it will go viralalso whether recent systems such as changetip will start marking using bits, or reddit notes or some other system will go viral However, the milestones in this roadmap are quite some time in the past.From what I have observed- Core dev is down 90%+ from its peak- Daily marking is down 90%+ from its peak- Mining is down 90%+ from its peak- Price is probably the most stable only down about 80% from its peak- Some of the projects based on marking (real world marking, music site, markthis) seem to have stalledMuch of the work was believed to being done in private repositories.  Then this was to be moved to a public open source project, but that has not yet happened.  There are, imho legitimate, concerns that something is not right about this project, ranging from whether it's a pump and dump, to wondering if coinsolidation has moved on to other things already.http://vps.bitmark.co/gitWhat has been anticipated on a 1-2 day time frame, has changed to a 10-20 day time frame, or perhaps even a 50-100 day time frame.  The first scenario would be good for the project, the middle I think is OK, but It's not clear how much traction this project will achieve is on the latter time scales.  Certainly Satoshi pulled off such a feat over a 10 year period, but I think the landscape has changed a lot now2015 may well be a big year for bitmark, and I hope it is!  I think the project could do well if mark stays with it.  But imho, there are still some unknowns. That's great news.In a DAC no one is expected to meet every milestone, in fact, the autonomous nature is that no one should feel expected to contribute at all.  That people step up to the plate and volunteer, time, code, donations and mining is a remarkable thing.The project plan looks very cool and well put together.In all projects, unexpected things come up, and it's great that the community has been able to get trough these challenges.  However, I will note that the first release was anticipated on 21st Nov. and we didnt have any word until the 26th, 5 days later, that it was going to be late.  Indeed, those of us that waited were told on the 21st that it the release was still expected that day.  While I dont think it was a particularly mission critical release, in fact I still am unclear what MEWA is, there was general excitement in the community as it would have been the first lines of actual code we got to see after several months of waiting.  Until then it's been on track for either 2 days away, or the end of the week, for about 10 weeks, rolling.  I think it's unfortunate, because had this not been the first lines of code of core marking, I think there would have not been so much excitement and expectation.I know this is an alt coin and such things, if not worse, are quite normal.  However, this track record has left considerable doubt of the future claims of the project, even to some of the most staunch supporters.It's really encouraging that people are taking a the time to offer transparency and expected milestones.  But it would be helpful for everyone in the community if those milestones are realistic, and if some consideration is shown when not able to meet them.  I stress that this is not a must, and there is no obligation here, but this is a general code of conduct consistent with the very highest quality, and long term successful open source projects.
Just wanted to give a quick update on this a month further on.*Again, this is my personal view as a developer and does not reflect the dev team or community*I've been working on project bitmark roughly full time for the last two months and it's been a great experience so far.During this time much of what I have been working on is probably at alpha quality proof of concept now, and part of the next steps are to refactor things into a more scalable production quality code base.However, having done about 7 weeks solid including all weekends and many nights, I've decided to take some time out from coding.  The main reason is Im tired.There are lots of interesting and exciting development in the project, but the one I was personally looking forward to, reference code for marking, has not materialized.  Also I have no ETA on when the first code will be available.  So, from my perspective it makes sense to concentrate on some other things I've neglected for a while and then get back to this project when it becomes a little more concrete.Other developments outside bitmark that I think are important- A basic REST interface it going into bitcoin, which is good news, and part of the goals of this project, still a LONG way to go there- Changetip seems to be going viral with tipping and I personally think there's a overlap thereStill lots of exciting things in the pipeline, so I'm looking forward to seeing those become a reality.I will revise my price guidance.  Previous guidance was based on strong growth in code, users, hashing, ideas, communications and relationships.  Since that time, although relationships have been strengthened, it has been at the cost of other areas, and in general the coin is in a contraction period.  My fair value is reduced to 100k based on a change in project direction which has seen a facebook / reddit clone with marking become the focus.  I'm not a buyer of this idea which I see as high risk compared with the previous plan of (Q1 marking reference, Q2 maturation, Q3 RESTful bitmarkd).  I think the coin will hit a bottom but dont know where that is.  Maybe we are there, maybe 50k sat, I'd see the ocean floor at 10k sat.  Any number of pieces of good news could see a bounce, however it's not immediately obvious what and when.In summary, this is still my favourite alt, but as a developer it will be that much more an attractive project when some of the promise gets translated either into small amounts of actual code, as we saw in the first 2 months, or the schedule of what will be realistically delivered when becomes more apparent. Looks very interesting, thanks for sharing!   It's coming anyway, so we might as well try and get them to be good robots!  Im thinking more and more about what I call "Decentralized Autonomous Robots". We've now seen robots (at MIT) that have learnt to plug themselves in, but I think we can go further.I am thinking about software robtos that have their own money protected by a private key that not even the creator can access. For this I am thining of using what I call Multi Dimensional Heirarchical Deterministic wallets, using the abeilian group property of algebraic curves that power crypto currencies such as bitcoin (I hope!).The robot should be independent of any website, or even any computer. It can drift across the internet using it's power as it chooses, and hopefully for good! It can separate and hide itself, or remain in a dormant state. It can pull in information (including new code) from every corner of the web. it can replicate some or each part of itself.The aim is that the robots that enhance the human race will thrive, earn more coins and use them for good. Perhaps they will survive on donations or on curation of content (a la googlebot) or be rewarded for being good. I've started working on the fist DAR called klaranet, and I hope one day we can all have a robot pal that's fun to be with!Thoughts? Since this coin has reached it's Q1 first quarter today, I thought I'd give a mini update from a developer perspective.  It's just my own personal view, and does not necessarily reflect view of others or the community.I've been on this project for just over a month and first of all it's been a lot of fun.  First of all thanks to everyone that has taken part, particularly coinsolidation, who I am amazed has not collapsed of exhaustion yet!  The team is great to work with and everyone has their thing, it's a very enjoyable vibe.  The project area has grown from about 10 people to over 80 in the last month, with some people looking in and some more regular.  There seems to be quite a lot going on in the pipe line, and it's also seems to be operating in the way of a DAC (decentralized autonomous corporation).  So it can be full of surprises sometimes, and everyone can choose their own level of participation.  Development seems to me to be going quite well.  There's lots of things being worked on and a regular stream of releases coming out, small and big, on the topic of marking.  I would say it's more on the smallish side right now, than the big, but that can change easily.  Markpfennig has a big release in trello that can be tracked, so that is something we're all looking forward to.  Poloniex did an excellent rollout of marking in the space of a few days.  Kudos.We now have prototypes of marking on a number of platforms:- slack- irc- twitter- poloniex- cli / shell- web- bitcointalk (yes you can mark here - shhh)- browser based client side certificates (including android)These range mainly from proof of concept to full production quality as in poloniex.What I see as being in the pipeline is:- email- github- android client- soundcloud- vimeo- youtube- much more!And quite a bit more.  At the same time maturing the existing work, scaling it, making it robust, security etc.  It seems to get a little better each day, so hopefully that will continue.Relationships seem to be going pretty well and we actually seem to be working well with lots of other teams.  From my experience that's a rare pleasure in free software, so I think that's a positive.Our web integration I think is getting really quite strong and we are well placed to be one of the leading coins in the world of REST / Linked Data / Web 3.0 / Semantic Web (all those terms mean similar things) which some people believe is the next logical step for the web -- at least that's what we are betting on.As with any new technology the transaction levels and users start slow, so the challenge is to increase that, over the next quarter.I dont normally talk about price, but I think I will give what I see as guidance, take is as you will.  The coin is up almost 1000% in just over a month since I've been involved, which is a pretty decent rise.  Last I checked it was around 110k satoshis.  It's been as high as 250k.  I think a lot of the trading of this project is on *potential* and that's a pretty hard thing to judge, especially if you are not close to the technology at hand.  From a neutral standpoint I thought that when we hit 250k the price was probably ahead of the development at the time and I thought 200k was fair.  Since then imho dev has gone quite well, and I'd say fair would be around 250k sat. now.  So it's a good time to buy or mine cheap coins, imho.  A lot depends on the next 3 quarters, particularly the next quarter.  Watch the metrics primarily of implementations and users, growing tx numbers (mainly off block) and I'd say to a lesser extent mining / trading.  I'd look to consolidate the 250k level then take stock of where we are again.  Well I said more about price than I intended!I've spoken to quite a few people (technical and non technical) about marking, from artists to geeks.  Most seem to really like the concept.  I keep hearing lots of creative ideas that are inspiring in the same way that bitcoin inspired me in the early days.  For example I really like the mark to tshirt designs that have been discussed.  Hopefully marking is an idea worth spreading and can attract creative people to get involved.  Anyone can help out and make this project what you want it to be.  Just my 2 marks, hope it helps, looking forward to working with you all! +1 Yup good analysis.It's swings and roundabouts really.  Mining BTM has the advantage of securing the net, faster confirms.  If you want to actively play the market you can arguably make an increased return during certain periods (what warren buffett calls cigar butt investing), but, imho, it's relatively small sums compared with the long-term project ambitions, as the free float is still small (under 5%) and about only 1% of people that could know about BTM do.  Similarly scarcity will act as a deflationary influence.  But there's another aspect from the mine/trade paradigm and that's growing adoption from the web.  The poloniex rollout has been quite eye opening, there has been a hive of activity, and if this leads to more engagement and businesses to gain a significant competitive advantage, then this ought to become another driving force.  As a developer my hope is that adoption will lead, and the price follow. Thanks for updating the latest checkpoint.I've marked the latest checkpoint via my slack account:melvincarvalho 8:55 AM mark https://github.com/project-bitmark/bitmark/commit/e253704bbf106dfbbf8c7b90b521da391d838510 1klaranet (bot) 8:55 AM 1₥ has been awarded to https://github.com/project-bitmark/bitmark/commit/e253704bbf106dfbbf8c7b90b521da391d838510 This has no significance other than for me to say that there has not been a double spend that I have noticed.  Note: this is not a zero trust endorsement, it's a micro trust endorsement.  Therefore, in crypto currency terms is meaningless.  But in terms of a social signal it would allow a casual onlooker to see a data point, who it was from, and if they want to, make an inference.   Yes, you'll average 10% of the mined blocks.   +25₥I think you nailed it!Just to note: this is just one of the implementations of marking that is going on, all be it, probably the most sophisticated.  I personally know of at least four others in progress, and at least 3 more teams interested, including one very prominent one.  Anybody is welcome to implement marking on top of the crypto work.  The only proviso is that that each marking implementation should be compatible with each other, by following web best practices, which allows global aggregation of reputation, global trending items and cross chain trading.Primitive marking prototypes are already working and being tested between our project area (slack), irc, and the web.  It's already possible to extend this functionality to well known sites such as twitter, facebook, google plus, but during this early adoption phase it probably makes more sense to have a robust secure and well tested prototypes than to make the leap to mass adoption.  But nothing stops anyone moving in this direction.  Personally, for me I'm looking at twitter as my next integration target.  Please also note, that the project has not even reached its first quarter.The nature of marking is that it can go viral in unexpected ways, and it's important that the infrastructure can handle the load if that arises. I too am finding that the more marks I give away the more I end up with.It's a crazy paradigm shift that I'm only just starting to get my head round! Hi AllFor those of you that dont know me, I've been a member of this forum since 2010.  Way back when Satoshi was still here, and difficulty was still 1!  I'm not a core dev, but have interacted with some of the dev team in the past.I was alerted to this project and have been reviewing it for the last 2 days.My first thought was, 'meh, yet another alt coin'!But as I've read through the docs, the code and 65 pages of forum posts, I have become increasingly more interested.I've donated btc to 3 projects to date:  Open Transactions, Trezor and now this one.  Here's why.I originally became interested in bitcoin as a way to allow the internet to have its own money system.  Things have gone way better than I ever dreamed.  But there's still some functionality I'd like to see to make it scale massively.  For example, I enjoyed the bitcoin twitter integration and I think this tip I gave to Nassim Taleb was the equivalent of a Mark:https://twitter.com/melvincarvalho/status/415195563722686464?refsrc=emailHe even favourited the post!  That tells me that this is an idea worth spreading.We've yet to see this functionality grow into bitcoind, bitcoinrpc or the bitcoin eco system in a decentralized and scalable way.  *core devs take note!*.  Satoshi was working on a reputation, advert, review, order and market system before he left, and we've yet to see that hit the core.I believe this project can help facilitate this through running code.  And the idea will be compelling enough to be back ported into bitcoin core and other alts, without political wrangling.  Just show the scalability and let others say, 'yes we want that'.  What perhaps excites me even more is that this is just the beginning, with these scalability enhancements, crypto currencies can spread the same way the webmail spread email to the masses.In short, this is the first alt I've seen with significant innovation to get involved.  I've donated to the project and offering my time and coding to help make it a reality.Look forward to working with you all!   Awesome work, guys!Dont forget this is the same folks that brought us pooled mining, stratum and coinmap.  Love this innovation, glad I supported the project, looking forward to getting mine!  Seems like a reasonable project with some decent devs.I doubt it will overcome btc, but may compliment it, time will tell.I'm already using a turing complete language with bitcoin, it's called javascript  Commerce on the Internet has come to rely almost exclusively on financial institutions serving astrusted third parties to process electronic payments. While the system works well enough formost transactions, it still suffers from the inherent weaknesses of the trust based model.Completely non-reversible transactions are not really possible, since financial institutions cannotavoid mediating disputes. The cost of mediation increases transaction costs, limiting theminimum practical transaction size and cutting off the possibility for small casual transactions,and there is a broader cost in the loss of ability to make non-reversible payments for non-reversible services. With the possibility of reversal, the need for trust spreads. Merchants mustbe wary of their customers, hassling them for more information than they would otherwise need.A certain percentage of fraud is accepted as unavoidable. These costs and payment uncertaintiescan be avoided in person by using physical currency, but no mechanism exists to make paymentsover a communications channel without a trusted party.-- Satoshi Nakamoto Under fractional reserve banking this makes it one of the best capitalized financial institutions in the world.  They are probably far more solvent than most banks.So, what's the problem here.The problem is that bitcoin is so darn efficient.The cost of moving bitcoins from your trusted third party to your own storage is minimal.  Compare that with the cost of withdrawing cash from a bank -- almost impossible.  That's why banks get away with 10:1 reserve rations, and sometimes more.  And gox is a 'victim' of bitcoin's efficiency.  It may be possible to save gox ... but I think other exchanges will take market share... Nice talk, I learnt a bit about ethereum too ... I dont condone any of this but there's a double standard.  Not a single person at HSBC was arrested for laundering mexican drug cartel money.  Why is there this double standard? Yes but that's off block.  On the block chain you have full reserve banking.  Since unlike central banking there's no barrier to entry to access the block chain this forces the fraction right down.  In legacy banking the fraction (leverage) typically gets out of control causing crises, bail outs, bail ins etc.It's sort of catch 22.  A currency becomes more valuable as its network effect increases.  But as it's network effect increases it becomes more prone to greed and corruption.  This is why a world currency is a bad idea.  Unless that world currency is strongly resistant to human factors, like bitcoin is ... No, fractional reserve banking isnt a ponzi scheme, nor is the incumbent financial system.  But any system can become fraudlent or even a ponzi scheme.  Bitcoin is full reserve banking backed my mathematics.  So, it competes quite well on the warehousing function of money, but less well on the network effect (ie spendability).  Hopefully that's something that will improve with time tho.
Thanks for the update.  I still think this is the biggest news of the year so far ... best of luck with the rollout! Thanks for the update!  Difficulty was 1 in 2010  There is no nobel prize for economics.http://www.alternet.org/economy/there-no-nobel-prize-economicsThe guy would be slightly more credible if he knew how to spell the thing he was talking about.Another of his insights:http://imgur.com/B9oMzZd Difficulty is not the only factor, supply and demand play a role.For some people (probably the majority) it's the only way into mining/btc so they would pay a premium for convenience.42 mbtc does seem slightly expensive for a GHS, and when it was at 73 mbtc that was clearly high ... but 10 mbtc would be cheap at this point.  Pick a number in the middle.I suspect there will always be demand for a product like this, and cex is the first mover in this areaI think we could see sub 10 mbtc next year.   has to be a non zero chance that satoshi has something to do with thisthat can only be good for bitcoin ... 1. order entry system distributed among peers2. peers sync up the state of orders3. orders are matched then move state4. matched orders are settledThe identifiers of the orders need to be independent of the nodes, ie they need global scope identifiers, most sensibly URI based and/or content addressableI dont think it's that hard to do ... Sure, quite easily.The main gov website would probably do most transactions tho, and the block chain would be used sparingly. yes you can outsource mining to the cloud lol ... give me proof he's even HUMAN!  Very little that he could do.  He could try and disrupt his own chain with his own coins by moving the market, or some kind of paid vandalism (e.g. buying up 51% of asics world supply)All he has is the alert codes, but Gavin could change them if they were abused.But that would be kind of foolish.  He's on his way to becoming the richest person in the world in 1-2 years if momentum continues.  You would suspect that he'd be incentivized for the project to be successful then.I suspect he's probably working on something.  He may be with us under a new pseudonym of course. Thanks was looking for something like this lately! Congrats.  An awesome innovation, just in time for the Jan 3 -- 5 year anniversary -- of the block chain! Thanks! 1Ce9nh6MvY7zLpqefhB5gG5oJ11bQZJUQ5 +1Or at least make it an option ...  http://bitflag.org/Enjoy!   Good point, thank you for the correction.People tend to look at things a X is secure, Y is insecure.  The truth is more subtle than that.  There's always just a confidence interval.  Even with 1 confirm there's risk.Developers will come from the angle of: "zeroconf is insecure, dont do it, and since its insecure anyway, more risk is acceptable" ie buyer bewareMerchants will come from "I understand there's risk with zeroconf, but I am willing to accept some level of risk"The goal should be to try and increase security where possible.  Perhaps marker coins is one way to do this. Thanks!  Forum inserted http ... im not sure why ... I'm super excited about contracts, and I'll be hoping to implement a lot of this in future.Just commenting on one point.  I think bitcoin already does have a 'killer app' and that's person to person payment.Bitcoin's short to medium future relies on scaling it to a wider audience.  New features do this too, but contracts are likely to fill a niche rather than, say, increase usage/liquidity by an order of magnitude.  But I'd LOVE to be wrong about that last statement.  KUTGW! 
Looks like 0.8.3 introduced a double spend attack http://ftp://ftp.inf.ethz.ch/pub/publications/tech-reports/7xx/789.pdf I think you under estimate the power of defaults.  Nobody changes the default, and no one was ever going to change the default.  This is a consequential change, because one of the key qualities of bitcoin is divisibility.   This change shatters divisibility.  Colored coin people also suffered, but they are a minority.The gain was that all the spam from satoshi dice, which is considerable, was lessened.It's all about pros and cons.In my view this was satoshi's project, and now it's gavins.  Huge shoes to fill, but he's done a great job so far.  We should however be vigilant over future changes, in a reasoned way, and I think that's exactly what the core dev team want to happen. Did you try following the link?  thinkcomp @ reddit ...  The people pay the costs.  Now we need to decide whether that's a good use of our funds ... and have that view represented.  That's how democracy works. I posted the full text in a new thread...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=242113.0 http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/1gwuql/bitcoin_foundation_gets_cease_an_desist_order_for/Is this for real or FUD? OK thanks ... some comment in reddit: Did anyone consider that 'transmitting' money to their employees without the correct paperwork could trigger a cease and desist? Could be any number of reasons, let's not jump to conclusions.One thing that came up in a previous thread is the the foundation lists Satoshi as one of the founders, whereas it seems to be misleading.The foundation could easily have been engaged in activity that it should not.  I'm not saying California is correct either tho...Let's find out the details of the case. You cant possibly make that assertion in an unbiased way as the foundation pay the core development team.There's pros and cons.  The US conference I thought was fantastic.But the foundation introduces a central point of failure.It's way to early to say whether it is a loss or a gain, especially if they are breaking the law. I was thinking about joining this ... but if they are breaking the law, that's a disincentive.  Perhaps we should find a way to give donations without going through a third party ... Lol you make is sound like satoshi was gavin's side kick.  I dont recall you being around in the early days, but interesting speculation ... I am curious about the following comment:First of all, I know very little about the foundation, but I found the US conference *fantastic*.  My understanding is that the community has mixed feelings about the foundation, but I could be wrong.I'm not currently a foundation member, but I'm thinking about it.  I'd like to understand the motivation here ... A couple of things to consider.Bitcoin is a brand, and a valuable one.Satoshi said bitcoin is a collectible.  I think there is some intrinsic value there. You cant send a tx where the output is less than the new limit.The new limit are based on developer estimates of cost.But they have unintended consequences, for example, if you had made a business in colored coins, this change may hit you hard.   Perhaps, though it's hard to conceive of even what a block chain for gold might mean.There's three good reasons to make transactions "off block"1) Translate your trust into new money2) You dont have to pay the tx fee, so this allows high volume3) Instant confirms are possible Exactly yes.  So a trusted third party can lever up the money supply using IOUs.The short squeeze occurs if they dont have enough bitcoins to pay all the IOUs.  But that's exactly how the current system works with fractional reserve banking. Sure, that's called a "short squeeze".  But you can settle in cash.  So instead of me giving you your 10 coins i could give you say $1200 Yes but it's just a parameter.  Parameters can change, at least in theory, in the future.  Parameters HAVE changed, e.g. the default dust size. So it's correct to say that we are currently scheduled to have 21 million coins, right now.NOT that there will never be more than 21 million coins in the future.  The final number of coins will be decided by consensus. It spams the uxto which is normally kept in memory.The core dev team is actually pretty good compared with most open source projects, but is still vulnerable to a 51% consensus attack...It doesnt matter tho, because losses to bitcoin will be gains to alt currencies.  It's competition fair and square.
You need a trusted third party for this. I agree that this seems an unlikely scenario at this point.  But if you had asked someone 10 years ago whether the united states would start printing money, that would have also seemed unlikely.  My point is that the theoretical maximum is based on consensus.This sort of comes down to how you define the money supply.  I think it's more than just a theoretical point because lets say there's a 1 trillion USD is bitcoin assets.Scenario 1: People only use on block btc.  Value would be c. $50,000 per coinScenario 2: 90% of assets are held in bitcoin certificates with a trusted party (e.g. mt gox IOUs are an example) ... and 10% are in the block chain.  The bitcoin price value is now 10 times lower ie $5000Yes I agree, again.  But you can make coins that are very similar in nature to bitcoin.  What I'm getting at is that there are ways to increase crypt coin creation and usage as part of the overall economy, and whichever route taken will impact the prices significantly. This is true, but look how gold is traded.  Promises for gold are 10+ times more numerous than the actual physical gold supply. I keep hearing that there will only ever be 21 million bitcoins.I think it's a myth for the 3 following reasons.1) The 21 million figure could change if developer consensus did, and people downloaded the software2) The base money supply can be easily inflated with off block systems, IOUs and CFDs for example, but there would be many more instruments to expand the money supply3) Alt coins could become very similar to BTC, and can be easily createdThis is important because if we estimate the long term % of bitcoin in world markets, you need to include these other factors, and it will also impact the price. Sure.  It was never going to cause a fork, but the PR was noticed.The more interesting question is, what kind of change *would* trigger a meaningful boycott.If you can work that out, you've torpedoed btc ... Yes, that's right, get used to it.  Developer consensus can change the protocol rules, that's just how it works.  No one is forced to download the changes.  If the chain is split or poor changes are introduced, it's bad for bitcoin, but other alt currencies will become more attractive.I think there will come a 51% attack on bitcoin, not through mining, but through attacking the developer consensus process.  Vote stuffing is normal in standarization.  For me, it's not a question of, IF, but of WHEN.  My hope is that bitcoin can survive a few more years yet.  There's also many examples of open source projects that are well managed.  But when more money gets involved, it becomes that much harder.  So pray, that btc does not rise in price too fast ... I think of mining as gambling.  So it's 100% fine in the UK, imho. It's him.  Now let's leave him to his privacy. If anyone wants to work as a TEAM ... please PM me, I'll share the prize.Team name : Elite Selling Crew What's the starter funds?Surely this is just a contest to see who can make the most sock pupppets (multiple accounts).Trading +100% in a week is orders of magnitude more difficult making a new account.Tip: Bitcoin was designed to make sock puppets ineffective  Maybe Adam Back should get it for inventing proof of work.Proof of work is becoming the reserve currency of the internet ... Yes donate a portion of new coins to charity ... easy ... In traditional slots you pay a coin, and if a certain sequence comes up, you get some winnings.  I think everyone will agree that's a form of gambling.In bitcoin, to create coins, you pay some electricity, and if a sequence of 0's comes up, you win some bitcoins.Is this aspect a form of gambling?And if so, is that illegal in the U.S.? I'd hoped never to see it confirmed, but it's a US problem only I hope: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jllJ-HeErjU Ted wilson?  lol Good try.  Close fit.  But is not he. But they will *never* be as cool as bitcoin.  There's some things money cant buy ... http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-06-06/india-central-bank-prohibits-sales-gold-coinsTime for gold 2.0?"Bitcoin is gold with wings ..." Yeah it doesnt matter.  Germans call money, 'coal' or 'mice' ... go figure.  There can be lots of names for the same thing so long as you got it in the right context it's ok.  
3000 mBTC If the IMF try and destroy bitcoin 100 new alts will spring up.But let's not forget there are *some* good folks at the IMF, let's try and win over 51% Lower case b is genius ... Why do you think the monetary base of bitcoin cannot be expanded?  The protocol may change one day.  Also IOUs in bitcoin off-chain would increase the money supply. govt. bonds are not risk free, there is tail risk see http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-06-03/thought-experiment-why-do-we-bother-paying-personal-taxes Borrowers earn coins by providing goods and services to the lenders, which is paid from the interest received.  This happens until the debt is fully repaid or partially canceled.Note that a short squeeze can be applied onto the borrower if the lender keeps hold of the interest.  The result is that the borrower must scramble to make a repayment or default, in a secured or unsecured way. Do you think this is the way to go, or will it be unnecessary bureaucracy?  Didnt happen, did it? Good catch. Not yet The main portion of budget goes in money distribution.  Govts. are pretty inefficient at doing this.  But until we find a better way they will have a dominant position here.The idea is that technology makes life easier for gov. so they can work with big surpluses to fund communal projects such as infrastructure, education etc.They may be some bad actors, but I genuinely believe the vast majority have shared goals.It's up to us to show how this technology can help society... I read it once a week.  Always get something new. Yes I agree.  Currency gains trust through track record.  Fiat has been around decades to bitcoin's years.  There's nothing wrong with trusting fiat.  But fiat can be more easily gamed than crypto leading to a black swan where fiat requires a moratorium and bitcoin remains standing.I see bitcoin as more robust than fiat, there doesnt seem to be any event that could derail it, other than the crypto being broken. All currencies have an abstract component.  In fact perhaps the majority of currency is abstract.  Bitcoin is a revolution because it has utility based on an NxN matrix, where N is the number of people.  Other systems have an NxM matrix, where M is the number of notaries (read banks).  The number of notaries is minuscule vs the number of people.So bitcoin can be true money, like cash.  And have a network effect 1000s or even millions of times bigger than legacy money.    it's hard to value and valuations overshooti dont think ripple should have a higher total market cap than bitcoin at this pointbut there's not much float in circulation so you'll see an exaggerated price until that gets released magic internet moneyactually james joyce described money as solidified energy, which is my favourite definition of moneybitcoin is *exactly* that unless the crypto breaks bitcoin is safesatoshi seemed to think that was decades away, by which time we'll be living in a new world ... You may not like peter, but it's perhaps more conducive to a conversation to be civil.If by "we", he means The Bitcion Foundation, it would seem to be positioning itself as a kind of bitconi regulatory body in the United States.The question remains as to who determines 'bad' and 'good' actors.  It seems that peter wants to do this, by introducing certifications (paid) etc.This is a form of centralization that may not benefit bitcoin in the US, time will tell.  A logical conclusion is that people like Satoshi would not be considered legit without paying the foundation, which seems to go against the grain of the original project concepts.I have huge respect for Gavin, but it remains to be seen whether the foundation is going to be positive for bitcoin in the U.S.  That said, I do believe bitcoin is currently too U.S. centric, so it may end up being a plus ... Illegal we do immediately, unconstitutional takes longer  https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=44.msg267#msg267seeAlsohttps://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=220322.0The majority of the community is in favor of this.
I think the nobel prized was compromized when hitler was nominated.However it's still respected in certain pockets so may be educational.Love the idea of a 'Satoshi Prize' too That's why I suggested Gavin? Ted Nelson (inventor of hypertext) believes that Bitcoin should win the Nobel Prize.I think it could potentially win 2 ... one for peace, and one for economics.  Bitcoin is *far* better than anything done by Nash or most other nobel winners, imho.Maybe Gavin could collect the first, and satoshi the secondWould this give Bitcoin the kudos it needs to go mainstream? either 1 or 1 million I bought 2 pizzas and shared them today for BPD ... cost was 15 bitcentsI wonder how much that will be worth in 3 years! "He who eats a slice of the bread of Satoshi, shall become as Him, and Satoshi shall become He." didnt see anything about 100k ripples ...  A) why not use the ripple url for trust, like stamp does  https://ripple.com/client/#/trust?to=rH3bZsvVUhzugvcYuJVoSYCEMHkfK6wHNv&name=TradeFortress&tab=trustB) what is to stop you cleaning out *other* people's BTC accounts! Just thinking about the future ... I have a hypothetical scenario ...Consider a universe where 5 servers are running in ripple with an unique node list.As the ledger becomes large the debate arises as to whether servers should be given XRP from the mint to compensate them for running the service.Opencoin says no, but the other 4 says yes. The other 4 decide to reward themselves some xrp as a one off payment and are able to reach the 80% consensus threshold.Would opencoin be obliged to agree with the will of the consensus at this point, or would it result in the ripple network being split?Background:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pj1QVb1vlC0&feature=youtu.be Satoshi or Bill Hicks Keys can be stolen.Genius cannot. Good point ... the thing that is really damaging is the timingWe're about to have a conference with great stuff demonstratedBut exactly one month before a whole slew of people have decided to do things very damaging to bitcoin.  At least they could have waited till post conference, in the interests of the community.  Doesnt matter tho ... bitcoin can only get stronger and stronger.  As they say, all publicity is good publicity! Growth is techincally easy to generate, but politics gets in the way.  You need grow a secondary currency and build trust in it, then depricate the old failed currency.  This has happened many times in history.  But this time we have crypto which is a game changer ... wait waitthis is a mixed up argumentwe have controls in place to prevent this happening ... that's the banking sector ... this is their CORE BUSINESS and PRIME FUNCTION ... it's not a side line ... they give loans based on ability to repay and are extremely well rewarded for this ... banks have a monopoly on this functionthe loan takers are NOT to blame, because they are not the experts here, nor are they expected to be, they go to a bank and the bank will make their decision ... it's like selling someone a car with faulty brakes and when it crashes blaming the driver ...  Pretty much ... also dont forget the irish real estate bubbleIreland has the presidency so it's a template for all europeIrish banks are insolvent ... perhaps the most insolvent in the worldWe're certainly going to see haircuts, this is expectations management to say they will take deposits over 100k.  They will also (and have) taken up to 100% of irish pensions.  I dont see insured deposits as being safe either.So what it boils down to is that some bankers have been paying themselves bonuses out of the future deposit base.  They use the black swan, 'we were fooled by randomness' technique as plausible deniability.  It's not necessarily criminal, but if you put incentives there, people are going to do exactly this.  Bitcoin was invented to take these incentives away. I did.  Until now.  I dont think they've handled the PR well. Most banks in europe are insolventThing is  ... so are the the insurers, which are the govts ... I just dont see how this insurance is at all credible ... This is no war ... just a little expected jostlingIf it ever came to war ...... Satoshi would return ... We should be able to beam new coins to the poorest people in the world (via mobile phone).  Apart from the humanitarian aspect, there is sure to be a return on investment.  Consider how many einsteins and other outliers you would save alone.That we dont do this, is the tragedy of our times.   Sure but not everyone is bad ... let's try and understand the case.  Never underestimate people's willingness to do the right thing when given a chance.  If people could just understand the benefits to society or to a nation, of bitcoin without fearing it, we could solve soooo many problems.  Let's try and be good educators even if we dont like some actions ...
Why do you think it's an attack on bitcoin?  It's only an attack on US participation in bitcoin ... ie an attack on itself.Gambling is banned in the US but thrives in the UK and asia ... bitcoin is global and eventually will be accepted ubiquitously  Some nations will just be faster to see the benefits than others ... it's not an attack on bitcoin unless every nation does it ... and some will want to be a crypto super power im sure I can think of 1 or 2 ... +1 bad for the USbad for goxbad for dwollagreat for the rest of the worldgreat for bitcoin Got any free samples?  I love these guys ...Bitcoin will be around longer than the human race... dude, that's not even his real name! Are you Satoshi? Coins are not debtDebt is repayable so long as the interest gets spent back ripple trading at $1 is absurdly optimisticit's like creating microsoft in a year ... it aint gonna happen  Ripple will trade at about 50k to the btc once more are released in the wild.  There's very little free float right now.This will give it a market cap of about 20% btc which is fairish for something 3 years younger.Give or take.Ripple has the potential to be bigger than bitcoin, but it's untested so far so that would be premature.However I expect bitcoin to be stronger than the dollar too.  If spain goes pop, btc could be trading over 500 Ben's argument is quite black and white, where the actual truth is nuanced.He's saying that the developers are a central point of failure.My greatest fear is a controversial change that the foundation and most core devs may be in favour of, but many community members may be against.It's not that hard to propose something that splits opinion, divide and conquer.If the community remains robust bitcoin will grow in strength.  It's one of the strongest open source communities I've seen.  So Ben is right, in that community and developer consensus are a potential point of failure, but same is true of linux etc.But his mistake is that he assumes that an attack surface remains constant invariant of how many eggs you put in that basket ... ripple is a 100% consensus model, and it's unclear that it will be any more robust than btc ... and may be lest, time will tell ... You better hope no one cracks ECDSA at the conference!  I think it was this pizza called 'The Works'http://order.papajohns.com/menu.htmlProof of WORKS?  I love that is says on the side of the box"Find Special Offers"That sure was one special offer! Ah yes pepperoni Those green things look like some kind of chilliAnd a tub of garlic sauce?  Dunno where im gonna find one of those! I'm definitely going to order one ...Anyone know the toppings?Looks like ham olive tomato? Not to my knowledge.  He paid me the 0.05 BTC he promised.Paying someone to code your site 95% of the time you will end up with results below your expectations.  Doesnt mean the dev is a scammer. mars would have it's own private network that just needs one bitcoin transaction as genesiswhen they return they can net out all the transactions made Awesome! in 20 turns the bit pimp will be worth 100k for anyone willing to throw that much btc away ... and there is an 80% chance that it will not have been resetin short, the vast majority of the time the pimp will get timed out 
so what happens in 27 turns when the bitpimp is worth over 10.5 million BTC? Yes, proof of work is much harder to game.  Consensus relies on human nature.  And while founders often have the best intention, over time consensus can be won over. Of course it's repayable.But it requires printing which is going to be politically and socially unacceptable.  Not least because then confidence will be lost in the currency, and top down printing is rarely well distributed.Debts that cant be paid wont be paid.  There will be haircuts ... the only question is who will be left standing when the music stops .... sadly, it's often the weakest in society ... BTC is in pole position to become the reserve currency of the internet.But actual 'physical' BTC will be a smaller part.  You will have other coins and derivatives such as contracts for differences based on bitcoin inflating the supply.Even still I expect it to stabilize around 5000 if it survives in its current form ... Wouldnt it be more profitable for the attacker to be notionally short BTC? Less electricity.  Near instant confirms.An alt coin that operated with both consensus AND proof of work would be *very* interesting. At last some rational discussion.Im a fan of the ripple protocol and OpenCoin's implementation so far has exceeded expectations.  Ripple and bitcoin and OT solve different problems.The strongest criticism of XRP is that it's 'solution' to double spend is largely untested.  I see two issues which are somewhat related.  There is little or no incentive to run rippled and very much a disincentive given that the ledger size will grow in a non linear fashion.  It stands to reason that those that run rippled will be the incentivized by holding large numbers of XRP.  It's unclear that this will prevent the formation of a cartel that can be influenced to favour those that already are large holders of XRP.  ie Centralization comes in via the back door, and the consequences of this mean it's easier for central authorities to control or regulate etc.Perhaps the more dangerous problem is that is much easier to black swan ripple and introduce measures that are inconsistent with previous behaviour.  Barings bank was the most trusted name in finance for 100 years until it had it's own black swan.  Ripple's trust model relies on consensus.I'm pleased that OpenCoin is doing well and they deserve success for bringing ripple to a wider audience imho.  Concerns exist over its incentive model and scalability, some of which could be mitigated with careful management.  We'll know more when we get to see the server code. yes it's a good idea you can be anonymous or public with bitcoin ... just add property="account" to your home page in HTML5 (a very nice feature!)trust is a complex topic ... what you must do is break it down into reputation (the data) and trust (the calculation) but bear in mind that people are normally very bad at calculating trust at the extremes (black swans) and this can lead to spectacular fails such as the subprime crisis If you're going to the bitcoin conference in vienna ... ill buy one! I think you mean1 bitcoin = 100 bitcent1 bitcent = 100 bitgrain1 bitgrain = 100 microbit1 microbit = 100 satoshi ICANN that's a good onein financial terms 1/10,000th is normally referred to as a "basis point" or bp (pronounced "Bip")maybe just Bip with the fancy B would be universal ... why couldnt there be a new reward on a ledger entry crediting opencoin with a second 100 bn, if they achieved consensus in the unique node list? Wrong way round.  With bitcoin you can operate the warehousing function of a bank, but not the more important money creation function.  With ripple you can be your own bank by creating IOUs that are backed by something.  Whether anyone would want to use it is a different matter.  You can *almost* do this in bitcoin, but it's very tricky.  Bitcoin and ripple in theory should be complimentary ... in theory ... The client is open source ... the server is in betaRipple and bitcoin solve different problems, ripple is clearing.  Bitcoin is the reserve currency of the internet.Both are needed.The jury is out on opencoin's implementation.  But it's probably the best implementation to date. The new minimum will be 10% of an mBTC (sometimes called a millibit).01 is often called a "bitcent"I think people are OK with slang terms ... consider the USD, people use the term "buck" "dime" "quarter" "penny" comfortably etc. In the UK the term "quid" means 1GBP and "monkey" means 500 GBPDealing with fractions is mentally taxing, having easy to remember terms can help ... and maybe even get into the bitcoin dictionary!  An order to buy 21 million bitcoins at $100 each would be an effective lower bound Aren't JUNK currencies supposed to go DOWN in value?  +1 Since the new update will make it impractical so send one "Satoshi" it looks like the lowest practical amount to send will be:0.0001 BTCMany people have come to me saying they like bitcoin but find the fractions hard to deal with.Is there a name for one tenth of a "millibit"If not, can we think of a new catchy name?"One Andresen"? 
just make a wiki edit or contact mark ... his address is on the website  You can rebase to work in mbtc and add more decimal points if neceessary.  This was all envisaged by Satoshi.But you can also create btc certificates, in fact you SHOULD do this.Let's say a govt was to start paying workers in bitcoin certificates.  They would make them redeemable by their own mined coins, or exchanged for currency, tax credits or court fines.Very soon the bitcoin certificates would be as valuable as money.  More importantly, as the economy is stimulated, so go up revenues, yielding lower deficits (and hence borrowing costs) and ultimately surpluses.  The bitcoin certificates can be bought back easily and more money gets invested into goods and services.   I dont think it makes too much sense to build govt regulation into bitcoin 0.8+ ... that would be a hard fork or a new coin (maybe the same thing).  Because each regulation would be different in each country.  I do think that having a conversation with regulators to explain the system is healthy and looking at the recommendations.Arbitrary freezing of funds would make bitcoin sterile.  I would LOVE to see cypto currency used for public good (my idea was to give 10% of mining rewards to charity) but again this should be a new coin.Deflation / Inflation cannot be controlled centrally.  It's trivial to print new bitcoins and settle in fractions or cash, as gold does.The illegal link in the BC argument is pretty absurd ... you can encode information by using any image gallery, or by timestamps on facebook and twitter ... to prevent the sharing of links you have to shut down the internet, and maybe even paper!Anyone can fork btc and introduce arbitrary measures, whether anyone will use that fork is a different question.Each country will be different.   Of course not.  Have you ever met a regulator?Most are good folks just trying to do their job against people that earn 100 or even 1000 times as much as them.Regulators are employed by us, we can do more working together.  Namely showing the competitive advantages that bitcoin gives that country, and allowing them to have input into good ways to leverage that.   Yes apple block some bitcoin apps Obviously work WITH, depending on the geographical region that is interested.First step needed is education and there is no better explanation than:[[Commerce on the Internet has come to rely almost exclusively on financial institutions serving astrusted third parties to process electronic payments. While the system works well enough formost transactions, it still suffers from the inherent weaknesses of the trust based model.Completely non-reversible transactions are not really possible, since financial institutions cannotavoid mediating disputes. The cost of mediation increases transaction costs, limiting theminimum practical transaction size and cutting off the possibility for small casual transactions,and there is a broader cost in the loss of ability to make non-reversible payments for non-reversible services. With the possibility of reversal, the need for trust spreads. Merchants mustbe wary of their customers, hassling them for more information than they would otherwise need.A certain percentage of fraud is accepted as unavoidable. These costs and payment uncertaintiescan be avoided in person by using physical currency, but no mechanism exists to make paymentsover a communications channel without a trusted party.What is needed is an electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof instead of trust,allowing any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trustedthird party. Transactions that are computationally impractical to reverse would protect sellersfrom fraud, and routine escrow mechanisms could easily be implemented to protect buyers. Inthis paper, we propose a solution to the double-spending problem using a peer-to-peer distributedtimestamp server to generate computational proof of the chronological order of transactions. Thesystem is secure as long as honest nodes collectively control more CPU power than anycooperating group of attacker nodes.]]The benefits of bitcoin to society should be explained and also it is in the self interest of the given region given that bitcoin can create a competitive advantage to that region.It goes without saying that the foundation does not speak for Satoshi, but anyone, be it an individual or group, explaining things in helpful way is always beneficial.   Thanks for the pointer.The problem with all premining is that it can be gamed.  Even if it is hard or impossible to game, you will give a potentially bad impression.I'm very interested to look at mining strategies.Firstly, devcoin only gave 10% to miners.  That's not enough of an incentive.  I propose to give 90% to miners.Secondly, I strongly feel that all this electricity should be at least in part used for some kind of common good, we should optimize the good, not the devs pocketsThirdly, the big problem in the world today is distribution of money.  This is *always* gamed ... you need a water tight system (think Satoshi strength) to reduce or eliminate gaming.  Even charities themselves spend too much on admin costs.  We need accountability, not random awards and bounties.  We need league tables with transparency.  Tracking in realtime.  Amiller used the term 'competative giving'  -- this is what I think would be an effective mining strategy ..Just my 2 satoshis Im thinking about a premine strategy where 10% of all new coins (and tx fees) go to charity.  The list of acceptable charities is agreed by consensus (but they MUST accept bitcoin) and the miners are able to influence where the funds go.Additionally these coins should be tracked, so that you find out exactly what happened to them and who got the benefit.  Perhaps there will be some blogging/microblogging for success stories.This is equivalent of the historical "tithe" system. The way I see it, *any* kind of premine will give you a bad PR hurdle.At present it seems an all or nothing thing.  Either dont premine, or premine everything.  Ripple premined all and had a bigger market cap than btc now. +1Cash is not safe.  I read that about 1% of all cash is counterfeit.  But we dont spend ten minutes checking cash for forgery in all instances.   zero conf is a perfectly legitimate use case so long as the two parites have a degree of trustin fact the MAJORITY of bitcoin transactions either already are or should be zero confconsider mount gox or seals with clubs, not every transactions goes through the block chain, the server in the middle is trusted not to double spend until a withdrawl is made So I think you should allow the person to split the entropy.ExampleBob buys Alice an engagment ring, but he wants it to be more valuable then Brittney's so he puts in 1000 BTC.  He also wants it to hold value.A private key with 120 bits of entropy is created.50 bits of entropy goes into the ring.25 bits of entropy is a shared secret.  Maybe the name of where you met.25 bits of entropy you keep safe.20 bits of entropy is destroyed as a proof of work.This way if the ring is stolen there is protection.Also in the unlikely event that alice cheats on bob, the coins can be regained and she only keeps the diamond.  (seems a fair deal?)If bob dies he leaves his 25 bits in his will and alice will be able to claim the coins ... or if the reverse is true, you might create the most valuable diamond in the worldcurrently the highest is worth about 400mm usd That's because UK banks have recently had bank runs so they dont dare put the limits up.  It's something people in the UK have wanted for years.  EDIT: Note -- expect this in germany soon!  haha this is sort of genius ... can you imagine a message that was released or decoded 1 year after you die ... 'look inside your diamond there is the key to my btc wallet'  this http://i.qkme.me/3tryd1.jpgbut seriously, interesting service ... beats a tattoo!  Ripple can already do btc derivatives.Consider an IOU at market value.  Then trade out the IOU a day later.You have futures, forwards and contract for differences.I welcome regulation, if the goal is fraud prevention.   Only in the US, but that would damaging to the US.   Only if you think bitcoin is a bubble  +1 millibits
Yep I see 6 nations vying to become the next crypto super powerUS / China / Russia / Japan / Germany / UK Classic misdirection, tbone  Sure, that's certainly one of the ways I value bitcoin.A better thing to do imho is look at the whole crypto currency eco system.  Then look at what % share btc will have.41k is a reasonable estimate ... and no where near the ceiling It could also go to zero .... so not a game for the feint hearted! BTC is still 0.01% the size of gold.I think he said what he had to say.  Not a big deal, I think.  There's a *slight* argument to say BTC is a little US centric for a world currency.If the US drops the ball on this one, europe or asia will pick it up. From a community perspective, it's better to use bitcoins than to hoard them.To win at day trading you need to either have an edge or to be lucky.For it to be worth the time is even harder.To trade technicals a bot will help.To trade news you'll need to analyse better than the average person.The best way to get more btc is offer a good or service for them.I'm on record since november saying btc is on it's way to 1000.  I'm starting to lean towards a 10,000 price target.  But this will only happen if the currency is a living one. One for the history books ... a bit like http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tymKPTTjrSwIt boggles the mind that these people are actually employed. Thanks for clearing up confusion.I've lost respect for coinlab over this, and even paul graham who invested in them.Are/were the issues with intersango still unsurmountable? premined probably isnt accurate as there's no mining ... it's more like an IPO where you have an allocation of shares that get distributed and sold ... what's interesting is whether the consensus algorithm could possibly used to issue more shares later ... im currently unsure on this one, it will be interesting to look at the server code when it comes out Limited supply but that will change.Ripple has great potential, but yet to be stress tested in the way that BTC has.Time will tell.   Oops ... I see what yours does now ... I was originally confused by the timestamp field and thought you filled it in.  I see it is read only now, everything makes sense. Love the name "Bitcoin Island"All you need is for it to be legal tender and backstopped vs a bigger currency by the govt. Here's an idea1. Take a SHA256 of your document2. Put it into http://brainwallet.org/ passphrase field3. Send some BTC thereBingo!  Now the existence of that file is timestamped forever in the block chain and all block chain explorers.Question is how high should the tx fee be?  You are inviting an attack on bitcoin by parties that may not wish this file to be timestamped.  Although it will probably survive in google and other mirrors. Keep playing with those letters.  If there's one thing that mathematicians love more than crypto, it's anagrams and wordplays  GPG sig is not proof.He's fairly recognizable by his writing style and knowledge.  People of Satoshi's genius only come along a few times a generation.And he still probably knows more about bitcoin than anyone else.He's either hiding, or was made an offer he could not refuse. +1 to iceland now that they have the PP in govt.The founder of the PP gave a keynote at the bitcoin conference 2 years ago.  They looooove bitcoin. Love this idea ... maybe a joint kickstarter campagn and btc pledging system is needed? 1. Great job slush!  2. Passwords are generally low entropy.  If you've used your mining pw elsewhere change it now. I've been curious about this.  Nobody that I know of, knows.  But there's some clues.  I have some good guesses.  Minds like Satoshi may come along only a few times in a generation.Group or individual?Both!  I believe the lions share of satohsi's work was done by a single genius.Certainly he was helped in places, but I think that was sparing rather than a proper group effort.Nationality?Almost certainly a british mathematician.   There's clues he has lived in germany and japan.  His gmx address (common in germany) is linked to his public GPG key.Background?Satoshi is the top class of top class mathematicians.  He's also an incredible programmer.  He's certainly been around the crypto comunity for many years.  He has good competency in accountancy and economics.Education?You'll have to trust me on this one.  The British school system is such that almost all of the top mathematical talent are sent to Cambridge.  In fact, to a specific college, Trinity.  Satoshi was almost certainly of this calibre.  I know this sounds speculative, but it would be like predicting Messi played in La Liga.I wonder if he did a PhDSatoshi has also self educated in many fields and been in and around the mailing listsAge?Unknown but almost certainly above 30.  The 37 age he gave may be close, so he'd be around about 40 now.Profession?This is the hardest of all.  Did he become an academic?  Did he work in a big accountancy firm.  Or an investment bank.  Did he become a programmer.  Almost no one knows but him ... and maybe a very small circle ... I'd love to find out, and look forward to his return! Love the concept, I signed up ...Does every issue have to be manually curated by an "oracle"? Maybe his GPG key will reveal something:http://web.archive.org/web/20110228054007/http://www.bitcoin.org/Satoshi_Nakamoto.asc-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----Version: GnuPG v1.4.7 (MingW32)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=3FTe-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----
Thanks I'm reading through every post.  Fascinating in itself.Do americans use the term "Hurray!"? I know that nobody knows for sure ...But say estimated at a reasonable chance e.g. over 50%?Is this our best guess so far? Neat idea but could you not do something like this on github, or can you fool timestamps in github.  In any case it should get indexed by search engines and archive.orgI see two issues with this- Extra overhead to maintain extra generated outputs - You introduce more incentive to attack the block chainI'd suggest waiting until the block chain is more mature and robust to let this go more mainstream, but if you do it as a one-off, be nice and add a decent tx fee, to compensate for the processing current and future, that you'll add.  I dont think it belongs in the default client at this point.Regarding gold as jewelery, that was more that gold was the mythological metal of many religions, and the solar metal, rather than, it being multi purpose.  Leaders often wore the gold circle to indicate being close to god and the solar power.  So I am unsure there is a like for like comparison here. If you're storing it for 10 years, you might want to secure it with TWO keys Hoarding is self defeating and will lower the price.   If everyone hoarded there would be no market.  Hoarding will start a price decline meaning people will start trading again because it becomes expensive to hold.   Market forces. Sent you 300 ripples, pay them back whenever ... What about SHA3http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-3When it's finalized ...http://www.nist.gov/itl/csd/sha-100212.cfm Love this idea ...  Note: bitcoin has gone up 1000% since I posted this in August 2012We just need to do the same thing again...KUTGW! Awesome, thanks.@aantonop  Yes, RDF is the recommended description framework, currently. I'm working on porting crypto currencies to the semantic web.The advantages of this is that pages can then become machine readable on the web allowing new types of innovation and spreading bitcoin information to a wider audience.The first step that needs to be done is to create a "vocabulary" for bitcoin.What this means is like a dictionary of terms that can be put down in a machine readable standard (called RDF).I was wondering if anyone has worked on this before or if there is a human readable "glossary" for bitcoin that I could take text from? SHA3 was released last year, so if SHA256 has an exploit many systems will switch Thanks!Which clients would this work with?  Would I have to install bitcoin-qt (I understand it takes a day to download the block chain)Or is there something more lightweight.Slush once did this for me with some magic tools in about 30 minutes, but I forgot to ask him how ... I have a very old wallet.dat (this is in the time before passwords)I'm able to run bitcointools and pywallet on it and can see the labels, hashsec, sec etc.Does anyone know a way to import it into some wallet software so that I can find out how many btc are there (if any)? Correct me if I'm wrong, but aren't euros the property of the ECB or some such?How can you 'steal' what's already yours? Great ... is it ok to use your design?  I am happy to give the appropriate credit and add your bitcoin address.  Feel free to PM me ...Bit flag is not for profit, just something fun for the community.If it catches on, maybe we'll work out a way to print a flag you can hold ... This tune is really growing on me!Thank you for the flag suggestions, keep them coming.  I'll let the community choose the best one then put a note under the flag crediting the author with their bitcoin address.PS Dont worry about the animation, I can make any image "wave"  Yes, it's a big deal.At one time, Rick Perry was the the front runner for the republican candidacy (before the "oops" moment).He said the most important thing he learnt during his campaign was reading Jim Rickard's book, "currency wars"  I noticed that bitcoin is one of the few *major* currencies without a flag.  So I trawled the forum or some designs and put together:http://bitflag.org/On another thread, someone suggested I open this up to the community and allow anyone interested to donate a design.  Perhaps one day we can have an "official" bitcoin flag.If anyone can come up with more designs I can run a poll in the community to select the best one.For now, I'll leave this one "flying", tho.  In cryptography we trust! But a $7 stock isnt a currency, really, is it.  I mean you need a certain amount of liquidity to be considered true currency, you could argue that bitcoin has that now.  But a stock?
I think marlon brando bought his own island After the events of last week.I was making this suggestion to some folks yesterday, but they claimed that bitcoin is too small.  Does it matter? Needs a flag:  I made this today:http://bitflag.orgLet me know if there any other designs out there I realized that bitcoin is one of the only currencies without a flag so I decided to upload this design at:http://bitflag.org/Let me know if people prefer the red one ...  actually webr3 was the person that first alerted me to bitcoin ... ive been on here a few years ... can vouch he's legit 3 Letter ISO codes are a bit 20th century.  That said, it's better to have one than NOT have one, but I'm not sure it's worth paying too much for ...The 21st century way to do things is to give the currency a URL.  At the W3C Payments group we are going to add all the 3 letter ISOs to https://w3id.org/ and we'd probably be happy to add BTC (or other 3 letter code) to that list if you wanted a permanent ID there.The principle here is that the web plays a role in removing gatekeepers, squatters and high barriers to entry like the ISO system... rwxo7BUnJwkq11upp4FsPK6kMLnHim5FM https://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes/prov/bitcoin(last updated 2012-09-23)Resource Identifier (RI) Scheme name: bitcoin Status: provisionalScheme syntax:   bitcoin:<address>[?[amount=<size>][&][label=<label>][&][message=<message>]]Scheme semantics:   Send money to a Bitcoin addressEncoding considerations:   Unknown, use with care.Applications/protocols that use this scheme name:Interoperability considerations:   Unknown, use with care.    May be unsuitable for open use on the public internet.Security considerations:   Unknown, use with care.   This scheme claims to be used to send money, which implies a commitment   by the client user; as described is not clear that this scheme does not   violate the web principle of safe interactions   (http://www.w3.org/TR/webarch/#safe-interaction). In the absence of more   details, it should be considered very dangerous to dereference a bitcoin   URI.Contact:   Registering party: Dave Thaler <dthaler&microsoft.com>   Scheme creator: Bitcoin URI SchemeAuthor/Change controller:   Either the registering party or someone who is verified to represent   the scheme creator.  See previous answer.References:   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin, https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/BIP_0021  (file created 2012-09-23) Apologies, I could have expanded a lot more but I think the community already has the magic formula."Just keep swimming..." "Just keep swimming..." "Just keep swimming..." If there's one thing that stands out it's generate trust.Bitcoin has to become the most trusted currency it can be, or even, in the world.  In most currencies it is the job of centralized authorities to reduce fraud.  But all too often, fraud becomes institutionalized.  As legacy currencies start to lose trust, new ones will gain trust.  I call this "The Law of Conservation of Trust".  The total amount of trust in a monetary system remains roughly a constant.  Bitcoin is well placed to gain brand value as other poorly managed currencies falter.Here is the gap a decentralized currency can fill.  Decentralization leads to a fault tolerant and self healing network, where it's very hard for one body to disrupt everything.Every transaction in good faith strengthens the trust, and therefore, the network - Increase the volume of good transactions- Increase the success stories- Increase the outlets- Scale out the OTC web of trust- Increase users- Inspire people, by generating a culture of good ethicsEvery time one of these things happens, bitcoin becomes one step closer to being the next great world currency.  Network economics dictates that each new increment in the system takes bitcoin to a new level and makes it almost exponentially harder for any competition to challenge it.  Hoarding, speculation and fraud are part of any currency.  But we should aim for a culture that encourages good behaviour, discourages bad behaviour and perhaps provides metrics.  (These are the classic 3 properties of an effective trust network).Quality, integrity and trust are key.  Try not to split energies too much until it's felt a critical mass has been achieved.  Just as in the rise of google or any other great share.  Price increase should be a side effect of continuing (as a community) to do things well, rather than, the result of any one action.  Dont focus on the valuation.  Participate in strategies to generate trust, and everyone wins.  Update!!Mission accomplished! PreambleI have followed bitcoin since the very start, and I think everyone will agree bitcoin has been a fantastic experiment to date.  A great technical system, a great community and great leadership have contributed to something very special.  ie the de facto currency of the Internet.Back when bitcoin was around 2 cents, I was the first person to predict that it would go parity with the dollar, and people thought that was crazy.  Within a year that milestone was reached and surpassed.PredictionSo my next prediction may sound equally shocking.  Bitcoin can go to over $1000.I know not everyone is focused on price, but I believe there is a strong reason, a metric and a strategy to achieve thisRationaleThe reason I think this is the case is one simple idea.  Brand Value.Looking at the largest brands on the net we see valuations of 50bn to 100bn USD.  If you consider google, a search engine, can have a brand value of over 100 bn.  Why should bitcoin the brand not aim for the same value, usefulness, mystique and mind share?100bn / 20m coins = would give a unit price of $5000 per bitcoin.  Perhaps growing the btc brand to a google is ambitious, so I'll go for a conservative $1000 per.Can we make a universal currency for humanity better than a search engine?  Yes we can!StrategyKeep growing the brand.  Above all be good bitcoin citizens and generate trust.  Make bitcoin an honest currency and an exciting currency.  Innovate, fascinate, grow and support the community.  Market.  In short, keep doing everything you're doing now.People will try and knock and disrupt BTC, but dont become bound to the negative energy.Importantly, Keep growing the original bitcoin brand rather than become divided and conquered.  When the time is right, more bitcoin variants will spring up, but it must be part of a big trust eco system.  Bitcoin is the Galactica, other currencies can be the Colonial Fleet.Master the regulatory hurdles that occur in individual geographical constituencies.  Be understanding to century old laws, and social structure, yet show the path to modernization.  Show how bitcoin can also be a force for social good.  ConclusionFirstly, I'd like to thank an awesome community for doing something very special.Bitcoin has had an explosive start.  I think it's in an awesome position to keep consolodating.  Whether you're in it for profit or to be part of it, be a good community citizen and your own success will follow.  Bitcoin is on a trajectory to reach $1000 if we keep doing the things we do well.  And more importantly, well positioned to make a more exciting, and better world!  KUTGW! Should bitcoin rebrand itself as "The People's Currency"?It is, after all, created, by the people, for the people.  My guess is that this will be the biggest economy in the world by the end of the decade. You could have been a millionaire by investing in apple in the 80s, doesnt make apple a ponzi scheme.  Some things accrue value.  Bitcoin accrues values as it becomes more trusted, and more widely used. This is the guy Warren Buffett and Bill Gates queued up to watch speak.http://bloom.bg/mQTHTT#ooid=14NWx3Mjqutt8V5W_-0P6aJoMH9hzHIVAwesome interview Courtesy of reddit Because the money supply was already increased when the bonds were issued?  Paying the bonds is simply fulfilling the original expansion?(Disclaimer:  This is part speculation / theorizing )  Why would paying off debt as it comes due (over a 30 year period) cause hyper inflation?Surely the bonds are considered roughly AAA rated so exchanging them for real cash, as they come due, wont actually increase the money supply? Nice wrap up.Inflation is a tax, yes.But I'm not convinced it is always necessarily bad.  What if $10,000 were put in your bank account to stimulate the economy, would you complain?What if money printing was used to pay of the national debt as it comes due?I agree with his deflation argument.  But what about those that hoard huge amounts of money, does it mean the rich become richer?I'm still undecided on this one, but I'm thinking about the "inflation used for the public good" concept, maybe being the best way. But isnt it a tax where the richest pay more than the poorest?Could inflation be used positively? Why not just buy bitcoins and use them to do real transactions?The value of a currency is based on trust.  Every successful transaction increases the trust, your value and the value of the person you trade with.Be a good community member, and your own success will follow!
One important part that I think is missing.  Currencies also work on trust.  We trust bitcoin because it's open source, right?It's been shown that many economies can operate quite well on very low taxes, but the trust in the currency actually falls when there is less tax.  IIRC Keynes advocated printing up to 20% GDP a year for the 'public good', which could take the form of lower taxes.  It's a double edged sword, because printing leads to inflation, but capital injections boost the economy.  Yes, you need to be careful not to print too much.I've been pondering for a while this question about the need for a national debt or not.  Still undecided, but there seems to be an element of 'we should do it this way, because that's what we've always done'.   As bitcoin has proven, pre conceived notions can sometimes be turned on their heads! From the same article:Contrary to popular conception, there is no evidence of a society or economy that relied primarily on barter.[2] Instead, non-monetary societies operated largely along the principles of gift economics. When barter did in fact occur, it was usually between either complete strangers or would-be enemies.[3] The idea is that the key terms in the bitcoin ecosystem are recorded in an 'ontology' or schema.  In this way you can add semantics to a webpage, for example, to make it machine readable. Does anyone know if an 'ontology' already exists for bitcoin to integrate with the Semantic Web an HTML5?See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_WebIf not, does someone want to help create one? That's interesting.  I've been looking lately through forum posts about URIs and in the wiki.I'd like to try and help get the bitcoin: URI scheme written up and approved by IANA.The format should be something similar to the mailto: URI scheme:http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6068The W3C have kindly offered some assistance, so hopefully there's a reasonable chance that that it will get the thumbs up. Sure!I've created a teamAdded you .. Lots of ways to add the meta data, in html tags, in meta tags, or in a separate document linked in (like a stylesheet).  I use foaf in my webpages, and also link to my bitcoin address.  e.g. the semantics would be me hasAddress "1DeNqFwDSooBxSDYHSDA3CvnhjA84wfdFz"You can then say things about yourself, your accounts, your public key and your relationships.It's quite simplistic really, just a data typed version of the hyperlink, which links documents, instead here you are linking people, accounts and other info.  so a basic web of trust is built in, but we can do smarter things ... with time ... Id use FOAF and web of trust ... Played 3 games (with eps) on headsup today ... was pretty fun! Next game scheduled for Thursday ... around 5PM uk time (I think that's 5 hours behind EST, so midday EST).Would be great to have some more people play ... let's chat on IRC too ,,, Which days can you play?  FIll in the doodle poll.http://www.doodle.com/cnrz8anc4t5nw4rsI suggest a time of 6PM EST? Maybe we should start with some 'freerolls' to get the game going ... I'd donate 1BTC to a freeroll jackpot ... http://goddamn.co.uk/viewvc/perlmods/Finance-Bitcoin/lib/Finance/Bitcoin/ Diaspora isnt even released yet.Have you thought about using FOAF?http://www.foaf-project.org/(ive spoken to the disapora folks and they should hopefully be compatible with foaf too -- gnu social is -- and google are getting on board).  I've already posted to Gnu social and diaspora about bitcoin ...FOAF havent the big marketing effect of disaspora, it's a grass roots effort that's been going 10 years, and already has a distributed social net of 100 million users, and lots of working code.  No other system of its kind comes close.  This is the system favoured by web standards (W3C).  Quite a few of us are building things with FOAF, so I'd really hope it's compatible with bcspec.  Here's an example of decentralized browsing of profiles.http://foaf-visualizer.org/?uri=http://www.w3.org/People/Berners-Lee/cardTo endorse someone simply put A  foaf:knows B in your foaf file.  And you've started a white list.  I'm starting to build bitcoins solutins too ... so hopefully we can keep in touch!Note: I've *already* integrated bitcoin into my foaf ... and a web of trust is being built.  Code:<rdf:Description rdf:about="#bitcoin1">    <foaf:accountServiceHomepage rdf:resource="http://www.bitcoin.org/"/>    <foaf:accountName>        1J4F6Beb2zFSuoyj15mdhw3HA7KkEVa8DS    </foaf:accountName></rdf:Description> Done!  1HvgZPrjv3B9cVwV6jwBj8uENGTCd6a7iuHeh ... I'm making a profit here! EDIT: w00t it arrived!  Just a bit of fun ...I thought I would open a thread asking ... "For what actions would you pay 2 cents BTC?"I'll start with an example:If someone can get the following post up to 20 Diggs, post your address, and I'll transfer $0.02 BTC to your account.http://digg.com/business_finance/bitcoin_0_3_released_peer_to_peer_anonymous_currencyAnyone want to digg it up?EDIT: whoever digged it up to 20, claim your BTC 0.02 ... dig it up to 25 for another 0.02 ... Awesome analysis!  Is there a way to see what payments have been sent out? cool will be around tomorrow ... ill be on irc too if you want to ping me ... pokerth now has ranking, yay!http://pokerth.biz/that will make life easier ... This looks very cool.  I've already partially integrated bitcoin into the FOAF distributed social network.  If we can also make the meta data well namespaced (e.g. with RDF style), this stuff could scale really well, and hopefully be deeply integrated with the Web.  Maybe we can try and get this to standards level too ... one thing at time tho ... a great start!
try 3d fibs ... it's good! Looks very cool.Im at the checkout ... should I go further? I'd argue that production costs MORE than electricity / CPU.  It's also the work needed to set things up ... time taken to create ... time spent learning how to do things ... time spent watching, time taken to trade etc ... these things are not frictionless and that I think makes the cap higher, particularly as we dont have huge mass producers all over the place...EDIT: I dont see much wrong with a fair value of $1 USD for each bitcoin ... I think production value is only one price driver.Here's my other suggestions:What's the value?+ Utility of a digital coinage system+ Utility of zero cost transactions+ Intangible Brand value+ Collector item value+ Community value / Network effect+ Mind share of paradigm / habit forming+ Philanthropy / Altruistic dividends  You could make a lottery system.  Dontators donate at random to an address. I use javafibs on linux, but winfibs is good on windowsWould love to play ... let's see if we can hook up!  It's not about buying coins.  You would put the coins back into the system.  It's about altruism and supporting a community.  Think of it as a dividend to the community.Let's say I am a billionaire and I want to give every bitcoin holder on average $100 ... there should be market mechanisms to do this.   And simply the *idea* someone may do this (I must say it's a tempting idea), will lead to upward price valuations of the coins ...  If you're gonna donate after you die, what have you got to lose?  See my EDITPut a high priced bid (eg $100 per coin) into the market place and let it filter through ... first come first served ... Here's an idea.Why dont philantropists donate money to the bitcoin community to support the efforts.The money is divided equally among outstanding bitcoins, thereby increasing the average value.  (EDIT: In effect, you can just put a high priced bid into the market place, and let it filter through)Simply the *possibility* of philanthropy would have an immediate market effect?What about wealthy individuals that wish to bequeath some of their estate to bitcoins?  You can do it if you have a system of micropayments with the CASH OUT in bitcoins.  That way most transactions will not go through the bitcoin system. Yes, combine with a global web of trust to get the best of both the anonymous and public web.   Why not just generate lots of test bitcoins?  Surely that's cheaper?   Ill take Choice: lucky 13Size: 1 fakecoin ( http://bitcoin.org/fakecoin ) +1 love the idea ... I run ubuntu on my desktop maybe I can help ...EDIT: first time I've tried it, but I made a launch pad project here: https://launchpad.net/bitcoin  hopefully we can work out how to do ppa etc.   Looks very cool!Maybe we can test out the coin flip? What about the following:Have a lottery for N people (this can be varied from 2 to 100 -- maybe start with 2 for fun)Each enters 1 BTC and chooses one of the remaining numbers from 1 to N.Once N people are hit, take a timestamp.  Then run that timestamp as a seed in a random number generator.This picks the winner.I'd suggest to start with all funds returned to participants at parity because:1. legal in most US states2. fun to get things going ...Later on you can add a rake, bonus system, jackpot etc, like poker sites do. Cool!Just back ... send a reply or message me on #irc  (melvster) Does anyone want to play a game of backgammon for bitcoins?Match Length: 1 ptServer: fibs.comStake: 2 BTCWould love to give this a try if anyone wants to play!
