oh come on guys it's probably something like this..bitcoin... bitc... bitch <-- one letter differenceThere's no need to start conspiracy stories over this.   I live in Thailand and it would confuse the hell out of me if websites started offering services using the Thai baht symbol, you'd have no idea if they're talking about BitCoin or Baht.Why not make your own symbol instead of taking someone else's? Do you really have no imagination yourself that you can't come up with your own symbol? Why do some of you care so much that bitcoin has to use this symbol?By the way, trading 1 ฿ for 30 ฿ if you're interested. I suggest you read the Paypal rules which state that consumer protection is only for Tangible goods. As a paypal buyer you can't back out of such a trade for the situation you just described. Here is my entry.."BitCoin is electronic currency that is stored on your computer and traded over the internet."Done. There is no need to know how it works. Just that it's stored on your computer and that you use it over the internet. This would never work. You could screw this up simply by disconnecting a lot of nodes from the network and having the most computing power. Case in point many Asian countries which often get disconnected or blocked from international connections.Also taking the checks out leaves new clients vulnerable if they begin by downloading from bad peers. It would also be extremely slow again to download everything. Why do you consider it a breaking change? There's no reason you couldn't first try with the new protocol and then retry using the old bitcoin serialization technique. Also I think this is a change that should be made sooner rather then later while the BitCoin community is still small. It's already been a major blocker in making new clients and delaying it is going to hamper bitcoin's adoption. The first 5 minutes I used bitcoin about a three weeks ago I generated a block straight away and haven't generated another since. I think it's purely based on luck. Using the OSX client here. Are you going to be working on a full client yourself?   Hi guys, I know I am late to the conversation but could you please not use the Thai baht symbol as it's very confusing for someone like me who actually lives in Thailand. You'd be making it extremely confusing to use BitCoins over here.Also, why would you want to use an existing symbol rather then create your own cool new one?  All it does is dilute the meaning of both BitCoins and Thai Baht. These days you can load up true type fonts via css so it's not like you wouldn't be able to use the symbol anywhere on the site. At least choose a symbol that's not already a currency somewhere in the world. Hello I have a few questions..Is it possible to 'hot swap' wallets so that if I want to spend money from different wallets I can do it without stopping and starting the client?If it is not possible yet would it be difficult to implement? How much of the client is connected to the wallet? and do other nodes know who someone is via their wallet? For example could I be tracked by where my wallet is being used to receive (not spend) coins?
