rDFg9jZM7rt6xWP7FLCewVeVGAqeLdNSF5 I have a variety of seeds that is indigenous to South Africa... From Carnivorous Plants, Ericaceae, Geraniaceae, Orchids, Proteaceae, and finally, Succulents.These are fresh and comes with USDA Zone information.These comes from a legitimate environmentally responsible supplier, that I have dealt with for years, always delivering high quality products. So I will gladly sell some of my surplus for BTC. Please PM me if you wan't a catalogue.Brre Maybe it is a measure of Bitcoin's potential... you don't get scammers if there is no value or worth... Hello,I work professionally in Software QA and am willing to do some kind of QA for BTC.Private message me if you have some project like a website that needs testing etc. This is new territory for me and everyone else I guess, so everything is negotiable!Brre Since it is impossible to mine bitcoins anymore for the "little guy" we are forced to sell ourselves in the big city .So I am willing to offer my services as a "virtual assistant". Jobs and payments is negotiable. For bitcoins of course. 1KUVxLQDyPtSsjFtPrJPvXTuukDUM8wMRHI agree, that is this viral or piramydical is totally up to perspective  Hey why would I say no to a free 4 BTC lottery ticket:)1A6xjhVpXHCFVt5x37bFwfoDTTJiVLcRqp The transaction started confirming about 4 hours afterwards after a couple of restarts... my block chain was updated, what was alarming was that previous transactions keep ticking up, for some reason my client was unable to broadcast that transaction, but was receiving everything OK..I am on a slow 128k connection though... Yep 4 connections...I just restarted.Was the transaction not sent for some reason, is there a way to force the client to rebroadcast the transaction... if there is some glitch/bug? I did a transaction about 2 hours ago and it is staying at 0/unconfirmed, the recipient has no credit showing or even an unconfirmed line... The coins seems to disapeared in the void...Should I wait is this just a transaction that is going to take exceptionally long? Will there be parrots?Love to play. Hi,I am trying to parse the transactions using bitcointools:I get the following when i parse the wallet:'TxIn: prev(82df...6428:1), is this the previous transaction? So how do you compute the net transaction value then, do you have to go back the whole chain? That is the exact idea . Economic growth combined with demand growth in BC's will make a nice return on the investment.The wallet file will have to be "maintaned" obviously, by many backups (printed on paper, engraved?). Also a trust can also be chartered, to legally keep it secret etc. After lurking for months now, I decided to download the client and see for myself how it works. I am quite impressed sofar except for the long initialization process of downloading the blocks and thrashing the hard drive.I am also working on an excel macro that will hopefully allow you to basicly visualize/sort your accounts/transactions and maybe operate it all from Excel .Another idea I have is discussed by Robin Hanson in this post:http://www.overcomingbias.com/2010/03/parable-of-the-multiplier-hole.htmlSo the idea is to use the power of compound growth to donate now, but multiply it by time by spending it only in a 100 years (or more).Now I think this will be very succesfull if bitCoin is successfull as there is only enormous growth in value if it catches on (and there currently is no lack of interest). So yes this is my first project with BitCoin, gather at least a 1000 coins through donations and then "invest" it somehow. The most secure method would be to not spent it and as the coins get divided, the original investment keeps gathering value.To prevent temptation the wallet can be weakly encrypted, with the expected computing power of 100 years (or more) be able to access the wallet.So yes some committee or something?Anyhow I already made a "for the future" philanthropy account for the brave and trusting: 1KMntZKFKYEPPq9qTUGw7Q49ugAJ9hmSKaAlso give the noob some bit bucks at my personal account: 12qQNhuvuumqVv6C2764EXKa1wECcicBbxAny comments?
