rLxUmgRQJasiNMvrfSHRoQ13XBxcUJmWK2 Using today's AUD->BTC rate from bitcoin4cash.com, AUD$20 should be BTC360, but I can offer these for BTC350. Use the Australian iTunes store and get some of your favourite apps/songs/books cheaper! Code will be emailed to the address you specify or for BTC50 extra, I can post* the card. If anyone is interested PM me or email nauru (at) hush.com. Thanks!*Mail from Nauru is delivered via Australia. Mail is delivered once a week on the Our Airline flight to Brisbane on Mondays. Mail to US/EU can take up to two weeks from Nauru! Do you have some sort of machine interface for that, like XML or an automatically updating CSV? Or would my site have to manually screen-scrape every 15 mins? I was trying to avoid doing double conversion, as it quickly gets confusing, and I'd have to update prices each time USD/AUD changes, as well as each time USD/BTC changes. Either that or I'd have to build in a buffer amount, which I'm trying to avoid.Maybe I'll just have to start an AUD exchange! Does it work on eBay sites other than the USA? Such as eBay.com.au or eBay NZ? Hi I'm new to this forum and I have an idea that I'd like to see if anyone is interested in.I'm from the Republic of Nauru and we use the Australian Dollar as our currency. I have installed Bitcoin and find it very useful for privacy purposes. Nauru is famous for privacy afforded to it's citizens and as an offshore banking centre/tax haven. You can read more about Nauru at Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nauru.A local bank (which also happens to be a top 5 bank in Australia) offers prepaid, anonymous Visa and MasterCard for use on the islands and over the Internet. While I'm not really able to post the cards outside Nauru/Tuvalu/Kiribati, people who bought them on the islands are able to take them overseas and use them anywhere Visa/Mastercard is accepted or over the Internet. So I don't imagine there would be any problems selling them for Bitcoins.I would like to offer the cards in denominations of AUD$50 for Visa or AUD$25 or AUD$50 for MasterCard. You wont physically receive the card, you would just receive the number, expiry date and CVV2. There is no name printed on the cards. There is also a AUD$5.95 issuance fee and the cards can't be re-loaded. So for AUD$55.95 in Bitcoins, you would receive AUD$50 in credit.The problems I see so far are:Trust - how do I verify that I am able to offer this service legitimately? I don't see why the bank would complain, but I'd rather not name them. They get their issuance fee in any case.Cards - People might prefer a physical card. I may be able to post the cards, but it would take a long time to reach the US/EU from the middle of the Pacific Ocean!Price - Bitcoin exchangers seem to only be in USD or Euro and not AUD. How do I determine a fair market value in Bitcoin?Fees - if you use the cards for purchases in any currency other than AUD, you will be charged a 2.5% currency conversion feeAnonymity - how should people contact me so I can give them a Bitcoin address to pay to, without revealing their identity?Legitimacy - I'm not a registered business nor do I have a bank licence, I'm just someone who buys cards at the bank. To become a registered offshore bank in Nauru costs $25,000 and is out of my price range.Automation - at the moment you would have to pay to a Bitcoin address, I'd go to the bank, buy the card, and then send the numbers. It would be better if I could buy a whole bunch of cards and load the numbers into a database, to automatically issue them when paid.Website - can anyone proxy purchase a .com.nr domain name for me and anonymize the whois? Does anyone other than vekja.net offer hosting paid in Bitcoins?Thanks! I'm also looking for web hosting for a bitcoin project. Do you offer proxy-registration of domain names? And will you accept bitcoins as payment?
