I do not see how it does that.  1 BTC will likely always be smaller than USD/EUR/etc, thus meaning that it can be used for micropayments. i've never used the ui client, but if the linux client exposed itself via dbus, you could write your own subscription manager.alternatively, put this in your crontab:0 0 0 0 */1 bitcoin -server sendtoaddress whatever amount-in-btcthis will invoke bitcoin from the commandline and send the money. Frankly, you may believe whatever you want.  I have better things to do than argue. i have looked at bitcoin before, although i did not choose to experiment with it until some friends of mine pointed me to some absolutely hilarious posts on these boards.  at first, i was more interested in seeing what would happen if i threw a lot of compute resources at bitcoin (both on a technical and social scale).  when i started to fiddle with it more though, i saw the potential for it's use as a legitimate microcurrency.  that said, i think a lot of the views of the people on these boards are kooky,  i do not believe that the people who are just doing bitcoin to "fight the man" will stay around forever, though.  i also believe that aspect of bitcoin serves as a detractor towards using it, simply because many businesses do not want to be associated with crazy libertarian government conspiracy views.  but frankly, the politics do not matter, what matters is the underlying system, and that is mostly sound.there is a person on the IRC channel, you may know him   his name is Diablo-D3.  many people i know who have looked at bitcoin for their projects run away because they get a vibe that the project is in general filled up with people who are like Diablo-D3  because running a public bitcoin exchange is not my goal. an MMO service needs a stable exchange for the microcurrency. actually, it was not very expensive.  i spent roughly $130 USD in expenses to generate the BTC needed... then difficulty rose to 181.5, which made things no longer interesting, as I had enough BTC.  there were a couple of people who were offering money to keep the instances online so that they could get some BTC of their own though.my parents are not bankers, i can assure you of that.  one is a librarian and the other is retired... i have approximately zero interest in buying L$.  you will see what i will do with the BTC i generated when I have something to demonstrate.i stopped generating btc when difficulty hit 181.5, as i had enough BTC for what i needed.
