rBvPHohoCWBW8NE1bVZHN2zgXQYNnBGZUq But what about the people who would like to improve your special spoon?I would very much like a Linux version, yet because you've closed your sauce (oh I'm punny today), I cannot improve it. Ok half of you guys dont quite fully get it.  You can send coins from 19yScEhNciCzRsMF1ZECC4Y584rN9Z1dgo to 19yScEhNciCzRsMF1ZECC4Y584rN9Z1dgo.That is, for some reason, a valid transaction.I dont mean sending from one address to a different address that you also control, but using the same address.The transaction fees do eventually kick in, but its a little silly anyway. Just did it again. You can definitely send money to the same address you are sending from. But one is easier, and the question is why would you send coins to your own address?It probably shouldnt be allowed.Thats something I didnt quite know, but the interface probably shouldnt allow it.But using different addresses. You can send from address ABC to ABC right now which is what I did. Erm I just accidentally sent Bitcoins to myself. It currently has 18 confirmations and the client actually says 'Payment to yourself'.Couldnt someone make blocks very very large by doing it repeatedly?It would take a few seconds to make a endless bash loop doing it.Why can you send coins to yourself? I'll just pitch in that Phenom and Phenom II processors doubled (roughly).No difference between the two that I can tell.Sorry I dont have anything older than Phenoms available right now.Might be able to access a old X2 in a week. I did.There is everything from phpMyDirectory to phpMySite to phpMyAds.Its a very common generic name. Why are you talking about chip fabrication?All you want are a couple of FPGAs. You can pick some up for $80/each from Sparkfun. It is completely distributed. You just need a small list to start with.The initial list is only required for the first run and if caches drop off or if there are new ones you simply update the list for the next version. Its not critical.Its light years above the current IRC method. :pVery light weight, simple and distributed. I actually run a GWebCache and it is perfect for bootstrapping purposes as it was designed to be completely distributed and not controlled by a central party.With a single HTTP request, you get both many nodes to connect to and also alternative caches to use in the future.A list of 10 to 20 hard coded in to the client gets it going to start with.Its been proven to work exceptionally well and it would take only a small amount of effort to add. Oh neat.  I've got a idle server which is just running Bitcoin right now, and a couple of days I checked its balance and it had generated 50.02 bitcoins.I sent it to another account, and it sent fine.What is with that? I thought you only got 50, and that was the only way to generate BC.
