Have you thought of sending your kid to a different school? l hope you don't send your kid to public school...I would congratulate my kid and tell them that plenty of people have received much worse punishments than he for doing the same thing.  I would hope that your child continues to stand up for himself in similar situations. Debate in academia is very important. Obviously the the teacher isn't used to being challenged. One important thing that I haven't heard mentioned yet is that if a Libertarian system were implemented in a real country there would obviously be a period of transition where the state sold off all the public properties like roads etc. Most access problems would be solved during this period of transition as most people would try to purchase the formally public road leading to their property especially if a road only led to one's property. Alternatively, a group of property owners (those which are served by the road) could purchase the road and agree to allow anyone access to the road (or just owners, or owners and guests, or whatever the owners choose). Even in the unlikely circumstance that access was blocked because a property owner was in a coma during the transition period. When the property owner needed access they could trade something of value or even attempt to persuade the owners of potential access routes to give them access. Most of the fantasy land examples seem to assume that the property owner's blocking access value blocking access to the property more than anything else. That is highly unlikely. There are millions of neighborly disputes that are resolved without the government every year. Why assume that people would be unable to resolve disputes when there is a really small gov't or no gov't. To the poster that said that political systems must address minor religious and social disagreements or devolve into tyranny. In my view any political system that meddles in religious or social disagreements (besides actual violations of rights) is a tyrannical political system. I heard about bitcoin back when each bitcoin was worth like .01 and when a person with a dual core laptop CPU would generate coins weekly. I heard about bitcoins on an e-currency blog. I was using Liberty Reserve and Pecunix a lot at the time. Denamen,You should switch to bitcoin7. Bitcoin7 is way better for LR users like us. I used to use Mt. Gox too until I got tired of waiting days for LR withdrawals, account hacks tons of spam in my inbox, terrible customer service etc. Bitcoin7 does all LR withdrawals in 12 hours. I have had nothing but a excellent experience from bitcoin7 I have been using them exclusively for about 3 weeks now. I was mostly using Tradehill but tradehill made me wait 6 days for a  Liberty Reserve withdrawal and that is just plain too long. Bitcoin7 completes most of my BTC -> Liberty Reserve trades in less than 3 hours and the longest they have taken was 12 hours and that was only on one transaction. I talked to a bitcoin7 staff member and they said that they guarantee Liberty Reserve  withdrawals within 12 hours. I don't know how fast bitcoin7 is with other withdrawal options, but for Liberty Reserve they are the fastest in the business. I donated a few bit cents The world would be way worse if people like you ran it. Look outside your window. The only thing keeping another person/neanderthal from jumping into your house and killing you for your belongings is this society that you seem to despise so much. Once again I ask all you ULTRA-Libertines to LOOK OUT SIDE THE WINDOW. [/quote]Wrong, he despises the government and busybodies like you, not society. Law Enforcement is more worried about arresting us for simon says rules than protecting us from actual criminals. Murderers and thugs are far more afraid of the .38 snubnose I keep concealed on my person at all times than the cops. And no I don't have a concealed carry permit. No such thing as somewhat libertarian. Bitcoin7 has worked alot better for me in the past week than MtGox. MtGox didn't bother to complete Liberty Reserve withdraws that I ordered about a day before they had the problems. There is no reason why MtGox can't send me Liberty Reserve that has nothing to do with and predates any hacking attempt. I have done several LR withdraws from Bitcoin7 in the past few days and they have all been within 3 hours or so. That is much better and more professional in my opinion than MtGox who does LR withdraws in 3 days or as long as they feel like keeping you waiting. I'm sure Bitcoin7 has some security and software flaws as do all websites. But right now I think there biggest problem is that they don't have enough users. I think my account might have been compromised. I successfully logged into my account at least 3 times today. I added some bitcoins. Then when I attempted to login to trade those bitcoins, I was unable to login. Also when I went to recover/reset my password it said that there was no email account attached to my account when I know there is. I don't know if money has been stolen yet but it seems likely that my account was compromised. My ticket is #1836 Anyway, mtgox is back.[/quote]Mtgox might be back but the LR withdraw function is broken again. Which isn't too surprising since the LR withdraw function has worked only 2 twice out of the 50+ times I've tried it. You always blame the LR withdraw being broken on LR's API but mtgox is your website and therefore it is your responsibility to make sure it functions as advertised. When you advertise that people can sell bitcoins for LR and then that functionality doesn't work it is very deceptive. You should at least let people know on the front page of your site when the LR withdraw isn't working that way people don't waste their time, and bitcoins/money. Another, alternative would be to do the LR withdraws manually when the automatic withdraw isn't working. I would also suggest looking into other e-currencies so that people have more options. If you keep mtgox is this perpetual state of reduced functionality eventually someone else is going to make a website that works and you will lose my business and everyone else that doesn't want to wait to withdraw their money.Also, please no one tell me I should use the bank wire instead. First off, I am in the USA so the minimum is $800 which I don't always have in my mtgox account. Even if I did bank wire isn't a good option for me. The Mtgox Liberty Reserve withdraw seldom works.     I understand your hesitation about bidding when the value of bitcoins may increase. But most of my auctions are going for only a few bitcoins. Even if the value of the bitcoins tripled you would still get a good deal.  Thank you everyone who has been bidding. As long as people continue to show interest I will keep auctioning items on Biddingpond. Sure, that would be no problem. Just go to biddingpond.com and look for auctions sold by TheColdOne. I have many different products up and many more to come. Alot of the items will be electronics. Thanks to the people who have placed bids but .01 bitcoins per auction isn't quite enough for me to switch all my business to biddingpond. I will keep posting auctions for a week or two so people can see that I sell a lot of things. But if I still don't get any decent bids its back to ebay. I have put a few auctions up on biddingpond. I make a secondary income selling things on Ebay and Amazon. As long as I get at least 75% of what I get on ebay or amazon for items I pledge to post all my items on biddingpond in order to help bitcoin succeed. My username on biddingpond is the same that it is here so check out my auctions. Well, I won't be able to teach people about Bitcoin on the federal reserve's property. They would certainly throw me out and possibly have me arrested for trespassing. All I would have time for on the federal reserve property would be to take a quick picture of the sign. I would gladly teach people about bitcoin across the street from the federal reserve if enough people contributed.  Anybody willing to donate a decent amount of bitcoins if I stand in front of a Federal Reserve branch with the sign. Obviously, I won't be able to stand there very long as their security guards are quite aggressive. Thank you for reporting the problem. I had been working with the seller to determine the cause. I notified him of who the real winner was. He also very kindly accommodated both buyers on his own. The reason both people received winning mail notifications was they both bid at "the same time".  This error has been corrected and e-mail notifications will get sent out based upon a more accurate time representation.  I will also be crediting the people who were affected by this with 50BTC credits for their trouble. These credits can be used on biddingpond.com or cashed out.  I am on vacation right now and will have your accounts credited by Wednesday.[/quote]That is very generous of you. Thanks
