Psychological research has shown that this problem can be solved by stories. Stupid people refuse to believe things unless they either a) hear a story or b) can imagine a story themselves of how it would happen.Since they are incapable of imagining it themselves, they duty of telling the story falls on you. So do it. Telling a story could be interesting for you too. Actually no. Consider the extreme case where you get 100 times your original money every new years eve. Now, not just you will have 100 times your original, everyone else will too. If you have a bitcoin now, that is exactly equivalent to having had a bitcent before. All it amounts to is a change of units.In this light, what we essentially do is reduce the value of lost/nonmined coins by 99% every year.No wealth is transferred from the have-nots to the haves. What has happened has happened. Trying to win back is foolish. Maintain your position if you believe it will go back up, not because you need it to go back up. Imagine a man at a casino, he just lost a lot on roulette. He wants to give it one more shot, because it could get him back to where he started. That is how you look. That is how a problem gambler thinks. Yes you did . You seem to be helpful around in the forums.Okay, so now above you in the pyramid is me. And above that is you again! So I have say another good thing: Croatia seems to be a very beautiful country, I want to go there some time. If you decide to start mining, I hope it will work out well for you! Yes exactly  Also remember to either quote, or link to the post above you in the pyramid (in this case me). You can find the link to a specific post just above that post. Bulls make money, bears make money, pigs get slaughtered. From his POV, I guess he just paid a private defence agency, to protect his customers. The feel good pyramid is like a pyramid scheme, except we all win!For it is not a pyramid of money, but a pyramid of nice words.It works like this: First you choose someone to enter the pyramid under. You write something nice to/about that person. You also do this for the person above in the pyramid, and the person above that. To make it easy for everyone to follow the pyramid upwards, you should include links to the posts of the people above you that you write to.Hope you will all have a wonderful 2014! Tänkte sälja en miner. Har vi någon pålitlig person som kan agera escrow? You missed the thread about fractional reserve exchanges didn't you? Or even more damaging, an exclusive express transaction confirmation: "We ghash promise that no competitor of yours will be able to process quickly." In South Korea you eat dogs. In North Korea dogs eat you. Härligt! Ska försöka komma till årsmötet.  http://www.ask.com/question/antarctica-currencyAntarctica does not have any currency.Field is wide open. Maybe BTC will be official currency of Antarctica? I disagree. Internet phenomena move very fast. Either up or down. If bitcoin is not facebook popular in 10 years, it will never be. If bitcoin really catches on, if it becomes facebook popular, it will have about 1 billion users. The final number of bitcoin is 21 million, making 21 billion millibitcoins. This means that there will only be 21 millibits per person. This is too little. A person will want a good number of units to feel good. I think a good target is to aim for 1000 units for people with not so much bitcoin. The poorest 50% will only have 1% of the currency, so we need5 billion x 1000 for the poorest, and that is only 1% of everything. So we need 500 trillion = 5*10^14 units of currency. A close unit to that is actually satoshi, of which there are 2.1*10^15.Therefore it might be that we need to plan for satoshi as a very long term unit. Clever  But on a serious note please show a comparison of DMARK/Potato then together with a USD/Potato now. If there was truly a flight, the number of potatoes per USD would explode, right? <3
On record Don't leave this thing to hope http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uww9zHpIGgcthread musicI seem to be too late though? Up for me The irony: he isn't online to trade it. But they aren't objecting to the use as currency? Only to using the word currency?Saying that financial institutions can't handle transactions will probably more act to deter speculation then buying/selling of goods using BTC. God damn it China, stop being such a party pooper! That's the kind of thing you go to prison over though. (I believe, not legal advice)This is pretty bullish I think actually Choooo choo choo, train is departing +1 Interesting strategy, I like it. Hi, the auction is over, see EDIT 4. The reason it is hashing at 485 is because it was an October delivery, and those were 400+ as opposed to 550+ for November deliveries. Where can I buy these? Since I compare the fully diluted market caps, I take the inflation into account. I think it is a bit ludicrous to compare prize per coin. It is not a fair comparison. Better is to compare price for 1/21million of future market cap, so since litecoin has 4 times as many coins, their "normalized price" would be 27*4=108, and for feathercoin with 16 times as many coins, the normalized prize would be 0.87*16=14.EDIT: Proof of stake mining has to be treated differently though since it doesn't dilute you. Requesting payment for lvl 5 godspeed to 1PsCciUfQa5FYbV6z1MvR1Lvh5F6QbJ6Te. And yes I know he is a scammer. But for form. USA may want to go to war. But not with China. Ok, so the odds just jumped a bit...http://www.cnn.com/2013/11/28/world/asia/japan-base-blasts/index.html?hpt=hp_t2 nice 
There are some open source scalping bots available if I remember correctly. Inspired by https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=48850.0,I create this thread.The craziness has gone to such levels that people are taking out loans, re-mortgaging homes, dipping into college savings, etc. to fund their bitcoin purchases. And that has worked fine so far, while the prize has been rising. But imagine if the opposite happens: the prize starts falling. Then people will run for the exits to try to cover the their debts. This can make the prize sink even lower. It is a positive feedback cycle, one that has a potential to wipe you out if you are investing borrowed money and aren't cautious. Be careful everyone and don't invest more than you can afford to lose. The exchange   Yes, see edit 4 in first post. Basically I had a lot of people that withdrew their offers. ftfy   NO. So for goxllars I was right, but we seem to meet some resistance against 1000 on stamp/-e.   It's a chicken race. Most of the times, someone will back down. Most of the times. Since there will be a lot of crypto people here, it could be a good occasion to do some key signing  The killer app is dns for onions though. I intend to buy a ticket A really simple local solution is a private city. Some company buys a piece of land, erects a city. Building roads and committing to maintaining them increases the value of the real estate they sell / rent out. Imo, because the last run up to 1k was not followed by a very severe crash but just a small one, it means that there were not that many bears, and those now have fewer btc to sell this time around. I think we will break it, sort of calmly. Nah, not really yet, it just went to 480 and then back up. And, it's gone To break or not to break ditto I think you should refund the donations partially (obviously after getting in contact with everyone, so you don't send to an abandoned address...), since the forum has more money than it needs. That's optimistic. Maybe
Last price dropped from 800 to 700 and back up to 800 in a few seconds. These are uncertain times... (bitfinex) I'd bet two of my dollars for every one of yours this wont happen.                                                      To the moon! Ftfy How I miss the manipulator threads! Nostalgia   Idk about that, but they remain and Satoshi has disappeared.  What doesn't happen at the same time though is 500goxdollars and 500 other dollars. Bitstamp hasn't broken thorugh yet. Signed up as godspeed. Crypticbits, you should totally give us some hints, so that we, and you can get money faster So why guess anything before 17th 06:00:00? You will have a lot more information by then. EDIT: What about edits? Feels like haggling >20.5 It is located in Stockholm, Sweden, Europe. Would prefer pickup here. EDIT4: Because of all the bailers, I give up selling this. No need to send me any more offers.Offers pleaseEDIT: By popular demand  https://i.imgur.com/xgQmibf   PSU in pic (80 plus gold platinum, super energy efficient) is includedEDIT 2: Okay, so the best current offer is 22 bitcoin. Due to hassle and risk of shipping, I will consider any offer above 20.5 btc for local pickup to trump it. Auction will close in 20:00 UTC 2013-11-14, if a very good offer comes in last minute, I might reconsider, but maybe not.EDIT3 : Yeah, it is located in Stockholm, Sweden, Europe. Would prefer pickup here. Imagine if bitcoins were worth 10000 dollars. How nice wouldn't that be? Do you think it will ever happen? It would be nice to have a thread about fundamental analysis of bitcoin.What determines a mature bitcoins value? Transaction volume, how much is used for wealth storage, how much is locked up in reserves, more?. What are realistic estimates of these numbers? What would the price be based on this?What are the odds the bitcoin will succeed partially or fully (longterm)?What are the "known unknowns"? Legality, tax status...? When will the outcome of these be known? The most important point I think is the sybil attack. The selfish miners create a shitload of dummy miners. If the selfish miners have found one block, and then someone else finds another block, the selfish use their enormous amounts of dummy miners to ensure that their chain propagates faster, and becomes the most popular, even though it is released (just slightly) after the other block. Without this attack that means they win even though they "should" lose the race, the attack doesn't work. So I heard there is a new silk road.... No secret rockets to see here, move along Older than you, you filthy '11  Well that rise was unexpected..
In during crash. Got out at 115. Ok, I didn't read the whole thread, but I think it would definitely be possible for USG to close down SR. Just pump a lot of traffic at it and see where traffic increases. You will have a lot of noise so do it a whole lot of times. Eventually you will see that everytime you pump traffic at SR,   165.54.43.21  gets a lot of encrypted traffic. GG More money looking for a home. It will only work if you have a smartphone, article says. Why might this be? Because what they are making is a payment app. They are not even making a public api. (my speculation) Story time:The year is 2016. Bitcoin has been a massive success, and is adopted far and wide. The success naturally lead to an influx of new users with different values from the old timers. Eternal September set in slowly, but surely. New voices were heard, questions were being asked. "Pedophilia is horrible and must be banned", "We can't go fund some terrorists", "Is is it really fair that 10% of users own 90% of bitcoin?". At first they were few enough that the community could point and laugh. They were written off as trolls. But the tides of history swept in mercilessly. They grew in strength. One day it was announced on the forums: "50% of bitcoins are to be redistributed to disadvantaged groups". A long explanation of privilege and of how some people had not had a fair chance at securing coins followed. People were upset. Can they really do that? The early adopters were most upset of all, both because of the theft, but also because they very truer believers. Forum post after forum post were written to talk some sense into the dev team. Banwave after banwave rolled in. Of course it didn't make them disappear. But it hid them. Safely away from the large hordes of users that didn't really care and just wanted to buy stuff online. The crowds network effects are made of. A fork was created where the redistribution had never taken place. The ideologues used it, but it never really caught on. Most users were to lazy to type in a new chain configuration. And besides, wasn't it right that everyone got a fair chance in the new age?The End Suppose someone accidentally the whole dev team? Or suppose it is infiltrated? Or suppose they are bought off?How should we as a community react? Probably fork right, but what fork? It is easy to imagine a dozen forks springing up before things stabilize. In a worst case they could be so weak, the original, comprised chain becomes the favored one, simply because it is easier to stick with the status quo.Maybe we could benefit from a chain of command or something? My heart sank when I heard it would have a control. I had hoped it would use a BCI like necomimi. So happy I paid the 5$ dollar premium to get out now... http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r-QTmfTVVEs#t=2m52sI see it as bearish. These were not small services, but large ones, and noob friendly. People will be more cautious. "Which program is next?" "Are there more holes lurking?". I don't think it is catastrophical though. I read it. Can't come up with anything clever to say at this hour though. I disagree. I would rate it as, in descending intelligenceredditfacebookbitcointalkpolFacebook is of course special because your experience will vary a lot depending on who you know.  Edit: Seems to be better info downthread, so removed Just speculating now, but:MysteryMiner, the reason your post was deleted was not that you advocated for the murder of homosexuals. The reason was that you pointed out just what the holy cow of crypto-anarchy could actually lead to. How fast? If freenet is still as slow as I remember, then it wont work. What are the speeds nowadays?I am thinking that the content should exist on hubs like diaspora does it (except that it should be encrypted). It is my belief that we need a mass-adopted social network that is resistant to mass-surveillance. I have tried to check on the current alternatives, but they do not seem promising. The gripe I have is that they make it possible to let a central server handle your stuff, stored unencrypted (please correct me if I have misunderstood this point, as it is central). This means you risk all your friends data, and that is unacceptable.If the govt, wants to find your status updates, it will probably be quite easy for them to trojan one of your friends. Hence it is probably very hard to protect against pointed attacks. But we can protect against non-specific attacks, like "SELECT user FROM comments WHERE body like '%terrorism%' ". Potentially, we could maybe make it hard to connect a profile with the person who owns it.Finally it is supposed to be user friendly and fast, so that people also actually use it.Anyone interested in helping me develop this? So you are saying we should give her some bitcoins to play with? Housewife discovers way to make money online with this crazy old trick the central banks don't want you to know. 
With the volatility of VIR, that could lead to negative rates... Feature request: Multiples of VIR. Since there is often more supply than demand at VIR, it would be nice if you could offer at say 0.8 times VIR. Tried to do this. Price increased. Permanently. I think the trend is comparatively strong compared to the noise. I am a Sharkbullpig. Loan shark. I just hope they volume weight the price over some period for the settlement price. Otherwise manipulation is just a question of time. And then, worst case scenario, there will be people not sharing the BTC values shouting for TPTB to baton the manipulators. This is very positive news! This was entertaining to watch It does. Maybe I didn't explained it clearly. Lets look at what happensAttack goes likeT=0   Transaction 1 sent to Miner group AT=2   Transaction 1 sent to Miner group BT=11 Transaction 2 sent to everyoneWhat will also happenT=6 (ok I am just guessing the this happens. Important thing is that it should be < T=11)  Miner group group A forwards to group BSince at T= 11 everyone will have heard about Transaction 1, it will be the one included. Nice attack, but it can be protected against.If 2xspend are close together ( <10s), try to mine a block with the earlier transaction. Do not penalize chain choosing the later transactionIf 2xspend are sent far apart ( >10s) try to mine a block with the earlier transaction. Penalize chains incorporating the later transaction.Now if they are sent close together the network will not split, but the fraud will be detected in time. If they are sent far apart, all nodes will try to favor the earlier tx. If you try to send some nodes <10s and some > 10s, then they will all be able to get the earlier tx before the later, since it will have time to propagate. Hence this will not split the network either. That doesn't sound so bad... "The 2005 South Korean census showed 29.2 percent of the population as Christian"The more you know.. There is a "we". We who want BTC to be usable as a you know, currency.We can change their incentives. Bubbleboy posted a very nice proposal. See: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=180640.0 I like this proposal. Retail will want transactions satisfying:Time to verify: < 10 secondsRisk of charge-back/double spend: < 1%If we change 0-conf double spends from possible to trivial, it will no longer be possible to satisfy those constraints with bitcoin. If thinking like this starts creeping in than we are on a slippery slope. Why not reverse a 1-Conf transaction, if the pay is good? I think we should try to nip it in the bud. Encourage good behavior by orphaning transaction reversal blocks.  -1 on this idea.Also bribing miners to replace a TX is a horrible precedent. Do you see any conflict of interest in both trading on, and working for bitfinex? Willing to take bear part ofA=24B=100X=1Y=1.2(well actually X=0.5, Y=0.6)EDIT: Offer valid for one hour from now. I suppose this is a buy signal? Swede, registering interest.
Very, very cool. Definitely in! Did they arrive yet?EDIT: Also, what will the expected weekly dividend be? I could do that, but I'd have no idea how to compute capital requirements for those selling options. How? Could be interesting Did some arbitrage and lending to speculators. Question we all ask: Will they manipulate the price up... or down? How big execution losses / wins did Bitfinex have? As a lender I need to know this, to evaluate the risk. What if it was a bear trap? I would say bitcoin behaves a bit like a tech stock pre-ipo. Those three founders working out of a garage might revolutionize the world. Or not. Forced liquidations incoming? Is there any problem in executing them due to Gox lag? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bw9CALKOvAI History of "Loan Trades" would be pretty cool. As of now, I can only see an orderbook. We saw this effect on these very forums during the last mania. Bears were called trolls and silenced.The sentiment now is not like that. There is much greed, yes, but there is also much fear. Greed might be stronger, but not much so. My interpretation is rather: Things are changing so fast that it is hard for everyone to keep up with the price movements on every exchange. That people don't mind paying a 10% premium or w/e, indicates an extremely irrational market. Mid term bearish but not bearish for as short term as "the traders at bitstamp are not buying this rally anymore." would indicate. Agreed Lent at 760% yearly for 8 days. I sure hope I will not have to regret this. I would recommend a paper wallet together with an "k out of n" code. Such a code means that you make n papers, and to decrypt, you need to have at least k of them (any k of them). This means that a thief can not get your money by stealing one paper, and also that you will not lose your money if you lose one paper.This can probably not be done automatically at the moment though. What if someone were to put illegal information into the blockchain itself? Top secret information or magnet links for example. EDIT: Not novel, edited title to reflect http://m.apnews.com/ap/db_268773/contentdetail.htm?contentguid=KW1IM42E"BROWNSVILLE, Texas (AP) - When a regional manager for the Mexican Gulf cartel moved his operation to a more lucrative territory on the border, he took along not only his armored trucks and personal army, but also his department heads and a team of accountants.In the grotesque violence that has enveloped Mexico it's easy to lose sight of the fact that, ultimately, these criminal organizations are complex businesses that rely on careful accounting as much as assault rifles. The structures underlying the most successful criminal organizations are stable in a way that means capturing or killing the man at the top may only be a temporary setback and pinching one revenue stream will only drive a search for others.(...)"
Well you could have constant 7% per week return on capital, if capital stays constantly close to zero, and profit is sent to shareholders. Personally, I think that the reward as a fraction of the current amount of coins should remain constant. A slow (~0.1%) inflation per year would be healthy to compensate for permanently lost coins. Of course if a procedure for recycling coins that haven't been used in a long time was implemented that would not be needed. Can't tell if joking, strawman, or serious. Can I hire a US government to prevent drug sellers from tricking poor addicted people into buying drugs? Surely, the addiction affects the mind in such a way that the drug users are unable to give informed consent?Can I hire a moralistic government to prevent sadists from abusing self destructive consenting masochists?Could I hire an oppressive government to prevent people from hearing lies and disinformation (like for instance "ron paul is bad") on the internet? IKR! https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filial_cannibalismBenefits of filial cannibalismSatisfies current energy or nutrition requirements[2]In a bad reproductive environment, cannibalism is a way to make a recouping reproductive investment[2]Puts evolutionary pressure on offspring in order to make the offspring develop quicker[4]May increase the reproductive rate of a parent by making that parent more attractive to potential mates[4]Gets rid of offspring that take too long to mature[4]Removes weaker offspring in an overproduced brood, which makes the other offspring more likely to be successful[4] Myrkul: it's wrong to eat your children, because you take away their chance of a long fulfilling happy life. Why do you think that would be the result?Only if you eat all of them..EDIT: Since I didn't get an answer to this question, and I think it's a very interesting one: Could you hire a defense company to intervene in a conflict you are not part of, to protect for example children, the uninsured, the mentally handicapped or demented elderly? Organized Armed Prolonged: could be, or notExtreme aggression: Possible, even probable in an oligopoly scenario.Social disruption High mortality No matter what you call it, it could turn really ugly. It would be horribly wrong.But for the more twisted people: The threat of a long prison sentence. Would this also happen in AnCap, even though the child has no defence company? Could a company do it "pro bono"? Would regulating affairs between non-customers open up for morality laws?Abortion free for all (just choose the one that allows it). Ok This was what I meant by war. The children should have thought of that risk before deciding not to get insurance  Serious question: abortion. How would you deal with it?Assuming that that a justice company comes to the "wrong" conclusion, and starts protecting innocent fetuses from violence / starts protecting the choice and own-body-ownership of innocent women, how would you deal with that? Which means you need war/revolution to take them down. I mean things like harassing innocent people. Benevolent dictatorships can work a long time. Since an unworkable system can work for a long time, there is a very real risk that you take it to far without realizing, until it is too late. Yes, I definitely get this. However, enforcement of the NAP, requires the use of violence. The entities that wield the power to use that violence are "private courts", "private police forces", "private prisons".If they have good people at the top, they may respect the principles of NAP, as understood by the AnCap proponents on this board. If they are not, they must somehow be replaced. If the private justice organization in question has no way of changing leaders (e.g. popular vote), this requires either a revolution, or an attack from another organization.If all of these organizations are, and push for each other to be, democratic, that could maybe be more stable. I assume however that you think this would be an unacceptable violation of the fundamental right to own any kind of company. I describe it as violent, because all systems are necessarily violent. You can't just wish away rule breakers (whatever your rules might be), they need to be dealt with, violently. So a natural question is who gets to wield this power. A benevolent gang leader in the AnCap case.  I thought the current social contract was seen as illegitimate. That was what I was referring to.  I've recently been thinking that what AnCap proposers describe sound very similar to organized crime, in several ways.1. Organized crime does not respect the laws and the social contract.In a sense, they are living as if the society we have, right now is AnCap, treating prison as a cost of doing business.2. There are rival organizations working in a free market.You can choose what gang you want to be affliated with. They supply protection, insurance and "private courts".3. There are occasional clashes.Just as one would expect when there are "competing courts", sometimes there are clashes. Most of the time there is peace, for economical reasons.Thoughts? Would you like to live in Mexico? Be part of a gang? I call bull. Myrkull: You have stated that the defense agencies wont attack each other since it will not be profitable. Why is it that criminal gangs that want to maximize profit attack each other? Why is it that states now and historically attack each other? There are pills for that  
ftfyEDIT: Bid 4.96494, Ask 4.96495. What the actual fuck? Have never seen spreads this low! Is the manipulator trying to kill those betting on vola? ..."bids":[[ ... 4.905,1.00858307],[4.90883,0.624],[4.91,138.58917922],[4.91781,0.624],[4.9181,1.0043],[4.92,1],[4.9201,2],[4.927,79.38076237],[4.92702,5.67135669],[4.92793,0.01],[4.92794,0.01],[4.92795,0.01],[4.93134,0.35585899],[4.93293,0.01],[4.93294,0.01],[4.93295,0.01],[4.933,2.13882256],[4.93793,0.01],[4.93962,10.12223612],[4.95,188.0132],[4.95984,5.43458256],[4.9599,5.203],[4.95995,0.01],[4.95996,0.01],[4.95997,0.02],[4.95998,0.01],[4.95999,0.01],[4.96495,0.01],[4.96496,0.01],[4.96497,0.02],[4.96498,0.01],[4.96499,0.01]]}From the mtgox api. Those 0.01 sure look solid to me. Stationary prices bore me. A meteor crash or secret rocket would cheer me up. Oops, meant to say volume. It seems as if the price repeatedly attacks the ~4.927 support. If it breaks, we could be in for a meteor impact. I'm starting to feel desperation now. Where is the volatility? Where is the liquidity? (x) I do not understand options, and use them in my trading strategy   I'm at the "I'm brilliant" stage. But I just started trading (again) yesterday so I suppose I haven't synched with the board feelings yet. Wasted as compared to other currency systems. For currency conversions, please preferhttp://www.google.com/ig/calculator?hl=en&q=1GBP=?USDits proper json. 1. Turn starts2. Alice puts a buy order at 5 USD for 10 stocks3. Bob puts a sell order at 6 USD for 15 stocks.4. Charlie puts a buy order at 6.5 USD for 5 stocks.5. Danny puts a buy order at 6 USD for 5 stocks.6. Eve puts a sell order at 5.5 USD for 5 stocks.7. Turn ends, order matching begins.The system now finds the price at which the most orders would be executed. If there is a whole interval in which the most orders would be executed, the midpoint of said interval is selected.At 5    USD there is demand to buy 10+5+5 stocks and to sell 0 stocks.At 5.5 USD there is demand to buy 5+5 stocks and to sell 5 stocks.At 6    USD there is demand to buy 5+5 stocks and to sell 15+5 stocks.At 6.5 USD there is demand to buy 5 stocks and to sell 15+5 stocks.The point with maximum volume is 6 USD. People with eligible orders areBob, Charlie, Danny and Eve. Since Charlie put a higher price in his buy order, his order is given preference over Danny's. Since Eve put a lower price in her sell order, her order is given preference over Bob's.Ties would have been resolved randomlyTherefore Eve gets to sell 5 stocks (completely filled), Bob gets to sell 5 stocks (partial fill), Charlie gets to buy 5 stocks (completely filled) and Danny gets to buy 5 stocks (completely filled). All this at price 6 USD/stock.8. Orderbook and made trades are made public.9. Turn starts. Nothing says only one order can be executed per turn.  What is it that they want? The way the stock markets currently works, having your trading bot in the same room as the exchange is vital. Every millisecond counts.I would argue that the pursuit of these milliseconds are very uneconomical. Sure, providing oft updated reports on where people think the future is head IS important, but I think the resources used do not match the utility produced. The reason then, is that people play a cynical zero-sum game.I therefore think it would be prudent to try to prevent this from occurring, letting traders instead compete on intelligent algorithms and models.An often suggested solution is the Tobin Tax. However, given the rates often quoted, I think it would also prevent "healthy" speculation: the kind that ensures the efficient allocation of capitals to various projects.I have an alternate suggestion: turn based tradingIt is a really simple system. People can place their orders anytime they want, but orders are only matched once per turn. Also, orders are only revealed when a turn is over. The length of a turn is on the order of seconds.This means that no one can take advantage of being closer to the servers by getting their orders in before someone else. Also, it would be impossible to try to glean other traders' strategies and outbid/frontrun them before they even see it happening. Some people say that it doesn't matter that coins get lost due to divisibility. But assume that an evil hoarder keeps his gold so long that all presume it to be lost. Said person could then, when showing everyone the true amount of availible bitcoins, cause a great the deal of instability. The chain just uploaded a promo where they demo buying a burger with Bitcoin!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHg5SJYRHA0Omg, this is huge I would want an audit to check that the website is hard to hack:hashed and salted passwordsupdated softwareinput sanitizationbalances on a separate box from websiteI would also welcome info about who to sue when shit hits the fan. Sometimes, I feel more lazy than I feel paranoid. Would it be possible to give you api access to withdraw/deposit, so that I would not have to pay invoice manually? ftfy  This is awesome! Thank you so much for making this happen. 
Well, how do you? His coins will not be worth very much then... Both the coins and the smileys seem suspiciously yellow to me   tightvnc is good So were do I store the USD I use to buy during downturns? In my wallet file?  Actually, bitcoin has caused me to hold more usd than I have ever before. Isn't that ironic? It begins with the international mens day https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=30.0Few blacks doesn't mean only white. Just wanted to point it out. Also, while I am at it, the OP should ideally provide stronger evidence that there indeed are few black people here. this is pretty cool. might sign up for the smses some time I model it as a random jog - it's far more volatile than a random walk   I don't trust the exchanges as much as I used to. Bot is working superb Ok nvm I changed my mindFeatures:-Access all three exchanges with an easy and common interface-Access to the otherwise mostly inaccessible britcoin site (has no api)-Includes facilities for sending btc between sites, useful for arbitrage trading.-Converts GBP to USD transparently using an exchange rate pulled from a google api.-Window for manually monitoring the exchanges, balances, and placing trades. Problem: People don't trust each otherSolution: Even more cryptography!I love you guys <3 Well, the L1 data is mostly sound. you can go hunter2 my hunter2-ing hunter2! updated for todays data Speak for yourself... My bot sleeps at night. You lose, you laugh! only I have an acoustic connection to the outdoor fiber. For power I just use my trusty diesel generator "I also have a few for sale at $100."I checked the market depth for MtGox. I was disappoint 
Also: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=22076Maria is definitely up to no good Not investment, short term trading I want to tell you a true story about a day care center. There was a day care center, where the parents routinely were routinely picking up the children too tate, so the people working there started making parents pay a small fee every time they were late. However this only exacerbated the problem: people were later than ever.The explanation I heard is that since the parents payed a fee, they felt absolved from bad conscience.Upon seeing that the fee didn't work as a deterrent, it was removed. The tardiness however did not improve. The bad conscience could not be restored so easily.I think that in our society of rapid changes according to what works, the time the restoration would take is never allowed to happen. Instead, we continue raising the fees. I started in june XD. Still made profit Well it did work in the beginning... I heard about bitcoin during the summer of 2010. I mined for a few hours, got 0 coins. Got 5 cents from the faucet though  Didn't bother to do anymore mining since it was a waste of electricity and would wear my hardware out. I'm not bitter though So you only like risk in hindsight, when the outcome was good... Alex Jones would never have gotten a following without the internet. Propagating stupidity is very possible with the internet For all the people whining about how easy it is to be an early adopter. These low valuations might be your chance to be an early adopter!Buy now, or forever stop whining Problem is, the optimal infrastructure for something like the internet is probably a so called "small world" network, not a mesh Broken "long" ago now. Downward trend. Fragile support at ~7.4 What you are proposing is, in essence, a scalping bot. I don't see any problem at all with scalping: indeed, it will help the scalper fill his pockets with money, while decreasing volatility and providing liquidity. However, to any would be donators: know that a lot of people are already operating bots like this, for free (or rather, they expect to earn money letting them trade).Also, I find it ironic that OP proposes what is essentially speculation to end the problem of speculators. This is what I'm saying.Timeline1-------Daughter calls momTime between: x2------Mom calls authoritiesTime between: y3------Authorities arriveFrom the articley = 30 minx + y > 60 minConclusion x > 30 min I'm making a profit. Granted, my positions are pretty short lived The telephone call was 1h.The authorites arrived 30 min after being called.Girl died.Conclusion: Mum stalled for at least 30 minutes... You can think so, but you can't force others too... If I get a yubikey is there still a way I can access the trading ap on MtGoxi?If yes, how would the yubikey then protect me from other people accessing my account using the api?Reason I ask is that they want to give me a free one Assign newbs to random pools. Unless there is collusion, would decrease manipulation threat How the hell do you beat the fees? The prices barely moves a fraction of the fees most of the time This is not mainstream people, disproving your statement. Instead of saying that everyone disagreeing with you are stupid, could you provide us with your reasons for your beliefs?
Being permabear is NOT a good market manipulation strategy, unless he has sell options with long maturity (unlikely).Permabull, yes, maybe, if you want to get out.But shouldn't the best strategy be to1. buy2. OMG BITCOINS IS GODS GIFT3. sell4. OMG SKY IS FALLING5. goto 1 Some people here have expressed the idea that bitcoin should hold its value as stock markets crash, but it seems as if bitcoin has depreciated too. Is this attributable to a global dry up of liquidity, risktakers? you are a fucking genius! of course the addresses should be even shorter. bringing us to... namecoins! The decimals HAVE to go. They are everything that is wrong with bitcoin as it is now What they are saying is that once 10% are fanboys, the rest is easy. Duh.Also, it was in a simulation, so... enmaku:sounds like a great idea. push her to follow through .Regarding women being afraid to admit their true sex in the poll, the poll is anonymous. Where is this "out" you speak of? Sounds like paradise... Care to give me a link? I do not. But I like your solution! That's probably what should be suggested to them. Just be ware that they may cut out the middleman in time... It is probably representative of the people in the thread... = here Sort of yes. But bit-pay.com is not a one stop payment processor. It is only for bitcoins. If bit-pay.com accepted paypal, visa, mastercard, checks etc, then it would what I was looking for They would get buzz, for being the first payment processor to accept it. They would gain more customers, since people here prefer to pay in bitcoin, and are much more likely to buy something than the average surfer.Bitcoin is a lot more inviting to buy with than paypal, or mastercard/visa, for two reasons: no need to find card or card reader and it is well known that people buy more when they pay with "tokens" than with "real money", since the brain handles them differently. At the time of writing "no", the poll was showingmen: 20women: 0other: 3hence, "no". Please explain why there are no women here. Is it because they are in every respect exactly the same as men? I wont say that it is because of biological reasons, because frankly, it doesn't matter.  While lobbying individual sites to adopt bitcoin, it is a long ardous process. I think it would be better to ask the payment solution websites to provide bitcoin as a payment option. The benefit would be that it would be a write once, run everywhere solution.Also, since payment processors are only in the business of payment processing, it is more inline with their core business model to implement it.Also, along the same line, we should try to get bitcoin included in the templates and frameworks that people use to create sites, like Drupal, Joomla etc.List of sites to contact:Top prio:http://www.cardservicesales.com/http://merchantwarehouse.com/Mid prio:http://www.nationalbankcard.com/http://www.leadersmerchantservices.com/http://www.chasepaymentech.com/Low prio:http://www.merchantone.com/http://www.thetransactiongroup.net/http://www.merchantexpress.com/http://www.electronictransfer.com/http://www.goemerchant.com/http://www.dhdmedia.com/https://epoch.com/en/index.htmlhttps://klarna.com/http://www.ipaydna.biz/http://www.authorize.net(sweden) http://payson.se(scandinavia) http://www.dibs.se/For Drupal or Joomla, a plugin should proably be created or modified. I don't have the requiste knowledge, but if someone has, it would probably help catapult bitcoin usage into the stratosphere (lol). I lol'd. For all of my post's stereotypes though, I'm being serious   <meta name="description" content="Unconfirmed Sources Online Edition:  Political Satire and Humorous News parodies." /> It is my belief that the majority of bitcoin users are males. Females, please prove me wrong through the poll.Moving on, assuming that my belief is correct, the question is how we get them on board?Let my first state that I think there is a difference in what would attract men and women to bitcoin. Men are more attracted to the avante garde aspect and the technological aspect, while women are more concerned with which technology works best for them now.They want shinies, they want fast transfers, they might won over by ideology, but probably not the ideology of libertarianism. They want to use the system that their favorite site uses, and they want to use the system their friends use. This by the way probably describes how mainstream males think too.Shinies:Lets face it. Bitcoin, in its current state, is not shiny. To make a metaphor, it looks like a very advanced piece of technology with wires going everywhere. Contrast this with the "Apple look".100 private keys is probably NOT the way to go. It is complicated, and ugly (it could be an option but not standard(Proposal: One private key should be standard. It should not be in hex, bas64, or anything else ugly. One thing that could work would be a sort of dictionary encoding, where every 20 bits or whatever is mapped to a word. The word in the dictionary would have to be carefully selected to be positive, or at least neutral. If this is chosen, there should be a "generate new address", so that people could click until they found one they were satisfied with.The websites used with bitcoins are not pretty either (exchanges+this site). Contrast for instance with this:http://www.westernunion.se/web-inf/images/yes/heroAreaCanIAlone013009.swf (western union)this is what the sites should have to attract women, I believe.Proposal: Find a professional designer that takes a look at the bitcoin client. Preferably one who knows nothing at all about the technology behind. Hide the details of implementation, remember how Object Orientation works Fast transfers:Bitcoins are a lot faster than banktransfers, but they can absolutely not compete with visa/mastercard/paypal in terms of speed. This IS a serious problem.I think the advice given to businesses should be that they should accept transfers directly, or after one confirmation. If there is a reversal accept that as a fact of life. For sites with few but large sales, this may not be the way to go, but for transactions under 10 bitcoin this should def. be the standard. An alternative would be to pay instantly via for instance MtGox, but that would centralize the system, which I believe we don't want.Ideology:Cypher punk is cool, but does not have mainstream appeal, especially among women. We should tone that aspect down, no one cares about it. Thought should be given to whether a more appealing ideology could be retrofitted so to speak.Suggestion: "Your local business is struggling to survive under the death grip of credit card fees. (Pic of small local store. Beautiful female clerk, with lots of styling looks sad, hopeless). But there is a cheaper alternative. Use bitcoin, support your local stores. (Clerk smiling)."This might be construed as too patriotic for some. Too balance it we should emphasize how easy it is to donate to overseas charities, and buy from overseas stores.Favorite sites:This is a hard one obviously. We should try to push existing sites to use bitcoins as much as possible (details about doing this are abundant in other threads of course).We should also try to new stores accepting bit coins to speed up the process. One thing that has been forgotten though, is the focus on stores selling items for women.Friends:Site should have a like button. Encourage users to blog/tweet/comment whenever they use bitcoins for a transaction. There are many ways to deal with this. You could use derivatives to mitigate the risk, you could move your money to another currency, you could prepone consumtion, you could buy stock, you could invest in oil, etc. You lost me at unbalanced parenthises I don't believe that "it is OK to persecute and imprison those with morals different from the majority." , but I desire the world function like that.Libertarians are united in the belief (...) doesn't hurt other people.So then it is as I suspected, at least in your caseEDIT: So, upon further checking, it seems that moral relativism has many closely related meaning. Shoot! Well, I feel I have some answers now anyway
