Sorry guys! Every second theme in the news about Russia is something concerning businessmen prosecutions. And Bitcoin is very subversive thing in itself. So I thought that gulag is closed, but not for all. I checked WebMoney it's like Russian PayPal. This is good - the more currencies are traded against Bitcoins, the better. What service will be used for cash withdrawal? PayPal? Moneybrockers? My God, in Russia! Are you not afraid to do this there?  M-value, monetary! Anonymity in this case is an advantage of the medium of exchange! It has no meaning beyond the scope of the exchange process. Look, Red. Suppose you find out that you can stuff Bitcoins instead of buckshot in the shells for you shotgun. This would be non-monetary use.I think you are right about anonymity as a main engine of Bitcoins. If they take off, they'll do this exactly as a system of instant and anonymous money transfers, not as a saving tool. Once again, it wouldn't. A direct quotation from "Study Guide to Human Action"What industrial use can there be for human feelings like "Hey, this is a cool concept"? How are you going to eat ideas?The only truth here is that they are decentralized. In all others points it's exactly opposite. It's pure fiat. The notion of the non-fractional-reserveness is a sheer nonsense: Bitcoins should rather be called "zero-reserve", because they have not even a fraction of tangible goods to be backed with. This is the problem. Though it does not mean Bitcoins can not serve as a means of exchange. They can, but with a huge breach in their soundness.  Decentralization, non-fiatness, non-fractional-reserveness are all properties of money. So they present exactly the monetary value. Though above, I tried to show that they are not. No, it's not. You guys switched from the crucial point - an existing pre-monetary value of the thing that becomes money, to the secondary one - the process (barter) by which this thing emerges as a universally accepted medium of exchange. It is like declaring that water is good for fire extinguishing because people tried different liquids for the task, and water proofed itself the best one. It doesn't follow, however, that water properties have nothing to do with the matter.This is the weakest spot of Bitcoin. In "Human Action" Mises said that valuation of money (true money) always includes two components -  valuations of its monetary and non-monetary properties (F = M + N). What does this mean for gold, for example? It means that if, suppose, some nerd, having been hoarding a huge pile of gold, suddenly releases it on the market, he, theoretically, can destroy the M component. Suppose even people would think that gold is not a good means of exchange anymore. But he never can destroy the N component, because it resides in the properties of gold that have nothing to do with the exchange process. Gold is needed as a consumable material for jewelry, medicine, electronics etc. So immediately after the intervention stops, the N component, so to say, kick-starts the process of imputing the monetary value to gold. The question is: where is non-monetary component of Bitcoin? There is none. That's why Bitcoin is vulnerable to all kinds of "loss-of-confidence" attacks. I think that this is precisely what Nenolod is doing right now.
