I think the client should have a "test coin generation" feature.  It would essentially just generate some known block just to show everything is working properly.   Yes, those things are easy.I'm not a botnet creator, so I really have no idea on the economics of it.  I also wouldn't assume you're not being paid for 2 months, as you'd likely have income from whatever previous scams you've created.  The two month estimate was an extremely conservative one.  The other end of the spectrum is something like a couple weeks to get out Version 1.The point being, listing out a bunch of AND AND AND's proves nothing.  You're quite right that it has to be economical, we just simply disagree that something like this isn't potentially extremely economical.  The biggest hurdle is likely that bitcoin is just too small for a serious botnet guy to make any money off of and do anything with.  As it grows the profit potential only grows larger. Huh?  Are these things supposed to be difficult?  You make it sound like it would take years of development to do this.  I've developed software for 10+ years, and in my estimation it'd take a skilled programmer perhaps a month or two to do this from scratch.  Possibly much less.  Anyone that has created botnets has already created the remote control libraries, so that's just a matter of linking them in.Someone else mentioned a botnet hearder not wanting individual nodes to be discovered because of the CPU usage.  Well, most people don't EVER bring up a CPU usage meter, so the risks of that are minimal.  If you REALLY cared about that sort of thing, just stick in some code to shut down the usage whenever you detect keyboard/mouse activity.  These are not difficult problems to solve at all. I suspect the point Mr. Nenolod would like to demonstrate is that it's currently relatively easy to create wild swings in currency value with a small amount of resources.  This is "bad" because wild swings in value of a currency discourages economic activity in that currency since business depends on predictability at least in the short term.  Who wants to use bitcoins when the value of them could swing enormously because someone is trying to manipulate prices to their own advantage?I'm new to bitcoin, but find the whole idea intriguing.  I actually find the whole idea of speculation in this market to be fascinating and educational.  Whatever you're planning on doing, just do it.
