Even een opmerking terzijde: bitcoinbelgie.be heeft niets te maken met de Belgian Bitcoin Association. Ik kende de site nog niet. Lijkt me wel informatief, maar er wordt nergens vermeld wie de eigenaar is of wie de artikels schrijft. De DNS-records geven aan dat een zekere Kristof Gautier uit Melle eigenaar is van de domeinnaam, die naam zegt me niks.De website van de BBA is http://www.bitcoinassociation.be. It's actually in their FAQ: rpjETFXGUqdXhptdfZQGJph2551hr6H7TZ This is a very neat idea, I like it.The site is clearly still in development, that's quite understandable and I don't have a problem with that. But when I, after creating an account, went to the "Account Details" page, my password was displayed. This is an indication of very poor security. A website should never store users' passwords, they should only store a (salted) hash. Here is a good explanation: http://crackstation.net/hashing-security.htm This thread was the primary information source on alt coins for me: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=134179.0I like the idea of PPcoin very much, being an ecologic alternative to Bitcoin. They still have mining, like Bitcoin and all other alts, and this will consume as much electricity. But when all coins are mined, the power needs will drop significantly. The creators devised a very clever way to record transactions in the block chain without the need to do all the calculations which are done when mining.Website, including the white paper with a detailed explanation: http://www.ppcoin.org/ Bitpay is nice, and they already offer POS Bitcoin payments (with an iPad). But I'm wondering about the speed, is it really usable? Maybe they use another system for POS as what they use for web payments?I'm saying this because I did a web payment recently where the merchant was using Bitpay. The payment was only confirmed after the block with my transaction was calculated and included in the block chain. This means it took several minutes to confirm my payment. On the other hand, I paid for the new Humble Indie Bundle yesterday, and they use https://coinbase.com/‎ as a Bitcoin payment processor. There, my payment was confirmed in only a few seconds. That's the speed you need for POS payments.But on the Coinbase web site I don't find anything about POS systems, they only do web payments... Hi from Belgium.I'm actually a member of this board since 2010  But I'm not a frequent poster. I have 2 posts from before the 5 post newbie requirement... Any news on the availability of the Mac build?Thank you for your efforts! Somebody (possibly knightmb?) should request Userfication of the deleted article, to preserve the content.
