Hi,Sorry for long reply, but Genuise and I were busy working on billing issues.Yes we save all the data ever collected since April 2012. Now it's 40GB of *.xz archives.It seems we already talked to you about the data and even sent you a sample on 18.11.2014 but you have never replied.Let me know if you want a sample again.Regards,Andy Hi, thank you for supporting our service. Here is a short summary:1. You only paid for February and March (2 months), there is no billing mistake or extra charges for 3rd month.2. It's common that subscription extends automatically. Your refunding request for March is not well grounded. 3. However, we can refund you 0.0075 BTC as a gesture of good will should you wish so.4. Alternatively, if a bimonthly plan with a lower fee was your intention, we can change your plan to bimonthly retroactively. Now in more details:I confirm that you chose a monthly plan and payed an amount of two monthly fees on Feb 10. Your subscription was activated on Feb 10 and for 2 months there were enough balance so the service continued till Apr 10. Now your balance is -0.0075 because there's one outstanding invoice. If you change your plan the invoice for 0.0075 will be cancelled and invoice for your new plan will be issued. If you send 0.0075 BTC, the service will be extended by one month since the moment of payment, not since the moment of invoice.So as you can see there is no an error on our side.  There are no any extra charges of your account. You were only charged 0.0075 BTC 2 times, not 3 times. As for refunding request for March service you didn't intend to receive.If you add funds to your mobile phone, there's no way to withdraw, and they are consumed over time if your tariff plan includes a monthly payment even if you don't intend to talk. If you buy a larger scratch card to add funds than you intended, there's no way to get a change.Bitcoin Analytics uses the same billing model.You should have either send 0.0075 or choose a bimonthly plan of  0.00125 per month. Your demand to get a refund for April is not well grounded. If you agree with above, we can fix your plan selection mistake and charge you 0.0125 for March and April according to bimonthly plan instead of 0.0150.  If you insist on a refund, since it's the first such request, we are sure it's not fraudulent, and can refund. Please send us your bitcoin address to return the money to. Send a PM to either nimnul or genuise if you consider it sensitive.with all respect,Andy and Evgeniy bitcoin-analytics.com Mass PMs, giant fonts and unreasonably sized screenshots don't look like an acceptable marketing strategy to me. Please resize browser window to minimum possible when taking screenshots, crop and/or downsample the screenshots. Don't send any kind of personal messages to unrelated people and don't use colors or size for your messages and signature.Thanks up Hi frito,Unfortunately historical data is not available at the moment. Paid account only eliminates delay in arbitrage table and gives access to separate exchanges instead of data aggregated by currency.We are working on candlestick charts, but they will take few months to get ready. And even at that point the timeframe of displayed data will probably be shorter than 6 months.We do have full orderbook archive for last couple of years, but it's in an inefficient format and thus we are not ready to provide any access to it. If you can program, we can try to give you samples of our datafiles and run your script on the full dataset.nimnul You can look at similar projects e.g. http://can-touch.ru/ . You can use google translate to understand Russian texts there. Quoting FIX homepage, The Financial Information eXchange ("FIX") Protocol is a series of messaging specifications for the electronic communication of trade-related messages. It has been developed through the collaboration of banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, industry utilities and associations, institutional investors, and information technology providers from around the world.So yes, the protocol is realtime, event-based, and supports millisecond precision for timestamps.Electronic trading in fiat has been there since 1970s, but Bitcoin exchanges are not that mature. We cannot provide a true realtime feed with millisecond timestamps if exchange API don't provide these data to us. For most exchanges (in fact all but MtGox) we collect data by polling their public REST API every 15 seconds. We will push events to the clients as we get data from polling. So our service is a mere translation of proprietary protocols into an interoperable industry-standard protocol. You won't get better realtime than with public exchange APIs, but better interoperability with existing financial software and data unification between exchanges.Of course as exchanges collaborate with us to provide better raw feeds or publish better APIs our consolidated standard feed will improve too.We don't really know yet. FIX feed is a niche product for professional traders and institutions. We expect only a few subscribers. The demand for data is lower than for visualization, so the price will probably be higher.  In this release only the realtime feed will be provided. The unencrypted TCP feed supports both orderbooks and trades for all exchanges supported by bitcoin-analytics.com service owned by me and genuise. Data are semi-realtime for now - we send aggregate messages every 15 seconds.On logon unsolicited MarketDataSnapshotFullRefresh (W) messages with full-depth price-depth orderbooks are sent for every exchange:MarketDataSnapshotFullRefresh (W)SymbolNoMDEntries+ MDEntryType (0 or 1)+ MDEntryPx+ MDEntrySizeAfter that synchronous trades and order book deltas are sent:MarketDataIncrementalRefresh (X)NoMDEntries+ MDUpdateAction+ Symbol+ MDEntryType (0, 1 or 2)+ MDEntryPx+ MDEntrySizeOrderbooks are as full as exchange API allows. For example, BTC-E only provides top 150 entries. Since data volume is relatively low, further reduction of market depth as provided by MarketDepth field of MarketDataRequest (V) is not implemented.We built an open-source PoC quickfix/python client to demonstrate interoperability with other FIX implementations.If you are familiar with FIX protocol and interested in free pre-release access let us know. Our goal at this point is to polish technical details and collect feedback from devs working with FIX feeds in fiat financial industry.We will charge monthly subscription fee after the release. If you zoom the VWAP chart you will see something like this:The markers are not for every point, but for each point (15-second "slot" as we call it) with trading activity. So here you can see that a large trade activity at 14:29:45 shifted VWAP, but a larger trade volume at 14:33:00 had almost no impact on the price. Removal of the markers will obscure this information.Of course when you zoom out to default zoom level it starts looking ugly, but we didn't knew how we can improve it without information loss.In addition you can see here why we chose to plot "buy" and "sell" trades separately instead of joining them with a single line as our competitors do. We show that trades are performed at two different steady prices instead of zigzag pattern you often see on last trade price charts without bid-ask separation and volume weighting: The charting library we use supports post-processing with moving average. See the input box at the bottom chart at http://dygraphs.com/tests/range-selector.htmlIf it's ok we can easily add that input box for moving average window size to all the charts. Yes it's the same. We just use mtgox realtime api to get order book every 15 seconds. The full depth url can only be queries every 15 minutes or so. Hi,Thank you for supporting us.We have a plan on adding month long charts with candlestick aggregation but now it's not possible to see data older than a day.There is a problem with having volumes in either BTC or USD on the same axis. Often there are spam orders on both sides of orderbook: someone sells 1 BTC for 1 billion USD and someone buys 1 billion BTC for 1 USD. For bids, only USD volume is "real" and BTC volume is an arbitrary number put by whoever placed the order. For asks it's vice versa: BTC volume is "real" and USD volume can be set to arbitrary number. If we put both volumes in one currency it will not help you to compare them. So there should be a method of filtering meaningful depth from fake depth and we couldn't find a good one. Do you have ideas?Best regards, nimnul and genuise genuise and I (the founders of bitcoin-analytics.com) are both Race07 series fans and members of racedepartment.com race club. It's up now. Thank you for reporting bitcoin-analytics.com Unfortunately we piggyback on bitcoincharts data stream for trade data. So only orderbook data are available now. Looks like it's time for us to start getting trades using exchange APIs directly as bitcoincharts doesn't have good capacity planning to absorb high traffic spikes. Yep, Genuise and I were too eager to show off a prototype. Our priority was to show the data of minor exchanges to the community. We will replace it with original artwork before lifting the beta badge. > Look, there was a straight line for a moment there!Actually it's not. The last week is not complete. And the first weeks are before the start of the rally.http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/mtgoxUSD#rg60zigWeeklyzczsg2013-01-09zeg2013-02-14ztgMzm1g10zm2g25zlAll this data are included in the table in my post, calculations say the deviation is still small.And I didn't say anything about the processes behind the data - I only showed you the data, that's it. I know that technical analysis is not well-grounded at best, http://www.scientificamerican.com/article.cfm?id=patternicity-finding-meaningful-patterns etc. It's not. Price actually has been multiplied by 1,138 every week for last 7 weeks. So I expect 34, 39, 44, 50, 58, 66, 75, 85, 98 until the crash. $100 is just 9 weeks away if the growth continues. http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/mtgoxUSD#rg60zigWeeklyzczsg2013-01-23zeg2013-02-14ztgMzm1g10zm2g25zlАсtual deviation from straight line is only 3.6%Week Actual Model Delta-2   13,88   13,22   -4,8%-1   14,84   15,04   1,4%0   17,12   17,12   0,0%1   19,56   19,48   -0,4%2   21,41   22,17   3,6%3   25,31   25,23   -0,3%4   28,51   28,71   0,7%
It has the same meaning as strace write syscall count.How many writes I'm supposed to get? If the issue is supposed to be fixed I can look closer at it.Now it finished reindexing and syncing remaining 2k blocks or so, used "only" 30k writes to start and then about 10k writes per block. It takes 20M+ writes to start with -dbcache=1024. Indexing is not over yet. It used 72M writes to reindex  Still reindexing Has this been discussed before? Bitcoin client seems to perform way too many disk writes under Windows - Task Manager reports 4 millions of write calls to sync 3k blocks.Can't we buffer writes to bring them down to dozens per second from hundreds per second? My hard drive seeks like crazy during sync. If it's from here http://portableapps.com/apps/internet/firefox_portable then it could be a bug in firefox portable. I'll take a look and let you know. Due to technical reasons we only support browsers which support Gzip transfer coding. All major browsers do.What browser do you use? Are you using a mobile browser or a web accelerator such as Opera Turbo? Bitcoin gives you freedom to buy child porn, fund terrorists and defraud your customers. You can also help your mom in Iran and hide income from IRS.   Here is my attempt. I tried to avoid complicated words such as inflation and cryptography which nobody actually understands  Bitcoin is a new system to keep and send money. Many people accept payments in Bitcoins instead of dollars. You can exchange Bitcoins to dollars and back. You can send bitcoins to another person.Bitcoin has both advantages and disadvantages over conventional finances: cash, bank accounts, credit cards, paper money, Paypal and Western Union.Bitcoin is very different from what people think of money: it is not backed by anything like gold bullets or government laws, and has no issuing organization. But it has worked so far. Banks and government backed cash don't work well for everyone. Sending to some countries, or some amounts may be too costly, take too long or prohibited altogether. Bitcoin helps people by lifting the limitations of traditional systems. It imposes its own limitations but many people still find it advantageous. Advanced knowledge of math and economics is required to understand all its advantages. The usage was limited to geeks and enthusiasts but it may change as more people become aware of Bitcoin existence and principles it is based on.As long as sender and receiver are aware of Bitcoin and have internet connection, they can have bitcoin wallets in their computers and transfer bitcoins between them to pay or to help. Many people did. The subscription fee is the same. 0.5 BTC/mo gives access to charts for individual tickers and realtime arbitrage view for both old and recently added tickers. We implemented support for multiple currencies and added more exchanges.So now we support 22 tickers:12 US Dollar tickers: mtgoxUSD, btceUSD, cbxUSD, cryptoxUSD, intrsngUSD, bitstampUSD, bitmarketUSD, bcLRUSD, bitfloorUSD, vcxUSD, btctreeUSD, btc24USD - note that we had to disable btcex8 Euro tickers: mtgoxEUR, bitmarketEUR, vcxEUR, intrsngEUR, bcEUR, bcLREUR, bitcurexEUR, btc24EUR2 Chinese Yuan/Renminbi tickers: mtgoxCNY, btcnCNYRegards,bitcoin-analytics.com dev team. I'm waiting for a dip to 3 lol Because FPGA is multi-purpose. So it could be something like this1) Off-the shelf hardware (GPUs, FPGA dev boards, standard cases)2) Bitcoin-specific hardware (ASICs, custom FPGA boards/kits, framework cases) На машину наклейку биткоинт наклеить, да значок/ленточку нацепить, и всех делов. See http://wiki.tradingphysics.com/Historical-Consolidated-Order-Book-Data.ashx for example. Consolidated order book, well, consolidates data from many exchanges to make an inter-exchange order book so in case of BTC mtgoxUSD domination is not a problem as all USD exchanges are exposed in a USD consolidated book.As for EUR vs USD I think there's no way to consolidate the books. How do I convert USD to EUR? Exchange rates depend on too many things - bank, volume, country. It's possible to use ecb.int or other similar data source for rates, but it is not usually possible to actually convert currencies at those rates. The block with the largest fees and the block containing the top transaction fee are not necessarily the same  Many small fees can overcome a single large fee.Thank you - this chart is the info I was looking for. That topic is about largest transaction fees.This topis is about largest block rewards. I wonder if many small fees have accumulated to create something like 5 BTC. That 180 BTC single transaction fee is nonsense and was probably created for fun or by mistake. The reward is built-in reward + transaction fees. So what is the maximum in block chain? We all expect transaction fees to overcome built-in block reward at some point in the future. So where are we now? Has anyone received 55 BTC for a block (50 builtin and 5 fees)? "Custom hardware" means hardware built specifically for the task of mining.Standard FPGA development boards are not custom hardware.GPGPUs are not custom hardware.But if someone designs a PCB for FPGA or even attaches his own casing or power supply for standard boards it's custom hardware. it's 39% 14% 15% 10% 19% Only 150M is available for now. PM with your evony nickname if interested. If your evony 1 server is not wn1 but you are interested in lumber/iron comment or PM too 
800k is enough to close all current orders on USD and EUR exchanges The definition only says "it is equal to the share price times the number of shares outstanding". I was only laughing at how coins hoarded by miners are considered outstanding shares and how last trade price is considered share price. Is there any better place to discuss this as it doesn't related to this particular news post. It's amazing how this multiplication of best available price by order book size persist. How did he get the 60M figure? USD isn't stable - it depends on how do you measure its stability. If you look at gold or oil prices USD is not that stable. It's only retail price tags which are stable. Wholesale prices (especially on exchange traded goods) vary. I'm too but average people don't give a f about inflation. All that they know is that price tags are not supposed to change. This feature of bitcoin slows its adoption. The question is how a layman measures "fluctuation".If he comes today 1 hamburger = 1 USD, and tomorrow 1 hamburger = 1 USD it means for him USD is stable. In this layman sense USD is stable against almost everything. Is it possible to sell hamburgers today at the same price as yesterday if we use BTC? Will it be good for seller? for buyer? My point is that USD/Gold is stable, but USD/Bitcoin is unstable so the USD/Gold example is irrelevant. Today's gold instability is about 1.2% (1630 high 1610 low). According to my Bitcoin Analytics charts today's btc fluctuation is 6% for 1000 BTC volume (6.41 high 6.01 low) and 34.8 (8.09 high 6 low) for 10 BTC volume.If 1.2% is "very unstable" how do you call 34%? It's not about pegging to fiat. It is about specifying price in advance. a) Not all media support realtime tags. For example, grocery stores still have price tags physically printed and attached to goods. With BTC it is simply not possible - they have to reprint and reattach tags every hour or stop specifying prices at all - customers will have to use scanners to check the price. Few shops here in Ukraine have such scanners so you can use it to check the price against the latest database of the supermarket. But it's for doubtful cases only, having to do this to find any price is painful.b) Not all contracts support immediate purchase. For example, if I call a taxi the operator can tell me the price in advance. But not in BTC. Let's say I have 10 BTC. The operator says the price for my trip is 3 BTC but mtgox crashes and at the end of my trip the price becomes 30 BTC. So either taxi company or the passenger have to lose. Same for many other options - ordering a pizza, train/airplane/football tickets etc. The problem that if you displauy price in any commodity (gold, bananas, whatever) or in currency there are no need for realtime prices. With BTC such need arises and causes additional burden and expenses.They couldn't because they are just vendors and not finance professionals. But their payment processor could. But at the moment there are no such processor. My point was that any means of increasing market depth are good - being that money coming from merchants, producers, services, speculators, manipulators or hoarders. It's not the case. Less than 1/3 of the miners do like this. See https://bitcointalk.org/?topic=86010 (people can put 2 check marks there so numbers don't add to 100). I pay my mining expenses from my pocket and don't spend my mined BTC.Speculators don't bring more volatility but reduce it. If you buy low and sell high you shift the price closer to equilibrium, not away from it. And many speculators cannot pump price up - some will try to pump up, but other people will try to capitalize on that attempt. I think the only way of "artificially pumping" the price is one big manipulator putting his $200k+ at risk. A quite brave man indeed.I think quite the contrary: I think the price was stable because the only people trading in those dark days were speculators, "the sharks" as someone put it. And teenagers and housewives were removed from the market and attracted to ZhouTong/SatoshiDice type of gambling which is more or less closed-circuit and doesn't affect the market.Bitcoin is doomed to a steady exchange rate growth because of a) its algorithmically limited supply b) an irresistible temptation for Federal Reserve and European Central Bank to increase the supply of paper. Gold  prices in USD increased 580% in last 10 years, oil increased 320%, corn 400%.We cannot have stable exchange rate as I described above but we don't need it either. We only need less volatility - 1% daily rate change must be quite acceptable for merchants and service providers. If we target less than 1% of daily growth we can afford to have up to 3800% yearly growth which is a quite high limit. To get less volatility we need to attract more hoarders (which remove USD from their mattresses and put them into bitcoin market) and more speculators (which extract profits from reducing volatility), not less. With more money in the market it's volatility will go down and BTC will be more attractive to real producers of goods and services. The inherent benefit to early adopters boosts Bitcoin, not suppresses it. Should belong to either Speculation or Gambling +1. I turn 2 in July Ah that's Ron Paul thing. He's been fighting for that for long, nothing new. You should have warned beforehand. Also remember that we had a tiny bubble in autumn - the price rose from 3 to 7 and fell back to 5. I was unfortunate enough to buy at 6.4 At the moment there is 9.6% arb between mtgox and cbx and you can earn whooping 57 USD if you buy 100 BTC at cbx and sell them at mtgox (but I think commissions would eat that)But for 1000 BTC the difference is just... nothing, there are no 1000 BTC on cbx at any price And I think this situation will be here for long. I have something resembling the BTC/USD ticker at my bitcoin-analytics.com: best market order execution price across 13 exchanges for large volumes. For orders 10000BTC worth the best execution price (defined using standard consolidated order book) is not much different from mtgox price as of now, we are talking about 0.04 difference:6.5/6.54 mtgox6.5/6.58 if we try to collect best offers from all exchanges.For 10 BTC we have whooping 10% difference in rates, but 10 BTC price don't matter as you cannot trade 10k for the same price.If we look at actual executed orders and not at orderbooks (some exchanges have good offers but you cannot execute them because it's hard to put or withdraw usd there) the picture is the same:volume-weighted average price of executed orders for 10000 BTC is 6.38/6.44 at mtgox, but for all usd exchanges (actually for 12) is 6.38/6.41. The difference is just 0.03, so mtgox is still dominating unfortunately if we talk about volumes meaninful for BTC economy and not for one guy buying a pizza. I deposited money into CampBX, bought Bitcoins, and was not allowed to withdraw them the same day.[/quote]How many days did it take?[/quote]3 business days. That being said, the other way (BTC to USD) can be withdrawn instantly, just at a 2-5% loss on the rate (which I've been enjoying very much as someone who has bought the coins).[/quote]Well, campBX doesn't have enough volume in orderbooks - you cannot buy or sell 1000 BTC there, not even at a bad price:For 100 BTC the picture is different: 15 and 17 hours instead of 30 and 24, and orders comparable to 100 BTC are executed every 3 hours or so since the rally has started: and on bitcoin-analytics.com Bitcoin-analytics supports 12 USD exchanges (mtgox, btce, btcex, cbx, cryptox, intersango, bitstamp, bitmarket, bitcoin-central, bitfloor, vcx and btctree). I just showed the mtgox tab on the first screenshot.And the second screenshot was allEUR combined chart for development version - we are going to add EUR support early next week.
No it's Gox only from paid accOh you mean the EUR beta chart? It was cumulative chart from 6 exchanges. 315 The wall at 5.70 has gone I work on other currencies besides USD, it is just not ready for public yet: Someone has just put 200k USD worth orders to buy BTC Now you can login using Twitter and Facebook social logins in addition to OpenId.Regards,Bitcoin Analytics devs. Malware can be embedded basically anywhere. AMT just offers yet another way. Relevant technologies (SMM and to some extent option ROMs - google "PCI Rootkits") were there since 80s. And general fear of   backdoors embedded in hardware go back into cold war era. Russia, for example, still uses its own outdated 180nm technology for military chips out of this fear. Existence of such backdoors could have been revealed long ago. Many countries import US hardware and use them in critical applications, so their security agencies should have been fired for not finding the backdoors if they existed. The argument "And it would be a stretch to believe some 3 letter agencies wouldnt have the keys." is an invalid FUD argument. FUD? It is not a backdoor. It is a manufacturer diagnostic facility that can be used to bypass security checks. I'd call that "a vulnerability".The chip manufacturer says it is present physically on the chip but cannot be used. So it is not clear from this usual journalist rubbish what exactly did they found. And I'm too lazy to find and read the original paper.Such "backdoors" has been known for very long time. They have been used to unlock the phones. These days phones have very secure means to forbid flashing custom firmware - for example, Motorola E398 had a special facility in the chip to check RSA signature on firmware before executing it. However, this check could be disabled programmatically, and people eventually found how.The only news here is that such "backdoor" was found by examining not software but hardware and I think the paper focuses not on the vulnerability but on the novel method of chip analysis.Can someone comment on this? I'm not sure I described it correctly. 1) To see what are the latest version of each of them and where they can be found2) To see which are good for which hardware3) To see which are supported by which miner. Then we need a consolidated list of kernels Poll only has 5 options here. So I only included only the options looking plausible for me. I didn't think of someone still expanding their GPU rigs these days. AFAIK all miners use the same OpenCL kernel and the kernel itself hasn't changed for long time.Is this true? What are the latest OpenCL kernels and where a new miner writer can get them? This poll is to check the hypothesis that everyone mines to dump. I think many miners mine to hoard. В своё оправдание могу сказать следующее:Он первый начал!!!111   Какое-то странное у вас определение ликвидности, можно его узнать? Стандартное вот1. The degree to which an asset or security can be bought or sold in the market without affecting the asset's price. Liquidity is characterized by a high level of trading activity. Assets that can be easily bought or sold are known as liquid assets.2. The ability to convert an asset to cash quickly. Also known as "marketability".  It's important to understand that in retail Forex (and Zhoutong-style trading) there is no market. You are playing not against other people and institutions but against a market simulator casino machine.In contrast, it is widely believed that at MtGox we have a real market and not mere simulator.So you should differentiate between retail Forex, real interbank foreign exchange, and stocks (which I hope are usually real markets and not simulations).As for programmatic reading I suggest you to seek for research papers in quantitative finance about price modeling and don't bother learning the usual black magic fortune telling (Elliott waves etc) taught at retail Forex shops.Here is a basic course: http://www.algorithm.cs.sunysb.edu/computationalfinance/The course mentions Elliot waves as "The popular (but mystical) Elliot Wave Theory" - see the detailed overview of common spiritual practices in http://www.algorithm.cs.sunysb.edu/computationalfinance/pdf/lecture20.pdf there.Note however that you cannot avoid the black magic in trading. It is just that learning from scientific sources lets you be focused on evidence and not on "trader's intuition" in evaluating quality of your black magic trading algorithm. Ответил в личку.
Haskell, of course! [:trollface:]Technology matters, but it matters less than your ideas and your ability to deliver a usable product."LAMP" (Linux/Apache/MySQL/PHP" is the easiest technology to learn.Then go Python and Node.JS. Then Erlang and Ruby. Then LISP family (Scheme, CL), ML family (OCAML, F#) and Haskell family (Haskell, Clean).Learn whatever pleases your mind. Thank you, Stephen for your interest.You are absolutely right, having only OpenID is not enough. We wanted to get the service up and running as soon as the main framework is ready and stable enough. Thus we limited social login options to OpenID providers. We are already working on adding non-OpenID social login providers Facebook, Twitter, Vkontakte and others.We chose not to implement the usual password based login in addition to social login because it takes too much work to make password-based logins secure. OpenID is by design not vulnerable to user database theft, and allows users to use very secure authentication schemes if they wish - certificates, two-factor auth etc.We are sorry for this inconvinience with your OpenID login attempt. We'll try and do our best to fix this embarassing problem asap Hope this will not make bad impression on you As for the subscription price, it is 0.5 BTC per month and includes both arbitrage table and full set of charts. We'll make subscription fee more prominent. Thank you again for your feedback. We at bitcoin-analytics.com automatically replicate sensitive data (user billing info and login history) to a backup server at a different hosting. We also have third server at yet another hosting fully operational so we can manually switch DNS records with little downtime if current bitcoin-analytics.com server goes down. We also monitor resource usage on all our servers.Given that we are not an exchange and users only give us microscopic subscription fees, I think the backup is adequate  lowendbox.com is already there, I use it.I have few other similar blogs, so can provide links if anyone needs them.It's not like I need cheap VPS personally - I'm interested in adding more hosting to the database of my cheapest.prcn.co.cc project. So I'm experimenting with hiring people to help me for bitcoins. URL googling using bitcoin seems to work http://bitcoin-analytics.comSee https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=82768.0 for more info.If you have questions or ideas how charts or arbitrage tables can be improved to fit your needs - let me know. Unless we get someone hacked again  Tittiez gets 0.33 BTC:0.02 for evolucix0.02 for urgentvps (they don't state VM type)0.03 for buffalovps0.02 for megaworldhosting0.03 for up2vps0.03 for fstservers0.02 for fitvps0.02 for ionvm0.02 for tailoredvps (they don't state VM type)0.03 for bitcable0.02 for basshost0.02 for alvotech0.02 for telvps0.03 for cheapvps.co.uk Tittiez gets:0.02 for ipxcore0.03 for vps60.02 for rocketvps0.03 for vmport0.02 for vpsdeploy0.03 for kazila0.02 for dotvps0.17 BTC + 0.05 bonus = 0.22 BTCAll 3 bonuses are claimed now. Hostigation is already listed, so it doesn't qualify. Enter 999 0 0 and search page for hostigation - and you'll see their KVM offers listed. Some people use R, which doesn't seem to be related. I wonder if there's anything good between Sierra Charts and Mathematica visualization-wise. Sierra charts cannot plot bid and ask at the same chart and cannot work with orderbooks. It's great to see someone actually developing models for bitcoin markets and not merely fortune telling using chart patterns. Keep going! 0.07 BTC more goes to gweedo:0.02 for btclot0.03 for momento0.02 for microthosting 512 MB is $30 there - it's too costly, violates Rule #3. Must be $20 or less for 512MB plan. You can submit hostings not related to Bitcoins too. Signup links are broken there - they lead to shared hosting signup. So it doesn't qualify  johnthedong gets 0.05 bonus + 0.02 for TizzyTazzy = 0.07 BTCgweedo gets 0.05 bonus + 0.03 for Vpsno.de = 0.08 BTC You can post as many links as you wish to get more, of course.Slicehost doesn't qualify as it's part of rackspace and rackspace is costly ($21.90 for 512mb). So you have to look for another one. Post a VPS hosting company website and get 0.02 BTC from me if it's OpenVZ/Parallels and 0.03 if it's anything else.Unfortunately, not all hostings qualify.1. The hosting must not be already listed at http://cheapest.prcn.co.cc/ - enter 999 0 0 0 in the filter boxes there to see all hostings currently listed.2. The hosting must not be already posted 3. Price for a 512MB VPS must not exceed $20 or equivalentFirst 3 persons to post qualified links get 0.05 BTC as a bonus.I'm only ready to pay for 50 links (however I doubt to get more than 3). Человеку свойственно "видеть" закономерности там, где их нет. Увидеть треугольник на графике так же просто, как увидеть лицо суженого в рельефе кофейной гущи. Всё это гадание по чартам - сплошное средневековье. Bitcoin Analytics now has "Arbitrage" tab.The table displays arbitrage opportunities for lots of 10, 100, 1k, 10k and 100k BTC between different USD markets. The table looks similar to http://nyse-group.de/bitcoin-arbitrage and other existing tables, but it has something different under the hood:1. It doesn't display an opportunity if there's too little volume offered at a pair of exchanges. You can see our arbitrage table shrinking as you increase the volume. For example, only 3 exchanges have 10k BTC in their order books: btceUSD, cryptoxUSD and mtgoxUSD.  2. It displays market order execution prices for corresponding volume instead of best prices. In most cases, very little volume is offered at the best price - so if MtGox ticker says 5.3, it doesn't mean that you can buy or sell 1000 coins at that price. Our arbitragecalculator accounts for that by going deeper in the orderbook than best price and displaying you the real volume weighted average price between several orderbook entries.So you can see prices for arbitrage between mtgoxUSD and btceUSD (for example) varying with volume.3. We extended the usual color coding from 2 to 4 colors:- orange means there is positive price difference - you can buy low at one exchange and sell high at another one (but beware transaction fees and other commissions!)- yellow means there is no arbitrage and negative bid-ask price difference is less than 10% - that is, market is efficient.- white means there is no arbitrage but price difference is more than 10% - it means there is a market making opportunity, you can try to make money by putting limit orders at these two exchanges- black means there's not enough volume on one of the exchangesThe 10% threshold is based on our subjective feeling of illiquidity and is more or less arbitrary.4. At the top of the table you see best available execution price for the lot. You can use the percentage as a measure of bitcoin markets efficiency. The square is usually orange - so best bid usually is higher than best ask because of inefficiencies! But it's rather hard to capitalize on this difference as it requires a complicated execution strategy and will probably be eaten by different fees.  The free version of arbitrage table is delayed by 6 hours - it shows quotes 6 hours from now. The paid version (available after you subscribe with a modest fee of 0.5 BTC a month) shows realtime quotes (fetched from exchanges using their orderbook API every 15 seconds and updated using web sockets just like the charts).Also note, that these days arbitrage opportunities only happen during price swipes, so keep watching Good luck in your profit seeking!
Data we plot are not available elsewhere. Everyone else just plots last trade price without regard to low available volume. Some people in the forum managed to plot order book depth like one of our 4 charts does, but their data are not available as a public web site.Nobody else has a website that consolidates data in orderbooks yet.Nobody else consolidated data in trade stream.Nobody else differentiates between bid and ask prices.Nobody else consolidates data between exchanges.All these features are described in more details at https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=82768.0 and at the Why tab of the web site.So our charts are unique as of now. I don't dare to say they are better - let users decide, but they are not something a user can get for free at another place. I see now. So you think that using bootstrap controls instead of jQuery UI will help the site to look better? Я автор, хочу фидбека. Это не изменение масштаба - это включение графиков по отдельным 13 эксченжам в дополнение к консолидированной картине. Мне интересно, почему все молчат. Дорого им, не знают как пользоваться, всем всё равно? Go to log in tab, use an openid to login, go to configure tab, press "Get address" button and pay 0.5 BTC to unlock all 325 flavours of charts (13 exchanges x 5 volumes x 5 charts) for a month. When transaction is confirmed the tabs are unlocked.And we are working hard to add more charts and arbitrage tables in near future. See our novel charts: http://bitcoin-analytics.com/And yes, they are HTML5 and realtime. And if you want to see data in yet different way - let us know, we'll consider implementing charts in your way.They are not free - a subscription is whooping 0.5 BTC a month, half-pizza a month in Ukrainian prices. We are obsessed by pizza and coke It took 6 month to implement those charts and all background tasks - for example, we have a backup server on and replicate users' database to it so in case our current hosting fails, we can switch without long downtime.Now we are working on more exchanges (EUR etc) and novel arbitrage tables.Graphical design is not what we have invested in - we tried to work on reliability and tried to process the data to filter out noice so the charts are more useful in real trades than the usual unweighted trade volume charts you can see at all other places. Any feedback is welcome.I didn't understand about the bootstrap. Do you mean loading time is high?As for graphical design, do you thing it's worth changing the chart colors to match the orange-black theme?Also, in your opinion, is Clark Moody graphical design better?We thought that data are more important than design, so we didn't put much effort there. Do you think it's worth to improve design of login form and "why" pages? I just got little to none feedback on https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=82768.0 so I resorted to xposting.Is it good? Is it bad? Is it slow? Is it hard to login? Was OpenID a bad idea? Русский топик, бросайтесь какашками. http://bitcoin-analytics.com offers realtime charts for both order books and actual trades.The system consolidates data to get the big picture:1) It consolidates small trades in time, so you can see the how a particular trade moves the resulting "real" execution price.  2) It consolidates small orders in orderbooks - so you can see the resulting "real" offer3) It visualizes time between trades - so you can estimate how long will it take for a small exchange to execute your trade 4) Trade prices, order books and time between trades are consolidated between exchanges, so you can see, for example, the best execution price for a block trade of 10000 BTC across all USD exchanges.All data are separated into "bid" and "ask" sides to provide more details.Charts are adjusted for desired trade volume when it makes sense. Let you, for example,  want to trade 1000 BTC. Then price impact of one order of 20 BTC is small. However, the price impact of 100 orders 20 BTC each is large. If you want to trade a smaller amount, say 5 BTC, then small orders have a bigger impact.The system takes this effect into account - so 3 of the 5 charts for each exchange can be adjusted for trades of 10, 100, 1000, 10000 or 100000 BTC. We figured out that this granularity is enough. Finer adjustments don't provide with better insights as charts weighted for 10 and 15 BTC are similar. However, 10 and 1000 differ a lot.You can read more about how our charts are calculated and how they can help taking trade decisions on 'Why' tab and its sub-tabs.Consolidated view adjusted for volume of 1000 BTC is free. Full access requires a subscription for 0.3 BTC a month or 0.5 BTC for two months. You can enable subscription for just 24h for 0.05 BTC.My co-founder and I believe that micro-payments are the only fair business model. We wanted  0.1 BTC or less initially, but taking in account small potential user base, that won't be enough to buy us a pizza and coke off the earnings. Bitcoin enforces financial freedom, and we think that affordable micro-payments without government interference are the key to large scale Bitcoin success. Asking for donations is a manifestation of weakness - it would mean we don't believe that our own product is useful for other people and that most of our clients will reward us voluntarily. Advertisements would mean that our visitors pay indirectly, by being conditioned into buying other goods and services and by disclosing their private habits to advertisement agencies. Conditioning and violation of privacy are against freedom so they are against Bitcoin so they are bad. Seemingly free services always have hidden cost. For example, welfare and pensions mean that you rob your own children, as they will have to pay for them in the future. We want our visitors to pay directly and voluntarily, without hidden costs of any kind. If you only use a free part of our service - you don't pay.You can still help us by spreading the word - use 'Social' tab to like, tweet, reddit, digg us. We are proud to be a part of Bitcoin economy - so help it grow. We plan to add more gadgets to the tab over time.  But if you find our work worthwhile - think of your subscription fee as buying us a slice of pizza and a coke every month to encourage us, so we can innovate freely and don't have to work for corporations or be tiny parts in state bureaucracy machines. There are not many Bitcoin users yet, we won't buy ourselves yachts and mansions - we only want feel the support and excitement of doing something that brings mankind closer to the free Bitcoin-based society. Here is what you get with subscription:Charts for today for btc-e and 100 BTC. You can also see all volume and exchange selectors enabled:{image disabled}A pattern in orderboooks on cryptox, probably caused by trading bots constantly changing their order price:{image disabled}Sparse activity on btcex. It took 16 hours to sell 100 BTC there, but buying activity of liquidity demanders is stronger:{image disabled} http://bitcoin-analytics.com01 Apr 2013 Update:We are proud to announce an update:AUD, PLN, CAD, RUR currencies are supportedMtgox charts for USD, EUR, GBP, CNY, AUD, PLN, CAD, RUR are based on full orderbook depth as we switched to streaming APIAdded new exchanges, removed exchanges which stopped workingPrices were corrected to match Bitcoin exchange rateYou can view limited version of charts for free as before.Full access will cost you:0.002 BTC a day, 0.03 BTC a month, 0.05 BTC for 2 months21 Dec 2012 Update:Today is 6 months since Genuise and I launched http://bitcoin-analytics.comWe are proud to announce an update:GBP currency is supportedMtgox charts for USD, EUR, GBP, CNY are based on full orderbook depth as we switched to streaming APIIndependent axes for BTC and USD in order book depth chartsAdded new exchanges, removed exchanges which stopped workingCharts work faster and use less browser memoryNew daily subscription planNew bimonthly subscription planPrices were corrected to match Bitcoin exchange rateYou can view limited version of charts for free as before.Full access will cost you:0.05 BTC a day, 0.3 BTC a month, 0.5 BTC for 2 months https://homeno.de/cart.php?gid=9&currency=5I'm not affiliated with them in any way, just was excited to see them accepting BTC I got it too I got the following message from LR:---Your account has been blocked for 3 hours due to 5 unsuccessful Reset Code tries. Please contact us immediately if you did not try to login to your account. 3 hour block is meant to give you enough time to notice and react in case your account was compromised.---The 5 reset attempts were there in inbox too. Did you get anything similar recently? If yes, as I only use my acc for Bitcoin, I suppose it's either an exchange was compromised or it's a global attack on LR. I hope it's not the case. Profits will be very low - it is not worth it. You can only get reasonable income when mining with high-end ATI video cards. So forget it. 80W. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Southern_Islands_(GPU_family) About $0.04 per kWh for more than 120 kWh/month. Ukraine. For businesses the rate is higher. Теперь, похоже, у AurumExchange начались те проблемы с LR, что были раньше у MtGox.Надо ауруму поднимать комиссию до 20% дабы желающих вывести с гокса в LR поубавилось  Присоединяюсь к предыдущему оратору http://www.bitcoinpayflow.com/ Метатрейдер неработает с ордербуком никак - только Level 1, так что толку от него на столь неликвидном рынке не будет. А инструменты с поддержкой Level 2 ещё дороже (метатрейдер вроде около $100k)
> Есть ли торговые боты под MtGox, и какой посоветуете?Есть. Не посоветую, т.к. а) не использовал б) то, что я видел, было просто оберткой над API, без серьёзной HFT-математики.> Как проверить успешность торгового бота - на старой выборке данных погонять его?Детский ответ: даВзрослый ответ: успешная работа на старой выборке ничего не значит. Учите quantitative finance для начала, читайте работы по неликвидным рынкам. Is the exe still up to date and includes the latest kernel? Is 100% CPU usage problem still there? The current decrease in price is caused by security flaws at exchanges. As more attack vectors are closed by security measures, bitcoin becomes more secure. So we want major vulnerabilities at mtgox, tradehill, btce and bitcoin client to be discovered as early as possible. The price will drop further, but it's for the better future for bitcoin.   I confirm that at least the depth API for USD has been broken for about a month. I sent them an email, but without any response. The topic should be moved to "Project Development" forum. It's all happening with AJAX and Websockets/Socket.IO You can use any technology that doesn't suck. We use node.js from Windows (Cygwin in fact) for our internal needs, but Erlang, Haskell or old good Python would work. Even Perl POE or it's newer incarnations lol  Bitcoin is corruptible to the extent it's centralized.Client development is centralized so the developers and the code reviewers can issue a malicious binary and get profit.Mining is centralized so the pool owners can steal coins.The exchanges are centralized so exchange owners can steal coins.The escrow services and online wallets are centralized so owners can steal coins etc You should document your protocol mtgox API is of no use for me as it's easy to make one in 10 minutes.What I need is a well-designed unified interface for all existing exchanges, not just mtgox and not just public data but also programmatic trading. The btc-ex-api package pretends to be just like that. Not all exchanges are supported, but many of them. We have implemented support for some more exchanges and plan to integrate that in btc-ex-api in the future. But as of now the interface has plenty of room for improvements, and I can even make a pull request with all required changes if my architectural proposals get approved by our small committee   Well, I was seeking cooperation, not blame  We develop something like your library in-house for production use in our not yet released service, so we'd like to join the development.Do you actively develop the library? I added issues to the git bug tracker Does it? It seems it doesn't send any notifications but just displays a notification body so I can debug my signature verification algorithm. Can you double check that it actually fires an HTTP request?How it is supposed to work? I get one callback per transaction with seemingly random confirmations count. Will it fire after every confirmation or just once after 6 confirmations?Any case of repeated transactions. E.g. a casino - for a user its convenient to have an address in his bitcoin address book and use it every time when he buys more chips. E.g. a web hosting service - for a user it is much easier just to pay 1 BTC to a fixed address every 1st day of the month than to log in to his account and request a new address every time. In general, there are cases where only total transferred amount is important but there's no need to differentiate individual transactions. At least btcex.com and bitcoin-central.net use this model for adding bitcoins to trading accounts.One possible solution is just use your certificate as a client HTTPS certificate to authenticate you.   Ну, целая книга нужна вообще про всё, а не только про стакан.Вот скажем, если я на гоксе пишу купить 10 койнов по 15, то мне не обязательно именно по 15 койны продадутся - могут и дешевле, если предложения есть. Та "средняя" цена имеет ли какое-либо название?Дальше - на рынке можно делать ставки двух видов - "быстрые", которые удовлетворяются немедленно, и "долгие", которые "висят". Соответственно, в сделке один "покупатель" (для кого эта сделка "быстрая"), а второй - "трейдер" (для которого эта сделка "долгая"). Имеют ли эти ставки и роли какие-то стандартные названия?Ну и т д и т п - я могу десятки таких вопросов ньюбских задать. Не начнёт. Квантовики надеются решить проблему разложения на простые множители, и это действительно поломает ряд криптоалгоритмов, но не алгоритмы биткойна. Биткойн полагается на проблему дискретного логарифма, и устойчив к предлагаемым потенциальным квантовым атакам. Оффтоп: есть ли работы по квантовому взлому sha256 и ecdsa? А Латвия в SEPA? Если да - то наверное конкуренты давят. Вон даже в Украине (которая не в SEPA) можно вывести LR по 4%, плюс 1% гокса и 1% либерти. Т.е. гокс минус 6% хоть наличными хоть на счёт.Текст у Вас очень хороший, и дизайн.Из замечаний - мне кажется, что лучше написать, что переводы "окончательные", а не "конечные" Не подскажете трейдерский словарик, учебник или энциклопедию?Розничный форекс не предлагать - там ордербука, насколько я понимаю, тебе не показывают.Интересует что-то вроде http://www.investopedia.com/articles/trading/06/Level2Quotes.asp#axzz1T62cBaLJ, только более системно изложено Ну раз на раз не приходится. Я постоянно вывожу - идут сутки-трое. Если верить их объяснениям, то надо ждать, пока они договорятся с LR об оптовых поставках LRUSD, и перепишут весь софт на Хаскеле исправят баги. не, стоимость легализации это отдельная статья, я спрашивал только стоимость технической частиMT - это http://www.metatrader5.com/ru  Есть ли у кого представление, дадут ли MT лицензию для такой биржи, и на сколько этот проект потянет, включая лицензию и работу по привязке серверной части МТ к биллингу? Десятки, сотни тысяч дол., миллионы? Враки это. 45 дол берет банк отправителя, ~4% промежуточный банк (дойчебанк, банк оф америка и т п), 0.5-1% берёт банк получателя. Итого 5% + 45 дол.В Украине можно LR выводить по 5%, а сам ЛР получать на гоксе, трейдхилле или биткоин7. В россии тоже, наверное, если поискать. Хотя типичная комиссия по обменкам 7-9%, надо искать менее прижимистых.
The feed is realtime. The 15 mins restriction applies only to non-realtime bitcoincharts API. The feed support must be much easier implement than a dozen of individual APIs unless you use a lame technology.By POST notifications I mean the following service:1) A user enters an HTTP or HTTPS URL on your site and configures alert conditions2) When the price changes you perform a request to the given URL and pass extra parameters3) User's web server (e.g. a trade bot) receives the alert4) PROFIT!!! I get 500 error during attempts to authenticate Any chance to get HTTP(S) POST notifications?UPD: What about connecting by TCP to bitcoincentral live feed at bitcoincharts.com:27007 and getting all exchanges supported at once and in real time? Ну не знаю, я бы не доверял свои денежки спамерам Истину человек глаголет. Вывод в кеш с мтгокса (правда, в UA) получается 7-8% (1% MtGox 1% LR 5-6% хорошая обменка). А обмен в WM вообще против EULA и человек рискует. Надеюсь, у вас есть опыт работы с WMR. Обмен против их EULA, так что если не принимать мер, забанят вас и этим всё закончится. It kind of works, but it needs to be more robust and documented.1) implement API and transactions log - so I can see what API calls you sent and received. It will be helpful in debugging and disputes.2) implement test API endpoint - it's not a problem to send real transactions during tests, but they take an hour to get confirmed so my development is slowed down3) document when and how often you try to call back. What happens if my server does not respond or DNS resolution fails? Are HTTP redirects followed? Is HTTPS supported? etc 4) document foreign_order_id, custom_field and transaction_timestamp, order_status5) What happens if I want to use one address per customer, as opposed to one address per order? It seems subsequent transactions to an address still fire the callback. Is total_amount in POST /order necessary at all? What happens if customer sends less or more than total_amount?6) Think about better/more standard cryptography. A homemade HMAC and plaintext authtoken are not good ideas, they are just temporary quick-and-dirty solutions. When I start poclbm without any options it displays only 2 devices (Cayman and Core). I suppose it should have displayed 4 caymans and 1 Core. The speed is 350 MH/s, what I expect from a half of 6990. Should be 4 times more (1400-1700).What did I do wrong? It's a little offtopic, but 1) how do I add bitcoins to my account at bitcoin-central so I can trade? Should I send BTC to the address I see in the top right corner?2) Is it possible to add LRUSD to my account at bitcoin-central? Or the only way is to trade bitcoins?These things must be documented. Will translate everything you need from english to russian and backward for some BTC reward! Paul Graham (a co-founder of ycombinator.com startup micro-funding agency I suppose) has a lot of articles of ideas not worthing a penny these days. See http://www.paulgraham.com/start.html and his other essays. I offer subj.Erlang is not my strong point though. > A trading bot is limited by the stochastic process.An important note is that if the stochastic process is not stationary, you cannot use past trades to predict future trades, and any testing of the bot using historical data is meaningless.Is technical analysis scientific at all? Are there any peer-reviewed journals on this topic? Are there any scientifical proofs (I mean publications) or disproofs of stationarity of real markets? You should try http://socket.io technology - it's both universal and free http://amcharts.com is one more option. It has special stock charts and it's flash (if you hate emulating canvas for IE).It's commercial, but it has a free version at the price of displaying logo. It is used by http://btcex.com at least. I will make a node.js npm package for the API one day if the API proves useful.So far I have a few bug reports/feature requests:1) Stop violating HTTP/1.1. http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-14.1 says:    If no Accept header field is present, then it is assumed that the   client accepts all media types. If an Accept header field is present,   and if the server cannot send a response which is acceptable   according to the combined Accept field value, then the server SHOULD   send a 406 (not acceptable) response.Your server (not necessarily the code you wrote but maybe web server or Ruby stuff you are using) sends 406 if no accept: header is present. This is clearly a violation as it contradicts "If no Accept header field is present, then it is assumed that the client accepts all media types."As a quick and dirty solution, you can say in your documentation that accept: */* header must be present because of a bug in such and such software you use.2) Enhance your documentation. Your API expects HTTP requests with content-type 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded' and responds with application/json. But from your documentation it seems that API expects JSON passed in POST body, which is a different thing. I only could figure out by looking at your Ruby example.3) Document your existing or planned private key recycling policy. You must either destroy, reuse or send your outdated private keys to API users. Otherwise you are going to end with verifying transactions for millions of keys.Usecase: 0. US Govt makes bitcoin a legal tender.1. Google Checkout and Paypal start to accept bitcoins using your API2. Zillions of users request a bitcoin address to pay for a service but never pay and even don't record the generated addresses3. Zillions of addresses (and corresponding private keys!) become stranded4. Your service keeps storing zillions of key pairs generated 10 years ago and keeps looking for a transaction for any of them.So I suggest:a) to document default expiration time for addressesb) to reuse expired addresses so your wallet.dat grows slower over timec) to implement order cancellation API to allow manual expiration I appreciate this so much. If you had flattr I could donate.But how did you get around https://github.com/joyent/node/issues/1302 ?UPD: Your MtGox depth works (unlike mine!), and I'm glad to see proper error handling in the code. Library API and internal design are arcane with all this poor man's encapsulation using properties starting with _ and misuse of getters, prototypes and closures, but it's 0.0.1 and I hope we will get it ironed out over time. You should know that such exchange is against Webmoney EULA. So beware of your account being banned. Websocket is good, and fallback to flashsocket in IE and browsers with websockets disabled would be very nice. You should look for something like http://socket.io/ to perform transparent fallback for you. Is it possible to get orderbook/market depth?
He expected that most people just talk about technology and development here but don't develop anything. 80% of talkers is what I expected to see.Moreover, the forum seems to be "development of bitcoin", but not "development for bitcoin". For example, internals of exchanges are not discussed here. It is up now. Down again What's going on? Is anything broken? Notice the same timestamp[14:34] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD[14:35] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD[14:35] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD[14:36] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD[14:36] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD[14:37] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD[14:38] <amphipod> Jul02 04:57:27 virtex       0.0100 @    16.10       CAD Does anyone know why? Так чё там с инструкцией? Кто-то написал? И какое нынче вознаграждение?По поводу мета-трейдера - а есть опенсорсные платформы или хотя бы клиенты с нормальными чартами и индикаторами и возможностью поддержки новых протоклов? I vote for Trac. Yet another solution is clipboard monitoring. E.g. pop up when client copies "Send XXX bitcoins to 1e30430430843989UIURIUE". Well, by "still possible" I meant that people still bother to write such lo-fi export plugins.NNTP is certainly alive. But there are problems with using a real currency in a game discussed elsewhere in the forum. Did you though about solving them? How elaborated is your economy project? It's not simple to design an economy.  oh, didn't think such things are still possible. I'm in Nigeria over EDGE and NNTP could save me some traffic/pain. > But is that related to BTC at all?I was talking about a site where users can play a game of Gomoku for money (bitcoins).How are you going to establish "an actual persistent market"? How heroine is going to be produced/consumed? Yet another idea is http://localhost:48321/?to=1e394893roewjrk&amount=3009.00 (it is actually used by one of WebMoney clients)But it's hard to implement securely  I'm interested in selling some BTC and getting WU back. What minimal volume we can try? Is it possible to generate blocks if a lightweight generator  ask many nodes for hash of previous blockchain and transactions in current block? Well, I don't see problems with trust if properly implemented.The whole idea that downloading zipped blocks is faster than downloading "from network" means performance problems in BitCoin client. I know that long time ago bitcoin client utilized very little of available bandwidth because of cache flushing after each single block or something like that. But Satoshi fixed that. Did someone test how much bandwidth (of available bandwidth) is used and how much data is downloaded when a new chain is downloaded?If bandwidth is underutilized - then networking code must be rewritten. If zipping helps to compress chain (I'm not sure because chain contains a lot of hashes and those are random and thus incompressible) - then compression must be built in.  If chain is downloaded many times - then trust scheme must be changed to Emule AICH or similar:---Newer versions of eMule support AICH - Advanced Intelligent Corruption Handling. It is meant to make eMule's corruption handling competitive with BitTorrent. SHA-1 hashes are computed for each 180kb sub-chunk and a whole SHA-1 hash tree is formed. AICH is processed purely with peer-to-peer source exchanges. eMule requires 10 agreeing peers regarding the SHA-1 hash, so rare files generally do not benefit from AICH.---So instead of asking each peer for blocks, Bitcoin client can ask for block hashes and even for hashes of block ranges (to save hash traffic) to download each block only once.Also, transaction clearinghouse function can be easily be built in the current network. We can have a "trust network to validate transactions" setting. Also, blockchain is not needed to generate blocks, so a purely generating node can ask other nodes for hashes needed to build its block instead of asking for chain. And people will be able to contribute either bandwidth or CPU or both. Now they are forced to contribute bandwidth.I am for example in a remote village in Nigeria connecting over EDGE. 30 MB of chain costs me 9 NGN that is 0.06 USD. But with terabytes of traffic that will not be affordable. Even now 30 MB is not affordable because a lot of people earn less than $200 a month and 0.06 USD is the cheapest possible wholesale price because I pay $80 a month for a 3 GB cap at 120 kbps down / 80 up I measured.Debit/credit cards industry is not developed here, but everyone has a cheap fake Chinese phone with J2ME and thus capable to run some client software. It won't work because a malicious person can give private key and then spend those money himself effectively taken the given money back.Current scheme when destination client provides his public key is designed to protect against that.You may also see a related discussion at http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=939.0That scheme proposed by me  allows to run generating nodes without a wallet, but without the above flaw.Why do you want to run without a wallet at the first place? > There should be an interface to the hashing handler (or even a full miner per implementation) +1. In case someone wants FPGA/whatever specific accelerator he has. Well, I'm more interested in using Haskell, Erlang or Javascript/Node.js"Another MtGox" is not a good idea because trade volume will be split between the two markets. I'd rather work on a front-end/mashup to MtGox. For example: a better interface (I can see a lot of possible improvements), futures or leverage scheme for MtGox to attract traders ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leverage_(finance) ).Some improvements will require MtGox to expose an API, but many will not. I also want to develop a board game site with ratings and BTC bets. I'm going to start from http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gomoku Well, the ones I tested were from lowendbox.com... I didn't test the ones that accept only PayPal because somehow I'm banned there. The best one from lowendbox.com was RackVM with 2Mhashes for $4/mo, but they don't have that offer anymore and went offline as far as I can see. The worst one was spacerich.com with 0.5 Mhashes for $3It's still not clear if VPS mining can be profitable, so you are free to test 
Well, with Taabl you can lose, with Bitcoin mining you can't. Well, it depends on who pays your electicity bill  Last time I checked (that was fairly long time ago, around 2006) Seti@Home used BOINC infrastructure. That middleware has advanced means of controlling CPU usage, supports automatic signed updates for all platforms and has many other sweet features,  but unfortunately it's centralized and we cannot use it as is. But maybe we can develop an alternative client able to work under control of BOINC, so people can for example specify how much CPU they dedicate for BTC and how much for Seti@Home and other BOINC projects. I tried about 6 different cheap VPS providers and the best performance/cost so far is $11 for 8Mhashes/sec, 4 cores, v0.3.11. That's 11 / 0.06 = more than 183 BTC/month to get profit. I obviously get less than that, but I'm happy to pay less for my server and support bitcoin network.1 provider had 2Mhashes for $4, 2 cores, but they eventually sillently went offline and I cannot connect to my server anymore. The rest had below 1 Mhash (but I haven't tested 0.3.11+).I have never had my account terminated. One of them sent me a notification because they suspected I had some kind of performance problem and CPU cycles were wasted. But when I explained them that it was by design and I couldn't use less CPU, they just said ok. > Можно ссылку на "учебную задачку"? В смысле статьи или проекты какие на эту темуБерёте ссылки ниже и ищете. Конкретные материалы не подскажу ибо не являюсь специалистом в этой области.http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/http://arxiv.org/Google Scholarhttp://portal.acm.org/dl.cfm (платное, но иногда публикация есть только там)Ну, PKI и даже объем типичного обзора криптографии вроле http://www.garykessler.net/library/crypto.html - это не вся криптография. Некоторые ссылки можно обнаружить в разделе "криптосистемы" прямо в статье Википедии, посвященной криптографии: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptography#CryptosystemsА именно - "разделение секрета", "доказательства с нулевым разглашением", и дальше по ссылкам. Выискиваете в википедии ключевые слова и подставляете в поисковики публикаций. Затем читаете публикации, идете по ссылкам в публикациях и находите нужную криптосистему."Учебность" данной задачи заключается в том, что для корректной постановки задачи построения криптосистемы безопасного голосования и тем более дла чтения публикаций вам потребуется большой объем знаний, и для среднего человека, понятно, не являющегося специалистом в области криптографии и теории игр, задача будет прежде всего учебной, а до исследований (под которыми в данном случае я подразумеваю построение новой криптосистемы на основе известных) дело, скорее всего, не дойдет.Сатоши (или Сатоси, если вы поклонник системы Поливанова) ж не просто сел и придумал свою систему на основе базового понимания хеширования и шифрования. В его статье много ссылок на аналогичные системы, и биткоин настолько хороша лишь потому, что учитывает ошибки и тупиковые пути предыдущих исследований. Well, MtGox treating of some of these values differs from commonly used in real stock/forex markets. This can especially be seen on its "japanese candlesticks chart". Here's the common meaning:"high" value (not necessarily price) - highest value in given interval"low" value - lowest value in the interval"open" value - value at the beginning of the interval"close" value - value at the end of the intervalIn MtGox, the intervals seem to be 24 hours long, but their beginning and end are not clear. I think it's from midnight to midnight, but time zone is not known.Terms "open" and "close" originate from real world exchanges, which are often not working 24 hours a day, so they "open" and "close". So "open price" was originally "the price when the market opens".It's common to have two separate charts - one for "bid" price and the other for "ask" price. I cannot remember which is which either, and distinguish them only by their value - if I want to sell, I will obviously need high price, and if I want to buy, I need low price. "All time" chart at MtGox treats "open" and "close" values quite differently. First of all, it charts not current ask or bid prices, but prices of actual deals, which is uncommon in real world trading. "open" price at mtGox chart is the price during first deal in the interval"close" price at mtGox chart is the price of the last deal in the intervalIn real candlestick charts "close" price always equals "open" price of the next interval. At mtGox chart it's not the case, so it must look "broken" to people used to FX trading.  > а смысл начинать новый проект на старом софте?А смысл начинать новый проект на С++? Он же невероятно стар, небезопасен и многословен. Даешь гуи на ATS! Ну, или на Питоне с сишными вставками.> в wxwidgets просто могла быть подобная же ерундаПоследний wxWidgets был выбран потому, что он первый с поддержкой utf-8. Старые работали с UCS-16, что якобы было геморно.> уже имеются репозитории Bitcoin для CentOS, не вижу проблемыура! где?> выбрать дистрибутив для себя наверное можноВы предлагаете перейти на другой дистрибутив ради запуска биткойна?> И прозреваю ты не пользуешься дистрибутивными средствами сборки пакетовКакие, интересно,  "дистрибутивные средства сборки пакетов" позволят мне собрать под Centos OpenSSL+ECDSA и свежий буст? Это учебная задачка, а не исследовательская. Учите криптографию и теорию игр. Лотереи, рулетки, финансовой пирамиды, инвестиционной деятельности, ... В-общем, биткоин это реальное средство ухода от налогов и отмывания денег, и за него рано или поздно должны взяться. Интересно будет, если правительство в этой игре проиграет.  Ну, вы не забывайте, что кроме того что растет сложность, растет и производительность программы за счет оптимизаций. У меня было 4к хешей в секунду, стало 8, и на 611 сложности по-прежнему что-то генерируется.Вдобавок, у меня чувство, что был какой-то баг, который полечили - время генерации монет у меня всегда существенно больше, чем это показывает калькулятор. А последнее время (после .10) всё более-менее соответствует.А там вон ещё и CUDA-клиент допишут, снова надежды у бытовых пользователей станет больше.Банки и правительства - это хорошо. Если они подключатся к генерации, всем станет только лучше, ибо блоки станет труднее подделать. А генерация - забудьте о генерации, вы получите гораздо больше денег на спекуляциях и предоставлении сервисов, чем на генерации. Т.е. генерация банкам-правительствам ну совсем не интересна  Гораздо интереснее валить рынок - можно этим и зарабатывать, и дискредитировать идею биткойна. Well, most my nodes are running headless and I seldom open the GUI. So other means of notifications are still useful.I did not understood the original Satoshi changes before he explained. So I agree now that the messages should be implemented. Is private key needed to generate bitcoins?If it's not, then I suggest to add a GUI option for client to export a public key, and ini-file option for bitcoind to import a public key and use it for coin generation. This way the generated coins will go straight to my main account and I won't have to recheck the balance of each box I have and send coins to my account. Also, if generating box is compromised, no coins can be stolen.If such scenario is impossible to implement in full, maybe it's still possible to implement a more secure mode for bitcoin client with most private keys stored offline and asked for only when needed. Note that bitcoind doesn't depend on wxWidgets anymore. Oh, it's a great idea. I didn't think about this.If only the pool owner has private keys, then leaving early is not an attack. But then we will need some kind of distribution of work to pool members so members don't calculate same hashes. The simplest way of such collision avoidance is to give each member different public key. If you give generated coin to pool and leave pool it's not an attack.But it's an attack if you keep your generated coin and leave.You can join the pool again and leave again after first generation without giving anything.If you repeat this forever, you will be getting 2x more coins a month than without pooling. Or you can participate in N different pools at the same time and get N+1 times more money than would be possible.First, if there are 5 members in the pool, you don't get 10 coins each time a coin is generated - you get a share proportional to your CPU power share in the pool. Your share is measured by "pool proof-of-work" as I explained earlier.Let all pool generated 50 easy blocks, and you generated 10 and then generated one hard block. So you get 10 coins from pool and 50 coins from your own generation. If everyone else behaves like you, pool will not work as nobody will give any bitcoins to the pool. bitcoind is what I need. Have not seen Linux GUI since 2004  It's an attack because it's possible to exploit it get twice more money than your computation power would normally allow. At the cost of other pool members 1) package for CentOS :-) so updates are easy2) don't implement messages3) notify us using RSS/email/Jabber  "Never generating" (just hoarding winning hashes) is a possible attack. While attacker doesn't get any profit from throwing a hash away, she may want to perform such attack out of an irrational motive to undermine the whole idea of syndication. If he does this throwing away for ling time and with considerable CPU power, automatically adjusted syndicate rewards approach zero and less people become interested in syndicating."Leaving after first generation" is a feasible attack too. It can be avoided by asking for 50 BTC to enter syndicate. These BTC will be paid back if a person leaves syndicate, but a few blocks later than person tells you she wants to leave. She cannot get her 50 btc back before she spends her winning cache, as waiting a few blocks will invalidate it. And if she spends the hash before asking it's seen by other people as cheating and 50 are never paid back.This 50 BTC payment will preclude novices from entering syndicate though.   I think most clients are Windows, and for Windows wx is not a problem since binaries provided by Satoshi work everywhere.For Linux servers wx is not a problem either, because bitcoind doesn't require wx.The only area for which wx is still problematic are Linux workstation, and I suppose only few people use that.For me, the main showstoppers on Linux are: 1) Boost non-headeronly libraries (I think Bitcoind requires boost.filesystem to be built first using bjam/Boost.Build)2) Dependency on OpenSSL for ECDSABoost distribution is old on CentOS, and OpenSSL is build without ECDSA, so you have to build those yourself.WX does its job well, and I think theres absolutely no need to 'convert'. But building a GTK gui (GTK works on Windows too) in addition to WX gui is still beneficial if GTK version used is already mainline in most Linux distros.So:1) please don't use boost.filesystem or other small and easily replaced functionality from Boost that requires Boost.Build for compilation.2) please extract ECDSA from OpenSSL just like you did with SHA256/CryptoPP.These two tasks are much more important for community as a whole than building an alternative GUI frontend, because that will make build much easier on many distros (I'm mostly interested in CentOS though) A slight offtopic:There are ready-to use (in the sense that you don't have to manufacture hardware) PCI Express FPGA accelerators. http://www.google.com/search?q=pci+express+fpga+acceleratorsNallatech even has low-profile cards that I suspect will enter into 1U serversMy question are:1) How much money? I suspect they are at the range of NVidia Tesla prices ($1000+), and dev kit is not free2) How much speed? I have a string processing application doing mainly dictionary lookups, so it certainly needs fast local memory unlike Bitcoin. Is it possible to get better performance/USD than with Xeons?3) How hard is to program? Is it much harder than CUDA? Are C compilers for FPGA any good or I can get 3x speedups using VHDL instead of C?
I think I found a solution for this fairness problem. It's the same proof of work as in main Bitcoin. Fortunately, many proofs-of-work can be computed at the same time at no cost.The solution is this:1) each slave generates blocks as before (is trying to solve its own blocks)2) each slave reports its public key to the master3) master maintains another difficulty, "syndicate difficulty"4) if anyone gets hash below syndicate difficulty and reports to the master, she gets syndicate reward5) if anyone gets hash below main difficulty and gets 50 BTC everyone else in the syndicate can check that6) the syndicate difficulty can be automatically adjusted so new syndicate reward is paid out to someone every X minutes7) the syndicate reward can be automatically adjusted to the total amount of coins generated by syndicate, so syndicate can never spend all coins it generated by paying syndicate rewardsWhat are possible attacks? Does anyone have 0.3.10 binary for CentOS (either 64 or 32)? Any chance for 0.3.8.1 binary?    Delivery by SMS. 100 Naira = 15 Bitcoins. For 1200 or for more?  Вы бы сначала записали математическое определение биткойна для дебилов (laymen). Т.е. перевод статьи Сатоши (Сатоси по Поливанову) о сути биткойна. Такой сущности, как "биткойны" нигде не существует. При операциях с клиентами мы никому не передаем ни хеши, ни ключи.Есть некий распределенный журнал, в конец которого участниками системы дописываются записи. При этом есть система гарантирования того, что в системе существует лишь одна, оригинальная, версия журнала. Каждый из участников может генерировать произвольное количество ключевых пар ECDSA и использует их для добавления в журнал новых записей по определенным правилам. При этом каждый из участников обладает возможностью убедиться, что другими пользователями все записи добавлены по правилам.Журнал состоит из блоков, блоки состоят из записей. Записи подписаны стандартным алгоритмом ECDSA, блоки - особой нестандартной цифровой подписью, для постановки которой участник системы должен успешно выполнить определенную атаку на SHA256, что требует предсказуемого объема вычислительных ресурсов. Участники, успешно выполнившие атаку, получают за затраченные вычислительные ресурсы 50 очков. Первая запись в блоке содержит ключ К1 (публичный ключ ECDSA), число N и подписана этим публичным ключом. Эта запись ассоциирует с ключом К1 (ключевой парой ECDSA, использованной при подписи записи), дополнительных 50 очков.Остальные записи содержат число очков N и два публичных ключа ECDSA K1 и K2. Каждая подзапись указывает, что с ключом K1 теперь ассоциируется на N очков больше, а с ключом K2 на N очков меньше. Запись подписана ключом К1.На основе журнала можно вычислить балансовый лист - указание, с каким публичным ключом ECDSA ассоциировано сколько очков, и целью участников системы является получение максимального количества очков, т.е. чтобы суммарное количество очков, ассоциированное со всеми принадлежащими игроку  ключевыми парами было максимальным.Наша система, таким образом, продает клиенту услуги по подписыванию новых блоков в журнале системы Биткоин особыми приватными ключами, которых у клиента нет, а также покупает аналогичные услуги у клиентов. Биткойн Если у вас х64 линукс - то в какой-то х64-версии после 0.3.6 появился баг, из-за которого ненерация не происходила. Т.е. пользователи линукса х64 с версиями 0.3.6..0.3.8 включительно должні сделать апгрейд до 0.3.8.1 The alleged nonsense is:"Be safe from the instability caused by fractional reserve banking and bad policies of central banks. The limited inflation of the Bitcoin systems money supply is distributed evenly (by CPU power) throughout the network, not monopolized by the banks."Having watched Zeitgeist movie and having read one book from mises.org [1], I cannot be an economy expert, so please correct me if I'm wrong.1) "instability caused by fractional reserve banking" probably means that in presence of fractional reserve banking, economy enters boom-bust cycle [1]Bitcoin can protect anyone from instability caused by fractional reserve banking, can it? I can easily operate a fractional reserve bank using Bitcoin, and create fake credit out of thin air. If the created credit becomes significant to the economy, the bitcoin economy will operate in cycles just like any other economy. What "safety" you are talking about? Is safety claim comes from the fact that no fractional reserve BTC banks are known to operate?2) "Be safe from bad policies of central banks"By "central banks" you certainly mean "state banks that print paper money".This seems to be true. Bad problem with central banks is that they print money at will, creating money out of thin air, and that printing is equivalent to stealing money from everyone else, so states are major thieves [1]Bitcoin is in this aspect very similar to genuine golden money. While in a gold-driven decentralized economy everyone can mine gold and mint golden coins, minting is a business with low profit margin (at least much lower than current "printing business" of state banks").So bitcoin, while technically a pure fiat money, is very special kind of fiat money that is almost as good as gold in terms of impossibility to create money out of thin air and use these fake money to finance wars, provide bailouts to fractional reserve banks etc [1].3) "The limited inflation of the Bitcoin systems money supply is distributed evenly (by CPU power) throughout the network, not monopolized by the banks."This sounds as complete nonsense to me, can someone explain?Inflation is essentially a process of creating money out of thin air that causes drop of monetary value of money and rise of prices. Bitcoins are not created out of thin air just like gold is not. Is my definition of inflation wrong?[1] Hans-Hermann Hoppe "The Economics and Ethics of Private Property" I suppose by "accounts" you mean ECDSA public keys. While it's easy to verify any particular "account", an actively paying person will own hundreds of "accounts" and tracking one particular account will not disclose the rest. Moreover, the information you get by tracking a particular account will be useless after a few transactions.Let's say I generated 50 bitcoins. I generated them by generating a ECDCA keypair (ADDR1), signing a transaction of 50 bitcoins with it and signing the resulting block with SHA256-based proof of work.If then I send 0.01 BTC to you, Bitcoin puts a composite transaction: I generate a new address ADDR2 and send 49.99 BTC to it, and 0.01 is sent to you. So you will know that I own 2 keypairs. But ADDR1 balance is zero, so it will never be used again, and the fact you know ADDR1 gives you nothing. So you only know that I own ADDR2.Then ADDR2 sends 20.99 BTC to ADDR3 and 19.00 to ADDR4. You cannot know if I paid 20.99 or 19.00, so either address can be my own. I can even perform a transaction to myself, so both ADDR2 and ADDR3 will be mine. So after 1 transaction you are not sure if I own 49.99, 20.99 or 19.00 BTC. And with every further transaction involving these addresses you will know less and less about me.   Can we implement a speed test, so different hashing engines are tried and the fastest is chosen? Well, we need a poll. For me, anonymity is the only feature I need  Well, people work in this direction - there's CUDA experimental build to utilize GPGPU. Regarding other hardware platforms - there are ready to use FPGA accelerators, for example http://www.nallatech.com/pci-express-cards.html, and NVidia Tesla GPGPUs. Even though these devices are cost-prohibitive for most users, I doubt custom-built card will beat these in terms of price/performance. We'll have to spend many iterations of design before getting decent performance, so design will be VERY costly. Well, Windows (namely, MSVC) doesn't. And autotools are not installed by default, just like CMake, SCons etc. And installing autotools are not any harder than other build systems. So autotools are not better in terms of availability on *nix than any other build tools. Of course having autotools is better than manual make we have now, but I don't see how CMake or Boost.Build are worse. Autotools are evil. I heard someone was already working on CMake build system for bitcoin. Boost.Build would be fine too, as Bitcoin requires non-header only Boost libraries anyway, and building those libraries (at least Boost.Filesystem) requires Boost.Build to be configured. The Satoshi solution is good, because if customer can take money back, it will be a big problem to sellers. See current situation with internet credit card payments and chargebacks. Chargebacks are major PITA for sellers, bitcoin must avoid that at all cost  Trac? There were a few patches (listtransactions etc) but I'm not sure whether they are in trunk. 
+1 Yes, we need both binaries and sources packaged for different platforms. There are standard build scripts for many platforms:CentOS has SRPMArch has AURFreeBSD has ports In early versions BitCoin wrote each single block synchronously - according to Satoshi, it flushed disk cache after each block and probably performed other operations required to make writes transactional. That performance problem has been fixed since that.Also, is it possible for clients to start generating without the whole chain? Could clients download only "last block" (or something like that) and start solving it immediately? The previous blocks would be only necessary to validate that the last block is genuine, and that validation can be performed later.IRC is often forbidden by hosting TOS, so ability to operate without IRC and to use IRC only when necessary is important. I think we should bundle a host list with bitcoin and client should only try to use IRC if it cannot connect using that list. This in fact has already been implemented by Satoshi - building bitcoind does not require wxWidgets any more.[/quote]My wishlist is:1) RPM or at least binaries for CentOS (it has incompatible Boost and OpenSSL, so it's hard to build)2) a pacman package for Arch3) Pluggable hash cruncher.4) Pluggable network layer.5) An alternate implementation in Haskell, Erlang or Node.js (Python is fine too)6) A graphical front-end to Bitcoind (it would be nice to run bitcoind in background and only run GUI sometimes to check balance/transactions. Now bitcoin cannot operate as a front-end to (a possibly remote) Bitcoind.) A pluggable hash cruncher will allow one to implement plugins to use BitCoin on MPI clusters, Condor grids, BOINC workers, CUDA, cryptoaccelerators, specific processor features such as found in Via C7, Cray XT4 FPGA nodes, whatever. Also it will allow for slave workers with tiny memory requirements and minimal dependencies. Official bitcoin would send work to the cruncher, and the cruncher would distribute it to slaves and collect results. Slaves would only implement SHA256, so Boost and OpenSSL would not be necessary any more. BOINC slaves are good because BOINC has much finer detection of idle resources than BitCoin.A pluggable network layer will allow BitCoin to operate over other networks - for example, over Skype, XMPP/Jabber, Tor (clients could advertise their .Onion addresses instead of ips). It will also allow to switch to a network with higher degree of anonymity in the future if such network emerges and provides transport and node discovery services). Well, what we need are maintained binary packages for several distros. I vote for CentOS and Arch as a first step  I agree to maintain them and provide space, but I'm too lazy to try to create an RPM for CentOS myself   There is a topic for that - http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=685.0AFAIK CentOS, Fedora and RHEL are pretty much the same systems. @lachesis: 404 not found@knightmb: What about a fixed CentOS build? Nigeria Well, there are other exchanges. He could have sold them at MtGox.com, for example.How can I see it? I spent quite a lot of CPU time too without success. What is probability of not generating any bitcoins after spending 3 weeks at 10000khashes/sec? Bitcoin calculator http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.php says that it's much less than 5%. So something is definitely wrong either with bitcoind, khps meter in bitcoind or with calculations in bitcoin calculator.I'm not trying to earn money with bitcoin, but it's important to monitor that all users are equal in generating bitcoins. Otherwise those users who sign most blocks can attack. Remember that purpose of generating blocks are not generating coins but signing the transactions log.Is there any way to get total number of hashes I have calculated? So for example if bitcoin program gets less CPU because of other programs, I would still have a correct number of hashes count.I'm also thinking about organizing a reference bitcoin probability meter. I'm thinking about an automated system of submitting stats, so users who are willing to help testing bitcoin would send their counters to a central server. In that way we will be able to ensure that generation goes as expected and/or find mistakes in our calculations and provide a better estimate for all users.I also wonder, how many blocks per hour are SOLVED? This number should be a little bit higher than the number of blocks ACCEPTED by network because of collisions. While I saw some estimates about collision rate here, as far as I know we never tried to measure actual collision rate and compare it to our estimate. The site is already a wiki, isn't it? Homepage is not editable and that's a good protection from vandals. If everyone's hashing is slow, I can write a faster hashing engine and get an advantage. If everyone's hashing is already fast I cannot get an advantage and everyone is equal.The equality is important to protect the network from "attacks" by people like neholod. For that we need someone to read the original scientific paper by Satoshi and compile a detailed FAQ. I have this on my TODO list, but for now I'm busy with other things. There are a lot of confusion here at the forum, starting from repeated questions regarding "I heard that public key cryptography depends on factorization problem" and ending with calling the bitcoin "minting" process "limited inflation" at the home page of BitCoin while in fact the process of bitcoin creation is very similar to gold mining and that must be taken into consideration when discussing economic background of BitCoin system.  This should be moved to the development & technical discussion forum.I would like to see CentOS and ArchLinux binary packages. CentOS is a real PITA, so an RPM will be very helpful.On Arch Linux the official binaries seem to work, but having a pacman package is always better. I doubt. Where did you see that everyone knows the balance of every account? Where did you see that recipient knows which 'account' money were received from? I think Bitcoin is much more anonymous than you think. 1) It? I couldn't run your x86 build on 5.4 x64. 2) How much per month for that instance? EC2 is a very expensive provider for a very big sites that can afford paying good money for good infrastructure. By "infrastructure" I mean their elastic computing API, load balancing, storage and content delivery services. My current record with cheap VPS is 3100 khashes/sec for $5/mo. JFYI: bitcoind from http://heliacal.net/~solar/bitcoin/builds/Linux-amd64-SVN-103/ fails on CentOS 5 x86_64:[foo@bar ~]$ ./bitcoind.3./bitcoind.3: /lib64/libc.so.6: version `GLIBC_2.8' not found (required by ./bitcoind.3)./bitcoind.3: /lib64/libc.so.6: version `GLIBC_2.7' not found (required by ./bitcoind.3) Binary at http://distros.globaltap.com/bitcoin/Centos5-x86_64/bitcoind is very old. Any chance for a newer CentOS 5 x86_64 bitcoind binary? You'd rather publish this link. It's much more useful as you happen to have x64 builds too. My x64 build was outdatedhttp://knightmb.dyndns.org/files/bitcoin/custom%20builds/Upd: Yeah it works on my x86 box! You definitely deserve a donation once that box generates its first coins.Upd2: x64 folder is empty  I can give you non-root access to Centos 5.4 x64 if you wish. PM me your SSH2 public key. Is satoshi noWx patch in 0.3.7 already? Before that bitcoind required wx, and I never seen Satoshi announcing that it's in trunk Why bitcoin client doesn't display it then? I think it's not recorded, but only the public key of the split coin and the new owner are.
