Ok. I'm using Colloquy right now with inertia186 in #bitcoin...still figuring it out. I'm sorry I didn't see this until just now. I've never used IRC, but I can download Colloquy or use terminal if you tell me how. I sure don't want to waste your time with my lack of skill. I mean I can run bitcoin.app if I'm unable to get bitcoind. I appreciate the offer. If you don't have time by the time you read this, but want to do it later you can contact me at jacksonaaronc@gmail.com (same for jabber, and aim as well). I haven't tried anything to be honest. I've only ever built anything from scratch once before and it wasn't nearly this involved. I'm just now reading through the file listed above and it's fairly involved for me. I think I could pull it off assuming there are no hiccups, but again I don't need bitcoin.app because my end goal is to run sans GUI (which I'm told is running "headless"). A friend of mine has tried several times with no success, but I'm willing to give it a go. Won't I just end up with bitcoin.app running with a GUI like I have now though? The last steps talk about putting it all in a bundle bitcoin.app. Yeah, sed got rid of the quotes alright....I'm still looking into grep -e to avoid the repeated grep statements, but the bottom line is that until someone has a headless version for Mac OS running it won't work. It looks great once you remove the unwanted data. Basically you end up with the following on your desktop:balance : 0.0000000blocks : 96055connections : 8generate : truedifficulty : 8078.19525793hashespersec : 1405860Again, the problem is that if you set it to update every "x" seconds it starts to load in the Mac Dock for a split second which of course resized the Dock causing it to "jump" over and over out of the corner of your eye. I'm assuming that running bitcoind would make that go away.Of course I'm told that I'm probably not going to generate any BTC when the difficulty is 8000+ and my hashesperec is < 1500 so I guess it's kind of academic. Heh, I'll keep the Mac, thanks all the same  I had a Mac years ago (OS 9) and wasn't' impressed...it was on par with Win98 and that just about says it all. Then a couple years ago I bought a MacBook Pro (OS X) and I love it. It has all the eye candy when I want it and the terminal when I want/need that. The power is there I just don't use it that much...not enough to have learned grep, sed and awk. Usually something like this gets me messing with it and I learn a little at a time. Of course I was using gpg from the terminal for the longest time and just started using a plugin for mail.app that does it all in a GUI...maybe I'm moving the wrong direction  Still, if I ever do buy another tower it will run linux for sure. A friend of mine and I have an HP server running in my basement that runs linux, but he does most of the setup and maintenance on it. We got if from biddingpond.com to use primarily for bitcoin although we have been less than successful thus far thanks to some network issues. Ok, rambling...thanks again! Yeah, I'm out of my depth. All I know about grep is is what I used, and I can't use bitcoind because I can't compile it (lack of skill). The grep was messy, but it was actually working. I was displaying what I wanted, (except I couldn't get rid of the " characters and someone told me to us awk...which is also out of my depth).Basically I would have to learn grep, awk and figure out how to compile bitcoin on my Mac. It's a lost cause for now. Disappointing, but maybe someone else will want to do it some day and do the heavy lifting. All I know is it would be really cool to not have bitcoin.app in my Dock and just see some data on my desktop. This is my current desktop: http://cl.ly/3Wz4Thanks for the tips all the same! back to square one...this setup has a nasty side effect in the Mac dock as a bitcoin.app icon begins to appear for a microsecond every time the data for GeekTool is updated. So if you set the data to update every 10 second this icon will appear/disappear every 10 seconds and if you set it to update constantly the dock just kind of jitters.Turns out I love the GUI and all this talk of running headless and using GeekTool is for fools.  Very nice. I'll have to give that a try (or ten). I also posted a solution for those that don't want to try to run headless: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2086 So with a lot of help from another user (inertia), I came up with the following solution. It isn't 100%, but it's 90% and it's really nice.I run bitcoin.app from the terminal -server and created the necessary .conf file in the application support directory. Then I used the following command with GeekTool to display the information I want on the desktop./Applications/Bitcoin.app/Contents/MacOS/bitcoin getinfo | grep -v [{}] | grep -v errors | grep -v paytxfee | grep -v keypoololdest | grep -v testnet | grep -v genproclimit | grep -v proxyObviously you could grep out different information or leave information I have grepped out in, but this leaves me with the following on my desktop (screenshot) http://cl.ly/3WBoI don't know how to use awk so I can't get rid of the " characters as I'd like to, but this is nice. So bitcoin isn't running headless, but I can keep it hidden and check my status without having to view the app, and should I need to make a payment it's still there. Still, I think my preferred method would be to get it running headless some day and to get rid of those " characters in the data displayed on the desktop.Thanks again to inertia for working through this for me! The title says it all. If you have successfully run bitcoin headless on Mac OS X please share your experience. Or if you think you know how to pull it off please let us know how to make it happen. The OS X GUI usually lags behind and even when it's up to date with win/linux it doesn't have the Mac OS feel, and I don't think anyone is interested in making that happen at present. The best option I can see would be to just run it sans GUI.If someone can figure out how to run it headless on Mac OS X I'll try to figure out how to display the details on the desktop using GeekTool and share it here. Yeah, I took a look at grep and awk. It turns out these are over my head. If someone finally figures out how to build bitcoin.app to run sans GUI on the Mac I'll spend several hours to figure it out, but as it is I guess its just too much of an investment. Thanks anyway. I'll be watching for a headless version for Mac. I'm running the newest version of bitcoin.app on my Mac and it's the first version that doesn't completely bring down my system resources wise...I hope it keeps working well. A friend helped me set up Bitcoin to start from the terminal with -server. Then he gave me a command I could feed to GeekTool to display the information generated by Bitcoin.app on my desktop using GeekTool. I have two questions.First, is there anyone here than is well versed in GeekTool and/or AWK that could help me figure out how to only display the data I'm interested on the desktop. As it is I get all kinds of data I don't want or need as seen in the screenshot: http://cl.ly/3VI9 (note that this data would be all one long line if GeekTool was not forcing a carriage return just to make it fit within the bounding box I set by dragging the sizing arrows).Second, does anyone here know how to get bitcoin.app to run sans GUI or "headless" as I am told on a Mac? Obviously this would be the best situation. Bitcoin.app running in the background with no GUI and the data shown directly on the desktop via GeekTool.Both of these things are over my head, but I'll do whatever I can. Thanks. Understood. I had a friend explain some of the ideology a little more clearly to me. Bottom line, I hope we can end up with a top notch professional logo for this project. Is that a requirement for an open source project though? I'll be honest with you, I thought I had offended with the suggestion.I hadn't thought of the license issue, but of course your right, whatever logo is used it should probably be public domain. IF the community decided to adopt Bitboy's logo I'd contribute 5 btc to "buy out" his license and turn it over to the public domain.Can this sort of thing be settled with a vote or does it not work that way? I mean we can say it's open source and whatever people use will win, but you have to admit Satoshi's logo has a little bit of an advantage...nobody wants to offend the originator of the awesome idea...I don't want to anyhow...hope I haven't! I don't personally have the skills, but again, I think http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1631.0 is a great choice.The most recent version isn't as bad as the original, but it is still not a crisp as could be desired, it doesn't scale well, has too many color shades, just has an overall "generic" look to it.I'm not actually complaining...just voicing an alternative opinion related to the quality of the current logo that represents the bitcoin project to most of the outside world. I feel it has few of the aesthetic properties a good logo should have. I don't see why this can't be discussed without being offensive (I'm trying not to attack anyone personally). I'm not saying anything about the qualities of the designer as a human being...he did after all come up with the cool idea of Bitcoin in the first place, but this does not mean his artwork should be the de facto face of the project IF the goal is to increase it's popularity. It seems to me that the better face we can put on the project the better. Is it bad to strive for fantastic?I personally think less 3D is in order. It's ok for it to be "abstract" in that it doesn't look exactly like a coin...I would posit that it would be better if it doesn't try to look like a real coin...after all, we aren't dealing in real coins...we are dealing in BITcoins  Is this the "official" logo? I understand how difficult it can be to make something truly professional when you don't have the skills (which I don't) or the software (which I also don't) so I'm not trying to be rude, but wouldn't it be better if we adopted something...better? I really am not trying to be mean...I really have struggled trying to figure out how to do the stuff that a lot of the artists on deviant do. There is at least one other thread with a set of logos and badges that are really, really promising here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1631.0 I promise I don't know this guy/gal (I didn't even check the username). Heck if someone else came up with another alternative that would be cool too. It seems important that we have a really nice logo with all the sizes, resolutions, and formats that might be needed.Is there a reason we couldn't adopt something else before bitcoin gets too big and it's too late to change without hurting "brand" recognition? It seems silly to stick with something that is "ok" when we could have something great.I hope I didn't step on anyone's toes to badly.  I had an idea for the logo...not that the frog is bad, but as a rule I wouldn't include your competitions logo in your own...or a parody of it --EDIT: added a couple more options...there are lots of them...you get the idea HardwareMacBook Pro 2.4 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo (Model 4,1)2 GB 667 MHz DDR2 SDRAMSoftwareMac OS X 10.6.4 Snow LeopardBitcoin 0.3.7 (according to Bitcoin >> About)ProblemsPreferences: the preferences I have tried all have zero effect as far as I can tell. "Minimize to the tray instead of the taskbar" & "Minimize to the tray on close" do nothing (including effecting the cpu usage...see below). Start Bitcoin on system startup is grayed out although I have added it manually to my login items. I have not tried "Limit coin generation to 'x' processors" or "Connect through socks4 proxy:", but I can only guess that these options are not working either.CPU Usage: when generating coins top shows Bitcoin at ~187% CPU...this seems extreme? A friend just explained what a "nice process" is. Sorry.Crash On Close: about ever other time I attempt to close Bitcoin using Bitcoin >> Quit the app crashes rather than closing like a friendly app should.Coin Generation: frankly I am trusting that this is NOT a bug, but just bad luck. I have been running the app for a few weeks now with zero generation. Again, I assume this is bad luck, but considering the other problems I wanted to mention it in case others were noticing this that were using my setup as well.-----------If there are any known solution to these problems or if there is anything I can do to help sort them out please let me know. Thanks!
