I fail to see how you lost money. After reviewing your order I see that your domain was registered and running within hours of your Bitcoin payment to us.Your complaint is about a change to your existing service. A request that never reached us.You can verify that it was delivered to me successfully? You can verify that my eyes actually saw the email? Are you telling me that everything always works as expected?That was only after we received an email from nanamo gold telling us about this thread. How did his email reach us? Was it magic?That's a bold assumption. How did we get an email from nanaimo gold then? Why does the forum PM notification not work to our new email address as well?For the time being, I have set a signature telling people to just email us. I've also blocked all PMs.The previous complaint was about an order that was placed during the weekend. We are a 9-5 business that keeps real hours. Everything here is done by hand. Re-read the old thread again.Re-read my post from yesterday and you'll have your answer.Hugo Privacy Shark isn't a scam.We didn't receive joe's email, and for some reason the PM notifications on the forum don't seem to work at all. Can the forum admin please fix that? It would help us avoid posts like this one.We do not provide support over PM. Email us. Be sure to use the email account that you signed up with. If this is not possible, please use the password that you provided upon signup.We have setup a new email alias: "support @ privacy shark DOT com". It is memorable and easy to type in. After looking at our mailserver logs we have noticed that a lot of people were misspelling our other email address so the mail was being dropped. This is what probably happened to joe's email to us.As you can imagine we have our email addresses listed on literally hundreds of domains, so spam is a huge problem for us. We are hoping that spam to the new support alias will be manageable.Thanks to nanaimo gold to letting us know about this thread, and for sending us a test email.Hugo Our ordering system is completely a manual process at the moment. Our ancient automated integration code is being converted from e-gold to Bitcoin.The emails this fellow had sent us were answered. I'm not sure why he didn't receive a reply. I'll have our admin examine our email server. I know that we've been blocked in the past because of the odd complaint caused by people spoofing email from us and other such email mayhem.In any event, we are here and we are a real business.P.S. This fellow's issue has been resolved by PM. Your domains were setup first thing on Monday morning. You had placed an order with us on Saturday. We are a real business with real business hours. Sorry if there was any confusion there.  P.S. We were informed of this post by one of our customers. We were encouraged to publicly respond to it. So we did.
