We've been mining for a while at BTC Guild, but thought it was time to come out of the closet. The deal's not in trouble.We've moved a few key customers over, will announce more information soon.We are in the market for a communications person -- send your resume's to support@coinlab.com. Yep, see the top of the thread. The APIs will stay the same at launch. We will probably layer on FIX support for CoinLab customers. HNW Individuals already invest in Bitcoin, but only really nerdy ones. They need simple handholding account managers and safe storage. And also integration with their existing brokerage accounts. It's not anything fancy, it's just blocking and tackling to get them access in the systems they are used to. Well, that part is done already at coinlab.com, enjoy. We don't try and convert other currencies to USD for quotes, though. Hi Bracek, what do you mean by 'access'? Do you mean read access? If so, then once we've transitioned, our chief compliance officer will have access to verification documents, or someone else on our AML/KYC team.By 'access' to bitcoin and fiat deposits, do you mean current balances? We need a policy, we don't have one written up now, but I've flagged it in our launch TODO list. I would imagine a general policy is that most employees will be able to see deposit amounts but not identifying account information without customer permission.  The video has officially been projected on the wall at the CoinLab offices. Sigh. Yes, the Foundation definitely needs full time executive leadership. Lindsay is great, but we need like five people there. I would love to get a full time director in there that's a good fit for the Bitcoin community. I have been thinking we'd talk more about it post-conference. It's funny you say that, the data feed issue is a big one, actually. All I can say is we're working hard on this with Gox, and I feel your need. Re: Nefario,I think I can fairly characterize our decision as deciding to drop any plans to move ahead with him after he was barred entry in the states. Re: Tihan, he invested in us first, we looked at Bitcoinica (and Tradehill) at CoinLab and passed on investing/buying/running them for a variety of reasons.Also, it's weird to see video of oneself, but the linked youtube video up there is me; I'm much, much more excited about Bitcoins, though  Reserved Hi guys,I'll update the head with salient bullets and we'll try and stay on top of questions as they come up in the thread as well.Let me start about by saying some bloggers have one thing really wrong so far, I seriously respect Gox' hard work on security and uptime and anti-fraud. Most of you have no idea how hard this is, and how well Gox does. The kind of attacks they withstand, social engineering, technical, financial, legal are non-trivial. I don't expect that CoinLab can or should be set up to duplicate that effort; we wanted to team up together because we can offer something that I think will turn that baseline into lots of value for our whole community.How Will It Work? I've gotten a bunch of questions about this -- APIs, deposit mechanisms, web interface, etc.In brief, on March 22, nothing about your interactions will change. You'll log in to Gox, do your trading, and go home. You might notice some rebranding on the website. You'll see a different wire-to address for instructions.Your USD will be in the states at that point, and you'll be able to send to our SVB account for deposits. More about the bitcoins below.We'll also be using something like trade.coinlab.com as the mtgox interface, at launch. We will be rolling out more features on our site, (beta.trade.coinlab.com?) incrementally and aim at a nicely UI-designed easy to work with site. To do that we'll be instrumenting the Gox site at some point, and figuring out how you all use it. Right now our analytics are fine from a marketing point of view, but we need to get better at knowing how you all use the site, and how we can make it better.I don't trust CoinLab's Bitcoin or Web Security One thing we're exploring right now internally is leaving the Bitcoins with Gox at launch, and moving them over once we're sure we've got a battle-hardened high transaction volume system in place. Gox is happy either way, so I'm interested in feedback on this. We have a highly secure (I think best in class) storage system we're about to roll out, but it trades rapid response for security, and that won't work for all Gox customers, for sure. As Mark and others at Gox know, we have a lot of respect for the work they've done. I have no intention of hurting customers by yanking that work; instead, we want to layer on top of it.Deposit TimelinessThis should improve, if your customer profile is low risk. At the very least, you will be able to deposit at a US bank, rather than wire to Japan. We're doing our first run-throughs of the system at SVB next week with a few early adopters, and that will lead to more details as to what you can expect, but we did take a deposit today and cleared it onto the trading account in 30 minutes, so that's nice! Often customers who complain on bitcointalk about delays have triggered some risk system at Gox; I can't go into detail, but let me just say, there are many, many bad folks who want to use the exchange. Some of them happily take their complaints here without explaining that they are using, say, fake documents, or are lying about one thing or another. I credit Gox with simultaneously wading through these folks and trying to give legit customers a good experience, especially because it can hurt reputation to see these folks in the forums, and of course, given the nature of risk management systems, Gox cannot explain publicly why Jane identity thief in Serbia is not allowed to use the system. I'm hoping we'll be able to communicate better with new customers and existing ones to sort of settle people down if they're freaking out, and meantime get legit and longtime customer transactions through at high speed; I know that will help. It's tough to watch the price move and be delayed, and have it be working hours in the states, and midnight in Japan. How will this transition effect withdrawal limits? Good question. At launch it won't effect withdrawal limits. The history of withdrawal limits has to do with some FinCEN rules about transaction size. We've registered with FinCEN as a seller of prepaid access, they do not distinguish MSBs that sell prepaid access by transaction size, so I would hope we'll see our way clear to increasing these limits or doing away with them. There's also a risk-mitigation factor -- we'll probably always have a human look at large transactions going out. Think of the different attacks over the last few years and how many would have had little impact if there were systems to block large wallet transfers.How will this transition effect the verification process? My hope is that it will drastically improve the process in terms of simplicity, ease of understanding, communication about the process and shortening of wait times. We've been batting around figuring out how to just do it on a video camera live, how awesome would that be?How will this transition effect users [that] have already gone through the verification process with MtGox?We are still spot auditing Gox' AML documents to make sure they are up to our promised standards. If they are, (and I have no indication they are anything but excellent), I would expect that users would stay at the same verification level you have now. TL;DR: Hopefully, once is enough. Will this transition remove the ability to use Dwolla for withdrawals?No. It is possible we'll have a small delay while we make sure we're comfortable with the Dwolla withdrawal API, we're still talking to the Dwolla folks right now. That said, we want to support Dwolla, and Dwolla wants to work with us, so I don't anticipate major changes. I agree that once you've got the accounts set up, the fees at Dwolla are rocking.Is Peter Vessenes twitchy and high energy?I think so. I'll ask employees for comments. Update General Response is "yes."Did Mark sell my personal data to CoinLab without my $#!$ permission?Quoting Mark: "MtGox did not sell users identities, and acted in the best interest of its users to ensure CoinLab had no access to said data.  None of users private information will be shared with CoinLab until the user accepts CoinLab's ToS on the site. If you choose to never accept CoinLab's ToS, then your data will never be shared with CoinLab."Will My History be available post transition?Yes, you'll still be able to log in and see all the same data.More ComingOur folks will start slotting in questions here, and I'll respond throughout the day; from here on out, I will try to not respond to other threads about the transition, and just keep everything here, so post away.Thanks for all the support so far! We're all really excited.Peter VessenesCEO, CoinLab Evolve: you'll be able to use the same gox interface. I agree with you on Gox' proven security, we'll have more to say about that soon. Hi all,I'm loving the discussion here, and appreciating the feedback. We got caught blind by the early announcement, so we've been heads-down today, sorry about that. I'll circle back this evening pacific time and try and hit up questions, perhaps in a new thread so that we can edit the head post.Best,Peter Just to jump in and agree with Mike; I would guess the Foundation would prefer not to participate in this as well; you only need to get named in one suit before it just isn't worth it. Or, put another way, the risk, terms of service, and general impact on operations for the Foundation indicates to me someone else should probably do this. It's not required for Bitcoin's ongoing growth and safety, and is out of our mission therefore.In this case, though, there might be a business case to be made for an escrow shop or business to do bonded verification. It depends how 'distributed' you want to make things. On balance, I'm not sure why paying miners directly is a bad idea, unless you can work a decentralized scheme where the fidelity bond buyer gets paid back if there are no claims.  Hi all,I understand the API control is important to you. I think we can commit to having this sort of control in a v1 release, although maybe not in the beta. We have generally planned on having a bit more intelligence baked in to the custom client, and less in Con's core, but what you want matters, for sure.One thing to note, though, is that this is all bitcoin stuff, there's also the computational market side of control, like how we (and you) will decide to switch over to work that pays differently than bitcoin. I'm more focused on getting this side of it right than fan control right now, because I think the final margins will be bigger.We're about to get started with a university program that's going to be tapping the GPUs for some large-scale distributed work, so I'd guess in the next eight weeks or so, some of these non-Bitcoin work questions are going to get real. We're shooting to have the alpha/beta client out and to you all for testing before that happens, so that we can make sure mining is working properly first.Anyway, just to say "I hear you!" and we'll keep you posted on the exact specs. There's no reason internally to not give you sophisticated users the ability to tweak out your setups.  We had two major load spikes today; the first was at 12:46pm Pacific, something in our servers borked so we had major getwork latency, up to 10seconds per request for a little bit.The second was at 2:38pm pacific. About the same load; we did better, latency was maxing at 3.3 seconds. We'll post here when we're ready for round three -- hopefully you all can hammer things a bit more! Jon sent me by here and asked for my comments.I don't know if I fit your ideological requirements personally, but my first reaction is that I think you'll get what you want -- the individual member seats seem pretty well situated for trustworthy (from your perspective) representation right now, with Gavin and Jon. In other words from your own description, we have your two favorite people representing you at the Foundation. That said, I anticipate that members might want someone different in those seats at some point; it's why we settled on a term limit and elections. I think if there's agreement that Corporations should also participate in this opt-in process of protecting, promoting and standardizing Bitcoin (and I understand that many here do not believe that should be the case) then they should also have some say in choosing who they wish to represent them. Anyway, I drill down what you're saying to be that individuals as a membership class should have more influence than Corporations over the Foundation. I'm not sure I agree with that, partly because of the time and capital investment these businesses make as compared to most of the individual members, and partly because I can't think of strong arguments for it that couldn't be turned around to argue for more corporate influence instead, and partly because I think it's less important to tweak any initial representation than it is to just forge ahead and try and get something done with the members we've got, and let the community at large decide if they want to join, denigrate or hamper us. Anyway, if our members come forward and say that the board structure is broken, I'm sure we'll want to discuss that. I don't think we've given it nearly enough time though, it's been two days! What I've learned so far is the initial board members are passionate, generally kind rational debaters who are willing to put in yeoman's effort talking about this. A good indication for the future, but not as great as getting our list of To-Do's done. :-) I liked the AMA format. Accounts are even easier to get at reddit than here; overall, I appreciated the questions and discourse. So, I would call it a success. Hi all, I'll be answering questions on Reddit at 10:30 am pacific time here: http://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/10mezg/iam_peter_vessenes_executive_director_of_the/I'm looking forward to it!
Hey AbelsFire, these are good questions, ones I'd like to discuss. I think that the fundamental concept we are working with is that individuals (who have invested some money and time) and corporations (who have often invested MAJOR money and time) and the core development team should work together, share the load and financial burden better while aiming at protecting and promoting and standardizing Bitcoin. The bylaws, to be published soon on Github, talk a little bit about how we're aiming to do this. I have anticipated that member classes who are unhappy with their representation would advocate for different representation. Thanks! I'm super psyched about it, actually. Gavin and I were discussing how awesome actual cryptographically secured payment controls would be for business owners and bookkeepers, there's also a whole set of businesses that I can imagine which need to be built out -- like payroll companies for Bitcoin, payables companies for Bitcoin.. It's really exciting to think about, and it's one reason we decided to repeg the bitcoin-USD rate only every so often, we're trying to go totally Bitcoin.  We are trying to go bank-account-less and do all incoming and outgoing payments with BTC, including payroll. Dogfooding Bitcoin as currency-of-a-corporation is one of my favorite things about the Foundation, actually. Hi all,Thanks for the vigorous discussion and debate! I'm enjoying reading most of it.  :-) If you check my logs, you'll see I don't spend a ton of time on the forums, but I wanted to say a quick 'hello' and throw out a few thoughts / next steps.Confirmation of Payments: We need this, bad. Confirmations are easy to do, but we were so sick of waiting to launch we figured we'd do it after launch. Sorry! I would anticipate tomorrow we'll get notifications out.Speaking of which, WOW! We've had people from over 25 countries sign up already! Thanks!! It's super exciting to see.The general response has been overwhelmingly positive, and I appreciate that. We're all throwing in time and money to see this go forward, and I think it will be a great thing for Bitcoin. That said, I know some of you are worried. Tomorrow I'll do a reddit AMA, (well AMAA) and I'll look forward to discussing questions, comments and concerns in a slightly easier-to-manage q&a format. So, look for the link.I'm looking forward to digging in with thoughts on theymos' opinions -- some I disagree with, but all seem worth talking overGraeme's worries about miners -- I HEART miners, and I have some thoughts about where they/we fit. I'll look forward to discussing that as well.Bylaws -- Patrick is doing something super cool and publishing the bylaws on github. (tonight maybe?) The next board meeting is mid-October, and I would LOVE to look over pull requests on the bylaws at that meeting. Our intention is that members pester their board seats with thoughts, improvements, ideas, etc. to help steer the organization.Finally, I can confirm that Satoshi is a Founding Member. That is all. Hey iCEBREAKER, thanks for these thoughts. I'm sold; we'll work with our team to launch a 100% PPS pool as well. It's possible we're just thinking farther ahead than most, but I would be stunned to find that $/GH don't drop by a factor of up to 10x in the next year, so I think we're offering real value to miners right now with this offer.That said, it's complicated, I grant. I love simple. We'll work on it. I'm not clear how we can just assess the blockchain to determine imputed fee structures as things stand, which I think is where Gavin was headed.I suppose we could count up blocks that have only transactions < x btc fee, or x btc fee / kilobyte, and bucket them. That would give a sort of cumulative distribution function for how quickly you're likely to get a transaction out.As things stand, BTC issuance matters most to miners, but I think we'll see fees go up when BTC issuance drops to 25 BTC. If I ran a mining pool, I would be considering posting speed 'guarantees', deterministic 'waiting times' for trannsactions... That is, 0tx fees will be processed on the bulk timeline -- daily. 1 BTC / kilobyte would get put through right away. One comment here about miners and marginal value -- actually, transactions do cost mining pool operators a bit; they create new getwork responses, and those have to get pushed down to clients, and this adds latency, network and compute cost to the cluster. Mining pool customers talk a lot about stales, these are real costs to the network. A mining pool operator is probably currently incented to ignore nearly all transactions, honestly. I would guess that large pool operators are still largely motivated by maintaining the integrity of the blockchain, (although you might not think so if you read the complaints their customers have, yeesh!) I've been thinking about mining pools, the future for miners as Bitcoin block rewards drop, and transaction fees.My hypothesis is that fees are currently quite low, supported by the 50 BTC reward for successfully finding a valid block. I wonder if it would be useful for miners to publish their transaction rules somewhere? This could happen in the blockchain if we were to keep the messaging very short, or coinlab would be happy to host an API that let miners publish what sort of fees they require.Thoughts welcome.  Gavin,Thanks for this work.Is the intent with BIP 16 to maintain the irrevocability of sending, that is, to ensure that once 'sent' coins will always leave an address, whether or not the script hash is ever proffered? I agree that's a problem if there was a fixed exchange rate, (although, see China). I was more imagining a one-time move-over to a situation in which there is no more fijibucks after the "E-Day" (for exchange day).I'm not clear in that case that there would be exchange pressure. I bet someone who knows what hard currency issues are like in Zimbabwe right now would be able to tell us a bit about this. Tawsix,The only real ways to reward your shareholders are with dividends, and by increasing both the value of the corporation and the market value of the company.In this case, they would go together nicely; dividends would increase the market value.What are your plans for dividending? I would recommend a schedule; this will create some market gyrations around dividend time, but it will also provide the kind of information current shareholders, the ones who funded the business, eagerly desire.As a pre-emptive response inre: generating more capital, I think you'll generate far more capital by engaging politely and following through on my suggestions than just holding the generated BTC. What Nefario said is right on.Tawsix, I mentioned these dynamics early on; the "IPO" floated out about 2000 shares. That's pretty frickin' awesome, actually, so congrats. There wasn't sufficient market demand for all your shares at the IPO price. In the 'real' world, this problem is solved basically by testing the market with knowledgeable insiders who make some calls and commitments, and agree to float shares at an opening price. They buy the shares directly and privately from the corp, then sell what they want on the markets opening day.Sometimes IPOs fail, that is, there's not uptake of all the shares, or the price drops precipitously in the first few days of trading. In that case, the corporation has had its bite for a little while -- the market has spoken, and it doesn't want all the shares. The corporation needs to make some progress before the market will be interested in dumping more capital into the corporation.This is the situation you're in.I urge you to cancel the rest of the 3500 shares on offer. Nobody will buy them until you demonstrate both that you are willing and able to dividend to shareholders from the mining earnings, and that you are continuing to bring more miners onboard. At the least you will be able to provide your existing shareholders with the chance to make a market for your shares; as it is, the massive 3500 on offer hangs over your order book, and it's alienating the people who currently are invested in you (like me!)If you want to recapitalize the corporation later, you're going to need to work with existing shareholders and find a price everyone is happy about. On the upside, you have some really simple methods to make people happy:a) dividendb) cancel share offeringc) update daily with timeline for new minersd) bring them onlinee) possibly set a dividend schedule so that people know when they should buy/sell.This is dead simple given where you're at, and will make people much happier. The BTC are rolling in, well, not really, but they are coming in about as expected. Tawsix, what are your dividend plans? Ok, now we need a small island willing to try out BTC as a seconday ad-hoc currency to test your assumption. Anyone? I sent you email, but I think I had a weird clearing / crossing problem. I'm not sure if it resolved. Logs in my email. Thanks for the work! I voted no for a couple of reasons (I voted yes the first vote).In very brief, I have two thoughts. The first is that you need to let the market settle the price out and get a secondary-offering plan sorted with Nefario. Right now, increasing the BTC price per share artificially just lets shareholders come in below you; no extra capital for the business.The second is that you haven't made enough progress to double the value of the company yet. You're close, it sounds like, so that's good. Sometimes good investor relations can cover for execution gaps. You haven't (if I may be so bold) managed q and a with investors (or possibly just naysayers) here very well, but you're well spoken and made a good initial presentation, so I'd give you a 50-50 right now on the investor relations / execution side of things.To me, this doesn't add up right this second to a major block of shares pricing higher. It seems a bit premature. I think you should probably pull all the extra shares for a week or so and watch where the market settles as you provide proof (BTC generated, pictures of the rigs), then work out an offering plan on the boards and with Nefario to expand using a second-tranche capital raise.Right now what you're doing is providing a sort of artificial price ceiling by capping the share value; I'm not sure there's any real benefit to anyone in doing that.My 2 millibits! Yes, the important point to note here is that using a deflationary but infinitely (well highly) divisible currency throughout an economy, including for production of basic goods might be interesting. It would likely fluctuate vis-a-vis USD some due to trade imbalances, and more due to currency speculators, but could well be useful and stable in a community as is.As I read through the responses, I think that it raises some interesting questions; using mobile phones, and scratch-and-reveal type cards is likely necessary in a scenario like this, unless the government issues BTC-notes. Actually, the whole thing would be quite easy if the government kept a BTC wallet and didn't allow fractional reserve banking; you could verify the money supply easily, 1 bill = 1 BTC. The issue then has to do with divisibility though.We are facing this issue in the Bitcoin community in general right now; decimals are hard to think in. Nefario's 1 satoshi = the actual unit is not a great solution either right now, it's also hard to think in 8 zeros. This is a psychological issue, and one that doesn't seem to be well thought out or solved right now. It would be a factor in this thought experiment as well. Out of curiosity, what is dox? I vote for some patience, although I too would love an update. Interesting conversation with a friend last night; over beers we discussed the possibility of a small country, maybe one that currently pegs to the USD, pegging to BTC for their currency.I'm curious as to people's reactions to this. How would we do such a thing? My friend suggested the block chain could, for a period of time, allow extra BTC to be generated in exchange for destruction of the existing national currency; separate to his above suggestion, but also intriguing. That is, imagine you're a resident of fijilandia. You'd put in your 50 Fijibucks somewhere, they'd get destroyed, and the next block would include 50 fijibucks worth of BTC for you.Anyway, fascinating to me. I think it would jumpstart an economy, especially one that produced and exported goods to be based on BTC. I'm trying to figure out how this could be done in a small scale to test viability; maybe some permaculture farmers want to try selling just for BTC?They'd need to provide BTC purchase access to many of their customers of course; anyway two intriguing ideas. Any updates? Now we're on the same page. : ) I await comments from the businessman himself here in this thread.
This sounds so true, and I agree that some hedging would be good. Bitcoins are not very like wheat, though, for a variety of reasons.I don't believe that holding bitcoins for long periods is sensible for a mining business, that is to say, if one believes that a mining business is a good business to be in, then holding bitcoins should only be for hedging purposes, not an 'investment' strategy. The mining is the investment strategy. No, Tawsix is right to do what he plans to do; the point of this company is to mine. (Oh, and pay dividends). If we wanted to hold BTC for speculation, we could do it on our own. Looks fixed to me just now. I'm having the same problem; I think there's a server error. You can always email admin@mtgox.com I voted. I'm not so testy, but I agree that it would be nice to see the three rigs purchased. Some photos and receipts might go a long way here; I bet additional shares get picked up more quickly, too. Speaking of which, hey Tawsix, got an update for us? Regarding taxes,Washington State in America has an annual 'inventory tax' which would likely apply to BTC, whether or not sold. I'm out of my depth applying US state tax concepts to BTC though, even my federal tax law knowledge is workmanlike at best. @unk, agreed.I would expect professional miners to pay inventory taxes, although probably not hobbyists, (again, the line is tough here) hobbyists I would expect to pay income tax on sale.  Regarding taxes,A simple purchase is never taxable for the purchaser unless there are specific asset-transfer taxes (think registration for a car) in the US, or any state in the US. Period, end of story. BitCoins paid for services rendered or goods are certainly taxable, and they would likely be marked to market at end of year, or at time of exercise to USD on recommendation from a CPA.BitCoins 'mined' with your computer are a little harder, and I don't think there's good indication here as to what they are, or if they should be taxed yet -- do you have to pay taxes on a piece of art you made, and haven't sold yet? (The answer is no, even if your paintings are worth millions). In any event, I think it unlikely that BTC mined will be reported and taxable in the near future for a combination of reporting and other reasons.----- Now, for a more personal perspective ----Regarding "this is how capitalism works", unless you're a sort of weird objectivist type who's come to love robber barons, anytime a business party knowingly misrepresents the value of something and makes significant gains, there may well be civil or criminal liability. Capitalism involves helping people transfer assets around for cash, build jobs and wealth, and keeping people from getting screwed doing so.I don't know if KnightMB misrepresented, nor do I know if his agreements are solid, but I do know if he wrote a note that said "Hey, I'll take those computers and hard drives off your hands for $5k" and they said "OK," he will CERTAINLY be getting a nastygram one day, and his counsel is going to recommend settling, not fighting.On the other hand, if he wrote up a proper asset purchase including everything, hardware and data, and made no warranties, and they also acknowledged they were getting out and signed proper indemnifications, seller beware. That's an all's fair in business sort of moment, and they should have looked more closely at what they were doing. Of course, if this was a bunch of grandmas that KnightMB pitched originally, that will play differently than if it were some forex trading hedge fund managers; lots depends on the context. I don't think we've heard the last of this story, or the facts of it yet. For your own sake knightmb, I hope you spent roughly triple that on iron-tight mutual indemnifications. If not, here is my advice (I'm not a lawyer, btw):1. Get a lawyer, right now2. On review, figure out if you need to get a settlement in place which covers all mutual indemnifications.3. Get those things locked down. You will likely have to pay some of your $3m USD in earnings to get that sorted.When you have a technical partner knowingly buying assets from non-technical partners for pennies on the dollar, there may well be significant repercussions. And, as someone here mentioned, it's also just kind of shitty. Food for thought.For those mentioning taxes -- unless he's selling his BTC, he likely doesn't have a requirement to mark his BTC to market; this is no doubt a gray area in the tax law right now. I wouldn't say he owes right now unless he's liquidating. OK, I bit (and bought). One issue; the IPO is so large that initial liquidity for investors is tough. Can anyone raise a vote? I'd like to vote that you limit the IPO to 1,000 shares to start; that's more than enough to get building and generating. We could then vote on a secondary capital raise.How does GLBSE manage stuff like this? Nefario?As a note, this 'half +1 share for me' is really confusing. Typically corporations issue a bunch of shares for cheap to founders, then go and sell extra shares; the ownership changes as the corporation sells more shares.You are doing something hard to understand which is saying 'I will borrow enough from the corporation to  just barely keep control, and try and quickly pay it back.' Better would be 'I have 5,000 shares, and I'll pay 3,800 BTC for them, later, I swear. I'm selling shares, up to 4999 of them (or I now suggest 1000) at .75BTC per and will dividend out everything over run-rate costs plus withholdings for miner growth.' Instead, we have a world in which your putative shares owned change as more are sold; confusing!Doing it my way means, for instance, that early "angel" funders will get a better bite, that is, in a later capital raise, the price will hopefully go up, meaning the angels will get some equity appreciation. Also, people will understand and be able to debate whether or not you have priced the company fairly and properly. Right now, that calculation is sort of tough. As a side note, I would say a fair price for this sort of activity would be a fund-manager style price: 2% of gross capital utilized/20% of earnings, since you bring no capital to the picture. But, I bought anyway, so I hope you're successful!Also, I feel bound to warn you that doing this in the US is without a doubt, highly illegal without filing a Reg. D, and the SEC will probably require you return any losses you incur to investors. I'm not a lawyer, just a startup entrepreneur.  Final update: I sold BitLaundry to Mike Gogulski. He's in charge now. And, this is closed, paid and transferred.Mike now owns BitLaundry -- complaints and congrats go to him!  Updated: Looks like Mike and I have come to terms, thanks everyone! Thanks!I thought "Shit!" Luckily a small amount, but I appreciate the refund very much.That's probably a good edge case to think about; it's easy to accidentally resend. Oops. I sent a bitcoin payment to a previous address for the bit flip.I PM'ed you some details. What does bitflip do in this circumstance? Update: Confirmed that I have the code. (Python - GAE) And, p.s., BitLaundry is what I'm selling, not a knockoff. In case that wasn't clear from my post. : ) An update to this thread: BitLaundry and it's code are for sale. Check here: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=6939.0
OK, I'm extending this for a few days, as I missed the questions.Bitlaundry works as follows: It takes in a payment from you, then splits it up randomly into small chunks, and sends them out to a specified address at randomized times.It can be set to split between multiple addresses as well, so it could be used for a 'drop here to pay everybody' solution.It will work best if it has a significant number of people using it, as there's more mixing. This could be mildly mitigated by making a habit of sending itself (or rather a whole bunch of new addresses) the coins in random amounts periodically.The fee is, of course, adjustable in the code. : ) I'll close this auction on Sunday night, May 9.Mike, do you want the code as well? Python -> Google App Engine where are you located?In person might work. Minneapolis and Denver.I was thinking cash , but honestly mostly was curious what the demand for inperson transactions was.  I have up to 1,000 BTC in MSP beginning of this week, DEN end of this week, will trade for cash at Mt. Gox *1.2. PM me if interested. I wrote up a bitlaunderer some time ago, and launched app.bitlaundry.com.It's turned off now, but I BELIEVE I still have the code.So domain for sale, make me an offer here or PM, include desire for code (if available) and offer for it as well!Happy to escrow, happy to take payments in BTC. To whomever was saying stocks don't trade for a percentage, they definitely do trade for a percentage -- you just don't see it because you don't trade on open book exchanges.Real stock markets do charge a fee, and pass some on to market makers who speculate on the spread. All this of course doesn't show up to you if you click buy 100 shares of amazon at 'market'. US Equities has the smallest cost of trades worldwide, roughly 65 basis points. European exchanges for equities is 90+BP, and others go up from there. I suggested 90 bp to the Gox master, but 65bp seems eminently reasonable. (And, p.s. volume is down dramatically, yow! Should be an interesting few weeks -- I wonder if volume / price will trend back up.) Okay, I'm getting you current problem: it's volume.Typically what lotteries do to drive volume is advertise the winners:As in, "Hey everyone, SO and SO just won 100 BTC with a 2 BTC bet. In fact, everyone who bet one since there are so few bettors! Come try your luck!"You could also advertise it more generally and allow people to buy BTC from you on the TAABL site at say a 50 or 100% markup over Mt. Gox, if they aren't inclined to go open an account and download the client. Then you could advertise the lottery more generally.I'll bet more later, promise. Although for now, I'm down about 11 BTC. Sigh. : ). Hi Red,Well, the way the system works right now is that if you pump in 26, and send to say 10 recipients, they'd all get 2.5 or so; the system could easily randomize the amounts being sent -- that was on my post-launch list to do, and I'm reminded to implement that.I also think that I will likely try and send these through mt.gox on their way out -- at that point, we'd be seeing some significant volume for other purposes. This is lovely, thank you! I'm working on running the transactions through Mt. Gox, although slowly, since there doesn't seem to be a large felt need for anonymizing right now.Any votes on the next project? On my list is 1) Payment spreading -- essentially set up an address and a split, and the service will send out payments automatically on the split. As an add-on, people could update their destination address and keep the sender semi-ignorant of the final destination (subject to the correlation issues we've been talking about)2) A digital escrow service -- would probably be buyer-friendly, require proof of shipping / then proof of mediation if dispute. This seems to be communicated as a large felt need for people who wish to buy with bitcoins. Re: mybitcoin, possibly, BUT:Do they delete all logs on send? BitLaundry keeps no login or other account information, tracks no IP addresses, and only stores send information until a payment goes out successfully. My original use case for BitLaundry was for a botnet owner. I think that it fills that need (however small) better. Regarding more BTC in circulation, this is undoubtedly true, but one has to start somewhere.Peter p.s., yes, the example about 10 people was designed to help you understand the different parameters of the pay system, so splitting to more recipients costs a little more than sending to just one. Red, in answer to some of your comments above, now that I've launched -- I agree that more people using such a thing makes it 'normal' and therefore not notable.However, what I have been considering is whether or not just one person sending transactions through the system would provide similar benefits in this case. My current thinking is that, if someone wanted, they could trace back the block chain and see that most of the BTC came from the same set of blocks; in essence, "no", your final anonymity is only as good as your diversity of bitcoin sources.Thoughts? Yep, typo at the minimum calculation explanation. The calculator does the math right, though: for now to make it cheaper for people to try out with small amounts, I set the minimum at .02 BTC.Regarding doing it yourself: This provides better decorrelation because your payments are getting mixed in with other people's. If you send a payment to address a, then to address b, then on to where you buy from, you have something very different than we have now with BitLaundry:Address A-> BB -> C, E (C is not related to you at all)E -> over time F, G, H (all you)I (Not related to you originally ) -> J (You).This is better. I've launched a sender / recipient decorrelation (anonymization?) service called bitlaundry: you can get access to it at https://bitlaundry.appspot.com/ or read more about it here at: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=963.0.I appreciate all feedback and ideas! Hi all,I got interested in the idea of decorrelating senders and receivers of payments recently, so I created bitlaundry: https://bitlaundry.appspot.com/It's in open beta right now, and works well (I'm currently laundering some bitcoins myself). I'm interested in all feedback and thoughts.This is a pay service, it's priced at roughly 0.5% of the transaction. Eventually it will have a minimum 1BTC price for laundering, but right now while it's being tested, the minimum is 0.02. From the FAQ as to why it exists:   1. Imagine that Alice wishes to send BitCoins to Bob.   2. Bob, sadly, is not well liked. Alice would rather not have anyone know that she sent Bob BitCoins.   3. So, Alice puts Bob's address in the form at BitLaundry.   4. Alice gets a one-time-use address from BitLaundry.   5. Alice sends the money to that address.   6. BitLaundry sends money out to recipients every 30 minutes.   7. (But, it doesn't send out Alice's money immediately, that might be suspicious..)   8. So, a random number of 30 minute segments later, BitLaundry sends the money out to Bob.   9. BitLaundry then deletes the database link between the one-time-use address and Bob.  10. Alice has sent money to BitLaundry, but people do this all the time. She's one of many.  11. BitLaundry has sent money to Bob, but BitLaundry has sent money out to a whole bunch of other people as well.  12. Alice and Bob are much less linked than they would have been otherwise.There are also obvious benefits for Russian botnet owners, and possibly others. Let me know your thoughts! Thanks for the reminder aceat. I'm still hoping to hear some news on this! I have the analog right now for my linux boxen, although it's on an internet share: uncompress the client, set up the config file properly, install a recent block set, get the optimal configuration up and running, and cron a job to send me any generated coins. I call it my botnet script, although sadly for me, I own all the bots it runs on. : ).If I administered a whole bunch of windows machines, I would want a similar solution is my point. More than that.. I don't have all the numbers in front of me, but probably $1200-$1400.. One day this will be a tiny blip in the bitcoin trading universe. : ).
Hmm, GAE cron jobs could probably keep up to date or close.Javascript in the browser would not work as a full client for the reasons you suggested, but there is node.js. I think a javascript port of a minimal client would find plenty of uses. For instance, maprejuice.com just launched -- they claim 200,000 web clients already. I imagine one would be interested to run block generation there.  Awesome! I'm in and sequenced. Thanks! I suppose one might try to reset market prices. If so, apparently you need a lot more bitcoins than 30,000 to do so, apparently.  Thanks, I've read that. I was hoping for a simpler than code review resource for the exact bits and bytes. If one doesn't turn up, I'll dig a little deeper. Thanks for the bet return!Re: hosting -- I think you could host it on google app engine for free at low traffic volumes.. Of course, you have to like python or java. I had tiered out my buy orders, so I picked up some on the way down, but not nearly as many as he sold.Standard market movement theories distinguish between short and long term market movement -- if I recall my market math properly, he should have moved the long term price down something like .15 cents or so, if bitcoins act like a security. Looks like this is roughly what happened, although the 'short term' was pretty darn short in this case. : ). Volume: 30,000 BTC.. Low price $.03x... It looks like somebody really wanted to sell some bitcoins.  What about autosend to an address? That way it could run uninterrupted somewhere and end up in a main account. UPDATE: I bet. Then I realized that I could (and should) get total coverage for the last number in the block. Then I learned I can't rescind my bets.Can I request either a 'full coverage' option, or else just a 'remove this bet' button? I think you had 'remove this bet' at one point.Also, seeding the lottery with 100 bets of your own is different than putting in a 100 BTC jackpot, by the way. : ). I think it will be more appealing to people if you take a cut, and seed, regardless of the underlying math.  a) Can secret sharing be incorporated into Bitcoin's scheme? I'm not sure of the technical pub/private key pairing that it uses. b) I'm not sure it's an entirely appropriate solution -- Shamir had in mind a sort of 'info bank' or 'lockbox' when he constructed this system -- the payload was more likely imagined to be, say nuclear armament codes or wikileaks style information, not a bank account, as the system doesn't explicitly deal with the 'well, what do we do, now that we can decrypt the information?' question. Thus, even if you had a shared key, say one that needed 1+n/2 to use their private key for access, all you would get back would be the shared private key -- then it would be a race to cheat with that key, or possibly the final party to apply their private key would get access. This still leaves a trusted party issue in the mix; I'd say the cheapest thing to do is trust the pooler.  In this system, cheating is easily detected (e.g., your client knows it generated a winning block, but you never got a portion of it), trust is hard to repair, and recruiting people to your pool is likely to be far more work than 50BTC are worth in the near future. Thanks for this. Question for the developers: what do I need to hash, exactly to get the sha-256 hash for this block? Is it the JSON, or is it kept in some other data format in the database? I'm interested in generating blocks myself, and am not clear what exactly is being hashed. Okay, I put 20 in. Once confirmed, I'll bet them all.  I agree with the sentiment that a small reference client would be hugely helpful. I would like one that ran on Google App Engine, for instance, and as you say, a reference javascript version would be totally fabulous. This is an FAQ. The answer is 'yep.' Someone got a transaction put into your block which required a small processing fee. You got the fee for processing the transaction. Enjoy! I just read the New Jersey Pick 3 lottery rules over. They have a simple system:1) 50% of the ticket sales go to the prize pool2) (they have a bunch of ways to win, but I'll unitize them all to a number of 'Wins')     They calculate Ticket intake * .5 / # Wins => Prize Share3) Each Winning bet gets a prize share.To compare, the powerball system A) seeds the jackpot with an amount, ($10mm), advertises twice that as the 'annuitized jackpot', and proceeds as follows:B) 50% of the ticket sales go to prizes. C) Roughly 58% of the prizes go to the jackpot, won maybe once a month. The other 42% are for the smaller prizes.As noted by the powerball website, powerball is designed for people who are motivated by a  big jackpot. Presumably Pick 3 is designed for people who are motivated by a small, frequent (it runs twice a day) payout.So, either of these seem like fine setups -- hard-headed expected-value-discounted-cashflow-type people only play powerball when the advertised annuity is up in the $250MM+ range, and everyone else plays when they like the sound of the jackpot size. No math people play Pick 3, I'm sure. My takeaways: I) I think your lottery needs to choose a personality: is it going to be a big prize, monthly-ish win type situation, or a frequent small-scale wins one? I don't mean monthly drawings, just likely 'big' wins at once a month. II) You probably should have a minimum pot for jackpot winners: this ensures people want to play more often. You would fund this out of your own funds to start, and then whatever you decide your rake should be, eventually.III) An out of the box idea I had is that you could write some sort of rules algorithm and allow anyone to run their own lottery; you'd take, say 10% off the top, and lotto designers could choose their own payouts, jackpot rollovers, etc. Natural selection will tell you the most successful lottery designs quite quickly, I imagine.As a sample 'powerball'-esque lottery: if you had a jackpot minimum prize of 10 BTC and two drawings a week, 100 people playing per drawing, odds of winning say 1 in 1000, then you'd see the following:Week 1, Drawing 120 BTC goes in: 10 covers the jackpot: 10 BTC goes to rake80 BTC goes in: 40 goes to rake, jackpot is now 50.Week 1, Drawing 2: Jackpot 50100 BTC goes in: Jackpot is now 100 (no winner)Week 2, Drawing 1: Jackpot 100Odds of nobody winning so far: (900 / 1000 ) ^2 = 81%More people get interested: 150 buy. Nobody wins.Week 2, Drawing 2: Jackpot 175.Odds of nobody winning so far: 69%I don't know if this would be appealing to people or not. I bet if the jackpot were 1,000 BTC, odds of winning say 1 in 5,000 to start then it would be appealing. The simplest way to keep math-oriented speculators out is to keep the expected value down, except in rare  circumstances.It's gotten too late for me to add more to the conversation, so I'll summarize a TL;DR -- Copy some successful lotteries! Use the rake to provide a guaranteed pool! (Possibly: let people use your software to host their own lotteries). I love this idea.. but, the site is down. . When you are generating blocks, you use the pool's public key; it is not possible to insert your own key in your 'winning' block.  I have a related set of problems, but the other way -- bitcoin on ubuntu 10.04 x64 is extremely reticent to use all available CPU time, but in a totally non-repeatable way: sometimes it will use only 1/8 or 1/4 of my 4 cores available time, never triggering CPU speed increases. other times, it cheerfully chugs along full speed ahead at full speed. This is on a Core i5 laptop.Older versions of the client would zoom up to 100% pretty consistently, and back off when I needed, but 0.3.10 doesn't seem interested in taking up the right amount of processor time.. renice -5 has no appreciable impact -- it seems like the rate limiting functions got an update, and it's not as good as the old setup.  Leaving early is not an attack. Consider:You are in the pool, and one minute in to the block, you find the winning hash. There are 4 other pool members, each with equal strength computers.You get 10 BTC on maturation, like each pool member.The pool immediately goes to work on the next block. If you leave, the pool strength drops by 20%. The member's BTC shared increases by 20%. They are not worse off without you. Now, imagine the 'winning' hash gets a 2x share: for each future block all participants' expected value of BTC is the same as it would be going it on their own. "Leaving early" is a little bit like taking your money out at the casino whenever you're up. You're up, good for you, but your odds going forward are the same as they were, and the same as everyone else's.Playing to 'get lucky' like this is probably not the motivation for such a pooling arrangement once pool members > 10 or so. Finally, asking people for 50 BTC upfront is absolutely contrary to the reason you would want to pool initially -- getting a few BTC flowing in half an hour or so from download of the application.p.s., This also begs the central question -- how do you know how fast / strong people are? You could sit around working on other non-pooled hashblocks and just give a 1,000 hash block anytime the server asked you for one. I'm not sure how to probabilistically determine speed and deal with cheaters.  Why not just a program that escrows the private key of an address, and generates an e-mail, a-la paypal: "You've been sent money!""You've got bitcoins! Click here to claim them." Alternately, you could embed a password-protected private key that the bitcoin client can import -- say a .bitkey attachment: "Attached is a bitkey. Click it to open it in BitCoin and claim your money. (Password sent in a separate e-mail)."
Thanks for the pointers, it's running fine now, and has a slight speedup (10%) over stock on my Athlon. I think this doesn't hit true Ponzi-scheme usefulness because you don't get down-network treatment: if you want people signing everyone up like mad, you have to give them some of their future downline's earnings, perhaps 1/3^N where N is number of levels below.p.s. I signed up, and if you like this idea, make me your sponsor so that I get in early on the pyramid side of the scheme... http://fxnet.co.cc/?ref=30 By definition the pool will work through its 'bad luck' faster, since it has more chances to.That is, if 10% of the current computers generating bitcoin pooled, then on average right now they would generate a block every 100 minutes or so. Therefore you would get (50 BTC / pool size) every 100 minutes once the blocks had started to mature. If it's really unlucky and gets a block after 200 minutes, then obviously, everyone would wait. Regardless, BTC would start piling into your account -- at no faster rate than they would otherwise -- in small increments, and relatively soon.You could make it more addictive by playing a little sound or animation when someone in the pool generated a block, and even more so when you generate one.I'm assuming the comment about 1 BTC missing is a joke, but if not, the pool could designate a little bit to the pool server as compensation. I would think 1 BTC would be too much, though.I was also thinking you could incent the winner by doubling their share: a nice psychological trick that shouldn't actually impact block generation or distribution of BTC over the long haul. Awesome, will advise tomorrow, after some sleep. : ) My Core i5 laptop (Ubuntu) doubled in speed. Actually, it didn't double in speed. It stayed the same speed, but only uses half the CPU now. I can't get it to go back to full CPU usage. That said, my laptop is a lot cooler when generating blocks now. I'll post back if I see it successfully go up to 100% usage. Thanks! Unfortunately, this didn't work for me. (AMD on Windows 7/64 bit) First, it wanted MSVCR100.dll. I installed that to WINDOWS\SYSTEM32.Then, it crashed with an error something like 0x0000007b or so.Recommendations? Thanks, this is a great way to do this -- I'll look forward to hearing more about how it develops.In answer to those who don't get "why?" -- go play farmville, or any other social networking game. Humans are wired to like slightly inconsistent, but frequent rewards. When you could generate your first block in a day or so, the system created its own 'rewardiness' for people. This helped it become sticky.This stickiness does not happen right now, unless you have a pretty hot computer or get lucky -- it's quite possible that someone could go weeks without generating a block. This is a real and present problem with adoption, and one that a pooling system would help solve without changing satoshi's desired 10 minutes-per-block pacing. I was wondering today about how to get a pool of mining together: that is, users who wish to could all go in together on mining the next block. The actual block signer signs over the block to the group. Splitting could happen any number of ways.This would really help new users who want to generate some BTC, a key problem for adoption right now. And, it would encourage slow-computer users to participate in block generation, something that is not very motivating right now for many.Obviously, there's the 'cheater' problem: a user has no incentive to share once he/she has generated the block. I can't figure out how to solve that without a client that is patched.Does anybody else have technical suggestions about accomplishing this? Even patched clients present some interesting problems: one thought I had is that you could include all the transactions to the group inside your block, but that would of course require you had 50+ BTC to start with, or the transactions would be invalid. Of course, the client can just stay mum about generation until it's matured, then send it off, and you'd only know once you got your portion.Thoughts? Adding Bitcoin to Maemo wouldn't exactly increase Bitcoins reach.. But Android or iphone would! My comment is that putting conditions in the EFF is rather silly:If people want to donate, let them donate; they can send the money to a trusted party / wallet-on-a-VM, and we can send it over to the EFF if they want it. The EFF's goodwill and press is worth more than them running a node or two.And, by the way, I think it's a good idea to turn the EFF on to Bitcoin. I would suggest that it might be a good job for someone with business development experience, a phone call and conversation might work wonders. My core i5 doubled in speed. My Core 2 Duo is the same speed.  I have been thinking about mobile-to-mobile bitcoin transfers a bit, and wanted to share some initial thoughts for feedback.I've been ordering possibilities in my head from "STRONG" to "WEAK" as far as usefulness and security.Strongest would be bitcoin client on the phone. This is currently doable for an android phone, but Satoshi doesn't want client forks, and you'd have to reimplement in Java. I rate as not a good plan right now.Next: Secure connection to your wallet, listening on the net through some sort of secure connection to the RPC interface. This is a relatively nice solution, and would be even better if the mainline client added a "listen on port YYYY, using secret ZZZZZ for authentication". Incidentally, this would allow a bunch of nice programmatic solutions to a whole range of possible things to do with Bitcoin.Something I'm terming "WEAK": Passing over the private key to a given address to a user. Now, I know what you're thinking: double spending, yadda yadda.On the other hand, it would be nice to sync up a bunch of 1BTC addresses to your phone, and when you wanted to send some money to someone, you could just BUMP or otherwise beam them the public keys. They would verify, IMMEDIATELY transfer the BTC in those accounts out, and you'd all be good to go once they're sure there are no double spending collisions in the network. Of course, don't trust those accounts again.What seems appealing about this is I've got the spending down to "only one side needs direct access to a full client."Suggestions for getting it down to "neither side needs direct access to a full client," or some sort of reasonable cloud-oriented proxy server that doesn't require way too much trust from the user? If, you know, they trusted mybitcoins.com. I just want to add my voice to those recommending strongly that the client have an "Accounts" Tab showing an Address and amount stored in each Account.This would be a natural place to add backup functionality and provisos and warnings. Well, speed is always desirable for a purchaser and deliverer of X item, please refer to Escrow discussions here among others for some reference: being sure that the transfer is 'real' takes time, and for the two parties in a transaction, they almost always want that assurance immediately.The hosting person could just as easily take BTC as dollars, so I don't think that's the point, really.Regarding "Screwing with the network" Yes, it would be annoying for everyone to have to wait 40 minutes per block for 8 weeks if someone had burned through 2016 blocks quite quickly previously. Since BTC aren't economically viable to generate on US server farms right now, this is likely just an 'attack' vector, not a 'money-making' vector, at least without the added payments for speeding things up. A simple solution to this would be to store your wallet.dat on an encrypted partition that goes to an S3-based storage system, like Dropbox. They'll keep versions for you on update. This would make a nice opt-in service that could be sold in the native client as a way to help fund research, by the way. The data storage needs are incredibly small. I was thinking today about the cost of speeding up the time to get, say 5 blocks generated if one was impatient for a purchase to be confirmed.So, I rented a server at voxel.net, which claims to cost one third what amazon does, and I ran bitcoin for a bit to see what it could do there, per core.Results: about 1000 kh/s per core. (Note, I expected double or triple based on their marketing. Some tuning could probably be done here.)Incidentally, this implies cost per minted BTC of (at current difficulty of 354): $.1/hr for roughly 17.5 days = $42 per 50 BC = $.84 per BTC. Ouch!But, let's imagine I want to double up the speed of the network to get my transaction going quickly. I would then need approximately 2.5 million kh/s, or about 2,500 servers. This would get me roughly one block per 10 minutes. Combined with the rest of the network, we'd be double-timing blocks, or getting one out every five minutes. Of course, I'd only need to do this for about 25 minutes to get my five blocks.So, 2,500 servers * .42 hours = 1,041 hours * $.10 = $104.10. Less the current value of the 250 BTC at $.06  = -$15: Net cost is $90 to get the transaction sped up.If you wanted the confirmation in 10 minutes, you'd need four blocks plus the network's blocks, so you'd need roughly 10,000 servers, but of course, they'd take less time: 10,000 server * 1/6 hour = 1,666 hours = $166 - $15 = $151. Someone less lazy than me could put this into a closed-form equation, with a confidence interval, rate and number of blocks specified, I'm sure.I find this really interesting: right now someone could profitably offer a 'turbo' button for roughly double these numbers, so about $200 to $300 per 5-block generation. This would also not massively impact difficulty the next block cycle as it only ran briefly.Thoughts or comments? This is a nice system, but it slows commerce down significantly, as sellers need cash as well as goods. On the other hand, no escrow at all is clearly slowing bitcoin down, so I'm thumbs up on the idea in general. I'm working on a few bitcoin things, and escrow has been on my mind.. I'll keep you guys posted. I haven't made tomato jam, but I just looked at some recipes, and will definitely be making some as tomato season winds down. Yumm. https://i.imgur.com/PX9Ek.jpg
Washington state, usa. I just made grapefruit / orange marmalade.It is very tasty; I high-heat canned it in 8 oz new, clean jars. It was made with organic sugar and fruits, and has no added pectin.125 BTC / jar plus shipping at cost (using bitcoinmarket's previous-day close for conversion rates) Precisely! Bring on the offers. I'm happy to provide MS's excellent Compiler to the Bitcoin community. To get to .04, I totaled up all the bids on bitcoinmarket starting with the highest one: so what I said isn't speculation, it's just a fact of the current market. Your first block would sell for something like 0.06 or so, but there just isn't that much liquidity in the market, so by the time you were selling your 5000th bitcoin, you'd be pretty far down into the bid sheet.It doesn't say MSDN on it, just Professional. Okay, I updated a bit on how the Seller thinks about things. I'm open to all offers.But, let me do some math.Selling 10,000 BTC on BitcoinMarket right now would drive the price down to .04 / BTC. Total amount generated would be $503.1 before any paypal transaction fees, and of course, you'd need to get paid by 21 people if I understand bitcoinmarket correctly.Amazon lists the software at $499 in the typically competitive "used / new" market.  I do want to offer some discount to BTC users, so I'll reprice to BTC 8500 / Best Offer. I won this MSVisual Studio 2008 at a developer contest earlier this year, and don't need it. It's never been installed. It is an MS Company Store Purchase, and has a large 'not for resale' sticker on it. These stickers are a request from MS, not legally enforceable. Price: 10,000 BTC + shipping at $.06/BTC. I might describe it as the following conversation:Buyer: "Hey, have you heard of account 24225...21?"Seller: ... checks ... "yup."Buyer: "So, we both know it has like 200 BTC in it, right?"Seller: ... checks ... "yup."Buyer: "So, I'm in control of that account, and I'm going to prove it by transferring 180BTC to you."Seller: "Okay. I'm in control of account 1244...231. Tell everyone that you're moving 180BTC over to it."Buyer: "Done."Seller: ... checks ...  "Cool, here's your stuff."--- Meanwhile ---The Buyer has sent out a notification that 24225..21 should have 180 BTC transfered to 1244...231 and the rest should be transfered back to 24225...21. And he's proven that he has the rights to do this because he's signed the message with the private key for 24225...21, something nobody else should be able to do.--- Also Meanwhile ---As blocks are generated, this transaction is verified, and included in a block. At that point, the transfer becomes 'truth' and gains 'truthiness' the more blocks are generated on top of the one creating this transaction. -- Is it Real? --The seller knows that even one block confirmation from a generally trustworthy source means something, but as time goes on, he hears from more and more people that the block with the transaction is part of everyone's accepted reality. At some point, the seller concludes that it's really unlikely that the payment block was faked, and he turns over the goods, or stops worrying about it. Actually, the Manga (and manga 'fan-fic') copyright situation is quite different in Japan than in America.Japan has a much more tolerant view of derivative works than America does, as one example. Also, historically with Anime at least, Japanese copyright holders have been happy to seed interest in their Anime in America through online trading. Anime filesharing has a long, occasionally uneasy relationship with these Japanese content creators. If you go to a site like animesuki.com, you'll see that they will take torrents down if Anime becomes licensed in the USA.I'm not sure I have more to add of interest here, but it's not a good idea to apply RIAA/MPAA style thinking when you imagine Japanese copyright holders -- totally different culture. Just a comment that this would be easier to test if difficulty were set to '1' in the client. Anyone able to send me a compiled version of this for windows? I'm interested to try it out on my AMD server. I encountered this as well: there's no documentation as to what auth string should be accepted in the case of no user.It's probably best to require rpcuser and rpcpassword in future versions is my two cents. This is generally what's expected from an HTTP Auth anyway. What you say is true, but urllib2 does send Content Length.In my case, we had a datatypes problem which Gavin helped me find: params needs to get a list in python, so "params" : []will work."params" : ""did not. With that amendation, my second sample code works well now. Hope it's helpful to others. Thanks for the pointer, interesting, but not what seems to be affecting me.Here's my current code (running on Google App Engine)postdata = jsonrpc.dumps({"method": 'getbalance', "params":'','id':'jsonrpc'})req = urllib2.Request('http://127.0.0.1:8332', postdata)userpass = 'user:a'.encode('base64')[:-1]authheader =  "Basic %s" % userpassreq.add_header("Authorization",authheader)handle = urllib2.urlopen(req)json_response = handle.read()self.response.out.write (json_response)This yields a HTTPError: HTTP Error 500: Internal Server Errorfrom the GAE local python script.using   postdata = jsonrpc.dumps([{"jsonrpc": "2.0","method": 'getbalance', "params":'','id':'1'}])Yields the same result. Update: Here is the current state of my hackish code:postdata = jsonrpc.dumps({"method": 'getbalance', "params":'','id':'jsonrpc'})req = urllib2.Request('http://127.0.0.1:8332', postdata)      base64string = base64.encodestring( '%s:%s' % ('username','rpcpassword'))[:-1]authheader =  "Basic %s ." % base64stringreq.add_header("Authorization",authheader)      handle = urllib2.urlopen(req)      print handle.read()If username or password is wrong, then I get an Authorization error from the server as expected.Otherwise, I get nothing, just a closed connection. Any leads or tips?  Hi all,Does anyone have jsonrpc or something similar working with HTTP Authentication? I'm trying to hit up my bitcoin server with python over JSON-RPC, and of course, getting authorization errors from the new server.I couldn't find much about this online, surprisingly, so thought I'd ask here. One thought on this would be to keep the test network at a low difficulty, and have a big "TEST" vs "REAL" button in the client.This would let someone futz around with the system and when they're ready move over to REAL, with the associated warnings (it can take a long time, we estimate it will take blah days..)Also helps solve the abandoned bitcoin deflation problem. I started working on a solution to this today. I'll update here when I have some news.And, for those saying 'just keep your nose clean,' that's entirely not the point.Regarding the US government, the Patriot Act really did make it much harder to get money outside of the US -- a move that was welcomed by large banks (it pushed small banks out of the international wire business), and the IRS alike. It did it via the mechanism I described. Ask your local banker if they will wire money to Afghanistan for you if you'd like to understand just how hard this is to accomplish in America. Okay.In that case, I revise my best practices to:0) use all new bitcoin addresses1) find a trustworthy bitcoin exchange market2) transfer in3) transfer out, if they delete logs3a) if not, sell bitcoins for USD3b) transfer out USD3c) send money to trustworthy bitcoin exchange market3d) purchase bitcoinsComments? Just to say, I currently believe based on reading the spec that everyone will know1) Sender sent 100 BTC to _random_ip2) Receiver's address sent 100 BTC to 'new_address'But that these would not otherwise be correlated. Is this correct?
