.10 btc and quick sale sorry i didnt realize i was already high bidder .. retract 0.04btc bid 0.04btc 0.08btc 0.05btc I bid $120 0.03 Hi folks,Announcing LIVE SEX BITCOIN WEBCAMS at http://69BTC.comWatch the lovely ladies do all kinds of fun things .. and pay them with Bitcoin!Enjoy Yes, I am the owner Looking for a way to convert Bitcoin to Paypal?  Try https://CointoPal.comIt's fast, easy to use with LOW FEES and NO SIGNUP required! this is a RIDICULOUS concept but also a strangely COOL concept .. I like it. Do you have traffic/revenue yet? If you can provide/traffic revenue stats i will make a bid I would make a reasonable bid but first I need to see where the traffic is coming from. If it is coming from paid ads or a link on a faucet referral site that could be removed at any time, then the site is worthless to me.IF YOUR TRAFFIC IS COMING FROM ORGANIC SEARCH RESULTS, I WILL BID 0.5BTC I think DaDice is wasting its time with this auction thread.300BTC is an absurd starting price for a site which still has not disclosed its NET MONTHLY PROFITS.Are there even profits? I offer 0.5btcon the condition that the site comes with hosting and is totally turnkey .. no setup on my end. I bid 0.5btc Announcing http://BitcoinClassifieds.net ...View and post LOCAL classified ads FREE.  Buy and sell goods and services locally with BITCOIN!The site is completely free to view and post ads .. enjoy the service, spread the word.If your hometown is not listed, PM me and I will add it! I bid .25btc Not worth 2 btc. I offer 1  btc I am buying existing bitcoin websites which have live traffic!Faucets, exchanges, news sites, etc.Quick and easy sale, using trusted escrow.PM me .. let's make a deal!! If you can show me traffic stats (analytics) and previous revenue, I will pay 5 btc and refund the members. How much would the total refund amount be, of course?
I offer .5 btc. I don't want the domain though - just the site. I bid .8 btc and a quick sale You forgot to mention the anonymous https://BitPlastic.com debit card .. i would not recommend this mixer! I bid 0.5btcPM me .. just another reason to blacklist mike hearn and all of his ideas Bitcoin is not 'pseudo-anonymous' .. it is NOT anonymous at all!That's why people use Bitcoin mixers! I bid 1 btc I bid 1 btc if you can verify to me that the account is not filled with worthless bots I bid 1 btcEmail me dr.michael.moriarty@yandex.com for a quick closing or PM me here. Hi folks,Check out the newly launched https://CointoPal.comQuickly, easily and safely convert Bitcoin to Paypal at the best rates!No volume limits, no hassle, no ID required, no signup required, no country restrictions.check it out: https://CointoPal.com Strange - Ross Ulbricht gets life for Silk Road, while his successor Blake Benthall, admin of Silk Road 2.0, has been released from prison:https://www.deepdotweb.com/2014/11/26/silk-road-2-admin-blake-benthall-released-prison/possible witness protection program .. if you accuse Mike Tyson's ATM of being a scam, he'll bite your friggin ear off ...be careful folks! Bitcoin Fog is a 100% confirmed scam at this point .. no reply to customer emails, no funds hit accounts, nothing.  RIPOFF i doubt the government will return assets they seized .. they are probably holding the bitcoins 'in rem' quite possibly the worst exchange ever I don't have any problems with bitcoin :-) thankfully this fork did not affect the majority of bitcoin holders .. only a few mining pools got hurt i recommend CoinChimp.com the market is correcting itself .. bitcoin can only go up from here
Will Silk Road founder Ross Ulbricht, who was recently convicted and sentenced to life in prison, win his appeal?  Even if he loses his appeal, will the life sentence be reduced?   Satoshi is never going to be found out .. unless he wants to be did anyone LOSE BITCOINS as a result of this issue ?? That's what really matters .. I can make a bid for 0.25btc but I would like to know:1. how much does the hosting cost? What kind of hosting are you running? VPS, etc?2. Is the content hosted or linked?3. What video script are you running? I bid .10 btcpm me! I bid .55 more peer-to-peer transactions sites, like LocalBitcoins and in-person classifieds like BitcoinClassifieds.net etc this guy should get life in prison just like ulbricht got .. but he's only going be slapped on the wrist, bah https://CoinChimp.com has no kyc, no docs, no Id required, nothing.  Or you could just use a mixer like https://BitLaunder.com, BitMixer.io, BitcoinFog, etc (or a combination of all three .. those are the only trustworthy mixers, but there are some reports of theft from each of them unfortunately) I am looking for a quality banner designer who accepts Bitcoin .. PM me PM me the link and if the accounts are real I might make a bid around 1 btc It is not worth 1 BTC sorry. I might pay .3 btc lol OP is just trying to make us laugh .. or he has the IQ of a baboon I think porn is going to be huge for Bitcoin, so big in fact that I just bought 69BTC.com (bitcoin porn cams) and I'm buying up as much adult sites as possible. I also think that gambling will be big for Bitcoin ..  Hi folks,You can watch ADULT WEBCAMS and pay with BITCOIN at http://69BTC.comEasy to use, anonymous, adult webcams with no credit card required .. just Bitcoin!Hot girls! Enjoy :-) I bought 69btc.com from this seller and it was a good trade. We did not use escrow and I sent him half upfront.  He could have scammed me but he did not.  He is an honest and legitimate seller on here! Hi folks,I am auctioning BitWebhosting.comThis would be a perfect opportunity for an entrepreneur to instantly own and operate a profitable Bitcoin business.The service offers anonymous domain registrations and sells offshore cpanel hosting, VPS hosting and dedicated servers.  There are existing clients and revenue.  Last year's revenue (first year of launch) was $3186.  There is virtually zero overhead for running the site. It comes with a WHMCS license.This operation is 100% turnkey.  If it doesn't sell, no big deal, I will keep running it.  I am just too busy with other things to givethe service the attention it needs in terms of marketing.  I have done zero marketing and still rank very high in google search for'anonymous domain registration' and 'bitcoin webhosting' and 'anonymous bitcoin webhosting'In fact I am in the first page of google (just barely, last listing) for the search term 'Bitcoin Webhosting'The auction includes EVERYTHING: website, domain, reseller discounts, WHMCS license, etc.Duration: 7 daysStarting Bid: 40 BTCIncrement: 1 BTCBuy It Now: 50 BTCObviously we will go through Escrow and I will provide screenshots of WHMCS revenue, Google Analytics, etc KimDotCom says greece debt default is going to boost gold and bitcoin .. I'm not sure sure about gold, but Greece sure might drift toward bitcoin in a big way ... nobody is going to Pardon him .. it would be political suicide. He has more chance of being abducted by aliens from the prison yard .. government could target people who run the decentralized software .. just like they target people who download via torrents
I wonder how much Kim himself owns of Bitcoin .. but I do agree he is 100% right. Buy gold and BTC, get OUT of US dollars I second that! I despise EBay .. good riddance to them. I open OpenBazaar puts them out of business I bid 1 btc.Site gets little traffic: Alexa rank of 12 million don't 'invest' your bitcoins with third parties or you are likely to lose them  I agree, bitcoin is on a major rise now .. I just downloaded and installed the client .. wow .. really nice concept and this is going to take off, bigtime hyperinflation = yet another reason to adopt bitcoin for national government currency anyone got a list of porn sites that accept bitcoin? I recommend bitcoin to all my friends but the problem is they just say 'why do I need btc when I have paypal?' Adoption is likely to increase quickly in places like Phillipines and third world countries where people don't have access to reliable banking services.  Any Bitcoin startups in developing nations should be taken very seriously .. the market is huge, literally in the billions Glad to hear the community pitched in for this kid .. hopefully you'll let us know her response nobody in their right mind would adopt this mastercard scamcoin .. but plenty of people are not in their 'right mind'.  Anyways, the attention can only be good for Bitcoin itself Mastercard's 'centralized' crypto is only going to boost bitcoin by generating mainstream attention! I am HUGELY in favor of OpenBazaar .. but I'm not entirely sure how it will attract mainstream users to compete with eBay and Amazon. Mainstream users still use paypal and CC.  OpenBazaar will no doubt give darknet markets pause for concern, but I don't see mainstream users flocking to it, unfortunately. I hope I am WRONG you are the lowest of the low absolute rubbish! safer for the consumer maybe, and safer for fraudsters definitely, but not safe for the merchant at all Funny how we hear about Ross Ulbricht almost daily .. but total silence on the fate of Blake Benthall, the founder of silk road 2.0 .. any news on this guy?? I am super excited .. 10!! Although I am NOT excited about Gavin's fork! Russia wouldn't have given him up .. if they protect snowden, they would protect Ulbricht just the same!  what do you mean their 'exit'? I think VC money is here to stay in Bitcoin .. they know a good thing when they see it
if you mention bitcoin on your first date she's gonna think youre a nerd lol I will pay 1.25 btc for the site .. and go through escrow despite all this hullaballoo .. no bitcoin price slide. apparently the market does not give a crap about Gavin i don't see how exactly this fork 'destroys' bitcoin ...seems like a big overreaction the whole point of bitcoin is that you don't need a bank!  bitcoin enables you to be your own bank i like the idea keep me posted on progress he should have not used his real name when running a drug site obviously use a mixer :-) most of my friends say 'why not use paypal or credit card?' to buy stuff online ... in my country Australia it is in legal limbo that's understandable. I started the site a few days ago.  Will be ranking high for bitcoin jobs board and keywords related to posts 100% Free and No Annoying Ads!New Bitcoin jobs and gigs board: http://CoinWork.netFREE to view ads, post ads, contact other users, etc. This is a 100% free service for those who want to utilize it. I have to agree this exchange CaVirtex was the absolute worst I've ever used .. froze my withdrawal because I used TOR, then stole the funds.  Glad to see them GONE. Good riddance! neither coinchimp nor bitplastic is a scam .. this thread is just complete BS the service works fine .. sometimes takes 10 minutes, sometimes 10hours, but always does a clean launder .. dont believe the bullshit on this thread the site is back online, i just posted an ad there obviously more fiat thefts because there's more fiat .. fiat is also less traceable than bitcoin, assuming it's in the form of cash Facebook is NO THREAT to bitcoin .. facebook p2p payments is actually a JOKE I bid 0.5btc. Nobody is going to pay 2 btc for an account exchanges do even worse things than cause inflation .. they STEAL and/or MANIPULATE the price
lol I think this is a great idea but you're likely to get sued by craigslist .. Hi, I am looking for a php coder for some small projects involving wordpress websites.  I can pay in Bitcoin. Please message me if interested. somebody should full doxx this a-hole .. anyone know his real name or address yet? sounds like that PBMining scam awhile back nice post but i doubt this will ever happen .. there will need to be massive social and economic upheaval for bitcoin to replace centralized currencies; the Powers That Be have vested interests in printing money! lol that doesn't sound very trustworthy to me  I'm interested, but need to know:1. how many members2. site debt3. advertisers4. revenues it's on a MAJOR RALLY ... i tried to buy from someone in nyc on localbitcoins yesterday and he was afraid to meet up because he didnt know me lol  I will pay 0.15 does anyone really believe that silly newsweek story? localbitcoins is the absolute best place to buy or sell btc, period site is run by Mark Karpeles!!! BEWARE! i call bullshit brainwallet .. if you can remember a 128bit sentence easy to do .. i've been surviving on bitcoin for years. Haven't had a bank account since 2010! amazon doesnt accept btc because they're stupid Depends on the card, but many cons are:- Scam- High Fees- Not anonymous - required ID and docs- Low withdrawal limits I agree, hoard Bitcoin and price will go up .. i've been making payments in bitcoin for past two years  poor guy is facing life in prison ..
people should use localbitcoins or other anonymous exchanges NOT the big coinbase, bitstamp, etc unlikely, central banks hate bitcoin as do most governments. US only tolerates bitcoin because it can regulate the crypto aggressively what exactly does the fork mean for the average user? this is a really good way to anonmyize bitcoins  if I had a briefcase with $250k in it and I wanted to buy bitcoins who would I talk to? or is that not even possible these days? Bitcoin is heading to $500 or even $600 rapidly .. I'm buying in NOW! any idea whats got the price moving so suddenly? because they are all getting arrested like Burt W ross is getting the 'special treatment' and will be sent to solitary confinement for the rest of his life .. govt wants to make an example of him.  My heart goes out to Ross it's because Ver is contributing to Ulbricht's defense fund gotta admit .. I respect Roger Ver bitstamp stole a $1200 wire I sent to them on December 23rd .. friggin thieves .. i would NEVER trust them again!!! i've had my bitcoins stolen from hackers and phishing numerous times and never once got them back :-( Ruble is crashing and Russians are moving into Bitcoins driving the price up .. expect a new bull market for btc starting NOW ukrainians are moving into bitcoin, as are russians .. means price is headed for a major spike moriarty = legit , he fixed my problem on bitlaunder and paid outsigned up for coinchimp and yes there is a bank of america deposit option, ill test it out for $200 i heard the same thing lol from my mom who was smoking pot I AM a BLACK GUY .. are u some sort racist? UPDATE: It was my fault, I entered a wrong email.  Moriarty fixed it and the laundering worked. DR. MORIARTY IS LEGIT, do not believe the bullshit i used bitlaunder never received any '2FA' email beware moriarty he robbed me 1.872 btc electrum would be the best for this ... i've been using bitplastic and bitlaunder for a few months and never once had a problem .. both sites do what they're supposed to do. then again I dont load $80k on there :-)
Waiting too.DkingstonThanks:)EDIT: Payment got! I'm IN  Of course as boumalo he is NOT an idiot! But Bitcoins are a fully new thing. History never seen anything like bitcoins!  I'm so sad, maybe Bitcoins will start going up again on October Hey I'm in trading since 2008 and I've been working on btcusd trading for 1,5 year.I built some good indicators that are able to predict the market very wellI'm building a website/membership were I will post my advices about the situation to make you do in average 80% successfull trades.I'm going to provide free access to the membeship these days to 3-4 trusted guys.If you are interested add me on skype : effec9 or email me at effec9@aol.comThanks There are lot of indicators to predict markets but, remember that altcoin markets are SOOOO volatile nothing that you can do to predict the market!Bitcoin/usd is better with some work (at least one year) you can build your techniques to predict the market (but you never can be sure about the trend) It's number game! Save some more money, build an idea and sell your vaild products or services! Check on the currency exchange of this forum or go to localbitcoinRemember to ALWAYS! use a trustable escrow! Faucets, Sig campaign (https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=615953.0) and trading! BUT use your mind and find methods(legal) to make bitcoins  I'm not a HATER of paypal but I don't like them! It's a nice news, bitcoin is becoming important! We have to wait a lot! Surely not now!  Sad and funny story at the same time! That poor guy will go to jail for some weed but I don't understand a thing... Why did the police take the miners?There is NOTHING illegal in mining! News still destroy credibility of bitcoin... That's a fantastic idea! I contacted them as well! They a have lot of wonderfull stuffs! I'm going to buy lot of thing ifthey start to accept bitcoins! a) FortuneJack Username :Dkingstonb) Forum Username : Dkingstonc) Current Post Count and Member level:SR member 333 post It's time that the scammers change country and choose some other country name instead of Nigeria... People knows that the scammers pretend to be Nigerian! My smartphone is Sony Xperia J. I don't recommend to anybody my mobile, because it's really slow when it opens the gallery with the images, videos and songs or app as whatsapp. It's very slow to do everything. Bought! Seems good! I'll update you guys! You're a very good person! I'm always happy when I hear of people as you. This makes me believe that there's still a little hope that the world is still beautiful. I admire you! Compliments. I believe that there isn't a right time to invest on BTC, because everything can change from one moment to another. I advise you don't count on other's opinion because it's easy to lose it all in a moment. On the one hand I think it's a very good idea delete all the accounts that haven't been used for more of 6 months, so lots of usernames will be available.On the other hand if I couldn't use my account for a while, I would to be able to come back on the forum.
Yes, of course! My favorite cheese is pecorino sardo, a form of pecorino cheese from Sardinia. I advise all you to taste it!!!   I also can't access to ebay! Today I wanted to buy a rucksack, but I couldn't to buy it. I advise you to buy from amazon meanwhile ebay is down! In my opinion UK is very bitcoin friendly, you could have an UK bank! This is valid only if you are doing business in new york state. I think the safest countries currently are Germany and Singapore. Just go about buying real estate with Btc and there shouldn't be problems, if you choose the right open minded person that knows that Btc is legit for law. Translations are very welcome! They help people that don't speak English. I'm italian, too. Personally, I'm using Google Translate at the moment, butI know enough well English and verbal tenses as simple past, present continuos, present perfect, the futures... I get along with English, so I've no problems! You heard just rumours at the moment... Maybe they will be accepted in the future, but nobody knows at the moment... I've got Avast and it functions very well! I advise you this antivirus!  Hahahhaha newbie , 8 activity! Probably you never had one satoshi  I really think we should do a bitcoin town.That would be awesome. "The Bitcoin people!"  The article says that some people have posted on YouTube a video of a gay marriage in Egypt, although gay marriage isn't legal in Egypt. So, WHY have they posted it on Internet?! They've been very stupid! I disagree the discrimination against gay because all we are people, but I think that they could avoid to post their gay marriage in Egypt on Internet if gay marriage is illegal in Egypt. Online wallets means that it's connected to the internet or rather it's accessed only through a web site and offline wallet means the wallet you install on your PC. Obviously having bitcoins in an account on a web site is enough dangerous and you need you need to give attention. Bitcoin exist because of internet and if it shuts down, bitcoin community will disappear. Bitcoin will not survive without internet because they can't move. First of all it's ignorance. People are scared and then hear about Islamic terrorists, but they don't know that jihadists represent only a very small number of Muslims. I've a good Muslim friend and she's a beautiful person. Moreover I've had other Muslims classmates at school and we were good friends.  I don't believe that Obama is a failure. The truth is the economic crisis inevitably strikes the livable wages and it isn't nobody's fault. It's a time of economic difficulties, we have to wait that the crisis goes away and survive with poor wages , although it's very difficult (I speak in first person, because I'm the first that I've economic difficulties and I know that's very difficult) I'm not watching anything at this moment, but I'm going to watch "I got u" from Duke Dumont! I've already seen it, but it's a excellent video. I recommend it!   I don't possess an iPhone and I won't buy it because it's too expensive for me, but some of my friends have it. I know that they complain that iPhone 6 has a  awful battery and it needs a better battery which can last longer... That's a guy very brave!!!   I wouldn't be so brave to invest my life savings into Bitcoin. If they are little life savings, I guessit makes sense, because otherwise I think this is for crazy peolpe. As with any investments its a risk, but this is a risk too big. The way to buy bitcoins using paypal is virvox. You could place an advert on localbitcoins, but I think it isn't advantageous using paypal...
Io sostengo che Bitcoin sia il futuro ed è proprio per questo che spero vivamente che si diffondano sempre di più anche in Italia! It scares me to think of the children they should have such chipsat birth. I disagree because I prefer my privacy to a chip with no doubt, although one positive thing would be that if everyone is chipped, the crime would decrease. I think it's correct that the answers should be relevant to the questions! I'll be more than happy to help you.   I hope that they find a way to solve the problem. Ebola is a virus that involves people a close contact and with more exposition to the sick people, but the lethality is very high anyway. Ebola is a very dangerous virus and whole world can be affected very soon.Plus the epidemy continues to spread in Africa, more the possibilities that Ebola continues the spread in whole world are. 1. Most of the people in the poor countries don't know how to use a computer, so they need to learn to use it. 2. Most of them haven't computers and internet.So your is a good idea, but it involves a huge amount of money... My favorite car is Range Rover with no doubt!But I know that it enough expensive... I hope thatmaybe one day I'll be able to buy it.   It depends how much you want spend. In my opinion, the best monitor for pc are LED. Imagine - John Lennon  It's my favorite song, I love the words that they are in the text of song. Questa potrebbe essere un'ottima idea! La cosa migliore è che facendo scommesse sul ritardo del proprio treno,se dovessi prendere un secondo treno una volta arrivato a destinazione e non riuscissi a prenderlo per via del primo treno in ritardo, tuttavia avresti un rimborso e di conseguenza ci sarebbe meno rabbia. If I had 1,000,000 dollars I'd like to give a big majority of money to charity and the other money I would  spend itto a flat, a Range Rover, travels and clothes. Megan Fox with no doubts! She's just beautiful. I love her!  I talk about me. I'm a very lucky person, because I'm thin.I eat a lot of chocolate, cakes and crisps, but I don't become fat. Anyway, I advise you to do a lot of sport and an healthyfeeding. I don't know if Obama is pro-Muslim or not, but he has approved a lot of air strikes against ISIS, so I don't believe he has particular Muslim sympathies. User: dKingstonRank: Sr. memberNumber of posts: 290BTC addy :13n7NfmczWRtNqvL1WoyrSYtCYDMsTPbQZThanks Waiting for payment! I don't think (hope) we all got scammed!Please letprice pay us! Blocked also my card! Shit! Lost money with these bank-scammer!This thread is in my watchlist! Hope to get good news!   Thats'a a good thing!! Big company that discuss about Bitcoins is always a good thing!Bitcoin have to get a better reputation because deepweb sites silkroad and all those illegal sites made people think that BITCOIN=DRUG AND CRIMESo I'm happy for these news  It's just your computer! Hope you have a backup to change your wallet.dat file!Let us know if you can resolve this  Bitcoin is a great idea! I love the blockchain becauseit allow us to escape to the banks. Bitcoin is the future.I'll keep using it!
I'll be honest. I'm interested in Bitcoin because I need some money, but not to become rich that isn't the aim, I only want some money  to travel and to visit the world. Hahaha nice That's probably just fake hack, never trust criminals! (Exept for Ross William Ulbricht) Buy! price is going to go up! Trust me (I'm using custumized indicators not based on the price mooving) In my opinion, it's a good thing that more people are holding and spending Bitcoins, but the great majority merchants still prefer paypal payments instead of Bitcoin. I think that it's illegal and it's not fair that somebody has the right to record the transactions, but it's also true that the sender andbuyer would know in advance that the blockchain is public information. It could be lot of things a drug deal by silkroad2, a money laundering transation, a rich man trying to evade taxes or it may be just a good man that stores his money in bitcoins  Shit it's admirable! But I won't invest in mining, I'm so worried by the difficulty rise and I think now you can make money just if you have tons of dollar invested Funny thinking  Bitcoin is the first crypto is the crypto! Anything else is secondary and not considerable as BTC I'd like to visit Japan, because I've read a book about it, I'd like to visit the U.S.A and also I'd like to visit all the states of Europe, in particular the French Riviera (la Côted'Azur) and the Greece: the sea in Greece must be great!  CoinBase wallet on his phone is easiest option. But there more sophisticated services like https://coinkite.com/Check them  Paper Wallet stored in a very secure place It will be almost impossible to get you BTC on a paper wallet.(I'm really waiting for hardware wallets ) I have two dell computer, I'm loving this company for 3 years I'm sooo so happy that they started accepting bitcoins.Big Up for DELL  Keeping your BTC for 5 years may be a good thing yea!But why don't try to earn more money trading every day It's incredible that he is 101, also incredible that he has worked a lot of years in the same job and he still works! He's an excellent man! Happy birthday!!! Scientists have discovered extra-terrestrial life in the space.I think that they could exist, I don't exclude this hypothesis,but I think that they won't be as we imagine them (I don't think they are for example as E.T.) Steven Sotloff is facing possible death, if President Obama doesn't stop their airstrikes in Iraq. President Obama said: "We will do everything we can to protect our people", but He continues with the airstrikes in Iraq,he said: "We remain until it will be necessary". I'll try refferal campaign soon just to see how it goes. I'm impresed by the results of Micro I'll try to see how many refferals  I get for 50 posts then I'll update my results here  Member type:Sr. MemberCurrent Post:265Bitcoin Address:13n7NfmczWRtNqvL1WoyrSYtCYDMsTPbQZI want to join!Thanks  In my opinion it's enough serious that the large ocompanies online (ex: Amazon) don't accept the Bitcoin,because Bitcoin is a money online and it should be used online. I have 3 Bitcoin addresses, I have one address for shopping online, one address for my savings and one address to get payments from signature campaign.I think 3/4 Bitcoin addresses are sufficient, if you don't care about your privacy. 
I don't hate environmentalists and feminists. I think that their ideas are goods,but most of them are too mentally closed. Total time logged in: 2 days, 14 minutes.It's  just the beginning  I would like to partecipateI went on the form selected EnrollingFilled the formThen I got page about requesting paymentI leaved it blank and I submitted the formHave I done everything well? It is generally best to keep multiple copies of your backup in various storage formats, eg, paper wallets, USB drive, flash drive (from different manufacturers). This would lessen the chances that you would have no access to your keys.  If you do not have the information gained from prerequisites then you will likely not understand the subject that is being taught.   I would imagine that most of the bills that were paid were for smaller bills like cell phone bills and tv bills as opposed to rent or other large expenses. Although the initial amount is very small when compared to the overall austrailian economy it is significant as it shows that people are using bitcoin for trade.   This is something that I very much don't understand. One of the benefits of bitcoin is that you do not need to trust others to "hold" and keep safe your bitcoin as you can easily do this yourself. There is no third party necessary to trust your money with, but your money is secured by the network. Despite this there are so many people that entrust their hard earned money to others.  Didn't you say that your "sales price" is the fair market value of the good/service that you are exchanging your bitcoin for? I don't think it would be considered to be a charitable donation unless the wallet service was actually a legit charity. I would argue that you would be able to write off the entire amount as a capital loss. Also, if I understand the tax code regarding donating assets correctly (I probably don't) you do not need to pay capital gains on an appreciated asset if you donate the asset directly to charity and you can claim the entire value as a donation. The example that I am familiar with is you buy 100 shares of XYZ for $10 per share, then four years later, XYZ is trading at $40 per share. You want to donate $4,000 to your church but also want to minimize your tax bill. You also no longer think that you no longer want to own stock in XYZ. You donate the 100 shares to your church directly and can deduct the entire $4,000 donation (subject to other, unrelated limits) and do not need to pay capital gains on the $3,000 that the stock appreciated by. http://www.programforgiving.org/charitable/pages/donatingAppreciatedAssets.jsphttp://www.fool.com/FoolCharityFund/Donating_Stock.htm I don't think this would actually work very well. It can take several minutes for radio waves to travel from earth to Mars and during this time it would be possible that coins could be double spent. If we were to ever colonize on another planet I don't think that interplant commerce would really be possible due to the costs associated with traveling between earth and any other planet.   He should have had US forces intervene when the ISIS started to be more then a small nuisance. It was several weeks that the ISIS was fighting until they started making serious headway in taking over most of Iraq. From the time they took over a few cities to the time they took over most of the country was a very short amount of time as the Iraqi military was ill prepared.  I would predict that there will be some kind of civil war in Iraq for a long time. The US and the rest of the world may intervene if things get too out of hand but I don't think there will be peace there for at least a decade. I do think it is very sad that individual sects of Islam are not more willing to be accepting of other's religion.  Someone can logout of facebook and clear their cookies. This would make it so they would have no real way of tracking you since facebook uses your account to track you. I think this would be very difficult to measure. With a very few exceptions, most campaigns only last a few months at the most, and when a campaign ends there is a good chance that all members would not get paid the full amount they are owed. I think that having a "campaign of the..." would be an endorsement of the campaign when the OP really does not know how trustworthy a campaign is. IMO the setup the OP has now is best as it gives users the most relevant information about each campaign so users can make an informed choice.  I think the mail problem with what they are doing is that they will not be able to do it forever. As they get older they will be less desirable for their clientele and will likely get hired less frequently and get paid less for each "job" (no pun intended). They would likely need to eventually return to some kind of "day job" but it will be harder to do so after being in the industry that they are in.  I think what the OP may have been implying (and I may be reading too much into it) is that you could potentially try to "write off" the value of your coins if you had sent your bitcoin to a "void" wallet. If you gave the "wallet service" something of value (your bitcoin) and received nothing in return (the "void" wallet) then by this measure you would have a capital loss. I think this concept/idea is not a very good one as the reason you pay taxes is because you have earned something and the tax makes it so you have earned a little bit less, but you still have a net benefit.  It really isn't so much that the Christians living in parts of Iraq don't have any money, or the money they do have is subject to inflation/confiscation it is that the ISIS is killing them. Bitcoin would not solve this problem. Contrary to what many people on here think, bitcoin is not the answer to all of the world's problems. This would be very unethical for any entity to do. Companies do give some level of fringe benefits like free goods/services of what the entity produces but something like this would be crossing the line. This would be an abuse of power.  There was a story about a reporter from Forbes that tried this last year (she did a follow up by doing it again this summer). IIRC she had a much easier time this year, but still had to convert a lot of her BTC to fiat by paying people BTC in exchange for paying her share of things (like transportation, meals, ect). She also used gyft pretty heavily. I would be interested to see a story about someone who is able to buy everything with bitcoin over some amount of time and not have to do things like the above.  I think this is the main reason why BTC ATM operators are able to charge such a high markup on the BTC they sell and buy BTC at such a large discount. People (especially in the US and Europe) very much value connivence and are willing to pay a very high price for it. In almost every industry there is some kind of market that lets consumers somehow cut in line or otherwise not have to wait their turn.   I really am surprised as to how much volume gambling sites get, in terms both of traffic and money. According to PD3, their members have wagered over 400k BTC since they opened PD3 just yesterday. Assuming that is accurate and that they have been open for 36 hours, that means that people, on average wagered 11k BTC per hour. 
I can almost guarantee that the NSA conspiracy theory threads are due to the fact that the "Alex" guy recently somewhat "endorsed" bitcoin. He seems kind of like a nutjob and these kind of theories sound like the kind of thing that he would say. It would be possible that some of his followers had purchased accounts to post these kind of theories, or people could have watched some of his youtube videos and believed the kind of things that he was saying. Regardless of what exactly is happening, it would say it is defiantly related.   I think a lot of people do this, myself included. By spending your bitcoin you will be able to reap the benefits of using bitcoin (near instant transaction, low/no fees for sending money around the world, potential discounts by merchants), will further the bitcoin economy, potentially get more people to buy and use bitcoin. By purchasing an approximately equal amount on an exchange or a trade you will not lose out on any potential price appreciation.  US airforce is now working side by side with Syrians, Turks, Iranians, Iraqi and Russians airforce targeting ISIS. I hope they will destroy ISIS for good. username: dKingstonthanks I think he got scammed and he feel the forum is involved somehow. He is crying in his avatar.   Are you willing to escrow the prize?He already have control of the website. http://www.nuovocard.com/hacking-challenge/ This is a nonsense question. Ask this question to isolated tribes on amazon they don't wear any clothes most of the time. Not at all, I presume the same benefits with hero member. I will only give more details to those who is interested in loaning me. Avast free antivirus is better than AVG. To make your system more secure use Avast free + malwarebytes. It will detect most malware and viruses. Dragon Ball Z and Hunter X Hunter. dKingstonthanks for the awesome giveaway We don't know if he have other account that qualify the same campaign.He still lucky he is not permabanned. He violate ban evading for creating/using another account. I cannot give collateral now. 0.05 Loan needed 20 percent interest within 10 days. I will use it to trade alt coins.Btc address: 1B2eU71eKbyPXcPn34PBp13Tey9jkwtzDK This kid knows how to rank his videos. He must have use fake views and likes to make his videos on top. If we flag his videos he will only create another one with slight change. He may also using automatic video uploader and video spinner.To counter this videos we should rank our own bitcoin videos and outrank his bs videos. This means user with activity lower than 775 has chance to be legendary? Fall Out Boy - Dance, Dancewww.youtube.com/watch?v=C6MOKXm8x50 He might spend after a big part of the world accepted bitcoin and use it as currency. Too early to spend now. My guess he would start spending when it reaches 100k per bitcoin. I'm a fan of The Walking Dead. I'm excited to see the Season 5.
About 5 - 12 hours a day, games, watching movies and ebooks. Total time logged in: 1 days, 14 hours and 54 minutes. The best way is only open your bitcoin wallet on new formatted pc with no other programs installed and this is stickly only for bitcoin transactions. Maybe he is a millionaire philantropist that those amounts don't matter to him. Best age would be 8 - 10. Especially when you taught them how to save money and they are old enough to understand the concept of money. Marketplace Goods: BipolarbobMarketplace Lending: Vod and MonbuxMarketplace Sevices: Escrow.msMarketplace curency exchange: DannyHamiltonPolitcal & Society: Bryant Coleman , Wilikon and Actor_Tom_TruongOfftopic: 247CryptoMarketplace Gambling: Stunna and DooglasAlt Currency: BitcoinExpressArchival: Dank It is litterally a pump and dump. Jed already finished dumping his 9 billion ripple and now created a new one called stellar. It was sad that they have to go. They are one of the most honest bitcoin site. Bitmit ask me to contact one of my customer that still haven't withdraw his bitcoin balance. I been using bitcoin since 2010, but the problem is I have a weak hands. You are providing your HYIP site as collateral? It has been stated by theymos that the forum already have enough money. This is bitcoin forum we should not use the value of dollar.   This wars/conflicts that we are witnessing today could be a prelude to a World War. Just look at the nations aligning themselves. The biggest war on History is on the horrizon. Just say goodbye to your innocent childhood years and welcome to adulthood.  Why not?, when satoshi leave this forum there are only a few thousand member now we have 350k.  You got it wrong, he does want not buy advertisement, he wants to sell an advertisement. No big news here, only the media scaring the public, Russia do this since 1960. Your loan does not make sense at all. The bird is shocked.   username: dKingstonthank you Username: dKingstonthanks
Username: dKingstonthanks Username: dKingstonthanks Registration date is not important.  Payment Received, Updated my signature. Re enrolling for next month.Posts: 201Bitcoin Address: 1HpZToDwzridjb9mkf5yL4UZjBWoKgSg2m  Like paying to add your forum link in their signatures, pay users to post content in your forum or pay users to share your forum anything like that. It is working now, just registered. I'm the second user who registered? Are you planning of giving incentives to promote this forum? Are you using bruteforce or some special technique to find the password? It tells me that the verification code is incorrect even I don't see any captcha to type to."Please correct the following errors before continuing:    The image verification code that you entered was incorrect. Please enter the code exactly how it appears in the image." Now is the perfect time for Kurds to create their own country while shite and sunni are fighting each other. They deserve to own their own country, they have right to decide their own future. I think Oboma should send that funding to the Kurds instead of the ISIS terrorist. What so special about that small patch of land, why they are willing to be killed and to kill. Middle east is a big less populated swatches of land why not leave that curse land Israel and transfer to other peaceful place. How much your budget for this? I'm using tor now, because I want privacy, this should not mean I do illegals activities. How many days it will take you to make the 10,000 twitter users follow me? Mad World - Gary Juleshttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4N3N1MlvVc4 Are those followers real or bots? Have you heard about cryptothrift? It is the new bitmit try it. Can I use this to mine alt coins? For how many days I can use this? The link does not work. "Error404 – File not found". The only positive about paypal is it has big userbase. Once bitcoin gain more users comparable to paypal no one would use paypal anymore.Paypal can freeze your account without reason anytime. It will refund back to the buyers without letting you know. Paypal customer support cannot help you at all. Paypal has big fees. I stop using paypal long time ago. I love the classic logo and I don't think we need an alternative.
No it does not. Being violent, greed and the lust for power to rule over others is embeeded in our genes. Leaders will always find a way to start a war. Bitcoin can be even a cause of  war in the future. Anything that has value can cause a war and bitcoin is one of them.  My favorite is adventure and action. It did happen in 1859 called Carrington Event. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_storm_of_1859 The chance is 12% every 10 years.  EvilPanda please check your private message. Hello I want to loan.Amount: 0.05 btcAmount to be Repaid: 0.055 btcNumber of Days required: 15 daysReason: My domains expired. I need the bitcoin for renewal immediately.Security if Any: No collateralBitcoin address if approved: 1JaFz8JgyUXEnGpDKciaZPmptemxDzJDRb user: dKingstonthanks Username: dKingstonthanks I think 15% for 2 days is very high. Why only 2 days can you extend it to 7 days?  Hello I want to loan.Amount: 0.05 btcAmount to be Repaid: 0.055 btcNumber of Days required: 15 daysReason: My domains expired. I need the bitcoin for renewal immediately.Security if Any: No collateralBitcoin address if approved: 1JaFz8JgyUXEnGpDKciaZPmptemxDzJDRb I think it will destroy all electronics even which sides are you on. I found out that solar flare is different from coronal mass ejection. CME is the most dangerous. Because it will change the earth magnetic field unpredictably, making all conductor in earth electricity inductors.Coronal mass ejection (CME) can cause serious problems for electrical systems here on Earth. During a CME, the fluctuations of the sun's magnetic fields cause a large portion of the surface of the sun to expand rapidly, ejecting billions of tons of particles out into space. CME will produce a magnetic shockwave that extends billions of miles out into space. If Earth is in the path of that shockwave, our planet's magnetic field will react to the event. It's similar to what happens if you put a weak magnet next to a strong one. The weak magnet's field will align itself to the strong magnet's field. A magnetic shockwave from the sun could cause the alignment of the Earth's magnetic field to shift unpredictably.The magnetic fluctuations can cause compasses to fail. And since magnetic fields can induce electricity, any conductor could become an inductor. A powerful CME could induce electricity in large, powerful conductors. That could overload electrical systems and cause massive damage.Solar Flare isn't just an explosion of hot gases. It pushes out waves of light all across the spectrum. That includes light we can't see -- including radiation in the form of X-rays and gamma rays. If high-energy rays were to hit a satellite, they could strip electrons from the metal components, ionizing them. As electrons break free, they could short out the electronics within a satellite.  We need stop being racist. If what they say is right, 12 percent every 10 years could not be stated as "unlikely". I'm not in anyway supported the hamas, What I mean Iron Dome will simply not work on advance countries. I'm watch cnn sometimes but I mostly get the news from the internet. What is the alternative your to lawyers? Do you like kangaroo courts? Iron dome will only work for primitive hamas. Their rocket will only fly straight lines that is why it is easy to shot down.I think Iron dome is easy to defeat.Make those rockets move faster and move randomly.Add guidance to those rockets and fly very low to the ground and make it follow the terrainMake the rocket separate in to five or ten small warhead once it detects that interceptor is coming.Simply launced ten of thousands in very short time.Launch thousands of small dummy rockets Maybe because muslim accounts always associated with terrorism. It is not your lose, it is HSBC who lose on this one. There are many other banks around that cater muslims. There are many billionaire muslims why not create your own bank. I doubt that will work, Be sure to disconnect your electronics to the grid, because solar flare will create massive electricity surge that will destroy any electronics connected to it.  That's why we need to vote to know what the majority believe. Right now the most evil is US but once China is on top it will be more evil than the US. They will even surpass what the Nazi does.
That question is like asking why you wear clothes. The simple answer is privacy. The negative rating is not about scamming. I failed to post 50 per month. I did contact him to refund but he did not reply. That user is permabanned for spamming.https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=601491.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=trust;u=77441You even give him negative feedback. zolace 0: -0 / +1(1)   2014-05-20   0.00000000      used many alt accounts to cheat the sig campaigns  In the events like this, satellites will be destroyed, electric grid will be knock down, most miners will be destroyed, Continental internet connections could stop. If some nodes survive it will create many forks around the world. It could take up to 10 years for the world to recover for the kind of strategy.  Total time logged in: 23 hours and 53 minutes. Can I reserved a spot. I'm waiting for your campaign. I think it is a pure scam. Better save your money for useful things.  One of the tarot readers near my home got hit by a truck and died, she could have dodge it if she know how to predict the future. He should have gambled with time and waited for 2-5 years and wait the bitcoin price to rise. He could have high chance of  winning.Casinos are made to profit, the profit comes from you. The already have tested formulas no matter what you do the house will still profit on the end. It does not mean that they don't have laws if it is not written. I'm sure they have oral laws. If your neighbor doesn't know how to read or white doesn't give you the right to kill him and stole his land.I search on google, the anthropologist discovered that the natives use string and knot as a form of writing. The colonist could have seen it and have no idea it is a form of writing. In a capitalist state the real power is wielded by the 1% elite. The politicians is simply their pawns. The elite can dictate what they want, they control almost everything. The Cia and Mossad just created another terrorist group, to make Hezbollah, Syria, Iraq and Iran occupied with the war. This group will hunt them in the future. I drink coffee 3 to 5 times a day.   I would pay my debt, I will bring my family to Disney land and the rest for savings. Username: dKingstonthanks I like aurora designs, another vote for auroraHF. Username: dKingstonthanks username: https://www.moneypot.com/user/dKingston They want love, sex, money and lots of time. I'm using safari and chrome. Both great browsers. P.O.D Alivehttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hv6Ql21FBz8 Username: dKingstonthanks
Total time logged in: 21 hours and 3 minutes. AvatarPrometheusStargateOblivionEdge of TomorrowTransendance I think the name is Turko   dKingstonthanks username: dKingston Signature added, thank you for informing me. I want to join this campaign.Starting posts: 139Bitcoin Address: 1CiQQ7EYhpprZzJ8VgNFLc3uCNqzDuJLTd Total time logged in: 19 hours and 56 minutes. Jump off from the top of a skyscraper and I would call it flying. dKingstonthanks Username: dKingstonthank you User ID: 2565Thanks stunna This is needs a lot money. Not less than 100 million. dKingston Posts: 132Bitcoin address: 1MR2w9E2w1gR4KezeDGdsn78E9pLet79yj dKingston 752 784 Whos that pretty girl is she in the Russian Military? Instant deposit and withdrawal?
Great site, beautiful live dealers.   Username: dKingstonthank for this awesome giveaway PM sent! I don't know why you are thinking that world would end if we are starting mine asteriods? LolMost of this ores are to be used in space. Like to build cities in mars, space cities, moon base and many other things. Do you know the cost of getting 1pound of payload to space? This giveaway is still open? The promo is still active? Post this on the meta section. This post should be in the off topic section. It is a long way to go. I think he is not the guy. What alt currency that does the guy talking about? I got tired of listening. He said it is not gold or silver but like gold. What is it? Lol so true agree.   Yes they are, Money = Bitcoin remember   I think I would use the 10 percent for myself. 30 percent for savings and 60 percent for investments. I think knowledge/information would also be very important in the post collapse world. I would try to save my pc/laptop/usb with lots of  medicinal ebooks, engineering ebooks and invention ebooks and all important ebooks, and all how to videos and tutorial. I think this is very important. Total time logged in: 16 hours and 44 minutes. I also like Harry Potter .   I think just below 2 percent right now. Nice game I keep scoring while clicking randomly.   This is to prevent newbies spamming. Once you have 15 activity this lessen to 72 seconds.
Just think one Asteroid with the diameter one kilometer. Can provide all the world iron production for a year, all the world production for gold and silver  for 10 years. All platinum production for a thousand years. And this only for a small asteroid and there are more than 750k other asteriods with same size other even called dwarf planet.  I think you should stick to reality movies.   Thank you, do know any tutorial how to create a cpu based with proof of work and proof of stakes hybrid? I think when things like this that happens very quick our instinct would takeover without us knowing it. StrongCoin Clearly American is only thinking its own interest. American don't care about the people in Crimea or any other country they destroyed. They only wanted the status quo. Where are you from Elavenil ? 2 hours walkling is like 8 - 13 kilometers.  Do you use escrow? Are you ok with using an escrow? Anyone can share me any ebooks or tutorial posts on how to create an altcoin? Thanks in advance I'm very interested in any coin generator that is more affordable and have more features than coingen.io.  Do you need ID's? How to get the giveaway? 100 Satoshis I like them both. Why choose? Running unprovably fair casino is like running a ponzi scheme. So I don't like both. username: dKingstonthank you You should post the hash of the winning number first to make it fair. And also 0.05 btc is so much for a $100 prize with odds less than 10 percent. No one  yet.   So true, the irony.   That was to much. That was like end of the world.
Looks like this is a spam. Hello welcome to the forum tianrui81317.   Security of your website should be your priority. You can go bankrupt anytime if your website is hacked. Last time I know he is a student. Don't know now.   Let the people of Crimea decides what they want. Eliminate those neo nazi basterds. Hey Jody, How are you. I miss you. Lords of the ring series and the hobbit series. Takes me two days to watch it. It is great. We are boat people we live in international waters, which country should I select?  How this giveaway works? Looks like no one is interested. The promo is still active? 467 dKingston Username: Kingston 888 Ice-Dice.com is awesome! Please send me some free coupons. dKingston User: dKingstonthanks username: dKingstonLooks fun never tried a game like this before. I want BTC on Cloud-Dice.comMY Username/ID: Player_371 (369)
Username = dKingston Did not receive mine until now. waiting for 3 days. Ice-Dice.com is awesome! I'm selling piratcoin pm me if interested. 1MR2w9E2w1gR4KezeDGdsn78E9pLet79yjadded 1MR2w9E2w1gR4KezeDGdsn78E9pLet79yjthank you 1MR2w9E2w1gR4KezeDGdsn78E9pLet79yjthanks! username: dKingstonthanks User ID 2565thanks Username: dKingstonthanks REF number: 496thank you JbXRcArRkK1Gcsk8uoA48SoqthPhoTqai6thanks ARG - AUWDivZBc7ewNDFRmcT2N76P4yvCntnersDGC - DDRCgfPoKrQqJKiyCKoGPHmUDNewmV9qifthank you 1Fn1aTdAELZBRSHcYWJYWZWpLqE6TAcRTdthanks iG28KzyyM4nLWt21fQG9AQb25cBZf7auHkthanks 9w5fqXgqUXP26pDH67C63Ymko1n695iN21thanks 4TXUbwPsBHTqNmFYa7bBY1xLMuiAoiRGitthank you 6nJiU4H1VbdPsbc1Vk6yGkUJ3wT3JqHb9sthank you S3FdLJU1iEcy5gKCkQj15cX3pcaULt7Fxtthank you 17sVvemPHQbtUtQW8R2pgKQ1PoedaLU46Zthanks
oYa4PueJWVVy5Hnu2NWzJdur6W7QVDhrScthanks q8bYG3GnTTRjhBSMb3RT7L93hxAXNVBimthanks Bi4nKdufUxkdFXYq7kJdKShRigHQnhz5wZthank you 5pFUWUaBnHsv2FSf35CLo8ZXJseXmAvvWkthank you E7CHrKubxkYKLfBbqTMpWWYfo6B9UeqWbzthank you tsC2eV4zxNfG4M4ZwXgw6dtXY8dTf2Ar1thank you PR3qXiZMFiyRDkZbFFE8KbjrWKhKz4Z51Hthanks Deposit Address:14w3cecDG5Wrx7YdW5jpWtUoDboJx7yFLjthanks user id = 42524thanks rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc peerbet = dKingstonbit777 = dKingston F9yZXGaDjEgoJNma6ABFtpxnrwkRfuSVjs sboak7KxsYNZjC1rje5ypZtTY7sYDYs7xu I give it 80 percent they are using botnet. 6f1iQ9m4NNctyWqn5WAPzxC36peTVVcsEp 75mcNf2FwgzDSav3XH7HZaszByNwDzB2KX YFyG63RWgEzuD883X3HpQddvxdqRQwxWmB 1FEonR4CjrpEwSShFa5FpFyhYevrsazb3tThanks DzWitpefanbbwW3Fm4e7EnqpeAT6BVsR15 DGC - DAKuYiQGPhf5kwYhMaYaRuXhiTv3njxxx2SRC - sRuHjS4wWEDvDgutZk7SHjyAkbeLkdGX9s
751BUBiG5tqt5b8kXegLqYQCr1kJQvYuic display name = dKingstonuser id = 42524 BTC: 1MR2w9E2w1gR4KezeDGdsn78E9pLet79yjIocoin: jMj1WYeZNQTQHTSzFumWYWgHLfVqdjUciF QZ5T9qDkvSmQ8u5REXpgWBftg7EARioiXNThanks MkYQLrE3543ZEH3QmNZvZRxhcurhPQv2S6 FNdmwbrh7Gf4UVgikKZYxp3Q2yJPju646Q Mgj5BijfBrHJo5Xcjo3PqZ3deAbQfb1d4AThanks rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc rLNvgX4n7xjj2LHyJjy1yKwdPSHHgbWrAc +1 Definitely yes $100 for www.virtual-coin.com Just use other exchanger like btc-e.com they don't need any passfort. He is no doubt a genius. Like many superheros they did not like to reveal themeselves.  I only need a clone of litecoins. What is price for this? I will just change the name.  I will invest on that coin. create a forum, marketplace like ebay, pools., exchanger, blogs, news and advertisement i will hype the new coin to its maximum.   Wow, so many coins. What if I created my own coins. How much I need to invest? If you can create a new coin just let me know. Thanks great info. I was also confused by this. lol.
