Well, let's see ... the "wall" is 60,000 BTC strong ... there is 216,000 BTC generated *every month* ... so no, unless the fundamentals change (bitcoin starts to be actually useful and used because of that as a currency) then the downward spiral will continue until such change or the final death of bitcoin. Oh, ok then ... I misunderstood because as bizarre as it is there are people who actually think like that so it's hard to tell sarcasm from serious statement I guess I get confused by people who think that some of his policies are "nuts" and that he's "fringe" and similar things that are just irrelevant in the big scheme of things ... and don't look at the very important issues that actually matter and do have huge impact on people's lives. He is not going to be an exact mirror image of your beliefs, it's silly to expect that ... but he is 100x better than any other candidate and finally there is someone who can be voted FOR as opposed to voting AGAINST someone as happens too often unfortunately - lesser evil is still evil. I really hope he'll win, it would be the best thing that happened to America in a long time ... I'm not an American but this is not a matter of parties, those who support Ron Paul do not want to vote for him because he is a republican but because he is Ron Paul! Because of his principles that he advocates for several decades without flip-flopping, ever. I also see that Ron Paul supporters see right trough the BS of Perry the bankster puppet (just like Obama) or Bachman or similar posturing clowns so no ... it's not a matter of "electing a republican", look at the person not the party. He would run like an independent if he had any chance to get into debates like one - but thanks to the  two-party worshiping corporate media he doesn't.There are really only few extremely important points that I care about with Ron Paul:1. Ending the FED - which is an entity outside of any oversight by congress wielding huge powers and they're the ones impoverishing Americans and indeed by proxy the whole world. They're the arm of private banksters and wall street sharks stealing the shit out of America ... 2. Ending the useless and pointless wars that are not only costing trillions of dollars further impoverishing people and growing the military-industrial complex but cost the lives of over million innocent people. And are making America less safe, in fact pose a threat to national security by creating enemies all over the middle east and elsewhere ... a principle called blowback.3. Repealing the blatantly unconstitutional PATRIOT Act that authorizes spying, surveying and kidnapping of American citizens without due process of law, no trial, no jury. There is no more anti-american and indeed anti-human legislation than that ...NO OTHER CANDIDATE is willing or even speaking of these fundamental issues - not even Obama (who predictably broke his promise regarding wars and pushed for PATRIOT Act renewal), frankly I believe that anything else is more or less a distraction ... it pales in significance in comparison to these things. If I were a gay person, should I worry more about some paper I can hang on my wall or that I actually have a wall and do not live in a tent under a bridge in a security police state surviving on food stamps.I found this video, it sums up RP's foreign policy and FED stance pretty well:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ohKz9OeiI0g Yeah, just like they can be "stolen" by the bitcoin node receiving the transaction  I do believe in long term adoption, that's why I'm here and invested in bitcoin but we need to keep it real ... who in their right mind believes the bitcoin economy (that is real products and services exchanged) is anywhere near $120,000,000 which is the current value of all bitcoins? I would be hard pressed to consider it's 1/1000 of that ... this is pure speculation - which doesn't mean it isn't justified but speculation nonetheless which can evaporate overnight.That's the issue ... if confidence remains high and there is constant influx of new investors/users we may avoid a crash and smoothly transition into more productive economy - it may happen, but I do not give that too much chance after I saw how reactionary is the market. A small fluctuation in the downward direction and the panic will probably start. That's just the way I see it. There is no way a $140,000 worth of products and services is being added to the market every day - I don't think anybody would dispute that.And why would I want to manipulate the market ... after it crashes I do not think it's coming back any time soon. I think he just missed zero key at the end there ...  It jumped up again dancing in the middle between $19 and $20 ... but sell@20 is consistently rising while buy@19 is consistently declining ... so the trend is clear and quite understandable - as you've said $140,000 new injected money a day is clearly unsustainable by the current bitcoin economy. So it all depends on what the hoarders do ... if only few decide to cash out the panic is on. Fear propaganda? Since I posted that comment, price has gone under $19 and I doubt it has anything to do with my "propaganda" lol, most folks do not even read these forums. Just watch, we'll see  there is always that possibility that some big investor will step in but short of that, it's going down like a rock  That's just my wild guess or maybe not so wild ... feel free to take it as an insane ramblings of a guy on an internet forum which you should! No, it IS going down ... it's just a matter of buyers realizing that fact and that it isn't going any higher (and that around 7000 new BTCs enter the market every day) which is going to happen soon and then ... PANIC TIME!  The only question is, how low will it go before it stabilizes ... You can literary bet, sell your bitcoins and buy when the crash happens ... that's what I'm doing, the crash is imminent any moment now. It depends only when will the buyers realize the price isn't going any higher, it's going to slowly decline instead as new coins are mined and sold off until the panic happens  watch, it will be fun soon IMO! Not if you own the botnet and do it "for the lulz" which may be the case ... The price has stabilized because the speculators bailed (after they've played the market with pump and dump). What you see now is just an intertia from eirlier, it will come down ... significantly! Probably to a few dollars bitcoin. If no more speculators with a lot of money come of course to execute another pump and dump  Yeah, feel free to do that ... everybody has his own way to burn money But seriously, the only thing you would accomplish by buying that much bitcoins is lose shitload of money ... that's the reason nobody is doing it as you may have noticed  unless you have several hundred thousand and the guts to do  pump&dump scheme ... Actually ... there is - websockets. FF3 can't do it and it's disabled in FF4 by default ... so, that's why chrome. I'm using FF too but installed chromium for these two sites, I'm back to FF as soon as it supports websockets by default. I think he is right, just got the direction wrong  Big guys have taken a nap in the face of the recent turbulence  As soon as things stabilize a little they'll come back and the roller-coaster in on  Hm, in what way? Works for me it seems ... Well, the statement implies that Mt.Gox is down because it was "compromised", as far as I understand it is actually under DDoS attack ... if it's "compromised" what is the need for a DDoS to take it down? I don't know ... by whatever the case, it seems "Buttsec" doesn't have evil intentions  This got me thinking ... a bunch of interesting events happened recently:1) first there was a panic sell off which was further fueled on these forums by a group of trolls until measures were taken to get it under control2) Mt.Gox got crashed what was a middle of the night in Japan where it is located3) DDoS on Bitcoin website along with Mt.Gox again in the middle of the night and previously other sites4) mounting suspicious cases of reported "hacked accounts" on Mt.GoxAny one of these events alone would be non-conclusive and probably coincidence or true incident but taken all together it may appear there is a group that is trying to ruin confidence in Bitcoin. Motives to do so may be numerous ... the simplest one is profit, make people sell and then buy cheap, wait for the price to go up again - profit!Has any of the "hacking incidents" got confirmed or acknowledged by by Mt.Gox? I'm not aware of such a confirmation ... I would push for an official statement to make sure this is not a FUD campaign by some people ... I do not want to accuse anyone of anything but this is the Internet - it generally isn't a good idea to take a word of some anonymous pseudonym on a forum seriously especially in cases where money is involved.In one instance the "victim" claimed to have $7,000 withdrawn even that only $1,000 is possible a day, something doesn't smell right here.So be careful people and do not panic, it's possible that's exactly the goal of such campaign. Every time someone alleges his funds got stolen demand official statement from Mt'Gox whether they can confirm or deny such claims. Ah, we need more exchanges ... ideally with cross-connected trades like suggested by Rick Falkvinge of the Swedish Pirate Party - http://falkvinge.net/2011/06/10/bitcoins-four-hurdles-part-four-exchanges/Good that TradeHill is starting to gain some momentum already - but they need pretty charts 
Appears so, this is really annoying ... but the funds are safe I hope. Thanks, that's very informative post there, the iceberg option indeed looks like the best one ... it is essentially the same as if someone set up a bot to place orders automatically for him and if someone is buying in bulk he can get past that order so no unfair advantage there. So is this going to be implemented? It would be good idea to disable dark+normal until it is ... it's really annoying, I can't trust the market data now.So please MagicalTux if you're reading this could you respond regarding what's the plan? Thank you ... Is this another version of "BUY BUY BUY NAO!11!!!1" ?  Nobody is accusing anyone of rigging the market and nobody is talking about large visible orders, please do not conflate the issues. This is about preferential treatment of large traders ... if you allow invisible orders, well fine but then allow it for everybody regardless whether they deposit $10,000 or $100 ... what's the logic or justification to give some people advantage depending on how much they pay? Will more paying traders get faster access than all the others next to facilitate HFT for them? This isn't right ... everybody should be equal, if you allow advantages being given for money then you end up with market where the big guys just more often than not screw over the little guy. And the "little guy" is our target group because it includes merchants which are vital to Bitcoin success, stability and growth - why give them any more reasons to avoid Bitcoin economy?That they just do it elsewhere or in other way is very weak argument - do you go rock climbing without a rope because you could die in a car wreak or in some other way anyway? No, that it could be done elsewhere is no excuse to let it happen here at Mt.Gox where most people trade, if somebody else makes such a market ... well, I'll just make sure I avoid it  But considering Mt.Gox has pretty much a monopoly right now it is sensible to contact them about it and let them know that its user base does not appreciate preferential treatment of large traders over small ones and that if they do want to keep good reputation they should remedy it.It think that is very sensible approach ... and it seems so far that people do support it. Heck, almost half of people weren't even aware this was possible ... just as I wasn't until yesterday. Precisely! For that reason I started a poll and if the results are favorable to get this changed, we're going to ask Mt'Gox to make the dark pool separate as it is in the interest of their community of traders. If people do not support that then I'll probably leave Mt.Gox as you say I should ... and if they refuse to change it even in the case of user base desiring that change then I would advice others to leave too as it says something about the owners ethics as you say - if they refuse to change even in the face of community wanting that change then what else would they be capable of doing? It's an issue of trust ... allowing preferential treatment for more money to be able to screw over the little guy doesn't seem to reinforce that trust too much The Poll: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=16622.0 Hi guys, I do not know if you noticed but quite recently there was/is an invisible "dark pool" order in the $20 range that prevented regular orders as listed in the public depth table to proceed as listed and sucked up around 1,000BTC into a black hole. I made trading decisions based on the public depth table and this kind of behavior (that I wasn't even aware of until now) has thrown a wrench into it.I believe that invisible orders available only for the big players (more than $10,000 needed to place one) gives some people unfair advantage and misleads regular traders that causes them to make bad decisions based on intentionally incomplete information. I think that truly free market needs transparency and as accurate information as possible for the traders so they can make good market decisions - this behavior of the "dark pool" seem to go against that so I started this poll to see whether others agree that this in not an ideal situation and should be remedied by Mt.Gox if their user base thinks it should be remedied.My proposed solution is to allow invisible orders only inside the dark pool as it is commonly understood and practiced and keep them separate from the public market - not to let them "spill over" to the public market and distort publicly available trading information and mislead traders as it is now. If you think better solution exists please leave a comment Thanks a lot ... The difference is, this we actually CAN change ... it's configurable and Mt.Gox can change it whenever they see that that's what its user base desires as opposed to the other things that you mention. So the only relevant thing is the will of the user base, does anybody actually believe having a dark liquidity is a good idea? I do not think so ... in true free market transparency and good information that stems from it is paramount so facilitate good decisions by traders. If you're in the dark, you're going to get burned sooner or later ... That's irrelevant ... I'm not judging whether it should be regulated or something, of course not - it's Bitcoin, duh! I'm judging whether it is right or wrong thing to do ... if they are unregulated and decide to just pack up and take all the money, would you similarly just wave your hands and say that they're not regulated and that's how they choose to do their business so it' ok? I think not ...The issue is that this is most likely a bad thing for Bitcoin market, it's adoption and reputation and if that's the case we should persuade Mt.Gox to change their darkpool service to remedy that, no? It's screwing up the market when you see an order for 10BTC, you buy 100BTC and it gets sucked up by an invisible black hole instead of fulfilling the orders as listed in the depth table ... what good is such a depth table then?Exactly! So shouldn't we ask Mt.Gox as users to fix this? It gives unfair advantage to big traders - I hope that's not what Mt.Gox want to happen or to be known to facilitate ... otherwise small traders shouldn't be surprised when they get screwed over, it really is too risky to trade when there are such a hidden orders. So darkpool orders get fulfilled through public orders then, right?Am I the only one who thinks this is wrong? The depth table is totally useless in that case, you can never know where are invisible "walls" ... the darkpool is such a bad idea, good thing TradeHill doesn't have it, nobody else is bothered by this or do you think it's cool this way? I think it really screwes over a little guy and gives advantage to the big boys ... this is very bad for trading IMO So, the public depth table lists very few trade orders in the $20 range but I've seen transactions reported through websocket (http://mtgoxlive.com/orders) that are in hundreds of bitcoins and the market doesn't get moved. So I'm asking, what the hell!? Are there "phantom" orders possible in the public trading section? Could it be drawn from dark pool even that the trade is placed in public market or do just dark pool trades reported through websockets?It's really confusing and if "phantom" orders are possible then also just wrong IMO, any experience with this kind of thing? This technique could be used right now to push the price from $21 to $23 just for around 700BTC ... you buy along the way, then wait a little at the $23 threshold and then sell, I think it's a pretty good way to make a decent profit. People are not selling under $23 now, so there is good chance they wouldn't after it rises to $23 ... if I would have the money on hand I would most likely do it, damn it! I had no problems so far ... there are delays but it doesn't bother me yet  I'm trying other exchanges too, it's never a good idea to put all your eggs in one basket  It's probably best to have a little bit in each exchange, you never know when the opportunity presents itself to take advantage of that  I think we need more quality exchanges, Mt.Gox is good and well but no monopoly is a good thing ... there are enormous money in exchanges obviously, why nobody else creates kickass exchange I can not understand ... I'm trying the TradeHill, we'll see if it lives up to the challenge. In the meantime it's better to diversify ... it's probably because not a lot of folks are there and no euro transfer so far, first adopters always enjoy some advantages  I've seen people doing this ... if you've got a lot of cash you can move the price quite a bit and cash in on it, in one instance I saw someone buy for at least $40,000 which moved the price $5 upward, in current situation it could be moved to $25 this way - but it requires quite some cash which not a lot of people have, to be able do this kind of magic  that happens to me too occasionally ... I find that logging out and in helps (edit: or maybe not  ) It's a security feature so all those transactions can not be traced and connected ... it's not a bug, it's a feature  but you're right that there should be an option to disable or configure that behavior. yeah, I'm kind of surprised that people are not buying like crazy for these prices ... I'm ALL IN and rocking  maybe they just don't have deposited funds like you say ... poor guys   Well, this could be done ... but I think they would ultimaelly ended up loosing a shitload of money - pumping it into Bitcoin economy and the market would eventually overcome it. But they could wreak havoc short term in similar way the big guys are doing right now 
This is much more sensible ... thank you! Holy sh--I really wonder why Mt.Gox is the only major exchange with returns like this ... if they decide to sell that off we better brace ourselves for an impact, insider info folks will have serious advantage there if they tell anyone  That's some serious Bitcoin stash. I really dislike the name "Namecoin" ... BitDNS was much better, I'm wondering why they chose one over the other, but well ... yeah, I do not plan to invest in Namecoin really but it may be because of the name only  so others who are more courageous to experiment, let us know how it goes if you do invest in it  Seems so, finally! Anyway ... it's probably best to diversify and hedge your bets by having money on multiple exchanges, we need MOAR exchanges, c'mon codemonkeys, I know you're there  That's quiet a volume at this price ... best of luck to you that it isn't lost, I haven't tried to withdraw my btc from Gox and probably won't unless somebody here can confirm that it works ... this weekend is cursed for sure  waaat? This gets curiouser and curiouser ... maybe somebody is trying to corner the market?   Don't sell hold on to your Bitcoin as if your life depended on it folks FTW  How do I get to the IRC channel where the situation is being discussed? It lasts for quite a long time already, I would like to know what is the problem exactly ... or do we switch to TradeHill now?   Has anybody tried to withdraw bitcoins from Mt.Gox? Does that work or is it stuck too? thanks ... Yeah, it's stuck on $20.15/BTC for hours now, it's pretty frustrating ... I'm not aware of any official statement so far, it's probably deep night there so it may take a while   I do not think it's going anywhere right now ... Mt.Gox still stuck at 20.15, arrgh   I fail to see how it could facilitate market stability, it may satisfy your curiosity but I do not think it is relevant from the point of view of adoption or any kind of stability (there are other guys doing some crazy stuff there already anyway) I would check blockchain for the associated addresses whether it got out and integrated into the main chain ... I do not have the link handy right now but I'm sure you can find it, or maybe someone can post it here  unfortunately (or luckily perhaps) there is no way to tell unless they confess that to you ... all that pseudo-anonymous stuff which is making Bitcoin great getting in the way  OMG! I want such a market ... I would have 3 more hours than everybody else!!  That would also mean that 20 people own 95% of all bitcoins ... I do not think that would be so fine ... and what's worse it may be actually happening - the deciding factor then is, what are those 20 people going to do with their bitcoins. Yeah, that's like complaining about dollars because you can't easily print some more whenever you wantMaybe it was a strategic mistake to advertise that property of the bitcoin system to newcomers as a way to obtain bitcoins, the truth is that the majority will not generate bitcoins nor is it desirable that they would. It's supposed to be a medium of exchange, not a mining game ... haha ... I remembered someone posting here with some similar nick (if I'm not mistaken) so I thought it's his private blog, anyway ... he is still clueless whoever he is  No, that happens only when you send money AFAIKWhen money is sent to your account the sent balance is simply written into the block chain with the address associated with your public/private key (which is in the safe), so you can see that money was sent to you (as does anyone else who knows your address) but you can not manipulate it without your private key. Yeah, the guy is clueless ... money as a medium of exchange exists exactly for the purpose of being exchanged for goods and services, that's its purpose, duh. If you hoard it that means you can not buy anything for it ... so tumblr can feel free to live in a cave with 1,000,000 bitcoins being happy that he has cool numbers on his account rather than real things like house, car, computer, food etc. If you do not plan to buy anything for it, what's the point of having it? It is clearly an oxymoron. So if you hoard it and never spend it, nobody cares ... if you do spend it, cool more liquidity into the market ... where is the danger again? The best thing is that you can still receive bitcoins on the "bond" you have in your safe without having any other copy of it So you have nice safe "saving account" locked up you can still send money to, what a wonderful thing You can also check its balance, the only thing you can not do without opening the safe is withdraw money from it ...
I have their e-mail saved from when it was published ... it's wl-supporters@sunshinepress.orgTry it  It should work ... No, you are misunderstanding me ... I'm not saying they would "jump the ship" and start using other cryptocurency ... that would not be a bad thing at all anyway.I mean they could corrupt the block chain because they have the hashing power to do so. Overpowering the hashing power of honest hashers gives them the ability to tamper with block chain, doesn't it? So I'm not sure were exactly are you suggesting I could be mistaken. You could break bitcoin right now if you could get enough people to cooperate and overpower the computing power of honest nodes. The problem with that is that you are not going to convince enough people to do that, why would they do it? There is no incentive ... "let's break things" just doesn't cut it. But if you have other cryptocurrency at competition with bitcoin (or some other) and people invested in it, they have the incentive to protect it and act in tandem as a group against perceived threat aka weaker cryptocurrency.Is it clearer what I mean? It's the same as someone belligerent having more computing power than all of the bitcoin nodes together and used it to disrupt it. Except nobody has the incentive and means to do it ... more powerful competing cryptocurrency has both. If they decide to use it, they can break weaker currencies (provided they manage to convince its user-base that it is a good idea) There are all kinds of problems with it ... but it is a possibility and it is feasible. So I think hard to do but certainly not impossible ... if many people's investment is at stake they just might try to do it. If they would succeed is the million dollar question ... I guess we'll have to just wait and see. See the post above ... if you have cryptocurrency used by 100,000 people and another one is gaining popularity fast with 5,000 members, the 100,000 can easily knock it down if they see it as a threat and can coordinate. All it takes is a simple modification of the client they're using (so it computes hashes for the other blockchain) and enough people adopting it ... which is much easier to do if those people believe the new currency is a threat to their dominance (and therefore their money). I know. But once you have enough people with enough hashing power they can just one day decide to switch to use that power to overtake another similar system as a group. Like if there was a different bitcoin-like currency right now with 100x less hashing power, you could just modify the client to compute hashes for that system 1/100 of the time it is running and you can absorb it if bitcoin users would adopt it. Easy way to knock out competition if you for example see that it is gaining popularity and could surpass ours Of course that requires enough people willing to do that ... but once they are united under one economy with common interest (and common threats of competing currencies) it's much easier to do that than if you tried to get enough people to overtake bitcoin right now for instance.I'm not saying they would collide "by accident" lol but by conscious action of enough people from different competing crypto-currency The possible problem with this is that if parallel currencies are created on the same principles as bitcoin then the currency with the most hashing power can easily overtake the currency with lower one if they collectively decide to do so. So the big one can "eat up" all of the smaller currencies.I don't know if people would be capable or willing to cooperate to such an end but it is a possibility. I'm sorry that I'm seen as a troll ... that was not my intention, sorry about that. I feel quite strongly about some things so I probably became too passionate.I'll stay away from this thread don't worry  I do not think there is any point in beating this topic ad nauseum.I would just say that you have some good points (although I would distinguish between "real" value and speculative one which are mixed up together but are important to separate I think - no every "value" is a good value, some is just a bubble, I wouldn't think that is a good thing)Nothing is black and white but I believe the bitcoin economy will stabilize when services of substance are introduced and speculation will not be a problem. The reason it is a problem in our real economy is because we allow banks to create money out of thin air which gives speculators cheap credit to manipulate markets with. This is not possible in bitcoin economy and ultimately real economy overwhelms the speculative one. At least I hope so ... speculation is bad only if it's excessive. I think this is the case right now with bitcoin ... but it is probably just temporary until real economy is introduced which is always much harder to do than speculation so speculative portion sets in first.Good luck  Done, sorry ... I was in a hurry and I've written gibberish  It should be better now ... Great post, thank you.You're absolutely right that you need dominant position, concerted action or cheap credit to be successful at manipulation. In the case of bitcoin, cheap credit is eliminated which is a major factor in real world economy as you can not create bitcoins from thin air like banks are doing with dollars and other currencies.As far as dominant position goes I do not think this is that easy to achieve without the cheap credit. Even when some people probably do have significant holdings of bitcoins I do not think they could manipulate the market to such a degree even if they wanted to (but they may contribute a great deal).So what seems to be happening is spontaneous concerted action of multiple independent people triggered by the same impulse and that is desire to make some profit from the apparent  rising value of bitcoin. The problem is that the rising value may be just a reflection of higher demand caused by these people wanting to speculate. That means that the real value of bitcoins without the speculative factor is unknown. What introduces a problem is that this speculative portion of value is only virtual, it goes away the moment there is a dip in a value and people start selling like crazy all at once crashing the value to significantly lower one. In this process a lot of people are going to loose their money to the ones who had better information and sold first (most often just few insiders).That's why I'm saying that this kind of speculation is extremely bad for the market, it makes it unstable and distorts it causing all kinds of great problems (even serious ones like starvation). It is always going to be happening on some level but as long as it is overwhelmed by real markets it's not a big problem as its effects are very small.BUT if people accept it as legitimate way to make money (as seems to be happening on this forum) and a good portion of the economy participants start to "make money from money" it can snowball to such an extent that is destroys the economy as we can see on our real one.The only way to stop that is to realize that you produce nothing by doing it, you can never produce value and if you make money you take it from someone else who got screwed - this may be another speculator or regular producing trader ... therefore it is bad thing to do and we should make honest profit from producing goods and services that people actually desire and which help them in their life. The solution in my view is to make sure that the real economy is dominant over the speculative one, always striving to make the speculative one as small as possible. It can not be eliminated, but it can be made insignificant by educating ourselves and others that it is harmful and stay away from it.So next time you see someone offering you good "investment fund" kick him in the nuts for trying to destroy the economy  I'm not saying anybody is going to die LOL I was saying bitcoin is going to die as a result of massive lost of confidence when the bubble bursts.I'm also not saying the offers are not legit, I'm saying there is no demand for bitcoin ... just look how shallow the market is, you would sell few thousand bitcoins at most and then the price starts to plummet. If anybody holds near 100,000 bitcoins I would say that most of them can not be sold and are therefore worthless ... but that's a tip, it may be 100,000 or 200,000 ... who knows. But the price is definitively inflated, don't you think? It is hard to say how much but it's clear from the fact that there is hardly $1,000,000 worth of assets in bitcoin economy heh  that's true ... there is a lot of things to eat, I just wouldn't call food most of it And it is not far away, as I said there are 41 million people on foodstamps in the US! That's supposed to be "the wealthiest nation"? (or one of the wealthiest). Do not assume it does not affect you ... because when it does, you are going to have bigger problems than chatting about it on the Internet - that may be why starving people (yes also in the US and elsewhere) are kind of under-represented on the net?Millions of people found themselves on the street because of mortgage scam, is that also far away? Several trillions dollars were stolen from the economy by FED printing and "borrowing" money, it that far away? Are all those bankruptcies, closing industries, record unemployment far away? I do not think so ... it is far more possible that you've been living in a bubble not noticing or caring about these things ... maybe you'll start to care only after you're on the street. But then ... then it will be late and other people on the Internet will be saying that you do not exist and that they do not care how you ended up that way. It is bollocks only if there are going to be goods and services available that people desire for bitcoins.What is happening now is just a bubble and a result of speculation just as I have said in the other thread, if this is not changed it is going to burst, make bitcoin almost worthless, make a bunch of people angry and bitcoin will eventually die.This is not good situation, we need to encourage/create *useful and valuable* services, these are going to be the backing of bitcoin then ... and no, casino games, ponzi schemes and buying bitcoin for the sake of making profit is not useful nor valuable Those who hold large amounts of bitcoins would do well investing in such services as that's going to make their coins much more valuable and actually sellable because right now if they tried to sell, they would find very quickly that they simply can't and most of the coins are just worthless and the price on mt. gox meaningless. How to not understand something that could save you life of trouble:1. focus on everything else BUT the arguments I'm very hungry person, if I can't get something to eat it's like torture! I wouldn't wish something like to onto my worst enemy! And those starving people are not even my enemies ... Anyway, is there any point to these questions?Are you saying I shouldn't care? Well maybe I really don't, it's actually probably self-interest because I see what caused their starvation and I see the same thing coming everywhere else in the world ... to be honest, I do not want to join them in their starvation nor do I want to work in sweatshop. The only way to save myself from that is to remove the root cause which made starve also them - the religious economic theories.It is the only way for you also, do *you* want to starve and work in sweatshop? It already is coming to the US, 22% real unemployment (not gov cooked numbers 10% which is high enough by itself), 41 million Americans are on the foodstamps, 1.5 million lives in poverty and this is accelerating ... it is on the way to become a third world country. But this is happening all over the world ... so where is all the wealth going? Are you going to guess it? I've been talking about it for quite some time We are all going to be "poor Africans" you see on the TV soon if we do not realize root causes of this. Of which some I've been describing here. Is this supposed to be a joke? I do not know what to think about this ... do you others here identify with such thinking? Is this who you are? I'm trying to identify the species I'm talking to because it doesn't appear to be human ...  I do not think it is "morally superior" to care about exploited or starved to death people, do you? The problem is many people just ignore it, they do not think about it because it is too painful and overwhelming to think about. They think, what am I going to do about it? So then they also do not think about the causes of it. There are very specific causes for that suffering and it's not because they are lazy, stupid or wouldn't have resources. They are being held back by other forces ... but that is just the most extreme example where the kind of economic thinking leads. It affects everybody, the current crisis is also just a symptom of this kind of thinking ... we've been listening to the kind of fairytales recited in this thread for at least a decade, it's like broken record and it has nothing to do with reality. The only ones advocating these theories are those at the top because they give them power and a tool to exploit other people. The simple truth is that speculation is harmful and serves no purpose, you can make up all kinds of abstract complex "reasons" detached from reality of why not admit it but in the end it's just excuses. It does nobody any good when someone is just shuffling numbers up and down, left and right just to make profit. It's just so obvious to realize with simple common sense. But some are trying to confuse it with some fairytales that are so tangled up that they ultimately do not even make sense.Like speculators "smooth out" prices, what does that even mean and even if it was true why would it be a good thing? We are just expected to accept all this assertions without basis. If the market price of some commodity it supposed to go down because of lower demand, then it should go down - otherwise the price is not reflection of a true market, smoothing out, swinging it, or whatever else done by speculation is bad, very bad ... it introduces "fog" so that it's impossible to say what the real price is ... we do not need high price, we do not need low price or smoothed out price, we need *real* price. The only ones who can see trough the fog are the speculators themselves as they are closer (insiders), they use this advantage of course to make money - taking it from everybody else. They are parasites. The bigger/denser the fog, the more people are confused and misinformed, the more money they make ... so they ultimately make a huge mess out of the economy. I'm not making this up people, turn on the TV! What do you see? How do you think that happened? Someone waving a magic wand? Think, think!I would encourage everybody reciting these theories to actually independently think about it. Something is not true just because Friedman or Mises says it. Someone here was quoting Mises as if it automatically mean he is right. There was nothing in that quote except unsubstantiated assertions. These theories can not survive the confrontation with reality ... simply said, they are wrong. They are completely idealizing things, it's not reality. It's virtual fantasy world and a belief in it serves only those at the top of the ponzi scheme pyramid which they inevitably create.Our worldwide economy is a giant ponzi scheme right now and it is already collapsing with its base loosing everything, if we do not realize this, we are all going to work in sweatshops soon. Then you can sing the theories of Mises and celebrate the speculators as you work 16 hours a day for 2$. As somebody said, you are going to be thankful for those 2$ for 16 hours of work because otherwise you would be dead so there is really nothing to complain about, is there? yeah, what's wrong with that statement? It's true, isn't it?However criminal doesn't necessarily mean wrong as has been pointed out that many outlandish things were criminal in the past that are not considered wrong now. The same goes for current laws ... most of them are lobbied for by the corporations trying to destroy their competition, get rid of regulations or give them certain advantages.There is a difference between illegal and wrong, illegal (criminal) is whatever gov says is illegal ... wrong is what you morally consider wrong regardless of it's legality. I hope it's clear now ... If you wouldn't be so prejudiced against me you would understand that i mean it in the same exact way as you do and therefore that was the gov says it criminal is irrelevant. They can make something criminal whenever they choose to, they can make it illegal to piss ... that doesn't mean it's wrong. I thought it's extremely clear from the context of my post ... apparently not if the prejudice is strong enough.I also said that sweatshops are illegal (criminal) in some countries, in others not ... so it's clear that I can not mean it how you interpreted it from that too. You're trying too hard to disagree with me at all cost ... maybe you could stop that and I would make much more sense to you @creighto you are self-contradicting yourself and are generally very confused about what you're talking about. If I was actually paying you for your services I would ask for my money back You are confusing two things ... the fact that you're free to do something/anything and the fact how are you going to be judged when you do and how is it going to affect you.Sure, you're free to walk trough the street cursing at everybody, it's not illegal ... but do not expect people to invite you to a party then. It's the equivalent as people (well, one person) not wanting to do business with me because they disagree with me.But this is EXACTLY what I was doing from the very start, i was not saying ban ponzi schemes (as if it would be even possible with bitcoin, duh), I was saying recognize ponzi scheme, look here is one, stay away from it if you do not wish to loose all your money.But I got attacked for pointing out these ponzi schemes, like speculative investment to make money from money ... by people saying that they have a right to make ponzi schemes (it's freedom to make scams). But you see, here is the confusion ... of course people have the right to make ponzi schemes, but bitcoin community should reject them on the informed basis that they're harmful to the economy and bitcoin and point that out when they see one to protect bitcoin economy. Do you understand the difference?Why are people endorsing these scams? It's like I would be discouraging someone from cursing at everybody on the street and others would condemn me for it because he is free to do it, it's not criminal. It's crazy and confused logic ... that it's not illegal or you're free to do it doesn't mean it's right. the freedom we have entails a freedom to make a moral judgment of someone's actions and voice disagreement. That's exactly what I'm doing ...Why are people making apologists for ponzi schemes then on the basis that people are free to make them ... I've never said they are not! I said it is immoral, harmful and should be opposed just like slavery is. I've never said they are not free to make them! Again, i said it's worrying that the bitcoin community is accepting them as "legitimate" use of the bitcoin system, that's the problem I see! nobody seems to realize the catastrophe if this is allowed to overtake on a large scale ... and i wanted to point that out If there wouldn't be for sweatshops they would have real prosperous economy, owning nice houses and cars not worrying that they might starve to death tomorrow if the CEO of Nike chooses so. They do not have such economy because the corporations came there, set up their sweatshops, destroyed their competition by enormous power they have (thanks to exploiting other people in other countries), bribed politicians to pass "regulations" and "free trade" agreements making sure that no honest business can ever compete.Your reasoning is EXTREMELY cruel and cynical. Go work for a sweatshop yourself if it's so wonderful, please do ... with the prospect of your children dying if you do not fulfill everything you're told, when your employer has the power *to kill you* for not obeying his wishes. that sure is a dream life. In that situation losing your work means a death sentence ... and the owners know it, that's why these CEOs are more like third world dictators spreading misery and death by colonizing more and more countries for their operations. But this is ok apparently according to you, this is the kind of people i said a despise ... scumbags! Willing to justify modern slavery by economic theory, sick! Just sick! It is no different than slavery other than a whipping to death was replaced by starving to death (by firing them) ... hard to say which is worse.
It means they make few cents an hour keeping them barely alive while company like Nike is selling the shoes they make for hundreds of dollars in "first world" countries making HUGE profits for which their CEOs buy yachts and golf courses and jets to amuse themselves with.Do you approve of such a practice? Do you consider it morally right and justified and it should be just that way?Criminal is whatever gov says is criminal, in most developed countries sweatshops are illegal (guaranteed minimal wage) so that is irrelevant. The question is, do you approve of it being criminal? It can be made legal tomorrow if people of that country agree that it should, do you think it should be legal? If not, why not? Isn't it "liberal" to not regulate the company and punish it for doing what it thinks benefits it?Again, it's not about what is crime or not ... it is about: do you approve or not? Would you speak against ponzi schemes if you knew of any as I'm doing? Would you try to warn people to steer away from them and warn others? That is the question!because I'm being lambasted here for speaking against something that I believe to be wrong just because "it makes economic sense" or "can be done" or "that's what capitalism is" and similar justifications ... do you consider them valid justifications for letting ponzi schemes happen and not speak up against them? Are you claiming that net effect of global speculation is loss for the speculators? The religious economists just *love* speaking in hypotheticals and they avoid comparing their made up scenarios with real world like a vampire garlic LOLSo? Are the speculators on average making money or losing it? that goes both ways I believe but I don't mind ... btw if you endorse intentional speculation for the sole purpose of profit then I'm still calling you a scumbag  LOLI did not accuse you of that, you confessed it I believe that kind of speculation is wrong, morally wrong, just like sweatshops are in my view and I'm not going to endorse it. On the contrary I'm going to speak out against it as I would against owners or practitioners of sweatshops ... and I would also call them scumbags  OK ... is liberalism compatible with sweatshops then? Toxic waste? ponzi schemes? If not, why not?I think we are not understanding each other in one pretty obscure point, I'll try to explain once I know you answer so i can see if I'm right ... If the speculators would be losing money they wouldn't speculate ... it's an oxymoron. Of course some do, but net effect is speculative gain, there simply wouldn't be speculators if this weren't so. But we have real world to compare this with, we do not have to be talking in hypotheticals and you can clearly see that the speculators on Wall Street are making HUGE profits while regular guy is losing everyhting, industry is crumbling, exports are almost nonexistent etc. In other words real economy was replaced by virtual casino economy where real producers not not stand a chance against speculators. And when it is discovered that the speculators are holding worthless paper instead of them going bankrupt they are bailed out! This is not the fault of "government intervention" as is presented, the fault is that key people in government are bought off by the exact same CEOs holding that worthless paper to bail them out! It is NOT in the gov interest to do that, the only reason they're doing it is because they actually work (are "hired" aka bribed) for the corporations which benefit from this robbery. In that case the gov *is* the corporation! It is the same entity handing itself public money. How it does not make economic sense? I'm sure going to make bigger profit when I do not have to pay people than when I do. Economic sense has nothing to do with "free society", that's the problem. If slavery was accepted by society you bet your bottom dollar that it would be practiced. So the only reason it is not practiced is the external pressure from people like you and me making an ethical or moral judgment and disproving of that kind of action. We are willing to speak out, boycott and protest such a company - that is the sole reason they're not doing it. (and also fear of the government intervention, which in ideal case is just an extension of your and my moral judgment - which would be the case if the gov actually worked for the people instead of the corporations themselves)If we were willing to exert such pressure against sweatshops, they would have stop that too. So why we don't, do you approve of sweatshops? Does the company have "the right" to do that and that justifies it? why is it happening if it would make no economic sense? Are they doing it just for the fun of it?This is the solution I'm proposing ... educate people about these things and exert just as much pressure on those companies as it would be exerted if they tried to practice slavery. Using our moral judgment of what is right and what is wrong. Creating ponzi schemes is wrong, or do you think not? Do you consider them good and wonderful or beneficial for something? We are exercising our moral judgment in the case of slavery ... why would it be a bad thing to do the same with ponzi schemes?Some people here seem to be suggesting that morals do not belong into economy ... that is just so wrong, morals should be the *driver* of economy, just as it is with slavery, toxic waste and many other things.In short: Morals trump "economic sense" every time and the later is not excuse for breaking the former! In my view at least, some people are apparently perfectly willing to break their morals for economic/financial gain. I consider that wrong ... shoot me for it. Capitalism evolves into corporate fascism if people become bamboozled by the kind of nonsense some are preaching here. Capitalism works only when you have responsible an informed citizenry (or consumers as they like to call them). But if these people start to believe that corporations can do anything for the sole reason that "it makes economic sense", or that simply "because they are corporations and that's what corporations do", or that it's ok to speculate because well ... you can! Then it evolves into fascism very fast, when people lose their guard. So I'm not advocating changing the system, not at all ... I love capitalism, you are misunderstanding me there, I do not want even to ban anything, no! I want *informed participants* taking part in it so scams and frauds are exposed and not taken part in. All I want is informed people to create a market pressure such that "immoral", fraudulent and unsustainable schemes are eradicated. Not by banning, not by hunting down their creators but by *informed* consumers. I love freedom ... but I also love sanity and that's what is lacking here  Freedom without sanity and responsibility is a recipe for disaster ... as you can see in the real world right now.The rest of your post is stemming from this misunderstanding. I'm not saying abolish freedom/capitalism ... I'm saying, inform yourself and think for yourself for god's sakes a little  do not parrot the nonsense pushed by those at the top, it's there to misguide you and defraud you of everything. This is one of the dogmas which is so easily proven wrong that it boggles the mind why anybody would believe it.It makes economic sense to run sweatshops and even slaves (if they are not going to rise up that is), I doubt anybody would consider that "helping the masses".It also makes economic sense to release toxic waste into nearby river instead of often expensive disposal of it. Again, i doubt that can be called helpful.There are just so blatant examples of this that it cannot be anything else than religion to believe that nonsense ... it for example makes perfect economic sense to rob an old lady on the street. If there wasn't for "regulation" aka laws against robing old ladies on the street, would you say it is ok to do it because well ... it's capitalism after all and you make a profit by doing it?Of course profit worshipers like to point out to "voluntary" transactions (which robbing an old lady is not) so better example is a mafia offering you "protection" for money. You do not have to accept ... but be prepared for your business to be burned down of you don't. It's the same with people working at sweatshops ... you do not have to work there religious free marketers will say, you can refuse and die on the street corner. Yeah, it's your choice ... you see, you're free! As much as slaves were free not to obey their master ... they could do that, so why the need to abolish slavery, duh ...It is just mindfuck with these people, it doesn't make sense at all ... it's all just virtual abstracts of how they imagine things would work, not how they actually work. No, unchecked capitalism results in fascism ... as the gentleman before me already said, there already is fascism is the US (and most of the world) because corporations are fusing with governments. THAT is dangerous! To say that you can make people starve and die by punching some numbers into the computer and it is ok apparently - that is dangerous.Bio-fuels are biggest scam of the century along with Al "slimeball" Gore and his sci-fi horror movie inconvenient truth! I'm not imposing anything on anybody or would I if I actually had the power. I believe in personal responsibility and personal choice. So I would never force anybody to do anything ... but that doesn't mean I'm not going to *argue* and try to *persuade* people by *arguments* to change their way (or I change mind if I discover that I'm wrong)The carbon credits is the biggest ponzi scheme of them all, it is a scam so big that I can't even articulate it, it seems we agree there.You're confused here and committing a logical fallacy called false dichotomy ... that predatory capitalism is bad doesn't mean communism is good, where did you get that silly idea? It doesn't make sense, does it? You're just making up excuses for the failures of the type of thinking which lead us to the bring of a greatest crisis in the history of humankind.Well, I can't exactly see how a lot of people loosing their money when the bubble bursts can be considered a ood thing. Do you think it is going to generate some confidence in the bitcoin currency then? It will bring attention to bitcoin no question about that ... but what kind of attention will it be?"The first free and independent currency crashes leaving thousand of people without their money"Well, no particularly positive attention ... Later phases of unchecked capitalism is fascism, it's one and the same. Fascism is completely predictable outcome of capitalism over time as corporations accumulate more and more influence, consolidate, form oligopolies and monopolies over time. This is exactly what happened, then they buy off the government when they accumulate enough of this influence ... this is also EXACTLY what happened. Congressmen (most of them at least) are then just puppets for hire by these corporations, isn't that obvious by now? The government becomes just a branch of corporations, they fuse A.K.A. fascism! That's what fascism is ... merger between corporations and government (according to Mussolini). And that's what happens when you believe in the type of wild predatory capitalism like many people here seem to believe in.So government is not some detached entity like you seem to portray it, no no ... the government *is* the corporations at this point, it represents them. Just look where people in position of power come from (or are payed by), Monsanto, Goldman Sachs, Halliburton etc. etc. it's "capitalism" that hijacked the government and is working against the people to make them slaves ... because it "makes economic sense", there is profit in slaves you know ... and the people of the US are going to get it if they do not wake up. This is it ... that it is a "capitalistic idea" justifies scams (or million of starved people to death in real economy) in your eyes? I'm hearing this all the time ... people working as slaves in sweatshops, response? It makes economic sense! Letting toxic waste into rivers, response? It's capitalism! Millions starved children? Yay for "free market"!How can people in their right mind do this? Anybody who actually cares about people is called hippie? It is somehow cool to be coldblooded shark for profit? Does the fact that something "makes economic sense" justify the very real effects it has on human society? How for god's sakes? Economy is a human construct ... it should serve people, not the other way around!I honestly can not comprehend this other than admitting that people have been simply brainwashed. They think that some virtual made up economic structure takes precedence over human values. How is this possible to achieve that people think like this? That if it makes profit it is good, that if somebody falls for it you're not responsible for him being robbed. That's like constructing booby traps all over your house and then laughing your ass off when your unsuspecting family members get slaughtered on them ... after all, they were stupid enough to walk right into them, right? Why should you who set them up be held responsible ... this is just some twisted logic, but it's real! Peope walk into those booby traps created by these people ... and they do get slaughtered en masse! This is no joke ... are you not concerned about that at all? "It's capitalist idea" is you answer? They deserve it? What the hell is wrong with you people?! Yeah, I'm sure you enjoy seeing millions of men, women and children die of starvation all the time because some investment banker is taking his next big business into fruition. But I'm considered "immoral" for calling that banker scum ... and I'm supposed to be the one with values upside down? So let's worship speculation and get offended by people calling scam a scam so we can ignore reality, sleep well at night and make some awesome profit without our conscience being moved.I'm sad that I actually live in a world with moralities like yours  "If I wouldn't be that of a big believer in freedom and personal responsibility"How do I deal with this kind of stupidity while not being a pompous ass?I agree that we could grow up together, but it is just impossible to reasonably discuss with this kind of people who believe so bizarre things with so much certainty while outright refusing to consider anything else. These are religious fanatics. As Max Keiser calls them "financial terrorists", they are willing to terrorize the population because of their bizarre beliefs that profit justifies everything and speculation is the best thing since sliced bread. They are willing to go to unheard of extremes to justify these beliefs while quoting their economic priests like Mises and similar charlatans not understanding nor caring how it actually works in real world.It's just impossible for me to remain calm and patient with people like this. I'm sure there are also reasonable people there in BTC community ... but I can't figure out why are they silent. then these religious fanatics are going to ruin it for everybody ... I can't take it anymore ...I've been developing an application of my own for bitcoin but it doesn't give me much confidence that it is worthwhile when it is going to be overwhelmed by speculation and ponzi schemes ... we'll see. I'm not the one quoting my holy scriptures My suspicions are confirmed, the "bitcoin community" (at least the significant part parroting their religious economic beliefs) is just a bunch of gullible children trotting out their holy text they've been indoctrinated into. They think that pretty charts and lines represent wealth and that profit is above all and justifies anything and everything. It's this kind of useful idiots who allowed the current crisis to materialize ... but they never learn, it's a religion and not to be questioned. Independent thought? Questioning the dogma? No!, Go away heretic ... we have Ludwig von Mises to tell us the ultimate truth! Ignore the real world, quick!Bitcoin is doomed to fail with this kind of mindset in its community... the current price is just a bubble, it is going to burst sooner or later if real value in the form of goods and services is not introduced in near future. Mark my words ... those who sell last are going to be the suckers. We have a deal! I'll do the same thing for you  I do not like scammers who refuse to change their ways after they're notified of their scam. And I'm going to call a scam everything that claims to make more money solely from money as they are just artificially inflating the price and are greatest threat to bitcoin and honest people than anything else. It's a ponzi scheme pure and simple ...Seeing your mindset I wouldn't be interested in any of your "web apps" anyway, it's probably going to be a scam ... (not that you could identify me if I ever choose to use it LOL) This is third time I hear this nonsense ... how do speculators "smooth the market"? That's just so immensely stupid thing to say, they actually *create* the swings. I can't imagine by what mechanism would they "smooth" it ... but I can see the mechanism of how they make it swing violently ... hear hear When some commodity is rising in price here come the speculators to "invest" which in turn makes the price rise even more, if enough people do this through "investment funds" and so on, the artificial demand completely overtakes the real physical demand and it is impossible to say which is which ... this goes on again until there are suckers left to be pulled in by looking at pretty charts with pretty lines which do not represent anything else at that point than the number of other suckers who are willing to do the same. Now, the world runs out of suckers ... BOOOM economy is fucked as it's going to cause mayhem, everybody selling like crazy to be first to sell to be as close to the top of the pyramid as possible and/or not lose the most. Have you seen the news lately? This is EXACTLY what is happening right now ... so I'm hardly pulling things out of my ass, am I? I'm sorry, I know my words are strong ... I understand that most people do not realize what they are doing. Can you call a child taking someone else's apple a scumbag because he "stole it"? I do not think so ... but it is expected that the child grows up and as a grown up is going to be held liable for the same action. It's time to grow up It's the intention that counts, from the outside it is very hard if not impossible to distinguish speculation and genuine demand. Of course if you buy bitcoins to do some business with them and in the meantime it rises you're not speculator nor scumbag.What gives bitcoin its value right now? What is backing it? There are not enough real useful services (meaning other than "let me try this" type of things which are driven by pure enthusiasm for the novelty of bitcoin - which is going to go away soon) so most of the apparent "value" is a bubble created by exactly the type of speculators hoping to make a profit. This is not real value ... it's virtual, it doesn't exist ... in the real world nobody values bitcoins for the sake of being bitcoins. It baffles my mind how anybody can see this as something good, why would it be good? For what? because it makes pretty charts? This type of economy is just a giant ponzi scheme snowballing and snowballing until there is enough suckers to believe it will go further up ... when the world runs out of suckers people start selling off unleashing a raging inferno of sell-offs where those who sell off first are at the top of the pyramid making huge profits while the base is going to loose big time ... in the end no real value or wealth was ever created, the money just changed hands (was redistributed) from the suckers to those at the top. there is not value in that ... pretty charts showing rising numbers are not wealth. It's fraud and a scam ... the only real value is physical economy and services that people desire *other than* monetary gain. Selling "investment funds" for the sake of making more money from money is not a service anybody would desire if they wouldn't want more money from it ... the same goes for gambling, casinos etc. - NOBODY would participate if there wasn't a prospect for making more money out of just money. This is the scam ... that *can't be done*, it's zero sum game. You can NOT make money from money this way or create real wealth ... you can just take it from somebody else - and that is just wrong and YES IT IS IMMORAL too!  If somebody does this, he *is* a scumbag whether he realizes it or not. And not because I'm calling him that ... a robber is not a scumbag because I call him one, he is a scumbag because he robs people. If you want to remedy the situation you need to go to the root cause ... simply, do not do it! And inform everybody else why it is a bad thing to do. The big guns on Wall Street *are* scumbags and a lot of people are suffering because of them ... a lot of people will suffer if you're going to do this with bitcoin too. It's a matter of personal responsibility and yes also of morality ... do you want true production and creative people to suffer because of your thirst for money/profit?It is a moral question, but we are people, we are supposed to care about morality ... otherwise we are just barbarians running around hitting each other with clubs on the head and seeing who comes out of it alive. Are we civilized or are we not? Do we care about the big picture consequences of our actions or do we not? It's personal question that everybody has to answer for himself.As for me, I'm absolutely unwilling to compromise my personal integrity and morality for profit or I would loose what I consider making me human. I'm not an animal to be ruled by my primitive urges. I can't believe people are brainwashed enough to actually say this ... the speculators are buying rice for *the sole purpose* of selling it at higher price so net effect is that the rice is more expansive than it would be if the market was untampered with (not manipulated) with a cut going to the speculator. The speculator *does nothing else* than take the cut. There is no value added, he just steals the money counting on the fact that regular people do not have the time or desire to watch for such a thing (because they are honest and actually producing real goods rather than feeding off of someone else's work). Then he can up the game and convince some gullible people to become "investors" and actually buy the stuff he is hoping to sell at higher price (calling it fancy names like "investment fund") ... the suckers invest their money of course again for the sole purpose of making more money, this is how it snowballs. Suckers buying it makes the graph go up helping to convince other suckers that now is the good time to "invest". The increased demand in turn makes the prices rise even more, he repeats this until he can find enough suckers to buy the crud he is selling. Then he goes out of the market being an insider and knowing that he is going to sell it which is going to crash the price. By this time however the crud he created changed so many hands that nobody really knows where it came from so he is safe. Then he sells and makes huge profit because of the bubble he created (or with his insider friends), the suckers loose big time ... oh, investment got wrong, nobody knows why, the invisible hand of market decided ... oh sure, save that crap for another suckers not me. Net effect = few people made huge profits doing nothing else than moving some numbers around, a much larger pool of suckers who "invested" got robbed and in the meantime million people died of hunger in poor countries because of the artificially inflated price of food while the bubble was forming. Yeah and i the meantime few rice farmers made some more money because few of the breadcrumbs from this scam has fallen their way ... but they probably "invested" it in another bubble which is going to implode next year. Final result, everybody looses except speculator who didn't do anything useful in the first place!Scum of the Earth! If I wouldn't be that of a big believer in freedom and personal responsibility I would lock these people up the the worst prison until they rot! Instead I'm trying to educate people about this so the market speaks and people just REFUSE to participate in this and realize what a scam it is ... but I'm being lambasted by religious number and graph worshipers who just don't give a damn about the effects on the actual real world it has. Oh but our graphs are going up, that can't be wrong ... give me a break. This is what I'm talking about ... the bitcoin community is infested with mindless cheerleaders for profit thinking it s ok to completely divorce economy from human values and physical production. This is the EXACT same nonsense we were bombarded with when deregulation of US economy was pushed bringing rise to such "useful financial instruments" like derivatives, "encouraging 'investment'", "stimulating economy" ... we've heard it all ... in the meantime industry was destroyed, physical production plummeted, millions of people found themselves on the street all the way speculators made wonderful profits, charts were happily jiggling on the way up ... that's how "important role" they play.If this is the kind of people using bitcoin then it is already dead, it just doesn't know it yet. Exactly as many people knew US economy is done and over with when they saw that 99% of it was in worthless paper traded by speculators robbing regular people blind, who just now are waking up to the fraud when they realize they've lost everything while banks are making record profits.keep thy moral to thyself? this is the exact mindset of financial sharks who do not give a damn about the consequences of their actions, the only thing that matters is profit. Am I going to make million people starve to death by my food speculations to jack up prices and make profit? Who gives a flying fuck ... these people are scum, lowlifes of human society. What do you provide anybody by speculation? Who does it help? It does nothing ... the fairytales you recite here are excuses for you to not feel guilty robbing people. What good does it make to buy rice at certain price with the intent to sell it for higher price? NOTHING! It just creates artificial demand, a bubble, making rice more expansive that it really should be according to real market making people starve in the process! If you do this kind of thing, you're a leech on human society feeding of off others and I despise you!
You are saying that as if that would be a bad thing. Speculation is bad use of bitcoin (or any other currency), screw all the speculators!  Make real services instead! I'm glad that I'm not the only one worried about this. Reading the forums, there are all kinds of speculative uses, gambling, admitted ponzi schemes and similar crap ... but well, that's ok, nobody wants to forbid it, anyone can make crap if they want to ... what worries me is that it is generally accepted by bitcoin community as legitimate use - that is very dangerous thing, I thought people here would be more informed than that. This is the exact same mindset that brought about the economy crisis. The purpose of money is not to make more money! It is supposed to be a medium of exchange for real goods and services ... I'm watching with horror when there is a casino game posted and nobody speaks a word that that kind of use is extremely bad for bitcoin let alone it being immoral ... you make money on others desire to make money! Essentially taking advantage of their greed, it does not produce anything useful except nurturing bad aspects of human nature.As far as speculation is concerned, that is simply a theft. Again, it does not produce anything ... it just siphons money away from real economy. Buying bitcoins for the hope you get more back than you put in later on is not investment, it's robbing people who make real contribution of their work. Investment would be giving someone bitcoins to make a new useful service which is going to rise the demand for bitcoin therefore up its value - that is real investment and the person investing in it deserves to make profit. Speculators are just thieves, shame on them! Why nobody else says this? Maybe because our real world economy was turned to crap and people see that crap everywhere so they consider it "normal" ... it is not! Wall Street is a parasite destroying everything it touches, please do not allow the same thing happen to bitcoin. If there are no real goods and services flowing between people who intend to actually use them (not speculate with them), it's a bubble economy and it is going to crash and burn sooner or later.I'm not going into bitcoin right now exactly for this reason, there are no real things I would actually desire to buy for it so far so it is clear that the current value of bitcoin is a bubble for sure. If there are not real things available for bitcoin soon it is going to collapse just like our real world economy. And these "investors" are going to cry how it could happened, fools. This is another example of a knee-jerk reaction you see. And exactly what I was talking about in my previous post. You do not really disagree with any of the arguments, you just want to have a stab at me because you feel like you're being told what to do or think. That doesn't mean that what I'm saying isn't the right course of action or that you would disagree that it is, it's just your ego provoking an irrational response without any real basis. Let me give an another example demonstrating what's happening here:A guy stands in front of a window preparing to jump, someone comes along and tries to persuade him not to because he is going to hurt himself. Some other guy notices this and interprets it as someone telling others what to do and rushes to the window guy 'defense', attacking the one who is trying to persuade him not to jump: "Why are you telling others what to do?", maybe starts mocking him: "Do you believe there are any matters that should be left to people's own discretion, without deferring to your wisdom?". You see, his only focus is the fact that someone is giving arguments to another in order to persuade him that his course of action is unwise (which he interprets as 'telling others what to do') and does not pay attention to whether said arguments are in fact valid or not and the guy preparing to jump could really hurt himself - he doesn't care about that. Others may join in and attack the guy further: "You do not know how deep it is under the window, maybe he won't hurt himself" (aka "You can not be sure we can not trust closed-source, maybe they won't rip us off"), "There is no reason to discourage him from jumping, he can just jump tomorrow anyway", "We shouldn't put banister on balcony, people can jump anyway"  (aka "People can just make the software from scratch anyway").All these arguments are so transparently irrational to me that I can not imagine anyone not seeing that. The above situation is what I see when I read the thread. I'm saying that bitcoin is going to 'jump out of the window' and hurt itself if we encourage closed-source implementations and people are attacking me for 'telling them what to do' instead of looking at whether the arguments I present are actually valid. They do not disagree that bitcoin can be hurt by closed-source, they just do not like being told so by me or something. It's really incomprehensible to me why people react like this, it's probably our twisted culture. If we wouldn't be so reactionary, we wouldn't be so easily controlled and manipulated. You can almost literally cause people to jump from the window by telling them that the person telling them not to is 'telling them what to do' and therefore they should do exact opposite ... and people apparently consider that a valid reason, it's upside down.But I'm sure folks are going to jump all over me again for 'telling them what to do', 'talking down to them', 'being condescending' or whatever emotional ego reaction they're going to have rather than consider whether what I'm saying is true or not. They're going to 'defend' the right of the guy to jump from the window rather than joining me in persuading him not to because it's foolish. Yeah well, if there is not some personal growth encouraged in the bitcoin community, it is going to be subverted, hijacked and neutralized extremely easily ... closed-source software is one of the options to do exactly that and you're even inviting people to do it instead guarding against it, incredible! Now, this may be a little extreme example, but it demonstrates the issue quite well I think:It "restricts the freedom" of the developers in similar way that laws against rape "restrict the freedom" of rapists to rape. It makes no sense to use or encourage closed-source client any more than asking for rape. Using closed-source client is like walking trough dark isolated street alone in the middle of the night ... you are asking for it. And you are going to get it sooner or later.Now those screaming "I can trust whoever I want, that's none of your business", sure ... that's like I would tell somebody not to go that dark street because it is known for its crime and these people would start screaming that I'm not going to tell them what to do and they're going to go trough that street anyway. It's childish knee-jerk reaction, they do not really disagree that it is dangerous, they do not disagree that they're going to get raped ... they just want to go there because somebody suggested they shouldn't. It's like when you want a kid to open a box, simply tell them not to, they're guaranteed to open it. Reverse psychology. Really incredible that adults are so susceptible to that, or maybe I'm talking to teenagers?I've already responded to that, does that mean we should make it easy for them? We are going in circles ... that's not an argument for using MIT, that's just an excuse for one of its pitfalls (which GPL doesn't have).That is a disadvantage, not advantage. We DO NOT want anybody to combine it with any kind of any different license, that would compromise its freedom and therefore security, put many people at risk and endanger the whole bitcoin project. Now, I wouldn't call that a good thing, would you?What gets me so frustrated here is that people really do not think things through, they just react with a knee-jerk reactions most of the time. I'm not mad at you who write those responses really, I'm mad at those stupid posts  So I apologize if I've came off too harsh. Then people just feel like opposing me because I'm "rude" and do not rationally think about the issues, they change into reactionary creatures fighting for their tribe ... it's unfortunate people react like that. There has been not one rational reason for using MIT license over GPL and people still feel like arguing for MIT and I'm unable to understand why except for some psychological issues causing this. Satochi did not answer the questions too, maybe he realized that MIT license makes no sense but instead of admitting that and simply changing it he is ignoring this thread and acting like it wouldn't exist. Sad that people are prone to decide on what they'd like to be true instead of what is actually true ... You mean like whether you can *trust* it? THAT'S MY FREAKING POINT and it's spelled out in my previous post! Based on what are you going to trust the source? Whether it is large enough? Microsoft sure can be trusted ... or how nice of a logo they have? Maybe your friend is CEO? Is he expected to be personal friend with everyone who uses the software? How does it depend on the source? Please... share this ultimate wisdom with me.No, anyone who posts several messages without giving ANY reason why MIT would be preferred to GPL is an irrational person. You can not give a reason because there is no reason. The only thing left except admitting that, is calling people names, there is no rational reason against using GPL ... if there was, you would stated it already. But you must be an Internet hero and argue your case to the death no matter how wrong you are. That kind of mentality just makes me mad, as you may have noticed  and you call me a zealot, lol I can't believe this, what are you arguing here? The same question, is this something about "winning an argument"? NONE of what have you written is ANY reason WHATSOEVER to use MIT over GPL. Why are you making up excuses (ridiculous at that) for the pitfalls of MIT rather than stating why would MIT be more advantageous to GPL? There is an easy answer for that, because there isn't any rational advantage to it! Is it surprising that I'm going mad here over that kind of silly things you say?There is really simple thought process behind this to decide this question, please answer these one by one:1) Would you personally accept closed source software dealing with your bitcoin transactions running on your station? (in that case I'm going to send you that credit card utility I told you about)2) Would you recommend to anybody else to use closed source implementation of the bitcoin protocol? (not yours with your backdoor to make a buck  I mean third-party software)3) If you would not use closed source yourself and did not recommend to others to use such a software, what good is an option to fork existing implementation and make one?See? Real easy .. I do not see any reason why would you want to fight a battle against GPL, why would you be against GPL? It makes no sense.The only other option would be to *trust* the publisher of the software, in that case I would ask why use bitcoin at all? Its very design is centered about the idea of eliminating central authority that has to be trusted. You can just as well use regular dollars and *trust* the federal reserve and the US government to take care of your currency ... that turned out well, right? Do you want the same thing to happen to bitcoin? Oh gosh, I have to calm down ... it really is hard for some people to grasp this. Please listen to yourself, you're saying that using closed source client is a bad idea, do I understand that right? And you are encouraging people to use the open-source MIT one over the closed source one, right? That means people should really use only the open-source version to not get screwed ... what. is. the. point. of. the. MIT. license. then!? The MIT license is specifically designed to allow for closed source derivatives! If you're saying that people should only use open-source one without the risk of getting "what they deserve" if they don't ... you are in total agreement with me and you are making the exact same argument for using GPL as I am. Why do you feel the need to make excuses for MIT license then? Do you not like me personally that you just have to disagree with me for some reason? Or is this some ego thing about "winning an argument" or something? I honestly do not understand why people do this, it's frustrating. You may not like me, you may not like my style, you may enjoy arguing or whatever but I beg you to leave that behind and look at the facts and logic instead, please!Ok, one by one:1) Proprietary version doesn't mean that it will be doing only things that you'll easily notice, it can have backdoors, it can be dormant for several years and then rob a half the community at some point effectively destroying bitcoin (but still making a huge profit for whoever has done this)2) Yes, there is a possibility that someone will develop a client from scratch, is there any reason you can think of that we should make that possibility much higher by making it easy to do? I love this logic, let's all put wallets on our front porch ... they could just taken them by stealing them in a crowded bus anyway, so what's the harm.All you've written are excuses to do nothing ... not reasons to have MIT license, you did not say why MIT would be preferable to GPL, you just made excuses for the additional and unnecessary pitfalls of MIT. There is no reason to keep these pitfalls if there are no benefits that outweigh them. I see no benefits to MIT, only unnecessary dangers. The only supposed "benefit" is the possibility of closed sourced forks which you yourself said are dangerous and discouraged. So I really do not see why would you have any rational reason to disagree with me. yeah, it's not surprising at all ... that's why MIT should not be considered in a first place, exactly because it allows this kind of abuse. The question is not whether it is surprising but whether it is desirable, wouldn't you say? If any kind of proprietary software stemming from this would get popular, it's not going to be surprising at all when a hell of a lot of people will get robbed of all their bitcoins ... that doesn't mean we should allow it, does it? I said people are just confused ... talking about whether it is "surprising" the the license allows for obvious abuse rather than talking about eliminating that abuse. Do you support that kind of "obvious consequence" then? It seem to me that you're arguing in its favor.X11 or BSD are not small client programs that handle your freaking financial transactions, I bet you would be all happy to accept this program I made, it makes credit card transactions a lot easier, you just type in your credit card information into it ... it's real convenient, shall I send it to you? I'm sure you wouldn't have any problem with that, would ya?It's hard to believe that such an intelligent person would make such comments you just did then ... I'm startled. That's exactly the point! I get the impression that many people commenting do not understand the issues involved quiet well enough and get confused a little ... no offense So I would like to hear a response to that question too ... are you going to support and condone someone taking the code, adding a little eye-candy and little nice features perhaps and distributing this proprietary closed-sourced client to the bitcoin community? As you seem to be actually encouraging that by releasing the code under MIT license.How are you going to check if there isn't any "bonus" to that eye-candy in the form of a backdoor, if it does follow the protocol correctly, if it doesn't at some point in time just transfer all the bitcoins from everyone to some hardcoded address? Is there any reliable way or are we just supposed to *trust* the publisher?Why all the trouble to develop a decentralized system with specific goal of eliminating the need for central authority to trust when you then allow this exact thing to be reintroduced in the form of trusting the publisher of your software?For those who would trade their principles for wider adoption ... I would rather want smaller community of a system I can rely on than a big one that is compromised. As far as I'm concerned, the corporations and "businesses" that won't respect the principles of transparency and openness can stick it! They're going to corrupt it and destroy anyway if they are allowed any larger influence. Did it not occur to you that there is a reason some corporations won't touch GPL? They can not cheat and rip people off with that kind of software ... that translates into lower profits. I don't know about you but I certainly wouldn't miss that kind of "company" ... That's like asking Microsoft to help popularize your OS - they are going to screw you over the first chance they get, it's going to get popular allright but it's going to be no longer the OS you had in mind at first.Your argument Satochi that it creates duplication of work is a valid one ... it makes cheating and compromising the bitcoin community a hell of a lot easier for anyone who wishes to do so. But I did not realize that was the kind of duplicity we were worried about.I would like to hear any reasonable scenario where distribution of a proprietary bitcoin software would be acceptable, would *you* accept a proprietary implementation to run on your system? Would you recommend to anybody to use such an implementation? I'm really curious about this ... thank you.(and sorry, I'm kind of perturbed by the responses ... if you sense any tension from my post it's from frustration that people would even consider running a black box software dealing with bitcoins, incredible!) For a software like this, *only* GPL license makes any sense. It's not about an ideology but rather anyone who would trust proprietary software for their financial transactions and a system like bitcoin is a fool and deserves what's coming for them (which is a lot of stolen "cash"). Using proprietary software may even result in hijacking of the whole bitcoin network if significant portion of people would use such a client. There is no way to reliably test for backdoors or other nasty stuff, any closed-source software should be essentially banished by the bitcoin community. GPL allows you to make private in-house modification as much as you like so that's not an issue at all. The only situation that causes GPL to trigger is when you *distribute* the software to other people, in which case you have to provide sources along with it which is the only way anyone should accept any software dealing with bitcoin anyway.You have to also realize that there are no legal consequences to any "theft" as using bitcoin from neutral point of view is essentially just moving some arbitrary bits around. So the bitcoin community is expected to self-regulate, which should come in a form of an enforced transparency (by all the users rejecting anything else). Considering any other license than GPL-like is playing with fire and is not going to end well.I did not realize current bitcoin client was released under MIT license,This should be changed to GPL IMMEDIATELY!GPLv3 even protects you from said software to be locked up by DRM so even when it's open-source you would not have access to it. There is no disadvantage to using GPL license really. Anyone spreading FUD about GPL is either not appropriately informed/did not consider all the issues or has an ulterior motive as far as I'm concerned. I'm not going to trust any closed-source, that's for sure ... and if significant portion of the bitcoin community is, then I'm going to sell off all my bitcoins and get out as that's a prescription for disaster, sooner or later.As much as adoption is concerned, I'm not interested in people who feel the need to keep the source closed and hidden from its users to "adopt" anything as I would hope anyone concerned about the success and reliability of the bitcoin network wouldn't either. To complain about weak adoption in that sphere is like complaining about weak adoption by criminals to me. If someone is honest, they should feel no interest in keeping the source closed ... and every sane person would accept ONLY open-sourced software anyway. It's a win-win situation  Ehm, I believe it is a concept which is going to be filled with real data once it becomes operational  haha, you've got it, here: 1QCNUyy3ViFnMEVTiuMvWgdnJnfYepMibg That's not the point, if I'm diligent enough to change a source code I'm also diligent enough to apply a -disablesafety switch which is much easier, the issue here is default behavior of the official client. Many people are going to just notice there is a new version, download and install it never realizing this new remote control was inserted there.Saying that they can examine the source code or that it was openly discussed on the forum is like Facebook saying "but we have an option to delete your account, it's in terms of service, section 76, line 346, under link named so-appalling-that-nobody-would-ever-click-it, then on page 2, just solve the capcha, confirm the dialog, that will disable your account and if you do not log in in a week it will be deleted". In short ... nobody actually does it ... that's how badware behaves and I do not want for Bitcoin to be badware.If there is a remote safety disable function every user who has it enabled should consciously enable it knowing what it does. This can be easily accomplished by presenting a dialog urging user to enable it while explaining what it does in a GUI client and presenting a warning accomplishing the same task when daemon is run. Simple, efficient and everybody is happy. That's how software that respects its users and is working for them should behave. I'm sure most people would enable it when understanding what it does ... but sneaking this feature in without making sure the user specifically wants it there is making decisions for the user, I do not like decisions being made for me I'm aware of this because I read the forums but what in the future? (And what about people who do not read forums) Will there be another "feature" inserted and I'm not going to be even notified, explained what it does and asked if I want it enabled? I do not like that if you ask me ... I want to know what software on my CPU does, if it doesn't make reasonable effort to inform me of that and assure that I'm aware of it's behavior I would consider it badware.That's at least my perspective ... and the fix is extremely easy  Satochi the creator of the decentralized pseudo-anonymous trading system not reliant on trust and using strong cryptography is calling us paranoid LOLNot wanting any remote tampering of the software running on my PC is not paranoid but a matter of common sense I believe. Of course it is a good idea but it should be enabled ONLY when specifically requested by the user. It should be opt-in as opposed to opt-out. There is a huge difference between the two (ask Facebook). If it's going to be enabled by default it is going to be perceived by many as an exploitable/malicious feature counting on the fact that most people will not realize/notice it is even there. And I wouldn't say these concerns wouldn't be justified ... It doesn't matter that you have best interest of the community at your heart which I'm sure you have, the system was designed not to rely on any kind of central trust and that principle should not be broken.Why not use -enablesafety to enable this feature instead of expecting the user to disable it? If I want my software to respond to remote alerts I should specifically enable it, that way it is ensured that I'm aware of what I'm doing and I'm doing it of my own will. When it is enabled by default a lot of people may not even realize this "feature" is enabled and perceive remote disabling as a breach of trust ... I know I would if I wasn't aware of that possibility and the software would suddenly stopped working and I would discover it was disabled by remote by someone I gave no conscious permission to do so.I hope you'll consider this suggestion ... thanks Oh, so that language was referring to hotlinking? Why not say that directly? That language was very confusing and the replacement isn't much better. Either way, do you actually believe to prevent hotlinking by forbidding it in the TOS? I do not think that is a realistic expectation. If somebody wants to hotlink they'll do that and wouldn't give a damn about your TOS. And people supporting the site are not going to do that out of respect. So there is no reason to include that line in the TOS other than cosmetic and stirring up controversy. It really makes no sense. It's better to restrict it with some technological means, which is possible if it would become a problem.So my advice would be to get rid of that particular point. It serves no real practical purpose. That is too centralized/censorable/hackable, the idea with a message signed with specific private key only satochi has is ideal as it can be introduced at any node and spread trough decentralized means. I was going to suggest the exact same thing... you beat me to it However it has to be done carefully, people do not like any unsanctioned changes to happen without their knowledge or any kind of remote control. If this would be implemented I would say that it should not execute any action unless specifically requested/confirmed by the user.On a GUI client this would be accomplished by presenting a dialog window describing the requested actions and waiting for the user to confirm them (or check an "automatically apply changes suggested in alerts" checkbox, which would be unchecked by default).Also a deamon should not do anything unless a specific switch for that purpose is applied like --enable-alerts. It can show a warning if this switch is not applied and suggest to enable it to the user but it shouldn't apply it by default automatically.In short, any changes except simple alerts should be disabled by default.  What? Sounds like the BiddingPond is more like a Pond of Evil I'm not sure they can even do that legally, first amendment and all but legal or not it goes directly against my personal principles so I'll not spend a Bitcoin there and tell everyone I can to do the same. Vote with your Bitcoins  That's a good idea. Of course we know that we can not blame Bitcoin itself for what some people might do with it but that doesn't stop powerful interests to do so. Take file-sharing and services like the pirate bay as an example, they just provide a search engine for what people themselves share while not providing any copyrighted data of their own. This obviously didn't stop authorities from raiding their servers, prosecuting them and "convicting" them.So while common sense and reason might be clear on some issues, that doesn't stop those who want to destroy particular system from twisting and inventing "threats" to society of their own making. The unfortunate reality is that most or at least many people are going to accept those claims without any attempt to inform themselves. That's the sad reality of our times and that's why it is in order to minimize the risk of that happening. They might invent something anyway but why make it easy for them? So that's why I think that this is a good idea and would help Bitcoin to succeed by separating the system itself from how people decide to use it. Participating in bitcoin IS valuable. Unfair monetary practices and manipulation has caused a lot of injustice and even deaths just like cancer, the wars the US is waging right now would be impossible to sustain with an honest money system. So yeah I believe supporting bitcoin is very valuable use of the CPU time at my disposal.
