I read somewhere that BlocksNet was created because OFF is pretty much dead. The fallacy is that anybody is forced to use BitCoin (in any form it is and might be), or that having a single person (in this particular case the developer of the BitCoin client) decide what the maximum money supply is, is better than the majority of the peers.What Babylon said triggered some other idea directly related to the money supply. I've made another thread. Following what Babylon said in here, here is another idea directly related to the money supply. Other people would want to create other systems like BitCoin. Well, how about BitCoin having a feature called "minting service contracts"?A minting service contract would be an XML which describes how a minting service can integrate with the BitCoin network. Basically, rather than having lots of software applications (which would have to be trusted) which do the same thing as BitCoin but with slightly different protocols and numbers, use just one (BitCoin) and let users import minting service contract XMLs (into their BitCoin client).Each XML describes how the minting service works, what the protocol parameters are and basically how the coin creation is initialized. This way, they can all live within the BitCoin network, but it remains to the users to decide which minting services to use.This allows the entire network to increase the money supply (of course, with different types of currency), gets rid of voting and doesn't "force" users to use a specific currency. The tricky part is the algorithm by which votes would be weighted. True and might work even better than having a variable money supply (because there is no tricky voting involved), but I do wonder if they would reach the same level of trust?! (I mean, people trust dollars more than, say, rupees.) You're thinking "BitCoin", but I said "credit BitCoin", like "credit dollars" which don't require printing dollars, just accounting.There is no free banking system, nor will there be (as long as people have a physical presence) because of the ultimate centralization point: the state. The state (/ banks) has replaced gold with paper. If a digital distributed currency becomes important in the world's economy, the state would want its cut. But if the currency is able to increase its supply as the entire network decides, the state can no longer substitute cash needs with credit.I have not thought for a moment about people depositing their BitCoin so that banks could lend it further. I have only thought about the state creating the laws which would allow banks to create credit BitCoin. Thusly, the state creates the inflation. This is my point. Rather than having the state do it, create the mechanisms for the peers to do it as they see fit so that they can as a whole self-correct themselves. Ah, I understand now. I've seen that some people here believe that there can be no fractional reserve banking in the BitCoin market (because there is no central bank). I believe there can be something that works like fractional reserve banking. So, I am not saying that people would start lending their excess BitCoin, but that some highly skilled, highly determined individuals would create credit BitCoin out of thin air, just like in the fractional reserve banking system.Basically, while the math you gave is flawless, I am talking about human behavior. Math says that people can not have the same wealth unless they all produce the same, but human behavior says that one can rob (/ trick into relinquishing) another of wealth. You might like offsystem.sourceforge.net and blocksnet.sourceforge.netOFF is a highly connected peer-to-peer distributed file system. The unique feature of this system is that it stores all of its internal data as meaningless multi-use data blocks. In other words there is not a one to one mapping between a stored block and its use in a accessed file. Each stored block is simultaneously used to access many different files. Individually however, each block is nothing but arbitrary digital white noise.No creative works, copyrighted or not, are ever communicated between OFF peers. Only meaningless blocks of arbitrary data. No tangible copies of creative works are ever stored on OFF peers. It is completely unnecessary....Instead of working on whole files however, OFF works exclusively with fixed length “blocks” of data. Each block is exactly 128KB in size. If a file being stored is longer, it is broken into multiple 128KB blocks. If it is shorter, the blocks are padded to 128KB with random data.These initial source blocks are never stored in the OFF System. Instead, OFF arbitrarily chooses relationships among new or existing blocks that happen to XOR back to the source block.... Exactly. Right now BitCoin is centralized in the sense that the rules are established by Satoshi, in code. Is it good to have a limit for the money supply? I have no ideea (I believe it's not because of what I said in the previous post: timing). Does Satoshi actually know that? I think the network itself would know better.Well, today if the majority of the network were controlled by rogue peers, they would in effect control BitCoin, so I don't see a difference. However, I don't know enough architecture of either BitCoin or P2P networks to say it can work effectively, with no more potential security issues.Any peer editable parameter could be changed within certain limits, say once a year, and only if a high enough percentage from the peers change that parameter. Of course, not all peers would use the same value, some would want more, some less; just take an weighted average. Perhaps the per-peer voting power should be weighted by the total mining / spend throughput, or something. Don't make the change instant; wait a few months while things cool down and the peers change their protocol parameters.I've tossed this idea around, maybe it can be useful to the people involved in designing the protocol. The money supply is just an example. Everything you said is clear to me, but I disagree on one point.If there is deflation and people start hoarding money thinking that their money will value more later (so they have an incentive to start spending their money later - half the money for milk), credit creationists would intervene on this opportunity. It's a matter of timing. So, just because of this timing (a few entities are far more mobile than the entire BitCoin network), you end up having a few entities hoarding the power to create stuff which works as money, rather than allow BitCoin itself to do that directly for everybody.People would accept this credit because its available and works as money. Consequently, there is transfer of wealth (from the entire network to the few credit creationists).Might not become significant, I have no idea, but I gave this as an example for the ability of the network to correct itself. Right. The important point here is that it was the central bank (= Fed) who create the bubble by having those credit mechanisms, and now the market has to correct it.So, why allow credit in the first place in BitCoin, when the cache itself can inflate as the economy's needs grow.My point is, implement in BitCoin the mechanisms which allow the majority of peers to control the supply. (Not so that things would get out of control, but some leeway.) It is virtually impossible to have a central bank in BitCoin, but it is possible to have credit creationists (when the amount of money in circulation is fixed and the economy is growing; why? because there is demand for stuff which acts as money / medium of exchange), and while there would be competition, they would be significantly fewer (that is, concentrating more power over the BitCoin economy) than the total number of BitCoin peers.Why let those few increase the money supply through credit (and thusly concentrate the power to increase the money supply), when everybody can do the same from their own BitCoin application? I don't understand what you mean?! You can have all sorts of credit (like with your neighbor), but what does that buy for most people? The vast majority of the world's money supply is created by monopolistic state law, which in turn means by monopolistic credit entities.For BitCoin it makes no sense to have a few entities generating credit out of thin air, when BitCoins can be directly generated out of thin air by individuals (well, it's indirectly from electricity). However, such entities would start popping up and create credit if the BitCoin supply remains limited.I mean, then people could just use Ripple and be done with the whole concept of medium of exchange. They can't. Or rather, the secure Internet infrastructure is based on asymmetric cryptography (HTTPS). Quantum computer would break this infrastructure until most Internet users would have quantum computers which would use asymmetric cryptography algorithms adapted to the new technology. The problem is that credit constitutes the vast majority of the (fiat) money supply, not cache. BitCoin should not be overwhelmed by the same issue (because that credit is a centralized monetary mechanism). Consider including in the BitCoin protocol some network-wide self-correcting mechanisms. By this I mean that the BitCoin P2P network participants would have to be able to change some of the BitCoin protocol parameters, in their client application.The only clear idea that I have right now is the maximum amount of BitCoin in circulation. Not necessarily the absolute amount, but as an annual inflation percentage. For example, the maximum amount for 2010 is 21 million, for the next year could be 1% more, and so on for each year (cumulated, so as to simulate system / population growth, but not as a percentage value, just as style).This percentage can be either integrated in the protocol, or left as a BitCoin client editable parameter, in which case the final value can be settle upon through agreement among the vast majority of BitCoin clients.Reasons for this type of inflation: to avoid deflation and creation of credit.Some people suggest that there could be a credit market in the BitCoin market. But consider that mining gold (and fiat printing) has been replaced with individual BitCoin mining, and thusly eliminated the centralized and authoritarian injection of money in the economy (through gold fields claimed by states, gold mining corporations and central banks).BitCoin should not aspire to replace money (what is money: gold, fiat?), but aspire to replace what works as money (= the money supply, which includes credit).I mean, why would Bitcoin try to replace just a small part of the centralized and authoritarian injection of money in the economy, when the credit market accounts for far more things which work as money?George Hara
