I've had to miss the last few meetups.  Can we organize another? I never managed to find the meetup!  I was sitting out back with a Bitcoin sign stuck in my hat band.  Oh well---next time. Let's organize a meetup!  I'd like to see pictures of your mining setup, ryepdx.  Maybe you can give us a description of what you've done.  We could try meeting next week.  What if we tried Tuesday, 6/14, 6pm at the Green Dragon on SE 10th and Belmont? I haven't been having very good luck with the random IRC channels.  Each of the random channels joined didn't have enough other clients attached.  Eventually, I just modified bitcoind to connect to good old #bitcoin instead, and now everything is peachy.  Perhaps the client should join multiple channels until enough folks have upgraded to the random channel-using clients? Yeah, I operate one of the grinders. I just got a card from BitcoinCashout and it went really smoothly.  This is certainly a service I'll be using again.Thanks, guys! I live in Portland and would be thrilled to spend Bitcoins on things locally. It might be possible that a transaction fee could slow down the scammers, or at least encourage them to try some other method.  Isn't it? Feel free to replace all of those with my Bitcoin address and encourage people to send me things.   New Tor bitcoind service: j43z65b6r2usg3vk.onionHowever, somebody brought up a good point on the IRC channel: since Bitcoin uses Socks4A, do .onion addresses even work, or does the DNS lookup fail and no connection to any Tor-ified .onion addresses even get attempted?Anybody know? NNTP is certainly still alive and well.  I read most of my e-mail lists that way using the interface at Gmane (http://www.gmane.org/).  Though, honestly, I haven't taken a look at Usenet in several years now.I'd love to see NNTP here. Would it be possible to set this up?  Forums make me miss Gnus.Here's the NNTP Syndicate module for SMF: http://custom.simplemachines.org/mods/index.php?mod=718Thanks, y'all. I'd rather it not be publicly archived, but if it does happen, there needs to be a clear disclaimer so that anybody joining the channel knows that they should expect no privacy for the conversation there. I've just discovered that my absolutely favorite new URL is http://fxnet.co.cc/?ref=67It has a lovely symmetry to it, don't you think? Well, I shut down bitcoind and backed up my wallet immediately, but it never reported that I had more blocks to wait before they matured.  I just assumed that was the problem.  I did start up bitcoind after making the backup, just in case the transaction could still go through.Using Gavin's bitcoin tools, I can see that the transaction is still in my wallet, and that the coins are still marked as spent, but neither my bitcoin nor the recipient's shows the transaction as having gone through. Howdy,I am running R119 on a Linux box, and last night was fortunate enough to solve a block and get 50 BTC.  Hooray, right?  Well, I tried to send 30 BTC before they were "mature" (i.e. before the 100+ block mark had passed), and so of course bitcoind reported an error.  However, it also marked those 30 coins as spent, so not only was no transaction created, but the coins aren't usable by me at the moment.Here is the relevant bit from my debug.log:ThreadRPCServer method=sendtoaddressCommitTransaction:CTransaction(hash=cf3bee, ver=1, vin.size=1, vout.size=2, nLockTime=0)    CTxIn(COutPoint(e9894c, 0), scriptSig=0x014866DE7A1889014BAC9A)    CTxOut(nValue=20.00000000, scriptPubKey=OP_DUP OP_HASH160 0x01BA)    CTxOut(nValue=30.00000000, scriptPubKey=OP_DUP OP_HASH160 0x3F3A)AddToWallet cf3bee  newCommitTransaction() : Error: Transaction not validreceived: addr (27 bytes)07/30/10 15:27:00 Flushing wallet.datFlushed wallet.dat 1msSo my wallet started with 50.01 BTC in it (the 0.01 was just a test I'd run the other day from one machine to another), and now my wallet just has 20.01 BTC in it.  I'm a little sad---I was excited about generating those coins!Erik
