Sure, I will let you know. Thank you! You are welcome! After purchase you will get link for download with rar password.Click here to buyLINK worked perfectly for me.  Funny, I'm on and can find myself, and the DarkExchange node.When did you run it last? Is I2P running? Have you downloaded all of the peers? While there seems to be plenty of interest, there aren't many people using the program. There will be some issues in the details of making sure everyone has an up to date list of all offers, and keeping the data clean. I can think of a few now, but once I start implementing it, I'm sure more will come up.I think there will be some issues keeping time on the network synchronized if we try to base everything on a timestamp. Plus, more than one person can accept an offer at the same time anyways. Though, I don't think it matters, since the one making the offer can choose which trade to fill in the end.I don't remember your skill set Sultan. Can you program? Do you know Java? Do you know Clojure? I would like to add an in person option, but that would require some significant changes which I'm not prepared to do yet.I've added another issue for in person transfers: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/50I make no promises on when I can get to it. Of course, if anyone implements it for me, I'll be glad to merge it in. There is still no way to make an offer and have it available when you go offline. The 'pass-the-parcel' technique likely won't work since you don't really log off, but just disconnect from the network.How about every node in the system keeps track of every offer (for now, only a subset in the future). If you're not online, it doesn't matter, someone somewhere has your offer. It would get tricky to keep track of the offers as they are accepted/rejected, but it would be possible.Would that work for you?Unfortunately, I haven't had a lot of time to work on Dark Exchange lately. I'm in the middle of adding a trust score to the system. When I have that in, I can look into something like this and fixing other issues.I didn't realize there was still so much interest in the project. I'll look into adding a warning message if the I2P network cannot be found. Issue 48: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/48Obviously, multiple searches and searching on multiple payment types is a popular feature request. I already have searching on multiple payment types as an issue: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/37I just added a new issue for running multiple searches at the same time. Issue 49: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/49 There is already a working (mostly) decentralized exchange: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=27055.0It does not use the method described above. I'm not sure how you would implement it. Instead, it works like OTC where you can post your order to the network and others can find it, or you can search for orders already posted.There is a working implementation, but hardly anyone is using it, and it's having issues with a few exceptions here and there. However, I've used it to exchange coins and so have a few others. There is already a working (mostly) decentralized p2p exchange: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=27055.0It works more like OTC over a p2p network. Unfortunately, I haven't had time recently to put much work into Dark Exchange. I was in the middle of implementing a trust score when things got crazy at work.Since there still seems to be interest in the concept, I'll have to put more time into it. Of course, I'm always open to help. Unfortunately, it's lost. The password is saved locally to your machine (encrypted of course). That way, there is no single point of failure which would allow a hacker to take over the exchange. The disadvantage is, no one can help you recover your password if you forget it.You can just create a new user. The way Dark Exchange is built right now, it is not possible to really integrate an exchange like that. Really, all you can do with Dark Exchange is find other people with offers. How you go about trading it between you and your partner.If the above type of trades become popular, I will certainly look into integrating it. The problem with demurrage is apparent with the thief scenario. If a thief steals a bunch of the coin and sells it for a very low price, the demurrage would take the coin from everyone based on how much they are holding. This gives the thief and incentive to dump their coin as fast as possible to avoid the demurrage. It also gives others hoarding coins an incentive to sell out before the higher demurrage kicks in. You could suddenly have a spiraling inflationary problem as everyone tries to dump their coins before demurrage.The opposite could happen if someone buys a bunch of coin at once and a reverse demurrage kicks in. People would then try to buy as much coin as possible to get the most reverse demurrage fees, thus driving a deflationary spiral. I agree high fees will discourage commerce, but I don't see any way around it. However, I don't think high fees will be all that common. The only way to find out is to create the coins and see what happens.I don't see how you're going to avoid volatility entirely. Also, I don't get your shareholder proposition either. I think a certain amount of volatility will be necessary to live in a decentralized world. You could remove the volatility completely if you have an issuing authority, but then you have to rely on the issuing authority to do the right thing all of the time. If you're fine with that, just go with USD and the Fed. I'm not sure what would happen in a total doomsday scenario, but I doubt the above would happen. I don't think a new "better" currency would cause everyone to suddenly jump all at once away from Stablecoin. Instead, it would be a gradual migration where the price of Stablecoin would be consistently under the target. The transfer fee would kick in to destroy the Stablecoins at a regular rate which is exactly what we would want.A doomsday scenario which is very likely to occur would be like the Mt Gox hack. What happens if a bunch of Stablecoin was stolen and the thief doesn't care about the exchange rate and just dumps the coins on the market. Since something like that has already happened with bitcoin, we can assume this would happen with just about any digital coin.This scenario will cause some issues, but I think Stablecoin would survive. Lets look at each step of the thief's sale to see how Stablecoin would react.1. The thief initially tries to dump all of his stolen coins on the market. All of the bids are cleared from the market and the price of Stablecoin drops. If the thief is able to dump all of his coins, he gets away with the money, and a bunch of others buy really cheap Stable coins. If not, He has to wait for more bids.2. The thief still has more coins to dump and some of those with cheap coins may want to sell at a slightly higher price than they bought them at. If the transaction fees haven't change yet, this is really step one with the addition of more people selling below the fair value. When the transaction fees change, the program will now calculate a very low value for Stablecoin and end up with really high transaction fees. If the thief tries to sell, he will lose much of his stolen coins to transaction fees. Also, anyone who purchased cheap Stablecoins and wants to sell out, or anyone panicking will also pay high transaction fees. Some people will choose to pay the transaction fees, others will not.There's the important distinction, choice. Some people will choose to return some coins to the either because the coins didn't cost them anything to begin with or they have lost faith in Stablecoins. Either way, coins are destroyed. Hoarders can hoard their coins until the price comes back up. Of course, with so many coins being destroyed, the price will come back up.Also, the transaction fees are a disincentive for the thief to dump his coins all at once. If he does, he won't make as much money as he would if he sold them slowly. There will likely be some level where he doesn't care about the transaction fee and just wants to dump the coins. But, that would just allow some people to buy cheap coins for a while and allow some of the stolen coins to disappear.3. Finally, some coins are destroyed, others end up with some cheap coins. The big downside, Stablecoin isn't as stable as the name suggests. It will be influenced by the market, but the goal is to always go back to a specific price. I believe it will do that even in this doomsday scenario. New features in the 1.2.0 release of Dark Exchange:Issue #4: Trades are now highlighted when they have an unread message.Issue #5: Trades are now highlighted when an action is required.Issue #31: Removed all id columns from the tables to free some space.Issue #32: Added a show only online identities check box to the identities tab.Issue #33: The password field starts with focus when the login window is first displayed.Issue #34: Timestamps added to all logs.Issues #38, #39, #40, #41, #42: Added support for Paypal, Liberty Reserve, Paxum, Pecunix and Namecoin.Fixes:Added exception handling to keep bad data from dropping your client off the network (big issue fixed).Fixed a display issue on the peer tab which caused the "is notified" column to display a 1 instead of yes.Dark Exchange is more aggressive at finding other nodes on the network.
I've released version 1.2.0 of Dark Exchange. You can download it from here:https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloadsThere are a bunch of changes in this release, but it's been a long day and I don't have the energy to list all of the changes right now. I'll do it tomorrow.If you must know now, you can check out the git commit logs. No, the project is not dead. I plan to release another version this weekend.Since there are so few nodes on the network right now, the best way to find bids is to view identities on the identity tab. I have around 10 open offers, and I try to run Dark Exchange 24/7. I don't think destroying coins through higher MTR will cause the spiral you predict.If the transaction fees are increased to avoid inflation, then it will cause people to avoid transactions. However, it would also cause people to ask more for their coins to cover the transaction fee which would cause deflation which is the goal of increasing the transaction fee in the first place. The would break the transaction fee death spiral and stabilize the price of the coin.Actually, the transaction fee may never get paid if the threat of a transaction fee causes people to hoard Stablecoin and drive prices back up. I don't have a great answer for this problem, but...If someone wanted to sell 100 Stablecoin this way, they would have to create a new wallet and put 100 Stablecoin in it. If they did this while the price of Stablecoin is low, then they would have to pay the higher transaction fee. Thus solving the problem in this case. If they moved the coin while the price was high, they wouldn't have to pay the transaction fee, but they could just sell the coin for a profit instead. The only way this would work is if they bought the coin when the price is low, then moved the coin into separate wallets when the price is high, then sold the wallets when the price is low again. Not only is this complicated and risky, but the initial purchase would pay the high transaction fee.An alternative to the above is if someone bought a bunch of Stablecoin at some point and doesn't care about selling exactly 100 coins. They could sell their entire wallet at once with some random number of coins inside. The problem with that is, the receiver couldn't pull the coins out of the wallet without paying the high transaction fees. The receiver would have an incentive to hold the wallet until the prices come back up. He could then sell the coins at a profit and may not have to worry about the transaction fee. Again this encourages hoarding which would drive the price of Stablecoin back up.The big issue is an exchange like Mt Gox. If there were an exchange like Mt Gox which held all of its Stablecoin in a wallet and let people buy and sell on its open market, then the price of Stablecoin would be independent of transaction fees. Of course, anyone who bought a bunch of Stablecoin while the price is low would not be able to pull it out of the market without paying the transaction fee. This again would encourage hoarding which would drive price back up to the fair market value.There may be issues in practice, and the transaction fee/miner reward may have to be adjusted at times. I still think it could work and I'm slowly working on an implementation.If anyone has any info on creating your own bitcoin chain, let me know. I'm looking for a tutorial if one exists. Or maybe a tutorial could be added to the bitcoin wiki. Currently it is not handled. However, there is an issue open to deal with it: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/22 I'm having too much trouble with multicoin and will look at modifying bitcoin directly (creating a new block chain and all). I'm not a C++ maven, so don't expect anything soon.I'm sure panics will happen, but people who behave rationally would earn a lot of money from those who panic. I think it will sort itself out without destroying the currency. However, we won't know until the coin is created. Short answer:1. Download and install Dark Exchange and its dependencies: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/wiki/Getting-started2. Start Dark Exchange.3. Create a new user.4. Log in as the new user.5. Post offers, search for offers, see what other users are offering, make trades, etc...It works sort of like bitcoin-otc, but over a decentralized network. All of your offers are posted on your local computer, and searchable by everyone else on the network. When you want to trade, Dark Exchange will walk you through the process. Use a real decentralized exchange:https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-ExchangeOf course, it still needs work. However, it is a start, and AFAIK, the only attempt at such an exchange so far.With completely open code and control over your own money, this kind of decentralized exchange should avoid causing any major damage to the bitcoin economy. Unlike certain other exchanges. If the price of the coins drops too low, then the mining reward will be dropped (not all the way to zero which would stop people from mining), and the transaction fee would be raised. The lower the price of the coins, the higher the transaction fee. All coins collected from transaction fees which are not given to miners are destroyed.I don't think we can know exactly what will happen with this setup without the actual stable coins in existence. My guess is, the higher transaction fees would cause people to hoard the coins. This will then remove more coins from existence than the higher transaction fees, and thus cause the price to rise.Anyone desperate enough to sell below the fair value, would also likely be desperate enough to pay the transaction fee. Hoarders would then have an opportunity to make money through arbitrage, and coins would be destroyed at the same time.In other words, I think the threat of higher fees or higher mining rewards would keep the price fairly stable without the actual higher fees or higher mining rewards going into effect that often.I agree. I would have to think carefully about how to set the fee structure. A little bit of price fluctuation is fine as long as it converges to a stable price over time. However, that does seem to go against the name "Stablecoin". Maybe, "Targetcoin" is a better name. The problem with a distributed exchange is, there is no central authority to enforce trading fees. Otherwise, it would be a good idea. You can try my service: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/how_to_buy_bitcoin_with_cash_in_the_mailIf you sent it all at once, I could only send you $500 worth of bitcoin at a time. I've added a couple issues for this:https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/36andhttps://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/37These were common suggestions from other people as well. I'll make them higher priority. It may be possible to do atomic transactions with purely digital currencies. I don't think it would be possible with fiat. Either way, you can still use Dark Exchange with these methods. It's just not integrated in any meaningful way.Also, Dark Exchange does not currently use Liberty Reserve. Did you make sure I2P is running properly? You can do that through your browser using the link: http://127.0.0.1:7657/index.jspIf that seems to be up and running properly, you can try restarting Dark Exchange. Otherwise, I'm not sure what to do.I have an idea to make Dark Exchange even more aggressive with connecting to peers, but it will have to wait a couple weeks before I can get to it. Yes, this is correct. Though, it also walks you through the trade process.Actually, Dark Exchange does not currently support Liberty Reserve (though I can easily add it if there is interest). You can use Dwolla to transfer USD. You can learn more about Dwolla at: https://www.dwolla.com/default.aspxOtherwise, you have the option of sending fiat money through the mail. Duh, the development and production databases are separate. For some reason, I thought it would use the same database. That still doesn't explain the exceptions you're getting. That means you're running on the real network instead of the development network. It should be fine, but you could cause exceptions or have issues when you start changing things.It should have worked with the dev flag also. Strange. Your account is held in a database in the data directory where your Dark Exchange is installed. If you want move it over to your dev repo, simply copy the entire data directory. Yes, the '1' means notified. It should say 'yes', but it's a display bug which will be fixed in the next release. Yes, I see BitcoinBillionare and now jackjack also.I don't know why it wasn't loading peers.txt. Was there an exception in the log?I've added an issue to add timestamps to the log. I have 15 peers, but only 7 have been notified.In identities, I have 9. With only DarkExchange and wegotpickles shown as online. If you're online, then you should also see me, morpheus.The first time you start Dark Exchange it will use the peers.txt file to try to download all peers in the network. You need to leave Dark Exchange running for at least 10 minutes to be sure it has connected to the network. If you don't see 15 peers after 10 minutes, you may have to restart Dark Exchange or add peers manually.After all of the peers are downloaded, each peer is queried for identities. Any identity it finds is added to the identity tab. If the identity is online, it is marked as online. If not then it is not.Every time you restart Dark Exchange it runs through all of the peers looking for new identities and marking identities as online. If someone drops offline while you're still online, then the "is online" column will not be updated until you try to view their identity or restart Dark Exchange.It still sounds like people are having trouble connecting. I'll have to do more research on better ways to connect everyone.
First, Dark Exchange is not written in Java, but in Clojure (http://clojure.org/). Because it's written in Clojure, there is a different method of "compiling" Dark Exchange than the usual java program.You will need to download and install the JDK (not just the JRE). Then download and install Leiningen (https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen). There isn't an installer for Leiningen. You'll have to copy the Leiningen script into some directory on your path then run "lein install". Everything you need to know about installation is on the Leiningen github project page.Once you have everything installed, you can then run "lein deps, install" from your clone of the Dark-Exchange project. That will download all of the dependencies, create a jar file, and install the jar in the Leiningen repository.To create a tar, simply use the command "lein tar".If you want to make changes to Dark-Exchange and run it in development mode, you can run "lein run :development" or simply "lein run :dev". Since Clojure is a scripting language, you can run it in development mode without the need to recompile it each time.If you extracted the tar and want to run that instance of Dark Exchange in development mode, you can use "run.bat -mode development" or "run.sh -mode development". As long as you can find any node on the network which has all of the other destinations, it will work. You can add other destinations on the Peer tab.BTW, I see you! On the dark exchange. I've released another version of Dark Exchange. The latest version is 1.1.1 and can be downloaded from: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloadsThis release included some major changes to identities with the goal of connecting people to start trading.---New in this release:Added a column to the identities table to show which identities are currently online. However, due to the nature of the p2p network, "is online" is only a best guess right now. If you're not sure, viewing the identity will force Dark Exchange to update the "is online" status.You can now view identities. This allows you to see more details of the identity including all of their open offers. I'm hoping this will help people find trading partners much faster. To view an identity, go to the identity tab, select an identity and click the view button (or double click on the identity). You can only see offers from identities which are online.I've added another destination to the peers.txt file and the peers tab shows "yes" when a peer has been notified or blank if not.You can now just press enter after entering your password in the login screen (before you had to tab over to the login button and press the space bar).---Both the identities DarkExchange and Morpheus should be online at all times. If DarkExchange is ever down, let me know ASAP. It's having problems sometimes and I'm not sure what's going on. DarkExchange is the identity on the initial p2p node which everyone connects to. If it goes down, new nodes may not be able to connect to the network.Morpheus will likely be up and down sometimes since it is my laptop and I have to take it down when I move around.I may have trouble keeping up with my weekly release schedule next weekend as I will be out of town. I only plan to make cosmetic changes with no major new features for the next release. Hopefully, I'll be able to get them in and make a release before I leave. Nobody provides you the gold (directly anyways). Since the mining reward is variable based on the price of Goldcoin, then you would be able to sell the 50 Goldcoin on the open market for 50 ounces or more of gold (or equivalent). Your hypercoin idea seems complicated and could easily be handled with bitcoin options. It seems almost like hypercoin is a bitcoin option of sortsMy original idea for Stablecoin was to create a new block chain for it, and have the program increase the mining reward when the price goes up, and increase the transaction cost (then destroy the coins) when the price goes down.Since I don't have the C++ skills to create Stablecoin, I planned to use the Multicoin client to create my own currency, 1971coin, which I could then issue and buy back to keep stable at the 1971 dollar value. Unfortunately, I seem to be having trouble building Multicoin, and the creator of Multicoin doesn't seem interested in creating pre-built binaries for it.I've also looked at using Open Transactions to issue my own currency, but that seems to be even more confusing than Multicoin (though they do seem to have pre-built binaries posted).I still have a few things to try.BTW, a 1971 dollar is worth about $5.50 now which tells you something about inflation recently. One bitcoin now, would be a bit more than two 1971coins at the current rate. Try typing just "java -version" at your command prompt.It looks like java is not installed, or is not on the path. You can exchange bitcoin for practically any currency with Dark Exchange: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-ExchangeGood luck finding buyers/sellers though.Using Swiss Francs to trade bitcoin would not stabilize the price of bitcoin since it's supply and demand of bitcoin which is causing the price to fluctuate so much. While Namecoin is an interesting concept in the beginning stages of adoption, it doesn't do anything like what I'm suggesting.However, like Namecoin, I'm suggesting creating a new block chain for these currencies. I don't think I'm proposing making an accounting ledger any more than it is. I'm just suggesting a way to make the currency in that ledger have a stable value.And, I'm not suggesting changing bitcoin, but creating a competing currency which would survive only if others found merit in it. This is correct. However...I don't think this is a good comparison. Especially since I would be basically selling the coin on the open market to force the price to be in a certain range, then the price is still accurate.I would say, it's more like:stability V freedomIf I'm controlling the supply of 1971coin, then you have to trust me to only release the coin at a specific rate to keep the price from rising too much, and buy it back up to keep it from falling. I would be the Federal Reserve for the 1971coin with the only difference being that my goal is to remove all inflation and deflation while making my formula for doing this as clear and public as possible. But, you still lose a bit of control and I would have at least some control over you at all times. In the Stablecoin version, you don't have to trust me, just the code which you can see and audit at any time. The formula for keeping the price stable is written, not in stone, but in code. You can accept that law or not, or even change it to your needs (though you would be forced to use a different block chain). In the end, I don't have any control over you at all, and you always have control over your own finances. For this reason, my priority is the Dark Exchange. Even though I'm creating 1971coin, I don't want it to take much time from me bringing Dark Exchange to a point where it is useful and used. Thanks sacarlson.I saw the create new genisis block text before, but it didn't quite give me everything I need. Between that text and your description of the namecoin port, I think I can at least get started. I'm interested in using MultiCoin for a Stablecoin example currency (I'm calling 1971coin which will be pegged to the 1971 dollar). However, I'm having trouble figuring out where to start. Is there a getting started guide somewhere explaining how to start your own block chain using MultiCoin?I would be willing to help develop the guide if you could help me out and I can post it on a wiki somewhere. Did you download the tar under Download Packages or under Download Tags? Download Packages is the official release. The others are bundles of the git repository at specific tags. They won't work if you try to install them. After sleeping on it, I've decided that even though I still like the idea of Stablecoin, it would be easier to use multicoin to create a coin like Stablecoin but manually peg the value on the market.I could do this by issuing all of the coin to myself and only selling it for a set price. I could then keep the money in trust, and buy back the coin if it every drops below the target price. I would sell the coin at a slightly higher price than the target, and buy it back at a slightly lower rate to absorb some of the fluctuation in the currency, while still keeping it targeted at a certain value.There are a couple problems with that type of coin. The one obvious one is everyone has to trust that I will buy and sell at certain prices to keep the value of the coin stable. This is why I would prefer a market solution where you would only have to trust the market. However, for a test of the concept, it may work until a market driven solution can be made.The next problem is, if the coin became very popular, I could run out of it and not be able to hold the price down. That would be a good problem to have, but it would still break my original promise to keep the value stable.Also, the reserve could be stolen and sold on the market driving the price down. I would take precautions to avoid this happening. It's still a risk and requires people to trust me.I'm going to go with it anyways and see how the market reacts. I'm going to create a block chain called 1971coin which will be pegged to the value of a 1971 dollar. Why 1971 dollar? It's the year the US completely dropped off the gold standard. That seems like a good value to peg.I'm going to issue as many 1971coins as I can to myself and start selling them 1% above the value of a 1971 dollar (approximately $5.57 current USD). I will hold any money I get in trust, and buy back the coins if they fall below 1% less than the value of a 1971 dollar. I will likely also sell them for bitcoin and other digital currencies.I will come up with a standard way to calculate the price of a 1971 dollar in current USD. I will the calculation method and the current rate at any given time online. I'm thinking of using the CPI for now. I haven't found a good way to use the billion price index. They don't seem to post the index at any given time on their website.Once I have the program working, I'll ad 1971coins to the list of currencies you can buy and sell on Dark Exchange. I just released a new version of Dark Exchange: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloadsI also added a page to wiki describing how to upgrade to newer versions: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/wiki/Upgrading-Dark-ExchangeNew for this release:Notifications are more aggressive which means more nodes should connect to the network faster. Unfortunately this method won't scale, but it seems to be necessary to get the network up and running. I'll have to rework the algorithm as the network grows.Most of the buttons in Dark Exchange will now run their actions (when appropriate) outside the event thread. This means the program should seem much more responsive.Searches can be cancelled and the search button now switches to a cancel button while in the middle of a search. This should also make it easier to see when Dark Exchange is in the middle of a search. Before, there was no way to tell.I've added two new columns to the search table and offers table. They display the wants amount divided by the has amount, and the has amount divided by the wants amount. This should allow you to see the price you're asking for or someone is offering. For example, if you enter that you have 2 bitcoin and you want $27.50, the wants / has column would read 13.75, your asking price for the bitcoin.'Root' peer issue:I noticed the 'root' peer had shut down. The root node is the only destination listed in the peers.txt file in your resources directory. It is the first and currently, only destination new installs query to connect to the network. I restarted it and anybody new should be able to connect to the network now. If you could not connect before, try it now.Also, if you plan to run Dark Exchange pretty much constantly, let me know and I'll add your destination to the peers.txt file. Your help will give new nodes more options when connecting to the network. This could not work if the other blockchain became popular. Eventually it would cost too much to keep the price up or I would run out of coins from the other blockchain trying to sell enough to keep the price down.I don't think there is a way to target a price for coins from an alternative blockchain without issuing more coins when the price goes up, and destroying coins when the price goes down. I don't want to say peg Goldcoin or Stablecoin to a price, since there will always be some volatility in the exchange. More like target a price. It won't be possible to smooth out every sudden jump or drop in price.However, I think you could increase the transaction cost enough or increase the mining award enough to keep the exchange rate relatively close to the target rate.On top of that, short term volatility would be smoothed out by speculators who could easily see when the price is above the target or below the target and buy or sell accordingly making a small profit and stabilizing the currency.Would that not work? I am bitcoin morpheus. First, I don't think there is anything wrong with bitcoin. However, people have brought up the idea of "backing" bitcoin with gold or otherwise controlling deflation. I'm proposing two types of coins which could be created with a modified version of bitcoin (possibly multicoin: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=24209.0). One would be based on the price of gold, Goldcoin, and the other would be stable with little to no inflation or deflation, Stablecoin.I would like to see them created. I do not want to see bitcoin changed in any way to support them. I think there are enough other bitcoin like currencies out there that the idea of yet another competing currency would not harm bitcoin in any way.Both coin programs I'm proposing, would need to include the bitcoin like program, and an exchange. There is not currently an exchange attached to any version of bitcoin to my knowledge. I'm working on a distributed exchange outside bitcoin (https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange), and you could use a centralized exchange like MtGox or TradeHill, but that would defeat the decentralized aspect of a bitcoin like program. More work and though is needed in this area.For now, I'm assuming there is both the bitcoin program and an exchange which can be queried for the current exchange rate.GoldcoinThe purpose of Goldcoin is to create a bitcoin like coin which could be exchanged for a set amount of gold, let's say 1 Goldcoin equals 1 ounce of gold.Besides a modified bitcoin program (I'm calling the Goldcoin program), we need an exchange. This exchange will only exchange Goldcoin with gold. The price is listed in ounces of gold, and the current price can be queried at any time.You can mine Goldcoin, and there are transaction fees for sending Goldcoins. However, the transaction fee is not given to the miners directly. The transaction fee and mining award is adjusted to keep the price of Goldcoin as close to 1 Goldcoin equals 1 ounce of gold.How does it work? The Goldcoin program watches the exchange for Goldcoin and does the following:If the price of Goldcoin increases above 1 ounce of gold, the Goldcoin program increases the number of coins given as an award to the miners. Also, the transaction fee is lowered, possibly to 0. If 1 Goldcoin is trading for 1.1 ounces of gold, then the Goldcoin program can increase the mining award by 10% (maybe more) until the price of Goldcoin goes back to the target.If the price of Goldcoin decreases below 1 ounce of gold, then the Goldcoin program decreases the number of coins given as an award to the miners. However, the award for mining can never go to 0 since that would cause all miners to quit. The transaction fees are raised. Any coins captured by transaction fees are not given to minors, instead they would be destroyed. With less Gold coins floating around, the price of Goldcoin should move back up to 1 ounce of gold.Thus, without an authority (besides programming code), and without using actual gold as a backing, Goldcoin will tend toward 1 Goldcoin equals 1 ounce of gold.Of course, it would not be perfectly stable with sudden interest causing the price to go up temporarily and loss of interest could bring it down. In either case, you can always assume if you wait long enough, the price will go back to the target price.One last point. The exchange could use USD instead of gold, and since the price of gold in USD is well known, you could simply target the USD exchange to match the price of gold. You would then have exactly the same outcome as the gold exchange.Using this method, you could create a coin targeted to almost anything. Which leads me to another coin:StablecoinWith Stablecoin, you have the same bitcoin like program and exchange as with Goldcoin with only a couple modifications.The exchange is in USD. However, instead of targeting USD directly, we target a specific date. Let's say we use the date Stablecoin comes into existence. From then on, we keep track of how much USD has inflated/deflated using something like CPI or the Billion Price Index or even a combination of indices. If USD inflates say 1% we increase the target to $1.01 for one Stablecoin. On the other hand, if USD deflates by 1% we target $0.99 for one Stablecoin. Over time the increase and decreases would be added together to get some strange multiple as the target for Stablecoin.The ultimate goal for Stablecoin would be to target a value not a price, and thus never inflate or deflate over time.Stablecoin would be a great benefit to any merchant. They could simply price their goods and services in Stablecoin once, and never have to change the price again. They also know, no matter how long they hold Stablecoin, the value of Stablecoin would never increase or decrease significantly. If it does, they can wait until it makes it back to it's target.Once Stablecoin is used to price goods and services online, you could then drop the use of CPI and Billion Price index and simply use a basket of goods priced in Stablecoin. If merchants start charging more or less on average for their goods, Stablecoin could adjust the number of coins accordingly.Stablecoin could become the perfect currency for merchants. Which would make Stablecoin perfect for customers who want to buy from those merchants. Once enough merchants and customers adopt Stablecoin, everyone else would follow.Making it happenUnfortunately, I have my own bitcoin project to work on right now which is taking all of my time (did I mention Dark Exchange: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange ). However, I'm sure some goldbugs on this forum would be interested in the Goldcoin idea and take off with it (if you do, please make it open source).I'm more interested in Stablecoin, and would be willing to put some time into building it. I just don't have the time right now.Maybe one exchange could work for all of the targeted coin types. If the exchange could be built first (maybe Dark Exchange is that exchange), then I'll work on Stablecoin when I have more time.FeedbackPlease give me feedback on my two proposals. What works? What doesn't/can't work? What have I not thought through enough?I'm not as interested in whether or not a gold based digital currency or a digital currency with no inflation or deflation is useful. By creating the currencies, they will be able to compete in the open market and the market will decide. I want to know if such coins could be created and how.Any other feedback is welcome. Yes, this is exactly how Dark Exchange works right now.Currently, there is no escrow service or anything really to prevent Alice from never sending bitcoins to Bob. However, when Alice and Bob created their accounts, a public/private key pair was created. When interacting, Alice and Bob can see each other's public key (it's actually shown in several places in Dark Exchange so you can recognize a user). Since all messages between nodes are signed (except certain messages which cannot be signed since they are sent before you have the public keys), Alice and Bob know they are talking to each other and only to each other.If Alice wants to sell more bitcoin to Bob in the future, she will have to send the bitcoin. Also, it's possible for Bob to warn people not to buy from Alice if she doesn't uphold her end of the deal. There is no way of doing this in Dark Exchange for now, so Bob would have to use this board. However, we are planning on implementing a trust scoring system which would make it easy for Bob to let others know how much he trusts Alice and vice versa.I don't think this is possible without creating an authority, or several authorities which centralizes the distributed exchange. It would become more of a federated exchange than a distributed one.If there is enough demand, it may be a good idea to implement in the future. However, I always want to give people the option to use Dark Exchange in a pure decentralized manner.
I've uploaded Beta 3 with more aggressive attempts to download all other destinations in the network. My testing suggests everyone should quickly get all of the destinations in the system.You can download Beta 3 from: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloads I've uploaded Beta 3 with more aggressive attempts to download all other destinations in the network. My testing suggests everyone should quickly get all of the destinations in the system.You can download Beta 3 from: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloads It's nothing. I wasn't very careful when writing some of the event code, and the event thread is blocked after most of the button presses. It's easy to fix, but it does look like Dark Exchange is locked up. All you have to do is wait a few more seconds (possibly minutes) and it should work itself out.I added an issue for it. That's awesome! I hope it was a good experience.Is there any reason the exchange is not complete yet? Was there any problems? There isn't a way to to ensure Barry doesn't steal Linda's funds after she sends first. However, When both Linda and Barry created their accounts, they also created a public and private key pair. All data sent between nodes is signed, so Linda knows Barry is really the one who made the offer in the first place. And Barry knows Linda is really the one who accepted the offer. After that, Linda and Barry must trust each other to complete the trade and not run off with each others funds. The public keys are visible in the application, so it's possible to recognize someone by their name and public key.In the future, I plan to implement a trust system which will allow Linda and Barry to rate how much they trust each other. They can then use that system determine how much they are willing to risk in a trade. With the trust system, Linda may also be able to tell how much she is willing to trust Steve based on Barry's trust rating for Steve.The specific algorithm for making a trade is:1. Barry creates an offer. (An offer is created in Dark Exchange)2. Linda does a search and finds Barry's offer. She then accepts the offer. (A trade is created in Dark Exchange)3. Barry verifies Linda is someone he wants to trade with, and confirms the trade.4. Linda sends the payment, then lets Barry know she sent the payment by opening the trade and pressing the Payment Sent button. (updates the trade as payment sent.)5. Barry verifies Linda sent the payment and updates the trade as payment received.6. Barry sends his payment to linda, and updates the trade as payment sent.7. Linda verifies she has received the payment from Barry and updates the trade as payment received.8. The trade is complete, and it closed.This is currently a very manual process, but I hope to integrate Dark Exchange better with Bitcoin and services like Dwolla to hopefully make some of the updates automatic. Dark Exchange is not a web of trust system. However, we planning on implementing a web of trust like system in it. I say "like" since as you've mentioned, web of trust systems don't scale. Thus, it will be something less than a full web of trust, but something you can use to get an idea of who you may be able to trust.Dark Exchange is a "java" application (written in Clojure) which uses the I2P network to connect peer to peer. We're currently having major issues with the nodes not finding each other. I just finished making the node notification system even more aggressive today. I hope it will finally solve the remaining issues. However, the implementation won't scale and will have to be adjusted in the future.I haven't released the new code yet as I haven't done enough testing. I'll hopefully have some time tonight to get it out. I'm using issues on github to track both bugs and feature requests. I have issues for most of your suggestions, and I'll some more for the ones I don't have. You can also comment on the issues directly.I think the user profiles for identities would be a good idea. For bitcoin address and etc, I have the following issues created:https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/23https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/24I also have an issue for viewing an identity: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/11This could be expanded to add a profile.First, messages (which can only be sent on trades right now) are not public and are automatically signed (though the signature is stripped off when saved). Actually, all data sent between Dark Exchange nodes are both encrypted and signed.I don't want to integrate PGP if I can avoid it since that would add yet another program for people to install when installing Dark Exchange. On top of that, encryption and signatures are already supported in Dark Exchange. We just need to figure out all the ways we want to use them.Do you think sending messages directly from identity to identity should be supported? If so, how do we get around the email issue of unsolicited messages? Make people friend each other first? Tracking issue: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/22Good idea. I just added a new issue for it: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/25I'm worried about this since it could open people up to hacking. However, I created an issue for it: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/26 My identity on Dark Exchange is Morpheus. If you don't have it listed in your identity tab you won't be able to find my offers.I created a bunch of Dwolla to Bitcoin and Bitcoin to Dwolla offers. If you can't find them with a search, let me know. It takes about 10 minutes for the search to completely finish and there is no feedback that the search is in progress, so please be patient. At this moment, you should see 11 total peers. The number of identities may vary since you both have to be online at the same time to exchange identities.Every time you restart Dark Exchange it will try to download any new peers (Though it is naive, and likely won't find them all every time). Unfortunately, I2P is pretty slow and it can take a few hours to find a peer and start downloading updates. So, if you want to find as many peers as possible, leave Dark Exchange running for an extended period of time.I'm going to look for ways to speed this process up. I've started a topic in development to discuss technical issues with the exchange: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=27055.0 I'm starting a development topic for Dark Exchange here. The original post was in the Marketplace section, but a large number of issues have popped up and I don't think it's appropriate to discuss them there.Here is the original thread: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=26063.0Edit: I've released another version of Dark Exchange: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloadsThe latest version is a full 1.0.0 release (out of beta). I still have a lot of work to do on it, but I wanted to stop incrementing the beta number and start using the preferred snapshot and multilevel version numbers. I'll add more info on the new release in a reply later in this thread.Edit 2011-7-16 I've released another version (v1.1.1) of Dark Exchange.Edit 2011-8-7 I've released another version (v1.2.0) of Dark Exchange. There is already a decentralized bitcoin exchange in the works: http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=26063.0It's still in development and having some serious issues right now though. You should use Dark Exchange: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange  I seem to be the only one with offers right now. I will stand by my offers. I'm eagerly awaiting to make the first real trade on the exchange.I'm glad to hear someone else got Dark Exchange working besides me. I'm going to start creating issues to track bugs and change requests. After playing with it a little, what obvious things do you think Dark Exchange needs? I don't see Dark Exchange in the i2p dashboard, but it could be picking up the destination and listing it under local destinations.Also, I've created an issue for your exception, but I don't have a plan to fix it unless it shows up more often. However, I want an issue to make sure it's tracked. I've already thought of a scoring based system, but I haven't had time to implement it yet. My idea is to include a scoring system where you would rate each person/identity on a percent trust/distrust scale. Everyone would start out at zero. As you complete trades with someone, you can increase your trust in them by raising the scale to a positive percentage. If the trade goes bad, you can decrease the scale into the negative territory.Then, all of the trust ratings from the people you already trust would be combined with how much they trust someone else to determine your expected trust in an unknown party. I have an idea how to do that, but I don't want to go into detail here. I posted a donation bitcoin address in both the README file: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/blob/master/READMEAnd on the wiki: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/wikiThanks. Darn, I'll have to take a look at it tomorrow.I testing searching several times. I wonder what's going on. I've just uploaded a new Beta: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/downloadsThis should fix some of the peering issues. However, I2P seems to be very flaky and it may take a few tries to download all of the peers.After you download and untar the new beta, you'll have to copy the data directory from your old install into the new one. Unless you don't care to keep your old data.I'm sorry for all of the trouble. Unfortunately, it may take a while to work out all of the bugs with the system. Thank you for being patient and helping me find and resolve bugs. You caught an error with Dark Exchange only accepting whole numbers right now. I just committed a fix for it (unfortunately, the database didn't cooperate, and I had to make the most convoluted migration ever).The original release had so many issues with connections, I'm not sure anyone else is running it right now. I only see 5 total users on the server I set up to connect everyone. Of the 5, 3 are me.I've been working on another release since last night. I think I have everything working, and should be able to release BETA2 tonight.
Dark Exchange uses the peers.txt file to find the first peer/peers. From there, it tries to download the list of all peers in the network. Unfortunately, there is something wrong with that part of the initialization, and Dark Exchange seems to be giving up before downloading any peers.I can't work on it right now, but I will later. It looks like I'll be up late tonight fixing bugs. I think there are still some issues with Dark Exchange connecting to the network. Check the identity tab. If you're fully connected to the network, you should see 3 identities (including your own).I'll look at the I2P bouncy castle issue. I didn't realize I2P included the bouncy castle jar. It's funny how I'm not getting that issue on any of the computers I'm using.Clearly there is much to work on still.  Currently there is none. However, Dark Exchange has a concept of identities which link a user name to a public key/private key. All messages between clients are signed (which seems to be what's breaking with bouncy castle at the moment) and you can view the public key before accepting an offer from someone. This gives an incentive for people to guard their identity and build up a reputation.If you're exchanging with someone you don't know and have never exchanged with before, you probably don't want to exchange large amounts. Once you become more confident in that person, you can start exchanging larger and larger amounts.In the future, I hope to implement a web of trust like feature on Dark Exchange to help people determine who they can trust. It looks like I forgot to update a reference to the snapshot version of drift in the development environment. This should only affect those running with lein from a git check out of Dark Exchange. I just pushed a fix.You should have seen 2 other peers, both of which are me. One is a server I just have running constantly so there is someone to connect to, and the other is my real account with a couple offers. If do a search with I Have set to USD cash by mail, and I Want set to bitcoin, bitcoin transfer, you should see one of my offers. The other you should see with a I Have of bitcoin, bitcoin transfer, and I Want of USD, Dwolla.I don't really want the search to ever show all offers, but it may be nice to look at all the offers from a specific identity.There are two differences when running in development vrs production (w/o :development). First and most obvious is the database. If you look at config/db_config.clj you'll see that :production uses the "dark_exchange_production" database, and :development uses the "dark_exchange_development" database. The files for these two databases can be found in the data/db directory of your Dark Exchange install.To initialize the network, Dark Exchange uses a list of known peers listed in the resources/peers.txt file. When you run in development mode, the resources/development-peers.txt file is used instead. This keeps the production and development networks separate. Fixed this to point to the wiki. https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange Strange, it looks like an issue with bouncy castle. I'll have to take a look at it tomorrow.I've created an issue for it: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/issues/1 TL;DR: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-ExchangeYou read that right! Dark Exchange is a 100% decentralized p2p exchange. No more worrying about exchange websites going down or locking your account. You now have complete control of your bitcoin exchanges and accounts.Because Dark Exchange is decentralized, it can't work like Mt Gox or Trade Hill. Instead, it works more like bitcoin-otc and Bitcoin Market. You post offers and others accept them, or you can search all of the offers on the network and select the one you want. Dark Exchange will walk you through the process of completing a trade.Advantages:1. Dark Exchange can never be shutdown by anyone (including me) for any reason. As long as there are at least two nodes on the network, the exchange is up and running. (Actually this is more of a goal than a feature at this point. Though I tried to program it this way, I'm not sure if it will really stand up to real world use yet. But, that's why it's called Beta.)2. No bitcoins or other money is held on a central server. You have complete control over your money the entire time.3. Virtually all currencies and payment methods are supported. Any currencies or payment methods not already included can be added quickly.4. No commissions. Free to use.5. Open source. All source code for Dark Exchange can be found at: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange6. Runs on the I2P network. All connections are end to end encrypted, and privacy is under your control.Dark Exchange is in Beta right now. Though I've run as many tests as I can think of on it, I'm sure it won't work exactly as advertised right now. I'm looking for intrepid people interested in helping me test Dark Exchange by using it.All information on how to to download, install and use Dark Exchange can be found on the Dark Exchange wiki: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange/wikiIf you have any troubles installing or using the exchange, let me know so I can start entering in issues to make Dark Exchange better.And since it's the 4th.. Let's all declare independence from centralization with Dark Exchange!  I've been working on a pure p2p exchange for a while now: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-ExchangeI'm very close to a release. All of the initial features are done. I'm currently working out some bugs.I would say I'm planning to release this week, but I've said it so many times before, the words are meaningless. I'll release it.. eventually.  I've been working on a p2p bitcoin exchange for a couple months now. I'm pretty close to an initial release.Here's the code: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange I've been working on a decentralized exchange for a couple of months now. I'm very close to an initial release. Keep an eye out for a big announcement in a week or two.Here is the code so far: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-Exchange They won't be able to shut it down when the exchange is decentralized: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-ExchangeOne of these days I'll have a beta out.  On second thought, I'll open the beta up to the whole forum. Keep an eye out for an announcement soon (hopefully in the next week or so.) Do you want in on the beta? Funny you should say that, I've been working on one for about a month: https://github.com/macourtney/Dark-ExchangeI'm pretty close to a beta.It's fully open source and no fees. It uses the I2P network to connect p2p, which means all connections are encrypted end to end. Hey guys, I just want to let you know Paypal decided not to allow people to sell bitcoin with their service (this also includes Mt Gox USD). You may be able to sell for a while, but be prepared for Paypal to freeze your account.I know this from experience.  You could try https://www.bitcoin2cc.com/ and dump the cc number into your Paypal account. Yes, my account was restricted by Paypal. I'm refunding as much of the payments as I can. Any of them that I can't refund, I'll go ahead and process. Please be patient, it may take a while to get to everyone.This weekend was the worst possible time for Paypal to restrict my account. Oh well... That's right before the 4th of July. Though it doesn't conflict directly, I'm sure some people may already have plans for those dates. You can buy Mt Gox USD or bitcoin from me. All information about my service can be found at: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/ I also sell Mt Gox USD for paypal: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/How_to_buy_mt_gox_usd_with_paypal
Anyone still looking to buy bitcoin with Paypal while mndrix's service is down can use my service: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/ Oh, you want me to read.  I bought a rig from BitcoinRigs.com and have been a very happy customer.I'm looking at this offer, but first, the price you quote above is not what your website shows. The prices on the website are:$300 for 200 MHPS$600 for 400 MHPS$900 for 600 MHPS$1200 for 800 MHPS$1500 for 1000 MHPSIf I'm doing my math right, that's $1.50 per MHPS.Also, even at $1 per MHPS, I think you would loss money. Though, I haven't messed around with the numbers since the recent difficulty change.BTW, I'm probably going to buy another rig soon. You can use my service to buy bitcoin with paypal: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/how_to_buy_bitcoin_with_paypal A freak of a lot. If you're really serious, I could ask around. I'm selling my billiard table for BTC. The bidding pond auction is: http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=368You can read all of the details and see some pics on the auction page.Shipping may be an issue.  Looks like bitcoin2cc.com has been reloaded. Bitcoin-central exchanges bitcoin to euros: https://bitcoin-central.net/Not as much volume as Mt Gox though. 255.388 PPUSD for all 280 BTC. This is 0.9121 per BTC which is the current biding price on Mt Gox. When they say "electronic use only" it usually just means you can't use them in the old impression type credit card readers. The numbers on the card are not raised and thus won't work in those old card readers. I thought the card rules said you could use it at an ATM. To withdraw cash, you would use it as a credit card instead of an ATM card with a pin. I've never used a credit card at an ATM, so I don't know the details.The cards around here are very US centric. Are they blocking you from registering because of your IP address or is it something else? You can buy more bitcoin with Paypal from me: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/how_to_buy_bitcoin_with_paypalI have a $500 limit on purchases. Also, there is a 3 day waiting period for delivery. However, you get today's price for your purchase. You can buy bitcoin with Paypal from me: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/how_to_buy_bitcoin_with_paypal(I'm working on a better website. I hope to have it up in the near future.) Awesome, I've been itching to get my mining on. True, but I have more bitcoin than cash right now, and it's easier to send bitcoin to the UK than USD.I'm thinking about it.  Do you accept bitcoin?  I'm the other customer. I'll let everyone know how the mining goes.I haven't run a miner since bitcoin was around $0.20. I didn't have a fast enough GPU, so this seemed like a good way to get started again.Bonus, I'm not directly paying for my electricity. As long as I don't use way more than my neighbors, I'll basically get to run the rig for free. If all works out, I may buy more. You can buy bitcoin with Paypal using my service: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/how_to_buy_bitcoin_with_paypal I've replied to both emails.  I'm now accepting paypal for bitcoin: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/More direct link: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/how_to_buy_bitcoin_with_paypal
This post is hysterical! I almost feel like sending the 10 btc for making me laugh so hard.Best parts:So is that 48 million bitcoins or $48 million dollars worth of bitcoin. Both being impossible.Bitcoin authorities? Bitcoin central bank? Ha! You can also buy bitcoin from me: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/ I accept cash in the mail, check, and now paypal.There's also a large list of exchangers at: http://www.bitcoin.org/tradeI can vouch for Mt Gox, Bitcoin 4 Cash, Bitcoin 2 Credit Card (though that doesn't help you right now), Coinpal, and Bitcoin Market. But you can buy Mt. Gox USD for other currencies besides LRUSD. I'm not sure the prices really reflect the scarcity of LRUSD anymore. Though it still takes time to get Mt. Gox USD with other exchanges. Would you consider a hard online currency like Liberty Reserve?I've had too many issues with sending cash in the mail recently. Since I have been involved with the seduction community for several years now, I thought it would be a good idea if I shared my thoughts about this guide.Executive summary for the impatient: Though it is hard to tell what the full guide is like based on only a few pages, I cannot recommend this guide to anyone.In depth review:I've read a lot of guides and self-help books in this area. I enjoy learning about new perspectives, and this case is no different. However, I doubt it would be useful for anyone serious about dating.First, I know a lot of people in the seduction and dating coach community, but I've never heard of Alejandro, the writer of this guide. To be fair, the community is very large and I can't know everyone. Since I don't recognize him, I can't evaluate his abilities as a seducer or dating coach.The writing could use some work. In the introduction, the writer promises to write in a clear and simple language which he mostly delivers on. However, there are extensive typos throughout the 8 pages as if the guide had not been reviewed before release. Also, the grammar and sentence structure becomes awkward in places. That being said, I found it easy to read and I was never left wondering what he was talking about.The goal of the book is to break down the seduction process and teach each step to the reader in an easy to understand and apply way. After reading the guide, I'm not sure the writer actually applies what he writes. The information seems vague as if the writer doesn't have a firm grasp on the concepts he's teaching. It is possible, this being only the introduction to the guide, the writer simply hasn't had time to go into depth on any one topic. If that is the case, he doesn't say anything about going into more depth later on many of the topics covered.Notes on specific points in the book:Step 1: You.After the introduction to the guide this is the only step covered in this excerpt. Apparently, not all of step 1 is covered in this excerpt and it's not clear how much more is in this step. I hope it is considerably more. The concept of improving your psychology for dating, often referred to as "inner game" in the community, is huge. Many instructors I've met consider "inner game" the only concept in the field.Step 1 is broken down into 3 sections, A few myths about what women like, How is this about you, and Being interesting."A few myths about what women like" simply lists five myths many men have about women. It's not exhaustive, but it does hit the most important ones. I have quick notes on each myth:Myth 1: Women like jerks, not nice guysThe writer refutes the myth well by listing several facts. However, he seems to miss the big misconception about why women like jerks (assertiveness). In the end, he almost seems to suggest women really do like jerks.Myth 2: Women are attracted to moneyHe pretty much nails this one. My only problem with his debunking is the use of the word "power". He seems to be using it in place of "social status" which is what most science articles and journals call it. In the seduction community, they call it "value" or having "high value" vrs "low value". It's clear he knows of the seduction community terms in other parts of the guide, but completely misses or ignores "social status" which seems to fit his explanation of what's going on much better.Myth 3: Women are attracted to good looking menHe pretty much nails this one as well. Again, he talks of power though.Myth 4: Women don't like sexNails it. Enough said.Myth 5: Women can be manipulatedNot only does he nail this one as well, but his answer should be shouted at everyone in the community. Best part of the guide.Now that he's covered all of the myths, the writer turns theses myths back on the reader in the section "How is this about you". Each myth above is restated as a belief you have about yourself which perpetuates the above myths. My first issue is with the way he phrases each belief. Though I'm not exactly sure how, I think nearly all of them could be worded better.Belief 1: You're too nice, you're too meanThe writer totally screws this one up. The problem is, he completely ignores assertiveness and boundaries. Instead he simply tells the reader to be a little mean sometimes (among other things).Belief 2: You're too poorAgain he talks of power and introduces influence. Yet, he doesn't really relate the two (though it's obvious how he thinks they should be related). In both cases he could use "social status" and the explanation works. It even works with this counter examples, better than power or influence does. Otherwise, he seems to be correct on this point.Belief 3: You're too uglyOk, my experience, even within the seduction community which prides itself on being ugly yet still being successful, I've found not having good looks is very hard to overcome. But his explanation is the same as any one else in the seduction community. Except, again he talks of power instead of social status or value. He even mentions "displaying high value" as a community term for his term "radiating power". There is a lot more which could be said about this topic. I'm guessing he cut his explanation short and will return to it later in the guide.Belief 4: You're too shyCompletely wrong! First he tries to guess what you think the consequences will be and gets it wrong. Then he basically says, get over it. Not only is this wrong, but potentially damaging to people with this problem. He doesn't mention anything about where this belief really comes from. Not even the no actual way to prove it but it sounds plausible evolutionary psychology theory of why we're anxious around women which is all over the seduction community.There are two major problems guys have when trying "pickup" or date women. One is not having the skills, and the other is "being too shy". There are plenty of good techniques out there which deal with "being too shy". The writer seems to totally not understand the issue, and brushes it aside.Total fail.Belief 5: You're trying too hardHe has three explanations for this. The first two are basically the same. This belief is really part of Belief 4, but he doesn't mention it. Probably because he doesn't understand Belief 4.Now that the writer got some background out of the way he introduces some actual techniques in the section "Being interesting"."Being interesting" is broken down into 3 parts, Culture, Passions and Hobbies.In Culture, the writer basically says, go study a little about everything so you can sound knowledgeable. Knowing a little about everything is useful for small talk and getting conversations started sometimes, but he doesn't explain this. Instead he just tells you a bunch of things you should study without really explaining why. On top of that, some of the things he says you should study will be dated or are already dated.In Passions he says... Find a passion. There is a little explanation of why this is important, but he misses at least one important concept with passions. The section is very short, and could easily be rolled into the next section, Hobbies.In Hobbies, the writer tells you to find a hobbie. Then he gives you a list of reasons why they are important and offers suggestions for hobbies.In all of the "Being interesting" section, he seems to miss the overarching and far more important concept of identity. Maybe it's in a later section. Though, I would have expected it's introduction in the very beginning of this section to tie the following parts together.Finally, I have to mention the bibliography. Though he mentions concepts from the seduction community, the only book he lists in the bibliography is "The 48 Laws of Power". That book is only very indirectly related to seduction. He doesn't even mention anything from the book from what I can tell. The only thing related is his use of the term "power" everywhere. Interestingly, the same author wrote a book called "The Art of Seduction", which definitely is related yet gets no mention in the bibliography.Anyways, I spent way too long writing reviewing this guide. Honestly, it's only 0.1 bitcoin. If you're interested, check it out. Just don't expect to get much use out of it. Can someone update the description for Bitcoin Morpheus to include check and money order as buying options.I would also appreciate adding something about the site also selling reloadable debit cards for bitcoin.I just cleaned up the site a little and added links to all my services on the front page. Check it out: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/Thank you to who ever keeps the trade page updated. It's an invaluable service to the community. Since the exchange rate for Bitcoin is constantly changing (did you notice the rally on Mt. Gox recently?), the price of the cards and refills will also change constantly.However, right now I'll charge:$50 card/refill: 193.55 BTC$100 card/refill: 370.97 BTC$200 card/refill: 709.68 BTCThe rates above are good for 5 minutes, and may be adjusted after that (depends on the rate at Mt Gox).I'll also give a 10 BTC discount to the first person who buys a card.  To offer this service, I'm basically buying the cards from a bank and selling them to you for bitcoin. The bank charges me a set fee per card, and the same set fee for each refill. To offer this service, I'll have to charge additional bitcoin to cover the bank charges and for me to make a little money.The bank is offering the cards to entice people to open accounts with them to use the card. If you don't want to open an account, you can still use the card. However, you can only add $200 at a time to your card, and you will not be able to check your card balance online. I'm not sure if there is another way to check your balance.Hmm... I think I gave you the wrong impression. I'm going to charge what ever the market can bear which is likely more than 1%. The most similar service to this one is bitcoin2cc.com. I'll probably charge something similar to that service. You'll have to pm or email me for details.I'm setting the lower limit at $50 per initial fill or refill. Any less and the ratio of the fees to the value of the card itself would be absurd.Yes! If you don't open an account with the issuing bank, the max seems to be $200 (though I'm not positive and will have to look that up). Otherwise, I think the max is $10,000.Yes, please do. When you want to add money to a card, you send bitcoin to me, and I'll send a code which will reload any card with the cash you purchased. If you have a PGP key, I can send the code encrypted in an email.Basically, you would just buy a reload code from me when you need it. I would have no idea how many cards you have.Yes and no. The bank does offer to replace lost or stolen cards for a fee, but you may need to be a member of the bank. Otherwise, it's just like losing cash and you may not want to keep too much money on the card.As above, you can purchase as many cards as you want, and as many refills as you want. Apply the refills to any card you want.Eventually, I'll automate refills. If this service is really popular, I will automate it as soon as possible. Otherwise, I'll refill them manually until I get too annoyed at refilling them and either pay someone to automate it for me, or find some time to do it myself.First you would have to get the card, which would take a few days to arrive in the mail. Since I'm refilling them manually, it could take as much as a day to refill. If there is enough demand, I'll keep some refills on me at all times, and send them as they are bought. Yep, I'm still exchanging Bitcoins for cash by mail. Unfortunately, I've had some trouble with cash actually getting to me, so I prefer check or money order by mail. Yes they do. However, you will need to tell me if you plan on using them outside the US. There are two different cards I can buy, one for domestic purchases and one for use when traveling. If you are outside the US, I will send you the travel card. Also, I'm fill the cards with US dollars. The bank I'm getting them from charges 2% for converting currencies, and I'm sure they will likely not use the exchange rate most favorable to you.Other than that, it's fine.  I have a source for reloadable visa debit cards, and I'm willing to sell them and reload them for bitcoin.Here's how it will work: You send me an agreed upon amount of bitcoin, and I will send you in the mail the debit card. When you want to reload your card in the future, simply send me more bitcoin and I'll refill your debit card.The rates will be based on the Mt. Gox asking rate plus an additional percent to cover the cost of the card and refilling it.Want to buy your groceries with bitcoin? Now you can! Want to buy pizza from your local restaurant with bitcoin? Now you can!Finally, you can buy anything with bitcoin as long as the merchant accepts debit cards. I set up a simple website for this service at: http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/reloadable_debit_card_4_btcPm me for details or see the website for an alternative way to contact me. I've expanded the explanation of deflationary spiral, and cleaned up the grammar a bit.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Deflationary_spiral I finally have a website with information on how to buy bitcoin or Mt. Gox USD from me with check, money order or cash in the mail:http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/or the direct link:http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/post/2301381008/how-to-buy-bitcoin-and-mt-gox-usd-with-cash-in-theCould the first one be posted on the trade page as an exchanger? I'm in the US. You would have to send them to me via international mail which I have done before with one other person. I also accept GBP, but I have high fees in order to convert to USD.http://bitcoinmorpheus.tumblr.com/post/2301381008/how-to-buy-bitcoin-and-mt-gox-usd-with-cash-in-the There are also several visa gift cards (USD) for sale at http://www.bitcoin2cc.com/Though only one $50 card there are still three $100 cards and you get the card details instantly. I appreciate what your doing with your art, kiba, and I hope the bitcoin original art market does grow.However, let's get the bitcoin file market going with what ever you have. Here are a bunch of wallpaper files I've uploaded to bitcoinservice:http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/23http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/24http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/25http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/26http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/27http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/28http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/29http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/30http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/31http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/32http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/33http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/34http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/35http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/36http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/37http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/38http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/39http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/40http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/41http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/42http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/43http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/44http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/45http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/46http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/47http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/48http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/49http://www.bitcoinservice.co.uk/files/50All of the above files have thumbnails and cost 0.1 bitcoins to download. Enjoy.What files have you uploaded?  The lost cash was very unfortunate. I've received cash from several others without incident. The cash from FlyingMoose simply did not show up. I'm not sure what happened. If FlyingMoose still want's to use my service, I'll wave my fee until it covers his loss.I'm thinking of accepting postal money orders and checks in the mail which is much safer than cash. If the money order or check is lost in the mail, it can't be cashed by anyone else (not without difficulty) and the sender can simply cancel it and get their money back.The only issue I seem to find with money orders and checks is fakes and bounced checks. Both seem to be easy to avoid by waiting for them to clear before sending bitcoin/Mt. Gox USD.Are there any other issues I should be worried about? Anyone on this board have experience accepting checks in the mail for hard goods? Everything seems to be working fine now. I was able to upload all files I wanted to, including the one that kept failing the first time.I've uploaded the following files:http://ubitio.us/file/download/22http://ubitio.us/file/download/23http://ubitio.us/file/download/24http://ubitio.us/file/download/25The first three are wall papers and the last is... um.. not.See the description for each download for more information.
Hmmm, I keep getting an internal server error every time I try to upload an image file. I'm using Firefox on a Mac. If you need anymore information about my issue, pm me.Is there a file size limit?EDIT: I was able to upload another image file: http://ubitio.us/file/download/20 (A sexy elf SFW)It seems like there is a limit of less than 200k. Not sure where the actual limit is. I guess I'll try to find out.  You're supposed to be covered by the safe harbor provision in the DMCA, but that won't stop people from suing you anyways. You need the money to take it to court even if you'll probably win. My problem was lack of money.I couldn't find the specific article that mentioned the problem, but I did find a few on RapidShare which does something similar to your website:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RapidShare#Legal_issues (ok this is really a wikipedia link)http://torrentfreak.com/rapidshare-not-guilty-of-copyright-infringement-us-court-rules-100520/http://escobarmediacartel.com/2010/04/17/adult-star-vicky-vette-files-lawsuit-against-rapidshare/Turns out, the porn industry really seems to hate RapidShare.I do hope your website succeeds. I think I'll upload something tonight to test it out. If you want the domain bitcoindownloads.com, let me know. I'll sell it to you at cost.I started working on a bitcoin downloading site when I first discovered Bitcoin. I actually got pretty far with it including setting up a server and domain (obviously). Unfortunately, I ran into two problems.The first problem was technical. After Bitcoin changed to require a username and password for JSON-RPC, I couldn't get my server to connect to it for the life of me. I probably could have worked through this issue eventually, but I hit another problem I couldn't work around.About the time I started working on the bitcoin download site, the *AA groups went on another file sharing website attack. I originally thought I could just comply with the DMCA and delete any pirate files after receiving a take down notice. But, the *AA groups started going after websites even if they complied with the DMCA. This was a show stopper for me. I don't want to be exposed to that kind of legal risk.Hippich, how have you handled the DMCA issue? Are you even in the US? If you still need a US partner, I'm interested. I'm in the US. I can understand not wanting to send money via international mail. Though, I do have one customer doing just that right now. I raised the maximum purchase/withdrawal limit to $500.-Morpheus I'll give you Mt. Gox USD for cash in the mail: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1655.0 It seems like if you keep the transactions under $1000, you'll stay clear of anti-money laundering rules. Above that, and you'll have to jump through some hoops.Right now, it seems like most people buying or selling bitcoin are staying under the $1000 mark. For now, it doesn't seem like a big issue. Once it is an issue, it may be profitable for those willing to risk their money to become fully licensed.Several people have offered services for buying and selling bitcoin, including me with a cash in the mail service you describe: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1655.0 (Yes I know it says Mt Gox USD in the subject, but I will also trade directly for bitcoin.) I have a problem with that explanation for the drop in price. How do we know it's not simply because mtgox announced anyone can withdraw their money now... And they did? While you were discussing speculation.. Did anyone notice the market crashed? +1 for centregold. I've been using them for a while and have passed several thousand dollars through them. I've only once had a problem which they fixed promptly. More like: $100 / 450 btc = 0.222... $/btcYou could sell your btc on Mt. Gox for 0.2816 or on Bitcoin Market for 0.24 PayPal USD.Actually, 450 btc for $100 LR would have been a good deal about a week ago. Yes, I'll take a prepaid credit card reload pack. Though, I'm limited on how much I can trade for now. If prepaid credit cards become a popular way to fund Mt. Gox, I'll have to get a proper merchant account. Anyone interested can PM me for details.Also, I'm willing to accept the following currencies via the mail: USD, Canadian Dollar, Mexican Peso, Euro, British Pound Sterling, and Australian Dollar (maybe more). However, I plan to exchange the cash (other than USD) at a local exchanger which may cost as much as a 10% loss over the spot prices. I'll not charge any extra for exchanging currencies over the best exchange rate I can get. I encourage you to find the best exchange rate to USD.I can also send the above currencies using the same exchanger, but sending outside the US costs more. PM me for details if you're interested.I'm working on accepting bank wires.Finally, if you want to trade directly for bitcoin instead of Mt. Gox USD, I'll give it to you for 5% over/under the ask/bid price on Mt. Gox. This is just for convenience. I encourage you to buy Mt. Gox USD instead. I'm in the US. While I'm not actually trading BTC, I am buying and selling Mt. Gox USD for cash in the mail which supports bitcoin trading.  I will charge a low fee of 2% to buy Mt. Gox USD, and 2% plus $1 for postage to sell.However, to get things started, I'm waving the 2% fee for the first $1000 in trades. I've already sold $100 of Mt. Gox USD. Buy some for no fee while you can!For more information, send me a pm. I'm doing it: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1655.0 Hi all,Since everyone seems to be having trouble getting cash in and out of Mt. Gox. I will start buying and selling Mt. Gox USD for cash in the mail.I'm charging a low fee of 2% to buy Mt. Gox USD, and 2% plus $1 for postage to sell. Also, I'll have to limit the trades to $200 $500 per person per day for now. I may be able to raise the limits in the future.I realize this forum says I'm a newbie, and you don't have a reason to trust me. However, I have been buying and selling bitcoin on Bitcoin Market and Mt. Gox for a few months now. If you've traded with me on Bitcoin Market, please vouch for me.However, since I still may not have much trust on this board, I'll wave the 2% fee for my first $1000 in trades. That means 1:1 trades for Mt. Gox USD (minus $1 for withdrawals) for a limited time only.PM me for details. Since I missed that last offer, I'll make my own.I have $101.08 in Paypal which I'll trade for $105.13 Mt Gox. Approximately 4% transaction fee.I can trade considerably more, but you'll have to wait for me to transfer the money into my account. I'll take that offer, if you don't mind waiting a little while as I fund my Paypal account again. I'm also willing to take USD via bankwire for MtGox funds.
