Oh, glorious day!My silver shipment arrived today!About a week ago, I was looking at the price of bitcoin and thinking "Wow, this looks like a bubble.  Perhaps I should sell some."  But I have been looking to buy some silver for long term savings, or TEOTWAWI, for more than a year.  So I came to this forum to search for a reputable dealer who might take my bitcoins directly, so I could accomplish both tasks at the same time.  The search function took me directly to this very thread, so here I am to voice my own experiences with Veldt Gold.  I'm extremely happy with my transaction, and I'm likely to do it again if my remaining bitcoins continue to appreciate. However, there is one thing that I would change with regard to shipping next go around.  I would ask for return-receipt requested, so that the postal carrier will be required to either have someone in my household sign for the box, or leave one of those postcards that require me to trek down to the post office itself to pick it up.  My neighborhood isn't known for getting packages stolen off of front porches, but I wouldn't want to be the first case, either. Nothing?Are all the old guard gone now? I'm not here often, and I don't pay a lot of attention to my profile.  I know nothing at all about the original poster.  No, I didn't buy this account.  I've been on this forum since 2010. And tht address is about 4 years out of date. I dont even have that computer anymore, much less that client. {edit} Actually that was from last year, my old phone client. I am most certainly not this Izaura, and I don't care what he did, this negative trust rating is offensive. If he is dead, then he died during the tsunami. I could also imagine sidechains that were explicitly not worldwide in scope, such as those limited to a particular nation or economic block.  I.E., there might be a Eurozone specific sidechain, a United States specific sidechain (but would that be redundant?) and a Francophone sidechain.  There might be a sidechain for Portuguese speaking nations around the world, or a sidechain just for nations in South America that don't speak Portuguese.There could be a sidechain that exists entirely on Tor, using high anonymity rules; or a sidechain sponsored by governments for the expressed purpose of paying taxes (but who would join this voluntarily?)Many people have complained that Bitcoin isn't anonymous, because the entire transaction history is visible.  Sidechains would fix that immediately, even without improved anonymity rules. I know that this is going to sound similar to the Fed-Peg model, so don't whine about that.  It's not the Fed-Peg model, not quite, and the differences are critical, I believe.Every proposal that I've seen so far require some kind of soft or hard fork to the current bitcoin model, but I think that I've come up with a way to make a sidechain work without new modifications to the running bitcoin protocol.I think I will call it the Confederation-Peg model.Imagine a confederation of large corporations, all of which would benefit from the ability to process a large number of bitcoin transactions for net zero or near zero transaction fees.These corporations would, most likely, have to have the following characteristics...1) Multi-national in scope, with employee bases in several different nations using several different fiat currencies.2) Have a rather large employee base.3) Not in direct competition with each other4) and not dependent upon any particular government.With just a bit of google-fu, I will use the following corporations in this example...Wal-Mart, with more than 2 million employees worldwide.Volkswagon, with more than half a million employees worldwide.General Electric, with about 300K employees worldwide.and Johnson & Johnson, with More than 100K.Let's call these corporations the confederation sponsors.  These sponsors would decide most of the sidechain's rules by consensus amongst themselves, but let me lay out, in general, how I think that such a sidechain can be set up so that the sidechain is secure while also contributing to the overall security of the main blockchain.First, these sponsors agree upon a deposit/escrow amount that they will each commit to a multi-sig address on the main blockchain; for a round number, let's say they all contribute 10 BTC to the cause.  Next, they all agree that they must each either build or contract out bitcoin mining capability of a minimum standard; high enough that the collection of sponsors can mine a block on a regular interval. Let's say once each day.  But when they mine a main blockchain block, they place into the 100 byte large "2nd nonce" space of the coinbase transaction the following data.1) a code that identifies the sponsor who mined this block to the other sponsors,2) the merkle tree root hash of the sidechain block that the sponsor is about to release on the sidechain network.3) a cryptographic signing of the two prior pieces of data.  (this might be unnecessary, I'm not sure)Once a sponsor's mining agent releases this block to the network, and it's accepted as valid by the main blockchain,  The sponsor then releases the sidechain block to the other sponsors.  This block can be of an arbitrarily large size; enough to accomodate all of the transactions that all of the sponsors (and their clients) have produced in the past day.  Since it's likely that every sponsor has seen every valid transaction, this block might only include the merkle tree created by the most recent mining sponsor.This looks a lot like merged mining, but it's not, because the side chain doesn't use proof-of-work, and doesn't require it.  It uses proof-of-authority.  Specificly, releasing a valid block onto the main blockchain is the proof of authority to release the next sidechain block.  This achieves several things for the sponsors.1) It contributes mining power to the main blockchain, thus supporting main chain security regardless of the profitability for those sponsor miners, since their incentive is to reduce the costs of their own transactions, not win mining rewards or fees.2) It creates a definate timeline of the blockchain on the sidechain, without need for cryptographic proof-of-work, by tying each sidechain block to a known main chain block.  Thus leveraging the main chain's security model without needing to attract miners willing to drop the main chain work to mine the sidechain.3) It establishes a definitive authority amonst the sponsors about who has the right to publish the next block, as well as claim any sidechain transaction fees.4) It allows all sponsors to keep each other honest, because if any sponsor were to cut back on their main chain mining responsibilities, they would all be able to tell.5) It allows the sponsors to chose to accept as many free transactions as they like, which may or may not benefit themselves,6) as well as keep any transaction fees that might have been issued on the sidechain, for which odds are high that they would have had to pay.  Thus transaction fees most likely travel in a circle (for the sponsors, not the clients)In order to add btc to this sidechain, a main chain bitcoiner would have to send funds to one of the sponsors, after aquiring thier agreement to issue sidechain coins using a special sidechain coinbase transaction that...1) creates or destroys sidechain bitcoins2) references the main chain transaction that would permit it3) and identifies the sponsor creating the sidechain fundsIn this way, bitcoins can flow into the sidechain, and each of the sponsors can watch the other sponsors to make certain that they aren't creating more sidechain funds than their main chain holding would permit. I would imagine that the rule would be that a sponsor can't issue more side chain bitcoins than it has in it's public main chain addresses, and if that were to be violated, the other sponsors would automaticly ignore their (otherwise valid) sidechain blocks.This security model requires more trust than the trustless model of the main blockchain, but permits the sidechain to structure itself in any way necessary to permit safe referencing of unconfirmed transactions, thereby permitting nearly instant follow-up transactions.  Sponsors could also detect, and potentially punish, double spend attemps.  Any other rapid transaction model, such as the Lightening Network, could be permitted to work on the sidechain; but I doubt they would be necessary.Sponsors could attract "clients" by a number of incentives.  For example, Wal-mart could offer free sidechain transactions to any paying customer, as well as a limited number of main chain transactions to their own employees; whereas Johnson & Johnson might only offer free transactions to their employees and associated businesses.  I can even imagine a deposit & (fully BTC reserve backed) sidechain credit system, complete with interest rates.Paid for transaction fees could be based upon whatever the sponsors agree to, including a transaction fee based upon a percentage of the transfer value instead of the byte-size of a transaction.  This would make the fee model much closer to how current day credit card transfer fees work, but would almost certainly be less.Getting BTC back out of the sidechain (via the main chain) would work like a sponsor's coinbase transaction with a negative value, also referencing a valid transaction (which may or may not be confirmed yet) that can be seen on the main bitcoin network.  Alternatively, in a world where several such sidechains exist, sponsors of one sidechain could be clients on another, potentially permitting value to transfer from one sidechain directly to another without creating a main blockchain transaction at all.  The details of the rules of both sidechains would matter in this possibility.Since declaring weeknesses of one's own ideas is a convention in the cryptocurrency world, let me begin...Since this is a some-trust model; i.e. individuals have to trust an institution, at least a little bit, in order to get onto the sidechain.  It's possible that a sponsor might take your main chain BTC and claim you never sent them, but you'd still have the transaction you produced, so you'd still have recourse through traditional courts.Moving funds in the other direction, it's possible for your leaving transaction to be blocked, but only if all of the sponsors refuse to deal with you.  Likewise, as a client, your ability to transact on the sidechain could be hindered or blocked by the sponsors, but only if all of them blacklist you.  But that only risks the possibility that you can't spend your bitcoins on the sidechain, not that the sponsors could take them from you without your participation.This is a move towards some centralization, yes; but not for bitcoin as a whole.  For the most part, "clients" choose wether the lower transaction costs & convience at these institutions is worth the re-addition of trust to some portion of their bitcoin activities.  Perhaps employees don't get a choice about being a client on this sidechain, but they still get to choose if they work for a sponsor.This low-trust model depends upon the idea that the sponsors don't entirely trust one another, and will keep an eye on each other for bad behavior; much in the same way that the banks of the free banking era would occasionally challenge one another to produce the gold for the currencies they issued, either driving them out of business or harming their businesses should they misbehave.  It also depends upon the idea that, for the "clients", no one on the sidechain has more to lose from getting caught defrauding a client than the sponsors themselves, because the integrity of the sidechain and of their own reputations are of great value to the sponsors.  It's possible that all sponsors turn to the dark side at once, crash the sidechain & steal all of the main chain bitcoins in their reserve addresses.  Since this isn't one trusted authority, but many in a trust-distrust relationship (and in different industries) this possibility seems remote to me. Hodl was an accidental misspelling of "hold" that stuck.   Is this a translation error?  Your opinion is irrelevant. If employers cut their wages, and workers quit, what happens to the wages?  Workers may quit, and are likely to look for another job that pays more.  In fact, that's exactly how the labor market works already.  So employers don't have monoposony power over their employees overall, they have to pay enough that their trained employees won't quit en masse.  We already know that, in general, that market labor rate is higher than the minimum rate anyway.  My daughter was offered over the minimum rate to work at a fast food restaurant without any work experience at all. If you believe any of these things are true in practice; either you are too young to know better or your livelihood depends on your self-delusion.  No government functions in the matter portrayed by government schools.  Any rise in price would have been predicted by the market, and occurred before the halving. What kind of an effect did you expect? Yes, Neal almost nailed it in Cryptonomicon, but his version was closer to eGold since it was a digital warehousing recepit, and his "distributed ownership verification" system was vague.  Wasn't the digital money in Snow Crash & The Diamond Age closer?  I can't remember now.  Great fiction, though. Heh.  I didn't even notice.  The first halving was quite a stir for a bit, but this one was more like the Y2K bug. You don't need to understand it to use it.  That's also true for fiat currencies based upon a national debt, which is pretty much all of them.  All that a newbie user really needs to know is how to get them, how to keep them, and how to spend them.  In reality, you can either learn how the system works, and then trust it for the mathematics; or you can learn to trust it for the same reason that you trust fiat currencies, simply because they continue to work. He's dead. The Russian Mafia didn't think the joke was funny, after they kidnapped his ass to find out how he "hacked Bitcoin".If you think I'm lying.  I dare you to find him. Notice when he posted that. He wasn't legendary then. I would have to agree. It seems that those who have the talent, don't have the interest in such a project.
Please, not this again.  The difficulty is a self correcting system.  It's high now because so many people are competing for the block reward, which is still subsidized.  The subsidy cuts in half every 4 years, and will be inconsequential before all 21 million bitcoins have been issued around 2140 AD.  Either way, it won't be an issue I'll live to have to worry about, and probably not you either; and it would still outlive every fiat currency the world has yet seen.  Please search the forum history before asking the same questions that have been asked for 6 years. Yes, that's true.  There are a couple of different ways of doing this that have been discussed, with the most likely that a new type of address would be developed to contain sub-satoshi values.  The first character of your address is always a "1", only because that denotes the address version.  There can, therefore, be at least 9 different types of addresses. Not for the common man, no.  But it's still very much a working money. No, it's not. The short answer is those institutions & individuals that have a lot of bitcoins will have a vested interest in seeing that the bitcoin network remains strong, even if the transaction market (and it is a market) doesn't seem to be able to provide enough incentive to keep miners in the game.  That said, the transaction system is a market, and a balance between speed of confirmation and cost of transactions will develop as the block reward diminishes; and secondary settlement networks are expected to develop to handle the high transaction traffic, as the main bitcoin network starts to take a 'big transactions' settlement role. correct Just to be clear, this bounty was posted several years ago, and I am definitely no longer willing to give 20 BTC now. It would be trivial for the real Satoshi to prove it, if s/he wanted to, simply by signing a message with the genesis block key. This debate has become academic.  The network has already chosen a path, and XT ain't it. BIP 100 looks like the winner, and it also looks like a reasonable compromise; introducing a miner voting variable, and setting a 'soft' block limit based upon the lower bound of the three center quintelles of the vote distribution.  Looks like it will function similar to how the target difficulty system works, but with a 12 week period (instead of two) and a 12 week delay period.  It also has a factor of 2 max change limit, just like the target difficulty system; with a 32 meg upper hard limit. This is not how Bitcoin propogation is supposed to work.  If this is part of the XT proposal, it would destroy bitcoin, by centralizing more than can be mitigated with a fee market anyway.  Such a change would render nodes no longer peers, as larger pools would be superior.  This would break the 51% rule. Ah, I see.  Not a student of economics.  You just completely lost me with this one, and since I don't have the time to consider every point of view, you also just earned a spot in my ignore list. But we still need a working transaction market in the long term. How is this intention maintained in XT? You can not join the banking system as a peer, only as a customer.Decentralization is a relative term, and Bitcoin was not developed with that as a goal.  Decentralization was a tool toward Satoshi's ends.  What makes Bitcoin work is that it is truly peer to peer, if that is what users want to be able to do.  But that's not going to work with a flexible blocksize.  Moving to 8 megs isn't a big deal, but nor does it really change the scalilibilty issue much.  I'm not even opposed to soft limits, so long as Satohsi's original idea of rising transaction fees for larger blocks is preserved; but some kind of transaction fee market needs to exist.  If we screw this up, and the hashrate collapses, it would be catastrophic.  I'm not really opposed to how the XT team is actually using a hard fork as a voting method.  It's actually a good plan, it would appear.  I came here hoping I could get forum members who were better versed in XT than myself to explain the details, but instead I get noise. I've been doing some research into the Lightning network proposal, and I'd say that I'd be more in favor of fixing malliability in order to permit such a network to develop, over the XT proposal of larger blocks and better support for light clients; simply because larger blocks don't really solve the scalability problem.  It has long been the idea that Bitcoin's main network would have to be a backbone mostly between major institutions that performed 99.9% of transaction volume.  Centralization really isn't a huge issue, so long as it's always possible for a new player to join the main bitcoin network as an equal peer with the rest.  XT seems to make such an idea more costly, without actually solving the scalability issue in the long run.  We will still need overlay networks with XT.  I remember the payment channels thing, and remember discussing it years ago, in the context of bitcoin banks settling up with each other by being able to identify the customers of another bank by their bitcoin addresses instead of personal data.  We still need these bitcoin banks. What kind of "change in management" are you referring to here?  The different set of lead developers, perhaps? Or something else?I'm more than a bit concerned that the big block mod, generally, will force marginal mining nodes off the network.  I know that it would prevent the broadcasting of whole blocks, and likely even naked merkle tree data, over datacasting paths such as Outernet.  If we are going to make changes for scalability, why are we not making naked blocks the standard broadcasting method first?  That alone would reduce redundancy. I know I have been out of the loop for a while, but I've started to hear about this Bitcoin versus Bitcoin XT "code fork" from semi-mainstream news sources.  I sounds like FUD, so I have checked out the Bitcoin XT website and searched a bit around this forum for details.  One thing that I don't understand is why does Bitcoin XT have the other features, such as auto-dropping of TOR nodes?  And can the Bitcoin XT node be forced into the 'quiet' node format?  From what I have found out, it looks like it leaks the node's IP address while it's supposed to be hidden.As for the big block mod.  I guess I just don't see the value in it. jumping to 8megs on start, then auto-adjusting for transaction volumes would undermine the transaction fee market that is supposed to develop to priortize transactions.  Also, where are these overlay networks that were supposed to absorb the majority of the lower security transaction volume?  This bitcoin network proper was never supposed to be how Joe Average transacted in the currency, Joe should be using a light client on an overlay network; like Electrum was developing or M-Pesa style light client networks on smartphones.  Why are we still doing the majority of retail business using full clients anyway?Someone with more intimate knowledge is welcome to correct me on the technical details, but please don't come to me with complaints about how the fee market would never have worked or that Bitcoin proper actually needs to scale to Visa levels; I've been here too long for those arguments to still have any merit. Not to me.  I was here. On this forum, I'm pretty sure just the one. Um, why Elwar? Wow, that's thread necromancy. I'd forgotten about this thread. Yes. I see it everywhere I look, and have seen it my entire adult life. You seem to expect to see *novel* interventions, and there are some (although you likely do not recognize them as such) but the majority of interventions have long since been institutionalized.  There simply isn't likely a "need" for new interventions (from the perspectives of the interventionists) because the structure is already in place.As already noted by others, they just don't really ever work as intended. Too many variables; too many unintended, and often unnoticed until much later, consequences.
How could we? Dude, I waited for months to buy my first bitcoins, and was kicking myself because the price doubled in that time frame. I bought my first batch at 6.5 cents. Pity I spent almost all of them before $1, I ended up missing out on most of the appreciation, even though they were more than 10 times as valuable.  There are very few investments in all of human history that compare to the first four years of Bitcoin. Nope. This is a forum, not a marketplace. If you make a deal in a public forum, let the buyer beware. It's typically fine if it's properly marked, but it still has to be legal within the United States, where this forum's server is located. No, he didn't. He's still around the bitcoin economy, just not this forum. I offered to send him another pair of pizzas about a year later for half price, he declined.  I'd wager that he's far from bitcoin broke, though. At the time, 10K bitcoins literally had no known value. It's this historic transaction, and his willingness to engage in it, that established the price.  Granted, the value of a bitcoin rose fast, both then and now, but someone had to be first; and that is why he did it. When the forums changed to the current forum software, some old & abandoned usernames ceased to exist. You can't find my old username either, and that's a good thing, because I was unwise enough to use my real name. This tech is getting seriously dated. It won't be much longer before it doesn't even matter anymore.  And old android smartphone & a gotenna transceiver and this tech would be irrelevant. Compared to myself, you all are.BTW, in all my recollection, I've never been white.  So don't assume that just because some study somewhere said something that it actually means anything. Newbies come into here, read old threads, and wake the dead.  Seriously, the OP was just trolling FOUR YEARS AGO! Honestly, I'd like to know where all the American supporters of this law have vanished to.  I'd like to find out if they still stand by their prior support, and if not, why not? Despite popular belief, this is also true in the United States generally, but not on a national level.  Some states actually sponsor something very close to a universal health care system for anyone who isn't covered privately (and in some states, many who are).  Each state does things a bit differently, and the process is rarely widely known, but no state doesn't do it at all.  Before Obamacare was passed, roughly half of all medical care spending was some stage of government agency; usually state or local.  After all, even Medicaid is legally a state by state program, as it's technically forbidden to be a federal program under the Constitution.  The federal Medicaid legal language is written in such a way that it's just regulation of a common state program.BTW, my state of Kentucky does it piecemeal.  There is a state program specificly to cover otherwise uncovered children (passport), one to cover the elderly & disabled, one to cover other poor adults (medicaid), as well as a network of free public clinics in urban areas wherein doctors get a tax deduction for volunteering for a couple days a month.  My three youngest children are covered both by my employer sponsored plan & passport.  Under normal circumstances, just about anyone can get passport for their kids, but it's always "secondary" to a parent's coverage, so there simply isn't any economic reason for most middle class adults to bother, since Passport will never actually pay out for their kids.  In my case, however, the situation is legally reversed because those three kids were adopted as former wards of the state; so the law regards it similar to a divorced parent remarrying.  Since the state was their legal guardian before I was, the state's coverage pays for them first.  But, of course, only them; passport does nothing for my natural kids.There is also the law that requires publicly licensed hospitals to admit and treat anyone with an emergency condition, regardless of citizenship or ability to pay for services.  In that case, the hospital simply deducts those losses on their regular corporate taxes; so in a roundabout way, taxpayers still support that kind of coverage as well.So, since Europe also sponsors government health care on a nation-by-nation basis, it's not really different.  There is no European Union wide program, but there also exists a form of EU 'standardization' program.  If you think of US states as what they are, mini-nations within a larger union; then the comparision to Europe become much more fair. There is an investing newsletter called "Whiskey & gunpowder", it's a crisis investment kind of thing. He's not ignorant.  In the absence of governments that raid private gold vaults in order to shut down competing gold backed currencies, he'd be correct.  None of us who knows what we are talking about disputes this.  Bitcoin would be inferior to digital gold warehouse reciepts if they were allowed to compete.  But, of course, they are not; and that is part of the design advantage of Bitcoin.  There is no gold storage vault to raid. The point of demurrage is to impose a 'storage fee' on holding value in the currency, as if you were keeping gold inside a rented vault.  Inflation functions more like a tax.  The difference being is that demurrage is supposed to be something that can be avoided within the context of the currency regime that demurrage applies to.  For example, while a gold owner can rent a vault, he can also buy one.  Proper demurrage in a cryptocurrency context would be like losing some small portion of your savings value for not moving your cold storage funds around the blockchain; but this fee could be avoided if the funds were moved periodicly (invoking a transaction fee) or by sponsoring a mining rig (owning your own vault).  However, inflation effects all user relative to the numerical value that they possess, and is practically unavoidable no matter the actions of the user.  If demurrage is set up so that it's unavoidable, then there is no practical difference between inflation and demurrage as measured in the purchasing power of the user's holdings. Is that so?  You did know that Bitcoin is currently in it's inflationary stage, right?  We've been over this before boys, demurrage cannot be implimented in a secure fashion without reintroducing a trust or identity model, and even if we could, no rational & self-interested investor is going to willing participate in demurrage if an alternative exists.  Which, obviously, it does.  This has always been a futile debate. I think it's an enbaressment, no matter it's potential. While it's true that delegates have the real power, they don't set the agenda either.  I've been both a Democratic delegate (a voting elector for Dennis Kucinich in 2000) and a Republican delegate (due to being a youth chair in 2010), and while the Repubs are much more democratic (ironicly) a single delegate cannot alter the agenda set by the state "leadership".  The Democrats are a mockery of their own name.Regardless, the best one can do by voting is a form of self-defense, as you mentioned already.  I don't fault anyone for acting in their own defense, and I fully expect it.  I'm simply trying to point out the downside to the game, that defensive voting really is the best you can do. "All the world is a stage, and the people, merely players..."-As You Like It, Act II; by William ShakespeareWe live in a world full of fictions.Government is one such fiction.  Governments are merely an idea, givenform by those people who choose to work towards that idea.No matter how well intentioned, nor how well written, the documents thatdefine the ideas of government; they are still just words on a page.  Awell formed fiction.So what is a government, then?  It is that group of people who give theirtime and their resources towards the fiction.  Like any group of people;there are those among them with strikingly different views in interpretingthat fiction.And, like any group of people, the flaws of those people will reflect inthe institutions that they create.  If the people are corrupt, theinstitution will be corrupt.  If the people are violent, the agency willbe violent.  If the people are flawed; the government will, also, beflawed.So, no matter how well written that fiction may be; no institution, nobureaucracy, no government; can ever hope to be a more perfect union, thanthat of the people themselves.Worse yet, every institution declines as the first generation; those whotruly believe in the fiction, pass control of the fiction to others.  Inpart, because younger generations do not have first-hand knowledge of lifeprior to the fiction, and so they come to expect that the fiction willendure.  The grandchildren of the founders look at the buildings andmonuments of the fiction; and fully expect that the fiction is as certain;is as permanent, as the concrete and stone of those monuments.The institution also declines, in part, because the fiction has very realinfluence on how the people think & act; and those that control thenarrative, also control those people.  This tends to attract the kind ofperson who doesn't believe in fictions, but who is willing to play a partto gain influence over the narrative.  These are exactly the wrong kind ofpeople necessary to maintain the best storylines.So, before you go to the voting booths this fall, in an effort to choose anew narrator, please remember that all storytellers are telling you morefictions.Perhaps it's time to write your own story?-MoonShadow Well, that's a good point. It's still an open question concerning the genesis block coinbase.  Actually, that's not quite true.  The genesis block coinbase is spendable, but since the genesis block is hardcoded, there remains doubt that doing so won't break the running network; simply because a transaction that references back to the, very non-standard, genesis block would crash the verification code.  This could be fixed, if it had to be, but since this effects exactly one person on the planet (who doesn't seem inclined to do it anyway) why bother fixing a bug that isn't a real issue?  It's also possible that Satoshi didn't really want this coinbase to be spendable.
No, he would not have.  Are you sure you understand how Bitcoin works? I doubt that, but of the blocks he is known to control, I'd wager he has some special intention for those.  When he was still here, he was offered $50 for a single bitcoin from the genesis block; when the going rate was under a nickel.  He refused, stating that those were his legacy.  That could be interpreted in many ways, but I thought s/he intended those early blocks to go to his heirs. Without a doubt, Mish did it with the most profound detail and accuracy of any I know of.  He was tracking the progression of the housing market over a silhouette of the graph of the rise and fall of the real estate market in Japan before and after it's great crash in the 80's.  It was odd how well it tracked. It's statistical corrolation was above 90% IIRC. Mish Shedlock did.  I know there were at least a few more that I paid attention to.  Several at motleyfool. no Short answer, yes.Longer answer, it's complicated, but yes.One method currently available is to use a 'light client' that only downloads and keeps a copy of the block headers plus the blocks that contain confirmed transactions related to it's own wallet.dat balance.  The wallet.dat keeps a copy of the particular transactions anyway, so it's relatively easy to do, but I know of no desktop clients that don't use a full-client model.  The problem here is that, while light clients can prove that they owned those coins at one time, they are dependent upon the vendor's client being a full client (or have some other method of full verification) in order to spend coins; and light clients have issues with acceptance of coins, because they can't independently confirm that a transaction received is still valid.  Only that the coins were once owned by the sender, and (usually, but not absolutely) that the transactions offered should fit in the block where the sender claims they came from.Another method is what I've been calling "naked block transmission protocol" but I'm sure that is not what Gavin and the developers are calling it.  Wherein a new block, even for a full client, is broadcast only with the header and the full merkle tree; thus stripped of the actual transaction data.  On the assumption that all full clients would have already seen the vast majority of the transaction data when it was released loose on the network up to 10 minutes prior.  This would improve the network throughput from between 2 to 10 times, or about 6 for the average block.  This wouldn't improve a full-client bootstrapping time at all, but, a kind of vendor's client could be developed from this that has more data than a light client but not as much as a full client.There is also the parallel network method, that Stratum & a couple of android clients are using.And for full clients that no longer need old data locally, there is the pruning protocol that has always been in Bitcoin, but never implimented; which would allow full clients to discard long spent transactions. Because it became fairly obvious to many users that MtGox itself was failing, and therefore the MtGox trade price wasn't real.  The other exchanges never got anywhere near $100. There are good reasons for such a US centric perspective.  Since at least 1945, the United States has been the political and economic guiding force of the entire English speaking world.  Which, thanks to the British, was and remains the only truly global empire to ever exist.And don't forget, that Japan remains a US protectorate.  If you don't think that US government agencies do have an influence on the MtGox case in Japan, you're delusional.  I'm not claiming that is how the world should be, I'm saying that is how it actually is.  One of the obvious and professed motivations for Satoshi to create Bitcoin in the beginning. Well, yes and no.  No, to the degree that the Fed is just another social construct, and there cannot be any real consensus among the human beings that make up the Fed; and yes, that some of those same people have more institutional influence than others and that some subset of those influential persons think in terms of 'threats' to their institution.  Among those influential persons, Bitcoin & derivitives are regarded as a systemic threat, they just don't really know (or can agree upon) how to respond. Short answer.  No.Longer answer. No, not yet anyway. Controlling bitcoins does not necessarily equate to controlling Bitcoin (in particular) or cryptocurrencies (in general); but nor does that mean that owning bitcoins doesn't provide some degree of influence in the realm. Um, no it doesn't.  The constitutions says that IT is the supreme law of the land.  The constitution doesn't even grant the Supreme Court the power to judge the constitutionality of laws, that's just something that they assumed they could do, and there isn't really any court capable of overridding that assumption.  Technically, the House of Representives has the power to sensor/override a Supreme court ruling; but this has actually never occured. The average American in 1940 had an 8th grade education. The post-war prosperity of this country was built by 8th graders. 8th grade America won the Second World War, and then had that big post-war 1950s prosperity. Now we stay in school twice as long, have twice as much attention from school teachers, and for no purpose. The longer you keep people in education  if you pretend that college is universal, it becomes middle school. If everybody goes to college its middle school, thats what it is, thats what it will be. You take away so many peoples most productive years. It leads to later economic contribution, later family formation, it has all kinds of consequences. And the education that matters is still K through 8. Because if you screw up K through 8, you can spend the next 20 years trying to play catch-up, and it doesnt really make any difference. And thats what Id like to see. Id like to see a stronger telescope education. Id like to see a return back to the spirit of single-town school districts, and Id like to see American education delivered out of the hands of the present educational establishment, and Common Core does none of those things, which is why its to me part of the problem, not the solution. Yes, it's called medical tourism, and it's not just Singapore.  There are many reasons that the health care costs in the United States are high; some are directly related to government regulations (including Obamacare) and some are not.  One really big contributing factor is that health care professionals in general and specialist doctors in particular make significantly more money for the same skillset in the US than most other places in the world.  Granted, there are exceptions depending upon the specialty, but there is a very good reason that many of the best doctors from former British colonies have moved to the US in the past 30 years.  Odds are high they already speak the language well enough, and they can't make the same kind of income, nor expect the same quality of life in general, by staying in India or Trinidad.  For the Americans here, how often do you end up with a doctor (even a general prac) that has an accent?  Ironicly, Obamacare stands a decent chance of actually affecting this trend; by undercutting the medical payments regime in place for insurance companies and employers, income growth in the health care industry is likely to slow for some time. We can, we just have to pay out of pocket for it, since we're not citizens of Singapore or Malaysia. Economic law has not changed in the past 4 years, so this post is no more correct today than it wasn't 4 years ago.  Go take an economics class. It's this intuitive insight that Anonymint overlooks.  The basic fact that any such actions by malicious actors will, eventually, expose themselves; and other actors will act in a different manner.  It's basic Praxeology. Yes, the US health care system works very well.  Obamacare isn't health care, it's health insurance.  Health insurance in the US does not work very well. The first askii character denotes the address version.  Currently, Bitcoin only recognizes two address versions, the one that you are familiar with that starts with a "1" and a testing version that starts with an "a" iirc.  The running network just ignores the "a" one unless your node is set to participate in the "testnet".  Future versions of addresses could use different keypair algos, or denote a sub-satoshi value, or have other uses such as denoting an address that can only be verfied with a script. No, a QR code has internal checksums for alignment, and the addresses have internal checksums for input errors.  The odds of getting an internally correct, but still the wrong, address from a QR code scanning is astronomical. Good luck with that.
As opposed to being considered property?  Well, if Bitcoin were a currency under US law, it'd be comparable to the Euro.  Paying employees in foreign currencies, such as the Euro, within the United States carries different taxation rules than property, so the taxes (in general) would be higher than it is for property. The entire block header chain can be broadcast at 2400 baud, and individual clients can transact at 2400 baud.  This isn't remotely the same as participating in the bitcoin network as a full peer, and I'm pretty sure no one has claimed this. With the 'naked block' protocol being considered, you don't even need this much.  Currently, all full clients require all the data in order to completely check every block for validity, but a "light client" doesn't require this kind of certainty.  Since it's unlikely that clients receiving updates via this method would be mining, complete blocks are not necessary.  What is necessary is a complete block header chain, which only weighs in at 4 mb per year; and the merkle tree for any blocks that contain transactions that concern the client itself.  While it would be ideal to broadcast those merkle trees with the block header (i.e. the naked block, all except the actual transactions) it would be profoundly silly to broadcast every single transaction complete. I wrote a rather lengthly response to this, but it  got destroyed by a database error.  In short, you're misreading my posts & I have long ago gone to their forum to correct their misconceptions about what is feasible.  They are now considering using Digital Radio Mondiale as their protocol, and I was thanked personally for that suggestion. I really don't understand how namecoin works, so I'm asking this question openly.  If true, how can it be done? You do realise that your little gif isn't an argument.  Starbucks' equivilent gif would make that look like shit. Yeah, that's pretty big. Huh, that's not one I've heard before.  BTW, what the hell is flappycoin?   compared to what, exactly? The hashing speed of an attacker, if any, is irrelevent for the double spend attack.  You're thinking of something different. This is unknowable, but considering that the issue about acceptance of zero confirm transactions is a meatspace issue primarily, it'd still be quite a trick for a hacked android client to produce two competing transactions at the exact same moment without Wal-Mart's bitcoin service noticing and denying the transaction.  Theoretically, the best chance you can have with a double spend attack is 50%, but that assmues that both the attacker and the vendor have equal access to the p2p network (which is unlikely in any event) and that the vendor hasn't taken steps to reduce his exposure (which is possible today, but would become as rare as hen's teeth a week after the public finds out that a true double spend attack was accoplished against a vendor). It's not easy.  In fact, it's never been provabley be done in the wild.  It's entirely theoretical. Good luck with that. I own a Mosin Nagant 1890 that I could once put into a one foot wide target at around 700 yards using the original open sights.  I doubt that I could do it on purpose today though, old eyes and all that.  The rifle is willing but the eyesight is weak.  I bought it as a surplus rifle for about $60 about a year after the collapse of the Soviet Union.  The things still looks like someone dropped it and kicked it around a bit before putting it into the crate.  That thing is a hammer, it can bruise my shoulder in the first shot fired, and I actually do know how to shoot it. You simply wait.  The bitcoin market must mature, and as it does, the block reward will decline.  As the block reward declines, the cost/benefit ratio for mining will change.  As it stands right now, the energy requirements for securing this rather small payment system are far lower than just the energy & manpower costs of securing the payment systems centered around the US dollar.  Sure, Visa doesn't use nearly the electricity that Bitcoin does for it's own servers; but overall the energy required to move armored cars, build and power banks & vaults, or even just the environmental control systems for the banks & buildings far exceed what bitcoin consumes today.  There is no reason to assume that the energy consumed per user or per transaction should increase at the network matures, even if the absolute amount of energy consumed continues to rise for some time.  If Bitcoin replaces the need for even a minority of these bank branch buildings and skyscrapers, Bitcoin's energy cost/benefit ratio will be a huge improvement to what already exists. Some people believe that there is some kind of advantage to having a much shorter block interval.  Mathmatically speaking, there is none. I've said many time before, that Satoshi (if only one person) was a polymath.  If you look deep into how bitcoin works, there are so many moving parts that just mesh so well and interlock, it seems so improbable that anyone could have gotten this all right the first try, but that's what happened.  The system is so elegant, and subtle in so many ways.  Many of these alt-coins don't recognize these subtle metrics, and assume that too many things are simply arbitrary.  I've found that there are few things that were arbitrary about bitcoin. PoS doesn't really work.  It's subject to a trusted node being hacked, or otherwise turning opprotunisticly malicious.  PoW doesn't have that problem, and that is part of the point of it all, because it's truely trustless.  PoS cannot be trustless. Maybe if it were true, but it's not. And with Bitcoin, the intermediary can be the vendor himself, so they don't have to pay Visa to do that for them.  If Wal-Mart accepted bitcoins at the counter, they could manage transaction validity checks just fine without hiring some outside contractor.
Transactions average 1.4 seconds from anywhere to anywhere.  Transaction clearing is what blocks are doing.  Transaction clearance for credit cards take between 30 and 45 days.Yes he did.  He chose the 10 minute interval because it was a long enough period to prevent orphaned blocks, most of the time, due to more than one node discovering a block solution within the time period it takes to propagate a block from one edge of the network to the other.  He was assuming that, in a future that Bitcoin was wildly successful, blocks would be very large data sets and the p2p network would be very large; both contributing to network delays that might extend the time for a block to propogate from edge to edge for up to a whole minute.  Therefore, in order to limit the risk of orphaned blocks (and the blockchain splits that often accompany them) the target interval had to be several times longer than the worst case scenario for block propogation delays.  He also wanted the interval to fit neatly into human time cycles for our mental convience.  He could have done a 6 min block interval, for 10 per hour, but he was concerned that wouldn't be enough.  His fears seem correct, because even with the 10 minute interval we average about 1.5% of blocks released onto the network are orphaned.  A 6 minute interval would make that much worse, and 2 minute interval would make that rate simply awful. You didn't bother to read the links, did you? This method of organizing societies is called a "phyle" and was well described in a science fiction book I read years ago called "The Diamond Age". Just stupid. Well, I asked about the decimal point, because Bitcoin technically doesn't even have one.  Satoshi decided to have the client display the wallet's total value to the user, with a decimal point exactly in the middle of the 64 bit integer (32 bits to the left, 32 bits to the right) but in the protocol all value is in satoshis.  Hindsight being 20/20, there is much merit in not matching that decision.  Perhaps having a coinbase reward that starts with 1776 of the atomic unit, and having the client display the decimal point to the hundredths, is a fair idea regarding a cryptocurrency that is designed without a maximum monetary base limit like Bitcoin.  This would grant much room for growth in the issued currency before the overflow of the value variable became a threat, as it would take centuries with a 64 bit integer. That's 3 minutes of my lifespan I can never get back. In practice, yes.  But only because common clients would have to be aware of colored coins that end up in their wallet, so that they didn't arbitrarily send them out in payment for a candy bar.  As I understand it, however, the colored coins proposal would require an external database to manage the titles & ties to particular coins. Looking at BitcoinWatch.com and Bitcoinaverage.com regularly since the collapse of MtGox, I've come to question whether or not their reported trade volume was even real towards the end, or if they had done something underhanded to prop up their status as the 'premier' bitcoin currency exchange.  If so, for how long has this been going on?  I have long suspected that the role of speculation within the bitcoin economy isn't nearly as significant as it appeared, but now I suspect that it wasn't even real for some time. Perhaps we can improve the security of an android based client by requiring the presence of an external device.  For example, a simple hardware wallet that keeps only the private keys, and communicates with the phone wallet via bluetooth; so that a thief would have to have both devices and the passcode to the hardware wallet device in order to steal the bitcoins on the phone (assuming the thief is capable of hacking past an android client passcode).  For a little less cost, and a little less security, a simple bluetooth dongle that the android client must ping before signing any transaction would be an improvement.  Particularly if the bluetooth dongle were some small, & unobtrusive device commonly found elsewhere on a user; like a ring or necklace, that a snatch-grab cell phone thief is unlikely to aquire in conjunction with the cell phone.  This still wouldn't protect the user from all threats, such as tire-iron negotiations.There are some high tech forms of firearms that utilize the latter trick to electronicly identify the owner of the firearm, and prevent firing of the weapon if the identity ring is not within a few feet of the weapon. So the coinbase reward will halve every four years, but (in effect) double roughly every 27 years? What is the significance of starting the coinbase at 17.76?  It's obviously not arbitrary.  Also, is your decimal place going to be in the same place that Satoshi placed his?  That was an arbitrary choice on his part, and may not be what you wish to do.   Upon further reflection (beyond our PM conversation) I think that a 5 day coinbase adjustment period might be too quick because it would significantly increase the odds that a blockchain split & realignment would occur during a coinbase change, and therefore result in greater numbers of orphaned blocks as a consequence of a miner releasing a block with the incorrect coinbase reward.  Furthermore, Bitcoin currently readjusts the difficulty target every 1024 blocks, or roughly every 2 weeks.  Perhaps this point would be a better shortened coinbase cycle as well?   Very well done. I've literally done this.  Useful android pohones without services are cheap on ebay, if all you need is to occasionally start up the wifi radio to upgrade or connect.  Getting the wallet app installed without the service (whihcis required for Google Play) is no small feat though. http://markstoval.wordpress.com/2012/11/18/9000-years-of-anarchy-in-ireland/ This is a really old thread.  Strangely, the best ideas here still aren't implimented for most clients. Documents released by, and interviews with, Ed Snowden strongly imply that Tor and/or VPNs can, in fact, help quite a bit. I don't think that this is an answerable question.I know of several off the top of my head, that were not only alluded to in the white paper, but not implimented in a single alt-coin that I've seen yet.There is no feature, compelling or otherwise, that Bitcoin can't replicate.  The only question is whether or not the userbase considers your 'killer feature' as highly as you do.  If they do, then Bitcoin will steal your idea.  I'm still waiting for your grand announcement, BTW, and I'll be the first to point out if there is prior art within the bitcoin ecosystem.     I forgot to mention that the Apache were, once upon a time, a matriarchal society; at least by Zarathustra's definition of same.  (I would consider them to be a decentralized society, without a 'patriarchal' preference)  History doesn't exactly describe the Apache as a peaceful lot.  They gave the Spanish hell for centuries before the Americans entered into their region. You don't really believe that crap, do you?  Conflict is a natural state of mankind, it's peace that requires the extra effort of education and negotiation; or in other words, civilization.
It's usually called private arbitration, and one can join an association for such already. Hmmm;  large artifical structure, built in the middle of a desert, obviously not intended for habitation, built by a culture with mathmatics and measurement skills that we couldn't match without laser measurement tools; using methods for quarying, transporting and elevating multi-ton stone blocks that we still can't replicate, and built before the most advanced culture known to exist before our own (Egyptian) and with similar structures built half a world away (Mayan).Prove that they weren't spent fuel storage structures that have outlived their containment needs. I probably should leave this argument alone, but the highlighted part is debatable.  Certainly we live much longer than the tribal cultures that Zarathustra considers to be the high mark of anarchist socites, but it can be reasonablely argued that simply understanding germ theory, which such a tribal society could understand and incorporate into their culture, did the greatest good.  It's also arguable that one of the reasons that European & Asian cultures managed to acheive such high population concentrations was due to the simple fact that both European & Asian cultures had long ago incorporated the use of plates, bowls and utensils that were made of metals or alloys that were self-sterilizing.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oligodynamic_effect)  Which, of course, tribal cultures in the Americas and Africa did not use.  One of the best alloys for this effect is the common Admiral Brass used all over British sailing ships for hundreds of years.  Because the stuff is mostly copper, the surfaces of admiral brass were hostile to pathogens that could be spread through touch vectors.  As we enter the post-antibiotic age, some hospitals are remodeling and including copper alloys for common touch surfaces (door knobs, push plates, countertops, chair arms, serving trays, etc.) because it's so effective that Multiple Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus is killed within 2 hours whether or not the metal was cleaned, and some studies have concluded that no Staph could be found on an innoculated surface after only 45 seconds for pure copper.Of course, such touch surfaces would have done nothing for these tropical maladies, since they are spread by insect bites. Telling jokes won't gain you trust.  Telling us who you are, and why you need a loan from us might; but I doubt it.  I've made loans to very trustworthy members, who have very valid reasons for asking for a loan on this forum, who couldn't manage to follow through and repay in full.  You have zero history here.   As far as I'm concerned, these guys are arguing about how many bitcoins can fit on the head of a pushpin.  They both have data on their sides, and both of them seem to get some rather significant details very wrong.  They both think they are the smartest person in the room, while the smartest people don't bother to respond to them anymore.  You'll have to make your own decisions about whom to trust. Newbie asks for a loan.  How original. We could do that, you know.  Bitcoin is, fundamentally, binary; and the American Standard is (largely) based upon doubling and/or halving of units.  Half-gallon is a unit, and between a cup and an ounce sits the gill (half a cup) and half-gill.  The teaspoon is the oddball; but the dram (one-quarter tablespoon) fits the pattern. Anonymint, I have read the PM you posted (which is, itself, rude) and I have to say I agree with every word of it.  Your attitude gets in the way of any constructive intentions that you may have; and as has been pointed out many times by many people previously, you don't understand Bitcoin as well as you think that you do.  Alternative, invitation only, technical bitcoin forums have been founded specificly to avoid you.  Which, BTW, is quite an accompishment if your goal was to troll.  Ironicly, I can't believe that you're a talented troll; but instead passionately believe everything that you claim.  Therefore, I must admit that the highest form of trolling that I have ever seen on this forum (or anywhere else) is accidental. What you want to be able to do is already possible using transaction scripting and a blockchain enforcable digital contract.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/ContractsMost likely something similar to example #2, but both example #4 and example #7 have elements similar to what you want to do here.  Alternatively, a third party excrow service can be employed without transaction scripting using only multi-sig transactions. At my age, my memory should always be suspect.Well, I can accept the argument that Shadowstats can still be flawed.  I'm just of the opinion that their methods are a bit more open, and their biases a bit less suspect.You do have a good point there, but also a great many things besides have changed during those same 14 years to mitigate the effects.  (I'm not really talking about price inflation, so much as using that as an example since that is what the CPI measures.)  I'm mostly talking about monetary base inflation, which has been counteracted, to a great extent, by the debt destruction during 2007-2009 (mostly felt in the crash of houseing prices) and other smaller effects, such as the average increase in gas mialage and the decrease in average miles driven per year by Americans.  The rise of ridesharing services like zipcar really are having an outsized impact on the economy, permmitting urban millinials to commute by public transit with a ready access to a personal vehicle whenever neccessry. It shouldn't have.  I'd wager that if you actually sat down and assessed your real costs, you'll find that your expenses have likely doubled as well, since about 2000.  While gas prices have been fairly flat the past couple of years, the price of a gallon of petrol near where I live was right around $2.20 in 2008 and is $3.57 today; and has been as high as $4.09 in between.  Likewise, as recently as two years ago, a gallon of propane cost me about $1.60, delivered; today it's $3.40.  Granted, there are a lot of market forces going on there, including the quite un-global-warming-like winter we just had.  Yet, the cost of beef or chicken at the grocery store is much more than it was a decade ago as well.  The offical CPI suppresses the official inflation metric in a number of ways, one of which is to use 'substitution'.  I.E., they assume, as prices rise, someone who could no longer afford beef would buy chicken instead; so they swap the price of beef for the price of chicken in the formula.  There are other examples I can produce.   And the cost of consumer energy needs isn't even included in the modern calculations at all, only the commercial and/or wholesale prices of those energy sources; or more specificly, the effect of the rising energy that commercial businesses pass onto their consumer prices. I don't, and never have.  I've been using bitcoins as a medium of exchange for 4+ years now, and have bought all range of items; from hats for my avatar on TF2 to handmade jewlry on Etsy to game & ebook licenses to about 16 months straight of cell service.How does that fit into your investment vehicle model?Bitcoins are actually a pretty crappy investment vehicle, despite the historic returns.  Like gold, there is no dividend.  You're not actually investing in anything, and the scarcity that speculators have been chasing is artificial.  There are simply too many substitutes for that to be a good idea long term.  Bitcoins are not a commodity, so they can't be made into anything, and nothing requires them to operate.  Wild swings due to speculation aside, bitcoins derive all of their fundamental value from their (current and future) usefulness as a value transfer over distance mechanism.  If you're holding onto them solely in the hopes that they will rise in exchange value, I would have to recommend that you reassess your portfolio. Mine have more than doubled. Shadowstats is probably the most trustworthy source of information available in the United States today.  Basicly, their metrics are the most similar to those used prior to WW2, so they would be the best to compare to the official statistics for the Great Depresssion, as an example.  The data that comes out of official US government channels are only slightly more trustworthy than those that come out of official Chinese channels, or official Cuban channels.  It is unwise to trust the word of the institution that is most likely to benefit from an unrealisticly positive image. While that is likely a fairly accurate statistic, it's still very misleading.  There is a fable that is told (sometimes) to economics students to illistrate the nature of debt like this.  Here is one version of it I quickly found with google...It is the month of August; a resort town sits next to the shores of a lake. It is raining, and the little town looks totally deserted. It is tough times, everybody is in debt, and everybody lives on credit.Suddenly, a rich tourist comes to town. He enters the only hotel, lays a 100 dollar bill on the reception counter, and goes to inspect the rooms upstairs in order to pick one.The hotel proprietor takes the 100 dollar bill and runs to pay his debt to the butcher. The Butcher takes the 100 dollar bill and runs to pay his debt to the pig raiser. The pig raiser takes the 100 dollar bill and runs to pay his debt to the supplier of his feed and fuel. The supplier of feed and fuel takes the 100 dollar bill and runs to pay his debt to the towns prostitute that, in these hard times, gave her services on credit. The hooker runs to the hotel, and pays off her debt with the 100 dollar bill to the hotel proprietor to pay for the rooms that she rented when she brought her clients there. The hotel proprietor then lays the 100 dollar bill back on the counter so that the rich tourist will not suspect anything. At that moment, the rich tourist comes down after inspecting the rooms, and takes his 100 dollar bill, after saying he did not like any of the rooms, and leaves town.No one earned anything. However, the whole town is now without debt, and looks to the future with a lot of optimism.  Most of these derivitives are just like the debt that this small town had, interlinking trade debt that largely self cancels.  (Insert plug for Ripple here, if you like)  What the real fear is that, should one of the major players here, say the hooker, was also indebted to the tune of $100 to her drug dealer.  This whole story coudl come crashing down if the rich tourist didn't get his $100 bill back.  However, not all of it would come crashing down; some portion of the debt is real enough and back by real assets.  No matter how much of the derivitives can actually be paid, the assets are real.EDIT::  Notice that in the story, the total indebtedness of the town was about $400 While I agree that most of the brightest wouldn't work for the government as long as they can find income elsewhere, that's already the case.  Those that are ideologically opposed to government leave those services fairly quickly under any economic conditions.  However, there are always the remainder.  I've read that roughly 3% of the adult population are sociopathic to some degree or another.  Having worked in government 'enforcement' in the past, my own experiences tell me that government is significantly overrepresented by this demographic.  If you have ever really known a true sociopath, they are not motivated by economic gain so much as by personal power gain.  A society in decline would give many of them an increased opprotunity for power gains in the near term.  I just can't picture these people walking away from government 'service', and (unfortunately) almost all of them are quite intelligent.  Do not underestimate your enemy, and trust me when I say that they are, indeed, your enemy. Yeah, just ask him.  I'm sure he's following this thread with much amusement. You're wrong.  It doesn't matter who controls a majority of coins. Yeah, well.  Read the last comment.http://p2pfoundation.ning.com/m/discussion?id=2003008%3ATopic%3A9402 You are a self-deluded meglomaniac.Refute that.
I should have clarified.  I meant that price inflation is not discussed, as anything other than a side effect, by professionals in the field of economics.  You speak of professionals in the field of governance.  In other words, professional liars.  You should be more careful about whom you listen to. You're just reaching.  In any economic sense, monetary inflation is the topic of discussion.  Price inflation is an economic illusion, and one not discussed by professionals in the field.  Also, he did explicitly ask about how it starts, not the results.  Again, the cause is always and everywhere due to expansion of the monetary base.  Price inflation cannot cause itself.   Considering the OP was asking for an economic explaination of inflation; the minor fact that most laymen think of price inflation when the word "inflation" is mentioned is entirely irrelevant.  The OP set the context.  Try and keep up, okay?  We won't be stopping the bus if you fall off again. While his explaination is flawed, his understanding of what inflation actually is may not be.  A rise in the general price index is a symptom of inflation.  The cause of inflation, and therefore what inflation actually is, is the expansion of the monetary base in excess of the economic/population/general growth rate.  Take your pick.   Really?  No comments at all? The ACA has a clause that prohibits the insurance companies from pointing out the root causes of problems.  They can be fined for even posting complaints on facebook, and they cant' even complain about that clause. http://www.penny-arcade.com/comicI think they actually did a fair job. I did, just not by name.  What do you think velocity measures? I mean that is was lucky that he called it so close, not that he called it at all.  It's easy to make predictions if you don't have a time frame.  He did.  That's the part that was lucky. Lucky guess. This part isn't true.  It was his baby, he kept the coins.  In fact, I remember an event wherein someone on the forum offered Satoshi $50 per btc for as many of the genesis block coins as he was willing to sell.  The response was along the lines of, 'No thanks, those are for my son.'Furthermore, there was some speculation as to whether or not Satoshi could actually spend the genesis block coins.  The view being that, since the genesis block is actually unique, some clients might choke on the attempt to deal with verification of such a transaction; and that it wasn't worth the risk of a blockchain fork.  Since those early blocks still have never moved, it's also possible that those early keys have been lost or that Satoshi is dead.EDIT: at the time, the market price for a single bitcoin was about a nickel. Ah, I see.I've never made the claim that courts won't attempt to recover stolen value.  I also know, for a fact, that my own coins have never touched any exchange since at least October of 2010.It might, actually, but that won't be because of some inherent flaw of bitcoin or it's protocol.  Bad image isssues are more difficult to argue against. I'm missing something.  Why is it wise to trade out for new coins? Inflation occurs because of expansion of the monetary base relative to it's demand.  What's really happening is that economic growth increases the demand for money/currency, and central banks respond by over-producing.  A cynical person might call that and excuse for bad behavior.  But the central bank expansion is only part of the picture, the other part is the increase in credit issuance.  Fractional Reserve banking permits banks to increase the monetary base temporarily by the creation of new loans without significant reserves.  Said another way, banks no longer need to have deposits in order to make loans, so the interest that the debtor is paying is "new money".  This creates the pressure to create more currency, because the dollars to cover that interest doesn't yet exist.  This is the currency demand that the central bank will eventually use to justify over-production of currency.  However, not all such currency demand is artificial; some occurs due to very natural causes of a growing population and/or economy.  It's impossible to separate the real from the false.  Since this is an ongoing process, inflation is as well; but there can still be short term deflationary events whenever the economy isn't strong enough to support the credit creation, and thus such new loan originations decline.  Therefore, declining credit can also temporarily contradict central bank expansion. Honestly, so am I. They stated things they claim are facts.  That doesn't change the reality of the matter at all.  Yes, I really think the Winklevi lawyers made that up and that the SEC & their own lawyers are too stupid to see it.  They very much want to believe that Bitcoin can be regulated.  They know nothing of merit about cryptography, programming, decentralization or (for that matter) even economics.  They are lawyers; nothing more, nothing less.  If the Winklevi can make up convincing bullshit, let them.  It might work or it might not.  I don't care.  Unlike the both of you, I actually DO understand cryptography, economics and the Bitcoin protocol. Count me as one of those world class simps.  Gavin doesn't have any more influence than we give him.  Just ask MtGOX, who chose to ignore Gavin's rational pleas to fix the mallibility bug in 2011.  As that inicident should point out; even when it's a good idea, and the fix is available, no one must comply.For good for for bad, Gavin does not control Bitcoin.  He can only make recommendations, and he must justify those recommendations.  Granted, he has more sway with the base than you or I, but if he's not convincing changes don't occur.  Even if he's willing to make those changes himself. The Winklevi are trying very hard to convince the feds that Bitcoin is as controlable as they wish it to be, and that they can help them do it. No, they don't.  They have almost as much say in the protocol as you do.
This doesn't need that, as the rules of the machine can determine when and under what circumstances the datagram is repeated.  Similar to how packet radio works, only slower.It'd be usefull anyway, but particularly during a Internet blackout of a limited term.  If the Internet is permnently and irreversablely destroyed, Bitcoin won't work anymore; but if that were to ever happen, I think I might have bigger problems. I've thought about very low value bitcoin tipping for forwarding, but I don't know how to do it.  Any suggestions? Yeah, that video has been there for years.  I've been stalling because I was hoping it would amount to more than vaporware. Did that attempt hurt? Unlike yourself, I didn't claim to know of any relationship between any particular claims and the real number of bitcoin users.  I honestly don't know if there are more or less than 1 Million users.  I mentioned it to highlight your lack of evidence.  Referencing the logic and "data" of others, who don't have any evidience of their own, doesn't constitute evidence either.  You do this a lot, make grand arguments that you cannot support.  I'm surprised you're not either a lawyer, a politician or a preacher. Mostly lazyness.  In another year I'll change it to a Rand Paul 2016 avatar.  I've met Rand, but not his father.  Really nice guy, and taller than he looks on tv.  I've also met Dennis Kucinich, who is also a fine fellow, but is much shorter than he appears on tv.In fact, I've shaken the hands of several current and former politicos.  Not all of them struck me as fine people.  Have you ever had the feeling, upon meeting someone for the first time, of this strange sensation that you would be wise to never be in the presence of this person without witnesses?  I most certainly have, and most of the time this was when I was meeting either a politican for the first time, or a violent convict. One such person is the current US representative in my own district.  He gave me the creeps. He was a character.  Don't assume his actor isn't still here. Don't you mean that the reference section would be classified and the rest of the library would just be fiction? Funny how no one metions that you referenced your own opinions about the numbers of users.  Coinbase alone has almost 1 million accounts, not addresses.  Truthfully, we can't know how many users there are, which is kinda the point. This is provablely not true.  Karl Marx is credited with inventing the term "capitalism" and providing the basic definition, "Private ownership of the means of production".  While this traditional form of property rights trends towards a particular line of political thought, even Marx didn't mark capitalism as a political philosophy.  That was one of the core problems with it that he stated, as it wasn't really a political plan, and instead simply a default state of a society.  He viewed this default state to be less than optimal, and that applying some social enginnering to the economic system would result in reduced poverty.  However, Karl Marx was far from an economic theorist, and completely missed the most important issues.  First off, defining capitalism and socialism as he did doesn't alter the nature of the society; for there were publicly owned corporations within England during the Industrial Revolution (the society that he based his observations upon) and we've seen that private possession (the more important distinction) of the means of production (capital) cannot be designed out of any society, even an ideal socialist one.  A corporation is, by design, a socialist business hierarchy, since the means of production is owned collectively by the shareholders, yet the shareholders do not have possession of the means of production, the employees of the corporation do.  While the shareholders can also be employees, even being a member of both 'classes' of people does not entitle an individual to make any business decision alone about any particular piece of corporate property.  The root meaning of "ownership" is that the "owner" of that property gets to decide what is done with said property; be it land plowed up to plant corn or built upon, a car that can be rented out or not, or a toy that can be thrown away; whoever can make that decision is the owner.  In practice, a corporation has no owner, and only the regulation that pertains to that industry has the ultimate say about what becomes of the corporate property.  So in the end, corporations, as products of the state, are also owned by the state.  Rail against the corporate "capitalism" that you see all around you, but the fact is that what you see isn't capitalism even as Karl Marx defined it, it's just another accidental form of socialism. That would be a use case, but certainly not the only one.That would require a back channel, if you needed to know.  Such a back channel could be a datacast stream from a DRM station (if you're patient) or an alternative service, such as Iridium Burst.Not with a full client, no.  The white paper does describe a 'light' style client with a reduced security model that could do offline transactions with limitations.  For example, the device would need to be able to communicate with the other light client, which is one use case of my proposal.  Additionally, the light client would need occasional access to a gateway node, in order to update it's wallet.dat; otherwise it would eventually run out of spendable inputs.It's not really intended as a 'fallback' method.  It's intended as a primary communications method between portable, hardware based light clients; i.e. the kind that are not simply an app on a smartphone.  Additionally, it's intended as an efficient & mostly automatic digital communications mode.  Imagine if you had a device that could send and receive texts to/from people that you have already met IRL to a distance of 5+ miles radius in a single hop, but could also use multi-hop methods to cross a moderate sized city.  Without any kind of ongoing licesnsing or service fees.  A pocket sized device that is a cross between a texting FRS radio and a hardware wallet, that may or may not have a cell service data plan of it's own.  There are other use cases for a 'slow mesh' as well. The filing isn't quite done, but I have the frequency allocation proposal finished.  It's filling number with the FCC is 0158-EX-PL-2014, if anyone is interested.  I filed it as an experimental license application, because there really wasn't a better method.  The FCC doesn't have a method for suggesting completely new ideas.I'm thinking of calling it a "slow mesh" until I have a better name for it.  Any ideas? Consider it a trial by fire.  If you can't figure it out, they don't want your help. Automaticly, but not immediately. bump That's a strange statement, since I've been using as currency for four years. There is also a significant difference in the practical maximum amount of velocity between the current credit based financial systems and what Bitcoin can maintain.  Assuming that the transaction volume issues can be solved or worked around, bitcoin can turn over it's entire currency base every hour.  The US dollar credit system, for example; while transactions can be completed nearly instantly (like Visa) the final settlement of those transactions still require weeks on average.  Furhermore, velocity is limited in the private realm as well, since there is a delay of about a week from the time an employee earns his wages to the time he can receive, deposit and cancel his paycheck.  The net effect of higher velocity is similar to inflation, so not as much bitcoin would be required to service the world's transaction needs as is present in the fiat currency totals.  Keep in mind, that although the employee is unlikely to get paid more often than weekly, if Walmart was accepting bitcoins at the registers and paying their employees as well, it's entirely plausible that the employee who gets paid in bitcoin today for last week's work will still be getting paid out of bitcoins spent at the register the same day as his payday, gathered up automaticly from registers across the world. Addressing only this point.  This is Adam Beck's perspective on this only.  He is likely correct, but if the alt-coin killer feature is obvious after implementation, Bitcoiners will quickly choose to either migrate to the new coin (selling their stake in Bitcoin, and therefore losing interest in the outcome) or advocate for the change to be completed quickly.  Or both at the same time.  In the long run, it doesn't really matter which is true, or whether or not Bitcoin remains the cryptocurrency of choice. I don't think you really understand what problem Stratum addresses. Yes, it would take more power than a Part 15 device is permitted.  My suggested power limits are way over  Part 15 limits, which is why I need to have a proposal at all.  If I could use Part 15 power limits and make it work, I wouldn't need the blessing of the FCC.  This was the root problem of a great many of the mesh networks that have been tried before, Part 15 device power levels just can't get any useful distance.  Combined with the fact that 2.45 GHz is an awful band for range anyway, and 900 Mhz isn't a whole lot better.  There is a corrolary between interference and range; because (generally speaking) the lower the frequency, the lower the attenuation rate of the ground wave.  This is why a legal limit CB transceiver can communicate over the visible horizon, and anything over 30 Mhz generally cannot.  Since such bands can travel farther via groundwave, you are more likely to experience manmade interference regardless of the current reflectivity of the ionosphere.BTW, the first 6 channels of the 2.45 Ghz wifi band overlaps a ham radio band, and some hams use Part 95 power limit rules to make some truely awesome mesh networks from commercial gear.http://www.broadband-hamnet.org/
If you are calling my idea a throwback, that's part of the point.  Using less desirable spectrum in a novel manner is more likely to get approved than to attempt the same thing in the UHF or microwave bands.  As to the issue about interference from overpowered CB's, that's part of the reason for choosing very narrow bandwidths and phase shift keying has proven itself to be a very noise resilient mode on the shortwave ham bands.  PSK is so very different than AM or SSB spatter noise that it's often distingishable even in an otherwise noisy environment.  A quarter watt is a lot for PSK31 when your groundwave only has an expected radio horizen of about 10 miles. There are several parrallel projects that I know of, none of which addresses transaction volume rates per se, but both of which contribute to the capacity.The first one of note is the "naked block" change to the protocol that is forthcoming.  The point of it is that, because of the p2p style of propagation of bitcoin network objects, the actual transactions don't need to be part of a published block for miners to confirm that they are correct; because miner's almost certainly already have those transactions.  So broadcasting blocks complete represents a double broadcasting of those transactions.  The "naked block" change will permit miners to publish their blocks using only the block headers and the myrkle tree, which will reduce the actual data size of the published blocks.  This will help thoughput because the block size limit doesn't need to be increased in order to fit many more actual transactions.Another is the development of 'overlay' processing networks, which are expected to take most of the burden of small value transactions using a reduced trust model.  The big one pursuing this line of inquriy is the Electrum client via their Stratum network.  What will happen is variations on the trust model of bitcoin will be employed to permit users within a particular overlay network to send arbitrary values to one another without using the blockchain at all, or only using the blockchain to settle up values periodicly or if a value limit has been crossed.  Online wallet services use a similar trick to permit users to send another member bitcoins without creating a transaction that must be processed immediately or individually.  The wallet services function similar to Paypal in this context, keeping the accounting in house; while the overlay networks can be expected to function similar to Ripple.  The end result is the same, many transactions between users cancel one another out, reducing (but not eliminating) the necessity to create bitcoin transactions.  Another reduction that overlay networks could employ is to use send-to-many transactions to gather up the individual transactions that users produce over a time period into one huge transaction with numerous inputs and outputs, expecting that the portions of those transactions related to various senders will be properly signed by their overlay network connected nodes in a timely fashion.  The economic force that can be expected to drive the development of such overlay networks are rising transaction fees.Still another reduction in transaction volumes, also related to the send-to-many transaction, would be large institutions that gather up numerous payments to themselves to pay out to numerous creditors at once.  Think along the lines of Wal-Mart paying all of their employees their weekly payroll in a single transaction, or an individual paying all of their monthly bills at once.  While those actual send-to-many transactions would be quite large, the 'naked block' protocol results in Wal-Mart's weekly payroll transaction having no more of a footprint inside a broadcast block than another's simple Satoshi Dice payout.So, while the main bitcoin network isn't really designed to handle huge transaction volumes (thinkof it more like the banks' ATM network, they don't handle all transactions, but they do handle those that require great security over distances) it doesn't really need to, and it can handle more volume than is commonly expected. Bump.Still looking for commentary from the radio geeks. There was plenty of printing of unbacked paper money during the great depression as well.  This is what lead to the confiscation of private gold stocks followed by the revaluation of the gold standard from $22 to $35 per ounce in 1933.  Leaving the gold standard just makes all this crap somewhat less of a fraud than pretending that we actually operated as if we were on a gold standard.In short, we are both correct.  The deflationary events can, and have so far since 2008, outpace the rate at which the Federal Reserve bank is willing to debase the dollar despite tehir willingess to do quite a bit of it.  Keep in mind that the Federal Reserve serves the member banks, not the US government nor particular politcos.  If they debase too fast, the public will lose trust in the value of the US dollar, and then a hyperinflationary death of the currrency will bring a rapid end to their 100 year long con game.  The bankers will never do this unless forced into it by politics, because hyperinflation is always and everywhere triggered by a political event. The trade price in US dollars would likely go down as the buying power of the dollar increased, but the actual buying power of those same bitcoins wouldn't likely be significantly effected in the same way.  Keep in mind that a major stock crash, like the one in 1929 is highly deflationary; as is the destruction of debt.  (Debts that turn bad are written off as uncollectable, or discharged in bankruptcy; both events result in the effective reduction of available liquidity, which is deflationary by defintion) I chose a total bandwidth of 12 Khtz wide, even though the space is probably 20 KHtz wide, because 12KHtz is the common passband of generic computer soundcards.  This would permit a station using consumer grade computer gear to listen to the entire band at the same time, while still being able to distingish between individual datagrams with overlapping broadcast times.  Better soundcards can listen to wider slices of spectrum, but I'm shooting for cheap here. Notablely, there is a 4.8 Mhtz wide gap of useful spectrum in the GRMS/FRS band, situated between the simplex channels and the paired repeater input channels.  Between 462.7250 Mhtz (channel 22) and 467.5500 Mhtz.  And the channel spacing between the GRMS center frequencies are 125 Khtz wide but the channel is only permitted a 25 Khtz FM signal; which leaves at least 50Khtz of useful spectrum between each channel.  I don't know what these gaps are there for, but I'd wager that the 4.8 Mhtz gap is already allocated for something, I just don't know what. Wait, What?  Did something important happen?  I didn't notice.  My client says everything is fine. Alternately, the PSK31 channels could be interlaced with the QPSK1000 channels, permitting 12 datagram channels and (with one PSK31 channel at the farthest 100 Hz on either side of each datagram channel) 24 live keyboard channels.  I doubt that a proper QPSK1000 signal is going to step on a full 2KHtz wide spectrum, but I rounded up the spaces so that they would fit well.  Interlacing would be a more efficient use of the spectrum anyway. Thank you.  I expect that I'll be fleshing out a blockchain datacasting proposal as well in the near future, based upon Digital Radio Mondiale.  The idea being that disconnected nodes can listen for blockchain updates from any number of DRM broadcasters across the medium or shortwave bands (or even DRM+ channels in the FM band, if that ever happens) as well as broadcast both their own transactions to whomever may be listening.  The current purposal would also permit, with some modifications, an Electrum server within a 100 klick range to respond to requests.  It's extremely unlikely that the FCC would permit encrypted datagrams, but since no Bitcoin network objects require encryption as such, that should be okay. I've been thinking about this one for some time, and I have an early proposal that I'd like to flesh out with the brainiacs to see if there are any glaring errors that I've made, before I make a formal purposal to the FCC.  No, I'm not joking.My proposal is to carve out a tiny 'band' about 12 kilohertz wide, centered at 27.095 Mhtz.  The radio heads will notice straight away that this is in the gap between channel #11 and #12 in the old Citizens' Band in the United States.  The reason there is such a gap there at all is because there is still a licensed remote controlled device frequency there.  I'm pretty sure that no serious remote controlled devices still use this frequency, since there are newer and more useful remote control bands in the 440 Mhz range.  If you have a device that uses this channel, it likely has one of those control pads with the huge pull out antenna.  If it has a "rubber ducky" antenna, or is shorter than 2 feet long, it's probably a 440 Mhz channeled device.I propose that Quadrature Phase Shift Keying be employed, with forward error correction.  Between 27.089 Mhz and 27.091 Mhz would be as set of live "keyboard to keyboard" channels, each using a 100 Hz wide spectrum using transmission mode of PSK31 or QPSK31.  This yields 20 distinct channels within this 2 kilohertz wide band.  Transmittion powers would be limited to 1/2 watt peak envelope power in this section.In the remaining 10kHtz wide section, between 27.091 and 27.101 would be a set of five 'datagram' channels wherein automatic rules based transmission and encoding would be required.  Each of these channels would be 2KHtz wide, and require the use of QPSK1000.  Within these channels, node to node or node to many broadcasts would be permitted; but a basic set of crash avoidance rules, similar to packet radio, would be expected of all players.  A single packet broadcast would be limited to 20 seconds, including preamble data and payload data, followed by a short postcode to let all other nodes know that the transmission is complete.  This should be large enough of a packet size that a normal sized transaction could fit into a single packet.  Other forms of datagrams would be permitted as well.  Peak Envelope Power in this section would be limited to 2 watts.  Packets do not require a destination node address, and any node listening that hears a datagram (such as a bitcoin transaction) can act upon that datagram depending upon it's configuration.  Alternatively, packets can contain gps directional information, and nodes would be permitted to "digipete" datagrams that it sees if it lays within 15% of the great circle path between the sender's gps code and the destination node's expected GPS code and/or the repeating node is within 100 kilometers of the destination node's expected GPS code.  This service would be "bursty" by design, and network protocols that require that content-less datagrams be broadcast (for the purpose of maintaining a virtual "circut" or persistant data connection, for example) are prohibited.   Oh, I'm sorry I missed this little tidbit.The client knows when it's missing a block, because the headers are numbered as well as "chained".  It can tell immediately when it's missed a block.  How that can be handled, either automaticly or otherwise, would depend upon the user's situation.  Something like a Pskmail server, modded for Bitcoin, would work for the random user far from any urban area.  So would paying for a few megabytes over a sat phone.  Even a usb drive over a snailmail "sneakernet" (or, more likely for the regions discussed, a "motorcyclenet") would work great as a method to get a somewhat recent copy of the full blockchain into otherwise disconnected networks.  A single, modified client running on something like a piratebox could form the basis for bitcoin trades among patrons at a particular market.  If the client could receive a regular or on-going datacast stream of block-headers & merkle trees; it could verify that the network has accepted transactions that occured locally (since it already had those transactions) and learn about all other transactions from a regular full blockchain update via a monthly usb-drive delivery from a completely different source.  It could broadcast it's own locally discovered transactions to the rest of the network via PSKmail like shortwave connection once each day, by connecting to such a server 300 to 400 miles away (Near vertical incidental skywave, single hop) using a soundcard connected single-side band tranceiver (most common shortwave gear) pushing only 10 watts. For an example of effective Internet access for the very patient, google the term "pskmail".  With bandwidths that are exponents of 31.25, (31.25,62.5,125,250,500 and 1000 Htz) and practial after-error-correction data rates that are very close to those numbers; the spectral efficiency of PSK on shortwave is very close to 1:1.  Which is excellent for anything that bounces off a kilometers thick refractor, normally called the ionosphere.  The range using relatively affordable equipment is uncontested at normal power levels.  Could this be used to datacast the blockchain? No.  Could this be used to broadcast locally generated transactions?  Yes.  Could this be used to broadcast requests for missed blocks?  Yes. Considering that Android Wallet operates in an "always on" networked environment, on an android device which is usually a smartphone, there is no other way to secure the wallet from malware.  An offline android wallet is possible, but pointless, and would still be exposed anytime the user desired to spend his bitcoins anyway.  So yes, the developers should force a password.  If you're stupid enough to make it too easy; well, you can't really fix stupid, but you can fix lazy. Some will, some won't.  That's no differnent than a rally in gold attracting newcomers who get burned on the correction.  Strangely, there are still people who don't abandon that barbaric relic. You don't always need a missed block, but if you do, there are alternative paths to aquire missed data.  That's the advantage of a true p2p network, you're never dependent upon any particular peer for performance.  Datacasting the blockchain would reduce the bandwidth requirements of (potentially) thousands of clients within the practcial range of the datacaster.  That does not mean that it would eliminate the occasional need for a direct connection to the bitcoin network. Most datacasting protocols (for example, Digital Radio Mondiale) includes this delayed double transmission within it's protocol automaticly.  It's called "forward error correction".  While not perfect, it does work pretty well and actually doesn't require a full doubling of bandwidth. Well, I'm not a programmer, but I have been thinking about this one for a while.  I see a couple of problems with PoS that I have not seen addressed.  At all, not even poorly.  The big one is that PoS functionally creates "supernodes" in the major stakers willing to break their own anonimity to "forge" new blocks.  Bitcoin has no supernodes, because no node trusts another more than itself.  This is not possible with PoS, since the proof of stake itself is functionally used as evidence of trustworthiness.  The problem with this is that PoS also creates the condition that such a "supernode" can turn malicious, and cause great harm to the system.  Supporters would be quick to point out that anyone with a large stake would cause themselves great harm in doing so.  Well, yes, and that is my point.  The building of such trust in 'stakers' creates a perverse incentive for those same stakers to be compromised by a malicious third party, because the trust they have built up with the system becomes a method of causing harm to both the PoS currency system and the targeted staker in particular.  Or, alternatively, an incentive for a malicious hacker to figure out how to 'spoof' being a major staker.  While hybrid PoW/PoS systems are not as subject to this effect as a pure PoS currency, hybrid systems still functionally promote the 'supernode' issue by creating nodes with a disproportionate ability to mine new blocks.  PoW doesn't have this problem, because no particular node can 'build' or 'develop' any special trust that lasts longer than the target interval.  Furthermore, hybrid systems are particularly complex, and may have other vectors of attack due to said complexity.  PoW is expensive from an energy perspective, as compared to PoS, but it's realtively simple and it works. This is not true.  Transacting with bitcoin requires bi-directional communications between transacting parties, but maintaining a local copy of the blockchain most certainly does not.This would work also, but is not required per the light client protocol.  What has been proposed is to broadcast the blocks as they are published, and ultimately to broadcast the blocks "naked" once that protocol is ready.  The reason is that, eventually, most user clients will be some flavor of light client.  Unlike a full client, that are normal today, a light client doesn't care about all of the transactions in a block, and doesn't participate in the p2p bitcoin network (other than as an edge node, listening for it's own transactions).  A light client can fucntion just fine with occasional access to a bridge node (such as an electrum node) that can provide the light client information concerning transactions it's seen with addresses that the light client manages.  All that the light client requires is the blockchain headers and the merkel trees of block that contain input transactions for all of it's own addresses.  Broadcasting the published blocks would provide an alternative method for light clients to aquire the most recent block headers & merkle trees.  A light client may or may not keep the merkle trees for the blocks that it doesn't have input transactions, but as small as they are individually, the actual transactions are the bulk of data a full node sees while connected to the p2p network, and a light client has no use for most of these transactions.  Datacasting of naked blocks (block headers and merkle trees with all transactions pruned out) to either light clients directly or to disconnected bridge nodes used as intermediaries would permit bitcoin economies to function with only slow or occasional access to the Internet. Begging is not, nor has it ever been, a cause for banning here.
True.  I have no idea how many chipsets that might harbor a hidden support for XR mode might exist in the wild.   Yes, and that was my point.  Shooting a deer to eat is still profit, and if you can shoot one to eat, why can't you shoot two to sell one?  Don't non-hunters deserve to eat also?  Hunting is a gainful hobby, when don't properly.  The idea that a hunter shouldn't be able to actually make a living doing so is rediculous, and only serves the interests of ranchers who raise meat animals in an enclosure rather than in the wild. There are two parts to Ripple. One part is a peer to peer credit system, within which any currency unit can be used.  The other part is Ripple, the currency.  It's not even a cryptocurrency, they are just digital tokens.  Yes, they are issued by a central authority, so Ripple (the currency) is centralized.  That doesn't mean that it's a scam, but I wouldn't use them personally. War is Peace! XR is not bullshitware.  I've seen it put into practice by hams.http://www.qsl.net/kb9mwr/projects/wireless/modify.htmlWhile these guys aren't to keen on it for their purposes, it does work somewhat.  Basicly the timing of transmissions are slowed down, to permit better low-signal copy.  A similar trick can be used with 100baseTX ethernet to extend the cable range limit between two bridge devices.  Your datarate is affected as well, which they admit.  Hams do something similar with very slow computer controlled morse code.http://www.martellotowergroup.com/The_Martello_Tower_Group/QRSS.html Within official specs, yes.  However there is an extended range mode that is supported by some chipsets.http://www.qsl.net/kb9mwr/projects/wireless/atheros_XR_whitepaper.pdfI have no idea how common such support is for cell phones, but with a receive sensitivity of -107 db the loss of data rate might actually make this thing workable. That's just the thing, if you have to get a dd-wrt and a directional antenna to receive it, why not just use DRM and shortwave receivers?  Again, datacasting is what DRM was designed for, and it uses a much more "efficient" schema in addition to the much narrower bandwidth (power) requirement.  Sure, it's data rate is slower, but like you said, that's physics.That's actually not true.  The license free ISM bands are only license free for terrestrial & incidental emitters, and every nation sets a pretty low transmission power limit.  The ISM license free argument, for a low earth orbit sat, fails on both counts.  They might get away with it, if they can get the sat up there and say "opps, sorry", but they won't get away with it if teh FCC gets wind of it. Hmm, I was going off of memory, but upon checking it seems that 2.45 Ghz isn't the resonate frequency of hydrogen.  Apparently that's actually 1.42 Ghz, or more precisely 1,420,405,751.786 hertz.  And checking oxygen it's 5.85 Ghz.  So apparently I was wrong about 2.45 Ghz having a high attenuation point.  I just got called out, and failed to perform.  Well done, Death.According to this page, 2.45 is a "good average" between those two, with the goal of permitting the radio signal some degree of penetration into the food, which (according to them) wouldn't be possible with a precise resonate frequency because the signal would dump all it's energy into the first couple of millimeters of the surface.http://www.schoolphysics.co.uk/age16-19/Wave%20properties/Wave%20properties/text/Microwave_ovens/index.htmlIn my defense, there does exist a "magical attenuation window" in the microwave spectrum, it's just not at 2.45 Ghz.  So my complaints about high attenution in teh wifi spectrum are without merit. The best way to make the datacasting idea work with consumer class wifi devices, would be to choose the wifi channel that is the most "distant" from the frequency that microwave ovens use and set it to a quarter channel multicast mode.  Even still, the sat wouldn't be able to broadcast continuously and hit the -90 decibel signal point, it would have to broadcast in scheduled bursts.  That might be okay, but even at -90 decibels, I don't think a cell phone would be able to hear it.  A consumer grade hotspot with a marginally directional antenna pointed up might be able to receive the signal reliablely on a clear night (no clouds in the path, no sunlight induced ionosphere 'crashes' to raise the static background level) but if the guy wanting to receive these datacasts has to buy or build dedicated gear to receive it, then what good is trying to do it using wifi standards and channels?  Datacasting is one of the design goals for DRM shortwave broadcasting.I'm not convinced that a 10 cube mini sat has the power to push a receivable DRM signal on a continuous basis anyway.  Again, an on-off transmit schedule might be best, particularly with the low earth orbit sats that circle the globe several times per day.  They are usually only 'visable' to any particular receiver for about a half an hour, so perhaps a 10 minute burst of data followed by 50 minutes of rest/solar charging might still work.  Of course, all these kinds of compromises reduce the actual amount of data that can be broadcast.  Eventually we end up back with a normal shortwave broadcasting operation on planet Earth that can transmit continuously from a grid and reflect their signal off the ionosphere. There are many ways to solve the transaction propogation problem, the datacasting proposal in this thread is to solve the bulk blockchain distribution problem. That is a full sized sat with much higher power levels.And this is a full sized sat runing on much higher power levels.  And neither of them use the B/G wifi band, which as I have alrady noted, is heavily attenutated by water and hydrocarbons in a way that the rest of the S band is not, and is the primary reason that said band is unlicesned to start with.The best comparison that we might have for a setup that would work woudl be a ham radio sat.  Here's one to compare...http://www.amsat.org/amsat-new/satellites/sat_summary/ao51.phphttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AO-51This one uses several transmitters, but keep in mind that not only is this device using much narrower bandwidths, it's not attempting to transmit continuously.  So putting out a 38 Kbps data signal at 300+ watts RMS for an average of a minute or two per hour is within the power requirements of a mini sat that has a 30 watt solar panel. Another issue that I can see with using the small 10-cube type sats for broadcasting a wifi signal, even using the 5 Ghz N band, is that wifi channels are normally 20 Mhz wide, which is a particularly broadband signal to produce.  With wifi, this is a good thing, as your signal can cover the office without much interference and signals produced by nearby offices are strongly attenuated before they get into your office, and permits a high data rate.  However, all things being equal, a signal that is twice as broad requires twice the power to be recieved at the same distance under the same conditions.  The wifi standards permit quarter width band signals, but almost no one uses them because they don't help under normal hotspot ranges and conditions.  So, at a minimum, a wifi datacast would have to be 5 Mhz wide.  However, the DRM standard is a digital sound & data standard that uses the bandwidth of the old fashioned shortwave & AM channel standards; which is 9 Kilohertz wide in Europe and 10 Kiloherts wide in the rest of the world.  However, DRM also permits doubled or halved channel widths.  So if we compare the double DRM channel for data throughput versus the quarter width wifi for reduced power requirements and the wifi broadcast would still require roughly 250 times as much power to acheive the same signal quality on the ground versus a double wide DRM broadcast, using the same frequency, sat quality, etc.And again, the common shortwave receiver is a far better receiver than the common wifi phone chip, so the DRM signal would be much more likely to be clearly received than the wifi signal even if the 10 cube sats could actually produce the 250 times power level.  I'd be surprised if those cube sats can produce a 50 watt RMS output on a continuous basis, and (off the top of my head) I'd say that a DRM transmission would require around 3Kilowatts to properly blanket a 600 mile circle footprint to a clear & receivable degree.  Even a half channel width DRM broadcast (4.5 Khtz wide, minimum) would require at least 1000 watts on an ongoing basis.  Keep in mind, DRM is the digital version of an AM talk radio broadcast.  A local AM broadcaster generally uses between 3 Kilowatts (at night, when the D layer doesn't attentuate the middle wave band) and 20 kilowatts just to cover a major metro area and the surrounding countryside, with a practical coverage radius of 100 to 150 miles. I'm thinking that mini sats broadcasting a DRM channel in the 15 meter band works well.  Common shortwave receivers are much better at reception than a cell phone wifi chip anyway. Well, it's either misinformed or deliberately false.  I've had my kids look at this site and another site (waterstep.org) to compare the tech claims of one charity asking for money compared to another, and we've largely come to the conclusion that this outer.in site is a scam designed to illicit donations from well intended.  As my son noted, the first clue is the "for free" claim.  That can never happen.  While it might be free to receive, there would still need be advertisments and such.  And it's not false that low earth orbit sats have used the S band, but that particular section of the S band is where the attenuation from water is greatest.EDIT:  By "that particular" section of the S band, I mean the sliver of unlicensed bandwidth that B/G wifi occupies.  The S band is very wide, but only that portion is unlicensed, and because it's an ISM band (Insustrial, Scientific & Medical) that is used primarily for purposes besides communication.  There are other ISM bands, but none that are so wide as the one that B/G wifi (and Bluetooth, and several other short range techs) utilizes.  It's that wide because microwave ovens (in particular) use that band due to the fact that the high attenuation of radio waves by hydrogen is useful for heating with radio waves, and microwaves are so paowerful that they produce a lot of 'splatter'.  Until wifi came out, it was largely believed that  the band was useless for communications due to both the high attenuation and the likelyhood of interfereance from microwaves.  Wifi protocols are designed with the likelyhood of occasional interference in mind, however.  So is Bluetooth.  The rest of the S band experiences attentuation due to water in much the same way that radio does in general, in that the higher the frequency the greater the attenuation from water.  Both the US and Russia have massive ultra-low-frequency transmitters, with enormouse power ratings, in order to communicate with submerged submarines via morse code.  There are ham radio geeks called "lowfers" who try to communicate in this range as well, but it's hard to do anything when the wavelength of the signal is hundreds of kilometers long.  So while there are useful frequencies outside of the wifi band on the S band, they generally require more power for the same task than a lower frequency band such as the L band, and less than higher frequency bands such as the K band.  So most of the S band is particularly good for a low power downlink to consumer class receivers, just not within the B/G wifi band. My point was that the fee was meaningless to those for whom the law was targeted to attract; namely the young, healty and uninsured that are needed to pay premiums to subsidize the older and less helathy with pre-existing conditions.  The young and healty are the majority of the uninsured Americans that this bill was aimed at, that much is fact.  But if you were young, healthy and officially unemployed (but had an unofficial form of income) what value would you see in paying any premium at all, if you didn't see such value before this, and the law specificly exempts you from the penalty because you don't pay taxes?  You could argue that such officially unemployed young with non-taxable incomes is the minority, but the statisics on System D economies says otherwise. I've found that paying with bitcoin to overstock.com isn't cheap.  The value converter in my Mycelium client consistantly quotes the bitcoin price about 10% higher than what Overstock says it is.   You answered your own question right out of the gate.  The vast majority of the uninsured are uninsured because they don't have reliable employment to produce such a taxable income.  That is not to say that most of these people don't actually have an income, just not a taxable one.  It's actually not very difficult for a young, single person to make a good living if they don't have a problem with the kind of work that doesn't tend to produce a W2 form with your own name on it.  That kind of work also makes it easier to qualify for government aid at the same time, but to a 20 something hustler with no known medical issues, paying any kind of premium has always been a non-starter.  That's why they didn't bother before. After checking my own shortwave receiver, which I believe to be fairly representative of the kinds of reciever available most of the world around, is tunable between 19,990 and 30,000 khz using it's third (final) SW band setting.  This encompasses the international shortwave bands of 15 meters (18,90019,020 kHz) 13 meters (21,45021,850 kHz) and 11 meters (25,60026,100 kHz).  All three of these bands are pretty much useless for international broadcasters because it's rare for the critical frequency to spike that high, at least not reliablely enough for a broadcaster to use.  For this reason, 11 meters is a common citizen's band in many countries and 13 meters is a regional AM band in Pacific Asia.  Wikipedia says that 15 meters is rarely utilized, and may be reallocated to DRM broadcasters in the future.Perfect.What needs to be done is that someone in a country that is signatory to the communications treaties needs to get a broadcasting license from their country to broadcast in the 15 meter band.  The United States is notoriously unlikely to approve such a broadcasting license, so it'd be better for someone in another country to attempt it.  I might still attempt it, but I'm not going to pursue it if it requires a $10K broadcasting fee, obviously.  The sats would still have to be aware of all licensed broadcasters in this band, and avoid them whenever possible.  I'm pretty sure that this is also a ham band, but not one that I've ever known any hams to use, as local hams use 2 meters and 70 cm while distance hams use 20, 40 and 80 meters.A modified AM shortwave receiver could simply involve an audio output jack wired to the audio input jack of a computer sound card, with an accompaning app that can fit on a small usb drive and instructions for locating the right frequency and capturing the data stream. Unfortunately, I can see some very real technical and legal issues with trying to do this as described.First off, Wifi is possible in only two bands.  Since the higher N band is very new, and many smartphones still don't support it, I'm going to assume that the older B,G band is what they plan to use.  But there was a technical reason that this band was chosen at the time of development; namely that the B,G band was license free worldwide.  But why was that, since such license free technologies didn't really exist before Wifi itself?  Because the B,G band is the resonate frequency of hydrogen.  Thus, energy transmitted in this band is heavily attenuated by any water or hydrocarbons found in it's path, and was considered useless for distance communications.  This is still true, and has much to do with why Wifi is so poor at clear range.  It's also why this band is shared by every retail microwave that I know of, since food is pretty much all hydrocarbons and water.  While there wouldn't likely be much risk of hydrocarbons in the line of sight from low earth orbit, there would be much water.  On average, the Earth's atmosphere has enough water from space to sea level to equate to a 32 foot deep dive under the ocean's surface.  The amount of power that would be required to push through this and be receivable by common wifi hardware on the Earth's surface would be rediculous.Second, there are also sound techincal reasons as to why wifi multicasting is not commonly used.  Mostly because wifi is a time-sharing technology that (generally) permits more than one unrelated connection to coexist on the same channel.  This is permitted because normal mode wifi requires that the hotspot 'listen' to it's own channel several times per second for other broadcasters trying to share the channel space.  This doesn't always work well, but it does work more often than most people realize.  However, a hotspot in space couldn't coordinate timesharing of all the hotspots in it's radio shadow even if it were possible for it to hear them.  In this case, the sat based signal would effectively 'jam' the chosen channel across the whole of it's radio shadow, and also be a violation of international communications treaties as a result.Third, the licesne free broadcasting nature of the B,G band is limited to 'terrestrial' transmitters, and therefore doesn't apply to satillites at all.  A new treaty would be required to even permit such a license, since every country has max transmitter powers in the B,G band that would be WAY below what a sat would require.While using the new N band would reduce the power requirements considerablely, the other two issues would still apply.  Perhaps a lower frequency license free band would work with modified FM band recievers, but I can't see a way around the international communications treaties regarding this.  Perhaps a broadcast stream that can switch around frequencies in the higher frequency shortwave bands would work, but the sat would have to be able to respond to the reflectivity of the ionosphere and changes in the critical frequency.  Most Shortwave broadcasters have to stay below the critical frequency so that their Earth bound transmitters can reflect their signal off of the F layer of the ionosphere, but what about a broadcaster in teh shortwave bands that deliberately stays above the critical frequency so that his signal is not reflected back into space?  Regardless, the data throughput woudl be low due to a narrow usable bandwidth and a particularly 'noisey' radio environment in those bands. Some of the code impliments the protocol; within exists rules that cannot be broken, and others that are more flexible within constraints.  All the rest of the code within a given client is there for users' ease, and can be modified without problems.  How the client displays the stored value is of the latter type, for the protocol doesn't specify a display unit and isn't even aware of one besides the satoshi, and not even by that name.  There are many aspects of the system that are like this.  This is not an example of centralization.
 You don't think shooting a deer to eat it is profit? Taht's just the display code. I doubt any of the altcoins ever get above the 13th floor, much less the moon. I have to admit, this is a new approach.  Seems unlikely to succeed, even if this weren't a forum dominated by libertarians and scoff-laws of several stripes. There are other tricks of the protocol not yet mentioned.  One is the stretchy nature of the blocksize limit.  You had better hurry if you wish to test this theory, though.  It won't be much longer before the "naked block" protocol is ready for prime time.  Like I already said, if you've got the funds and the balls, put it to the test.  If you succeed in breaking the network, so be it; it was bound to happen eventually anyway and better sooner than later.  If you fail, then you will have spent a lot of money to prove something the rest of us believe.  Whatever the outcome, you'll be remembered. Yes, of course you can cause some delays if you're willing to spend the funds.  But your costs are ever increasing as the attack continues.  Personally, I don't think 1800 BTC would be enough to maintain such an attack of any significance for two weeks.  And we haven't even talked about the 'soft' blocksize limit rules.  The blocksize can "stretch" somewhat when the fees increase significantly, which would also increase your attack vector costs or limit your effectiveness.  The end result is the same.It's not something that can be completely "solved", although the developers are working on "naked" blocks, which would improve the effective throughput of the network significantly, even without increases in the blocksize limits.  Because there is no way for a computer to distiguish between a spammer willing to pay the price from a group of honest users.  Individual miners can add additional sorting rules as they see fit, however, so if you come up with a new one that might further limit such damage, or cost attackers more, feel free to propose it.  Some will take it up, and complete compliance with the rules are not required most of the time. Okay, but even if you have that much to blow, as soon as you begin you just drive up the price.  I can still outbid your per transaction fee if I need to get something done sooner rather than later.  And if you do try this, most users would learn pretty fast that the delays were due to a transaction spam attack, and either increase their fees or wait you out.  Either way, this doesn't have any real effect upon the price of bitcoin.And when I say I can outbid you, I mean I know I can outbid you, personally.  I actually have access to a storage wallet with ages over two years and counting.  I'm sure I'm not alone.  Once again, go ahead and try it.  Either way, you'll be remembered for it. You're still overlooking a critical point that I've mentioned three times.  No matter how long you age your wallet.dat file(s), the number of independent & processed transactions in those files are finite.  As soon as you run out of aged transactions to use, you are immediately dependent upon the first set of transactions being processed before your second set can even buy their way in; so you can make all your transactions in advance and hit the network all at once, and your second wave is still denpendt upon the first wave beign processed in a timely manner.  And even if you succeed at that, your second wave doesn't have any age advantage anymore.  You're second wave woudl require a significantly higher fee in order to trump my older transaction, more so if I choose to include a fee myself.  If I'm in a hurry and see that the network is jammed, I can easily outbid your per transaction fee to get through.  It's a self regulating system, yo ucan only make it cost more until you run out of funds.  You can never completely deny service to other users, even for a short time. <sigh>Alright, I'll explain the mechanics as best as I can remember the details.  I could easily get the actual numbers wrong, but this is basicly how the system works.The transaction queue in the bitcoin client is ordered by points, not the order of arrival.  There are two ways to get points, you can buy them or wait them out.  When you pay a fee, you're effectively buying enough points to reach the minimum number of points to get processed, because no transaction gets processed before it has enough points.  IIRC, one satoshi = one point, and the minimu fee is the minimum number of points required to process immediately.  Of course, free transactions can get processed as long as it has enough points.  Any transaction that has it's YOUNGEST input transaction old enough to have enough points gets processed, at one point per block.  For example, if I didn't use my wallet for several weeks, my free transaction might still end up with more points than your minimum fee transactions based upon a brand new input transaction.  But in addition to that, no transaction that has not had it's inputs processed can have any points at all, regardless of the fee, because the network won't even recognize your #2 transaction until the inputs from #1 are processed.  So no matter how many wallet.dat files you're using to do it, your processed transaction input are finite, and I would stil be able to get my transaction based upon a 3 week old input through before your 1 second old transaction with a fee, unless and until you were willing to increase your fee significantly.  No matter how you do it, your spamming costs you an exponentially increasing amount of money to maintain, and since most users don't need to have their transactions processed in less than an hour anyway, most users wouldn't even notice your efforts. You can set up a couple of nodes and with enough BTC in stock you can always send fresh satoshis + the minfee. [/quote]At some point, multiple wallet.dat files repeatedly sending each other transactions still become dependent upon one another.  The same thing would happen if every user on the system were repeatedly sending each other transactions, and that is the point.  The delays protect the system regardless of where the delays originate.  If the delays are truely legitimate, then yes the network can get bogged down, which is why the network will favor higher fees for short term processing.  If you need that kind of speed, you can pay for it.  But there is no one with enough money that can screw the system over for any significant period of time. No it is not true.   If you are producing 14 tps from the same wallet.dat file, it's impossible for them to not be dependent upon each other.  So your first transaction must be processed before your 2nd, and so on.  You don't introduce a condition that you can delay anyone but yourself, althoug you can still manage to spend fees pretty fast.As far how many times an attacker has been able to spam the netowrk beyond 7 tps, that has happened exactly once; and is the primary reason that the point delay system was put inot the network protocol for free transactions.  I was here when it happened, and I )as a user) didn't eve notice until it was all over. They are already working on both of those issues.  Go help them. Outside of the core Bitcoin community, I suspect that units will have many names across nations, cultures and languages, and I don't think there is any way to avoid that.   So why try?  There is no need to have an "official" unit name, people who trade across borders will make it their business to be aware of the differences in unit nomiclature and division.  People who don't trade across borders don't give a shit what it's called elsewhere.  Note that gold has 200+ names.EDIT:  BTW, if you're willing to dig into the archives of this forum, you'll find that I'm the person who suggested that the smallest unit be called a satoshi.  Yes, me, personally.  I really have been here that long.  The reason that I gave then was that most people chaff at using scientific names, and that (much like the faces on the US currencies) the most important historical characters tend to be on display on the smallest units of currency, so that they will be seen more often.  That's why George Washington is on the $1 bill (first US president under the constitution, not the first Us president) and Ben Franklin is on the $100 bill (founding father, not a president ever).  For this reason, and the fact that the names were so uncommon, I proposed that the smallest unit be called a satoshi and the smallest unit times 1000 be called a GAvin.  That stuck because it was a good idea and was received well by the community at the time, not because I had any authority over the matter. It's not a problem.  Spamming the network with valid transactions is not a valid attack vector.  When the developers say that the network can presently handle 7 tps, they mean that is how fast the network can process them.  The network doesn't have to process the 8th transaction per second, it can simply ignore it, which is what it does.  It happens all of the time, in fact.  If you don't add a fee, your transaction is the first to be ignored as a matter of principle.  If you add a minimum fee, your transaction is the first among the fee paying transactions in the queue to be ignored in favor of higher fees.  It's a bidding market, dude.  If the network is under stress, the cost of a transaction being processed sooner rather than later increases, and the lower fee paying transactions have to wait for the network to catch up.  If your transaction is ingored for two weeks, it disappears from the queue and you have to resend it.  Furthurmore, if you send a transaction that is dependent upon another one being processed first, the second one doesn't even propagate across the network at all, because any node besides your modified client will consider it invalid until the preceeding transaction makes it into a block.Really, you can't break this thing.  So many before you have tried, using values when the value of a bitcoin was still under a nickel.  Your 60 BTC example isn't shit.There, are you ready to send me my 30 BTC consultation fee yet?  Or do you need more? Would you prefer to send me half of your stash, and I'll just tell you?  Or would you prefer to give it a try, blow everything you have and see the results for yourself? Others have tried this.  I welcome you to blow all your funds on the attempt.  The miners will appriciate the donation, and you will quickly learn that you can't really outrun the bitcoin network.  Have fun! Well, I first noticed it when I read Satoshi's white paper.  I've been told by many of the developers that the satoshi is the base unit as well.  Can't see any reason to call it nonsense, myself. You can only speak for yourself, although you probably are here.This argument is why I pointed out that the market has already decided how to handle it.  There is nothing for us to debate, no one has any power to effect this kind of change if the users don't wish to do it themselves.  The unit of display isn't decided by the code or protocol.  This whole thread is like arguing how many angels can dance on the head of a pin!  There is nothing that any of us can do!  Even if we could all agree.If you don't like how your client displays the unit, change it.  You can in your own client anytime you like.  It would have zero effect on your net spending power, nor would it have any effect whatever on your ability to buy bitcoins in any fraction or number you are able.  If people don't buy bitcoins because the price of a whole bitcoin is $800, why does it matter if they might buy a millibit for 80 cents?  Their economic ignorance isn't a reflection on you, is it?  Nor is it a reflection on Bitcoin itself.  If Bitcoin fails, it won't be because a portion of the potential user pool doesn't understand the unit. Yes, so long as that promise appear credible.  Presumedly, that leaves open the possibility that the electorate could conclude that such promises are not credible.History isn't kind in this aspect, however.
For the most part, yes.  It's more than rare these days for prices to be expressed in "bits", which is one-eighth of a traditional (not a federal reserve note) dollar.  The traditional dollar was one troy ounce of silver. Not even on paper.  It's just an arbitrary unit that Satoshi decided upon early, because the value of any bitcoin unit would be so small to start with.  The transactions hold the value as a 64 bit integer, Satoshi just added a decimal in the middle of the base-10 representation of that 64 bit integer, with 32 bits to either side.  Again, that's nowhere in the code or protocol, just something Sathoshi decided upon to make the mental math easier for users.  Note, also, that means that there are a lot of unused bits to the big end of that 64 bit integer; which permit a 'flag' to be placed there in the future to denote a 'value shift' allowing sub-satoshi values to be held and transfered as well.  Like having addresses that hold normal values, and then other addresses that hold only change/dust values less than a satoshi.  So, in the future, even sub-satoshi values would be possible and easy. Correct.  There is nothing in the protocol or the running code that requires that the client display the unit in any particular way.  The protocol isn't even aware of the Bitcoin unit, in fact.  The clients display the units the way they do because the programmers wanted to make the mental math for humans easier.  You can shift the decimal point in your own client anytime you like, so long as it's not less than a satoshi. Technically, the satoshi is the base unit of Bitcoin.  There is no decimal point as far as the code is concerned, just an integer variable.  The clients can display that integer however you like. I don't share this viewpoint.  I think the media would portray the president as a victim of old white men if the republicans were to hold both halls of congress.  Particularly since the articles of impeachment would be filed within a week. Besides, we already have a name for that unit.  It's called a gavin for the same reason that the smallest unit is called a satoshi.  You can call it whatever you want, but that doesn't mean I'm going to.  And those who favor the metric system can call it what they like as well. I'm not convinced that the Repubs can be trusted not to participate in the money printing.  They have much to gain there as well. Don't assume that you can predict such things.  Bill Gates thought the Internet was a fad. Looks like the market answer is "no".  Instead, most clients have moved to an adjustable display with a default of millibits. When was the era of truth you speak of? I'm afraid to disappoint you, but that is not what the phrase refers to.  Capitalism isn't what you guys believe that it is.  Corporations making vast numbers of generic products isn't capitalism in it's original sense, but only in the modern political sense.  That kind of capitalism would fit the model of a form of socialism all on it's own. So? True.  And we are much closer to runing out of other people's money than the English were when they started down this path, and they were also more inclined to cooperate as a population.  And look at them now.  Obamacare was screwed even if the rollout wasn't ran by incompetent politicos. I've noticed the hardcore ACA supporters on this thread have had little to nothing to say lately. I'm sure that it was, but I'm saying that actual Internet security gurus predicted that the complexity involved would lead to secirity concerns, all of which proved true. One problem that I see is the backing issue isn't really solved by linking coins to intellectual property.  The problem is that those that have an issue wilth Bitcoin's lack of physical backing as an exchange unit are going to have the same issue with IP.  Additionally, different IP has different market values, so coins backed by them wouldn't be fungible all of the time. In fairness, the insecurity isn't due to the website itself, but due to the interconnectedness that is required between servers owned by government agencies and private insurance companies.  It's the interconnectedness that is difficult to manage.  To put it simply, the complexity of intergrating hundreds of independently operated servers, running completely different sets of OS's and software, requires a default that favors openness for functionality.  It was predicted in advance, that the ACA was impossible to impliment in a secure manner. This is an interesting proposal.  Where did you get it? Yeah.  For a time, even the county by county list of the "navigators" home addresses were easily accessible. Someone I know personally might have downloaded ALL of them, while I watched. Maybe.You don't really even want to work for these guys. You've just screwed the anonimity that you hoped to keep by posting your plan on a publicly viewable web forum.  My suggestion is to send these funds in several stages to a bitcoin mixer with the end destination a new address that you create seperate from your main client. Once the required amount has arrived in your single, seperated address; then pay your debt in one lump sum.  Mark that address/wallet.dat for what it is, and keep it forever seperate from your main client.
Indeed, it is.  No matter the length of delay, the bitcoin network can pick up right where it left off once the Internet was back up, regardless of whether or not the outage was a local, national or worldwide event.  BTW, the Carrington Event wasn't worldwide, and another similar solar flare event would also be unlikely to be worldwide.  The hardest hit area would be the side of the Earth that leads into the flare, and high latitudes are better defended by nature of the field density of the Earth's magnetic field, so there would be variations in the extent of damage.  Some banks might have their records competely destroyed, others hardly effected.  Bitcoin would be safe somewhere.A bigger issue with a Carrington type event would, sadly, be clean drinking water.  90%+ of the population of the United States is dependent upon regular electric service to maintain the municipal water utilities, since most don't have water storage that exceeds three days of regular demand. You're obviously already beyond my skill level. I'm sorry, but I can't help more.  But I don't believe that this particular idea ever got much traction. Um, no not quite.  What Gavin was talking about here is a form of two factor authentication, as applied to how the bitcoin system works.  Roughly what is being suggested is that one device is creating the transaction according to what it knows about the spender's wallet.dat file, less the private keys that go with the addresses that contain value; and the second device's job is simply to securely hold the private keys, and sign the transaction with the correct keys when presented with a verifiable transaction and proper authorizasion from a human being.  But the second device does not have access to the transaction inputs in the wallet.dat file, and therefore couldn't create a valid transaction on it's own.Actually, that's not quite right.  What I've described above is a split wallet.dat system, which can be done now; but what Gavin is suggesting is the development of a new kind of address that, even if the second device is compromised and the private keys stolen, the funds cannot be moved without access to the first device.  Currently, a split wallet.dat system is employed by a couple of light android clients (such as Mycelium) to permit a server to hold the wallet.dat while the actual private keys are kept on the android phone.  When the user, from the android phone, initiates a transaction; the server creates the transaction and then sends it to the device for signing by the user's phone.  This protects the user's funds both from a hacker tricking the server into thinking that they are the user's phone and from similar server ended theft/fraud, but the user's funds are still at risk if the phone is stolen.  'Split addresses' would permit two factor transaction signing, requiring both access to the user's phone, and another of the user's devices; so that the attacker would require both devices to agree.  This may not be useful for most people, since if someone is mugged of their phone they are likely mugged of any devices that they possess at the time.  But the second device could be as simple as a bluetooth only device that must be within range of the cell phone, with a keypad to enter a code upon POS.  Or it could be the user's home pc, that can be set to remain open (within limits, say a max BTC per day rule) for a full day or week, so that if the user's phone is stolen, the amount at risk is limited to what can be taken before the home PC client can be stopped.  Either device could be backed up as well. This only works for some use cases.  There are a few cases that the transaction must be valid and signed, and broadcasted to at least one third party.  Which still works, because it's not required that said third party distribute further, so long as they are willing to accept that one into their own queue. Out of convience and habit only.  When I can actually buy a loaf of bread with bitcoin at the grocery store, without a series of inconvient additional steps, it will be used muchmore often. I have been for four years, you just seem to be either impaired or intentionally thick.You're presenting a false choice.  What I, or you, think is a 'fair' anything is irrelevant.  Historicly, money has always been the most marketable commodity available to a culture.  The point is that government manipulated currency is a recent invention, and was never instiuted for the reasons offiically presented.  The only 'fair' money is one that can be freely chosen without political pressures.  Bitcoin is that money in our information age, or some alt-coin that come and take the crown away.Not good, but not theft.  Inflationary periods did occur, mostly by regions, during the gold standard.  During gold rushes, and during local monetary upheavals, for reasons entirely unrelated to artifical expansion of the monetary base. (I'm considering mining of gold a natural cause of expansion of a gold stnadard monetary base)  In almost all cases, these periods of inflation (and deflation) were regional to local in scope, limited in duration or reversed by other forces; or any combination of all of those things.  Overall, the (naturally occuring) gold as money age saw deflationary trends so mild, they were only identifiable over generations.  For that matter, silver has been so stable over the past 2K years, that it's actually experienced very slight inflation during that time compared to the cost of Judas's betrayal (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thirty_pieces_of_silver#Types_of_coin).  As another example, during the Roman Republic, prices were so stable for so long, that the price of a handmade iron nail became the unit for it's size; and that is a unit that we use (in American Standard).  We call it the penny, the English called it the Pence, but the Romans called it the denarius; so to this day nail a size 16 "penny" nail is written 16d.  No one really noticed the descrepency until the Roman Empire began to debase the silver content of the denarius.  You would argue that the wealthy would prefer to hide nails (or gold) under the matress, and thus no investment were possible, but of course the history of the world contradicts sucha theory.  Yes, some people did exactly this, and still do; but on the net, investments wtill occurred.  Even the wealthy guy who saved in nails intended to use those nails for some project down the line anyway, or use them to pay his workmen.The Federal Reserve bank itself does not loan out money of any real nature, but you're right that (historicly speaking) most of the expansion of the monetary base has been due to the leanding reserve ration of member banks.  But the result is exactly the same as if the central bank had printed the money first because the US $ is a credit based currency anyway.  The only difference of note is that some portion of that inflation actually goes into private banks, becaues businesses are paying real interest on not-yet-existant dollars in principal.  And while that is true, it only confuses the issue of conceptualizing the reality that the spending power of the fiat currency moves from the existing base to the first users of new funds, which is the banks doing the lending, not the borrowers of not-yet-existing funds.  The Fed then uses the resulting demand for cash (because interest on not-yet-existing dollars is drawing the real cash out of the market and into banks) as the offical cause for creating more currency, and the cycle repeats at whatever rate the Federal Reserve deams ideal.  But ideal for whom?  Not the public, the Federal Reserve is neither beholden to you (or even us as a nation) nor does it exist for your benefit.  The Federal Reseve exists for the same reason all central banks exist, for the benefit and protection of member banks.  Bitcoin does not have that problem. http://www.wired.com/magazine/2011/11/mf_bitcoin/all/ I don't even understand how a bank account can be used for bitcoin mining.  Did they mean bitcoin trading? Naw, they still make great room heaters.  It's been pretty cold here. I have said no such thing, again you are misrepresenting my position.  I have stated that inflation, due to 'artificial actions' by people other than the owner, should not occur.  Stated another way, expansion of the monetary base by a central issuing authority is theft whenever such actions devalue the currency already in circulation not because inflation is necessarily bad, but because it's (almost) always involves the transfer of buying power from the diverse holders of the present currency base to a small group of people with first access to those newly created funds.  For the most part, that actually means employees and contractors of the Federal Reserve itself; so such inflation can be honestly compared to a tax, because the effects are the same.  However, this tax is imposed upon all of the currency users, regardless of consent or even democratic representation, so it's particularly insidious.  Of course, I regard income taxes as legalized theft as well, so take that wherever you like.BTW, Bitcoin isn't immune to this effect, since it's currently quite inflationary.  However, the big difference is that 1) I can choose not to use Bitcoins and 2) the degree that inflation will effect my own position is entirely predictable and not influenced by political forces nor human error.  I don't have to trust that said transfer of buying power goes to support the infrastructure of the network, I can know it to be so. What client were you using?  I used Mycelium on my cell phone, and the QR code option.  Worked perfectly. No, I haven't. A good percentage of the coins available on the exchanges come directly from mining operations that must sell some percentage of their earnings in order to pay the bills.  This is easily checkable via blockexplorer.com, as those coins you just bought can be traced back to the coinbase transaction pretty quickly. Who-Hoo!  That was easier than Paypal! I've done no such thing.https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/strawman I specificly contested this claim, and provided examples of 'idle' resources that naturally maintain, or even improve, their economic usefulness over time.  I also specificly argued that, as money is an abstraction of such natural resources, no artificial (i.e. caused by the direct decisions of non-owning men) depreciation should be acceptable to any society, since (as such an abstraction) such artifical depreciation always has the net effect of transfering buying power from the owner|saver to someone else.  This is theft in any other context, there is no rational reason that it shouldn't be treated as such simply because the commodity being examined is regarded as 'money' by anyone.Again, I have already provided examples of resources that for which we, quite literally, could "put under the matress" and expect equal or better utility at a later date.  While it may, or may not, be more efficient for a society to strive to employ all such capital "continually"; doing so doesn't lead to continuous economic growth, or even stability.  In fact, it's easily provable that resources kept in 'conservation', often as a direct result of the deflationary effects of hard monies prior to 1912, had a strong suppressive effect upon the magnitude (not the period) of the busniess cycle.  Put into a more modern context, speculative investing has a net effect of stablizing price changes in commodities and everything else over time.The above two paragraphs are so far from reality as to not be worthy of response. And don't forget the potential effects of Fourth Turning social theory. Does it matter?  Keep in mind, the 100 years war is generally consider one continuous conflict.This would require that we agree on a lot of details, and the outcome would be highly subjective to interpretations anyway.  So I don't think this is going to happen. The costs of single payer are just hidden in your taxes.  It's not necessarily cheaper, and almost certainly not more equitable. First, it doesn't matter if you "agree".  Your consent is not required.Second, even in this context, savings in a monetary unit is still investing, in the sense that there is only one reason to 'horde' money, and that is for future consumption.  If saving surplusses in a monetary unitis the most efficient method, then that is the most efficient method.  Investing in other productive enterprises in teh internim may not be the wises path, as all investing comes with risk.  But for a central bank to inflate the currency unit, thus depreciating the small savings of individuals, is not a natural risk.  It's entirly an artifical one, and because that decision is made by men with theirown vested interests, it's theft and fraud no matter the scale.  You can justify it however you like, but it's still the transfer of spending power from the (monetary based) savings of all currency holders to those who directly benefit from the existance of the central bank, and without their consent.  (because consent is impossible)  If the value of the monetary unit flucuates for natural causes, beyond the direct control of a central bank, that's the risk of using that method to save.  Also, bear in mind that no matter how dilligent the individual investor may be about keeping as much of his savings in assets (instead of currency) there is always someone who owns those fiat units at any given time.  So whether or not it's wise to invest in other ways doensn't change the fact that, to a point, doing so completely is impossible.  Also, on a percentage basis, the largest holders of currencies are the middle class and the poor, so this method of buying-power-transfer is particularly harmful to the lower classes.
I know that you intended that post as ironic, but the true irony is that Feudal Europe actually was relatively peaceful, particularly when compared against the nature of warfare (in Europe and elsewhere) since the industrial revolution.  Even the 100 years war was mostly a cold one; with long spans of calm delimited by short periods of actual conflict. For that matter, the "Wild West" wasn't so wild either.  Even the Lincoln County War is only considered a war in the context, because only a couple hundred people were involved and only a few dozen casualties resulted.  This is the kind of 'warfare' that was most common during following the collapse of the Roman Empire and prior to the Renaissance, and is the most common form of "tribal" warfare across the buld of early human history. I think that it's sad that an elementary school teacher neglects to use proper punctuation online.And yes, a public school district employee does qualify as a government contractor in my view.  The point being, it's hard to convince anyone of the truth when his/her paycheck depends upon him/her not understanding.  Any attempt to convince you of anything that doesn't fit the official story is futile, but nor should you have any credibility regarding any subject, and especially one that you "teach" to small children.  (with the possible exception of mathmatics) That's exactly what I mean.  Money (and currency, not quite the same thing) is an abstraction of wealth, but not wealth itself.  As noted by others, thinking of cash/gold as wealth is a common error.  Think about what the "old money" of the North-Eastern US does.  They certainly don't sit on billions of dollars, or even billions of dollars worth of gold; they buy assets and/or commodities.  That's investing, but it's also savings.  They may simply be buying equities in corporations, but that is still an abstraction of what real savings is.  The corporate capital is the savings, and the stock certificate is simply a deed to a small part of that.  The monetary price to aquire said stock certificate is only relevant to when it's bought or sold, the rest of the time it's irrelevent.  In the novel Cryptocromicon, a wealthy character describes it like this, "Gold is not wealth, gold is the corpse of wealth; I can show you how to make  wealth." Credit cannot exist without someone first saving the capital to support the extension of said credit.  There is no way around the fact that savings, in some form, must exist.  However, savings isn't necessarily in any fomr normally associated with the concept.  Savings can be food storage or the like.  Take this example...Before the industrial revolution, most economies were agriculturally based, the United States included.  The new colony in the wilderness needed to establish farms quickly, in order to produce food for the families.  If the farms did well overall, the community could commit resources towards other endeavors than food production, such as craftmanship, artistry or public works; but none of this can come before the surplus food production even if there was some rich dude with gobs of gold able to lend out for credit (lacking a greater society to trade resources with).  Gold or not, if the colony couldn't produce enough food for it's own population, the young people who might otherwise study blacksmithing, advanced carpentry, masonry or any form of art would have to spend their time hunting or gardening in order to make up the difference.  That would be what we call 'subsistance farming' today, where the methods used require all of the labor time of the community to maintain an even keel, and leave no surplus gain.  In this context, any surplus gain (for the individual farmer, or the community at large) is the savings.If you really want to learn something about this, I recommend the Uncle Eric Series starting with Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?  They are great, short primers on economics and praxeology.EDIT:  The above example should provide a hint as to why both gold and Bitcoin, while great forms of independent currencies, are not capital in the proper sense.  Both are an abstraction of capital, because so long as a trade market exists, both gold or Bitcoin could be traded fro true capital.  Capital is the means of production; i.e. to the farmer, the tractor is capital; to the ditchdigger, the shovel (and backhoe) are capital; and to the programmer the computer is capital; but to the recreational gamer, the computer is a toy.EDIT2:  And when I say that we've been eating through our capital for decades, I mean this literally.  In our modern world, oil is the primary input commodity for just about everything, including industrial fertalizers.  In a world where such protrolem inputs become significantly more expensive, less valuable uses get priced out; while everything that currently utilize cheap oil as an input becomes more expensive, as production shifts to more expensive methods and inputs.  Industrial food production is no exception, and a greater number of the population must become involed in their own food production (via backyard gardens, hunting, fishing, etcetera) in order to provide enough cost-cutting|savings|production|whatever to support the entire family.  Youth unemployment might be very high for some time, but they better be reading gardening books from the library whether or not dear old dad still has a job or not. Do you live in the same world that I live in?  I am of one of the two older generations that you speak of, and your statement couldn't be further from the truth.  Do you draw a paycheck from a government contractor, by any chance? Savings must come before consumption on the aggregate.  Nothing else is possible.  We've been eating through the accumulation of savings of our predecessors for 30+ years.  By definition, that which is not sustainable cannot continue forever.  The only difference between savings & hoarding is the perspectives of the observer. That is good news.  The longer Bitcoin can grow and mature without these guys' interference, the stronger it will be in the long run.  Let them fawn over whether or not the Federal Reserve will 'taper' or not. I wonder if he ever learned who the Commander in Chief is. I don't mind the interest, because I agreed to those terms when I bought the house.  I could have chosen to not buy a house, and then I wouldn't have a mortgage.  There is no negotiation with inflation.By artificial inflation, I mean inflation that isn't the result of fluctuation in the market, nor changes in the business cycle, but due to the deliberate expansion of the money supply.  In any other context, that would be market manipulation, or even fraud.  It's just that we've been conditioned to believe that the market for money is special.  It's not, it responds to supply and demand like any other.Getting rid of interest will not get rid of the kinds of inflation that I am concerned with, and I think that you know that already.  Some portion of the interest rate is a market response to the demand for credit, some of it is a response to the perception of loss due to inflation, some of it is due to other factors.  So you can't get rid of interest in a market economy, it arises naturally.  It might be called something different, but the cost & risk of credit will be paid somehow, or credit will not exist.  Without a working money market (credit industry) the economy becomes very inflexible in the sense that it's not quick to resond to changes in the market conditions.  Credit & interest have their place, so long as they don't become the majority of the marketplace, which is what we've seen occur to fiat currencies since WW2. Speaking for myself, this point has never been relevant.  It doesn't matter that there are things that the average, or even anyone, could do to mitigate the effects upon personal buying power by artificial causes of inflation.  The only thing that matters is that they are artifical.  If some hacker (who knows superman, perhaps) steals only a penny from each of the paychecks of every person at the company that he works for, is it not theft?  Who does he steal it from, the company or the employees?  Is it okay, just because each victim is harmed very little; or may not even be aware of the theft? http://kunstler.com/clusterfuck-nation/forecast-2014-burning-down-the-house/This man is insightful, even if he has his own biases.  (We all do, though) Well, I had a rainy day fund that was over $30K only a few months ago.  One car smashed on a crowded, snowy freeway in November; another had an engine block freeze up and crack; a $5K furnace replacement; a $1500 refrigerator stolen off the back porch of my unsold house that has been on the market for nearly a year, because the workmen put it out there to fix the floor and didn't consider that it might be valuable enough to steal (that's what they told me, anyway; I'm still suspicious) and paying two mortgages for the last 8 months.  So I know that I've had more than my fair share of rainy days during 2013. Nothing so complicated.  Just something around the size of smooth rock that the chick in the link photo is holding.  I want it smooth like that, egg shaped is fine, about the size of a full adult palm; that I can then grab with an adult tube sock and wrap up.  It's a practial device, not an artpiece, so the color doesn't matter so much, but it must be real soapstone.  I want several of them, so if you're into soapstone carving anyway, just some of your scrap pieces that can be cut down to that size is fine.  What I'm doing is trying to come up with a way to keep my youngest child warmer at night, so I'm going to take one of these and heat it up on my woodstove, then wrap it into a tube sock, then put that into a teddy bear for her to cuddle with.  Much like one of those teddy bear hot water bottles, but without the risk of leak induced scalding of an infant.  She has those infant sized sleeping bags with arms that she uses, but we can't keep blankets on her and she gets too cold sometimes, but if the teddy bear is warmed by the happy rock, she can choose to cuddle with it or push it away if it's uncomfortable.  I'd like a quote on one at a time, though.  Depending upon how it works out, I might order more for my other children, my wife, and my sister.EDIT: I also want to be able to microwave it to heat it when I'm not using the woodstove, so no finishes that can't survive the microwave, please. Supportive, yes; but I would still advocate the correction of mistakes.  The AMA isn't a mistake, however, it's palying out better than they planned. I'd like some soapstone "happy rocks"...http://www.practicalprimitive.com/skillofthemonth/happyrockBut they must be smooth, and they must be real soapstone.  Alternatively, I'd be willing to buy scrap soapstone of that size so that I can carve them smooth myself. I doubt it.  I never had any illusions that Ron Paul would be a great president.  Everyone makes mistakes, particularly doing a job like that, but the AMA was designed to fail; they said so when it was passed.  The other "they" didn't want a working compromise, "they" wanted a full on single payer healthcare industry.  "They" wanted the complete destruction of the "evil" insurance industry, under the presumption that a government bureaucracy is actually less evil than a corporate bureaucracy.  There is no evidence to assume that a monopoly on critical service is likely to be better than what we had, and much evidence to suggest that it would be worse over time.  No matter how well intended, never forget that, eventually, those people that you might believe are not out for themselves will lose power over these kinds of bureaucracies, and you enemy will be in control of your health care.  There's a good chance that will occur right about the time of your life that you actually need such care.  The AMA does, provablely, permit the establishment of "death panels"; so even if the Democrats are too nice to do such a thing to your grandmother, do you trust that the Republicans are too nice to do that to you? "They" aren't finding ways to make Obama look bad, "they" are simply pointing them out when they occur.  What's really happening is that those for whom the ACA was supposed to help are actually harming them, and that is quite what the detractors were warning against early on.  "They" are just touting "we told you so!" This statement is easily disprovable.  Just because some resources are economicly 'idle' doesn't mean that they are in decay, some improve with the wait for increased demand.  A great example is that of contruction quality timber, a field that I have recently aquired better than a layman's education due to a move of mine to a large piece of rural propery with a great deal of (mostly) wild woods.  While there are some things that a tree-herder could do to improve the marketable yield of a few acres of woodland, forestry does pretty well as a zero-intervention resource, happily growing without humankind.  Obviously, as those trees age and grow, they become more economicly valuable for construction timber.  I can think of several situations that an 'idle' resource is economicly best to wait.  Another is wine, for well known reasons.  Bourbon is another for similar reasons.  Even beekeeping falls into this catagory under certain conditions, since both honey and wax have no known spoiling rate while inside of a living hive and, so long as the hive has room to grow, the hive won't consume more than they need whether or not they have it.  Some hobby beekeepers have been known to let hives grow for many years before taking any honey or wax, and both can keep inside jars for centuries.Another, more modern, example is likely one that you have not even considered. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yucca_Mountain_nuclear_waste_repositoryYucca Mountain Repository is claimed to be designed to house spent nuclear fuel rods from US light water reactors for thousands of years, but no one who is involved with it's design actually expects them to be there that long.  The reason for this is, 1) the technology exists to recycle spent fuel and is already in service in Europe and 2) the US has no natural uranium mines.  Almost all of US fuel supplies come from Austrailia.  US law requires spent fuel to be stored; not because it can't be recycled, but because it can and storing the spent fuel just in case we (as in the US govenrment, military, etc) are cut off politically or economicly from Austrailia and can no longer buy more fuel (either commercial or military) internationally.  Such a "waste" storage facility could literally pay dividends, both by keeping hazardous materials away from geologically unstable regions with high groundwater tables (i.e. where most of the human population actually lives) in the short term, but potentially to become a primary source for uranium 235 during periods of extreme scarcity. This forum has been here for four years. You are both right, but I don't think that you would agree on what 'capital' actually is.
Selection bias, I'm afraid.  Hyperinflation has always been a political act, not solely a monetary one.  There is no obvious economic lesson to be learned from hyperinflationary events such as Zimbabwe or the Weimar Republic, but plenty of political lessons. Just words on a paper.  Different words on another paper would have a different effect. Republicans can't be sexual deviants, either.  Some kind of fetish is almost a given for Democrats at the national level. Gavin's Cost is independent of the trade value of bitcoins, so that wouldn't prevent a halving from improving the attractiveness of fee paying transactions.  Regardless, there is much that can yet be done about Gavin's Cost before the next halving anyway, so I don't think that Gavin's Cost is really a problem so much as it is (and will continue to be) the real blocksize limiting factor whether or not we continue to hold a hard limit on blocksizes.  With 'thin' blocks (block headers & merkle tree only) the one meg hard limit would easily permit an average transaction rate of 30 - 40 transactions per second right now, doing nothing further.  A blocksize limit of 10 megs would get us into the 300+ per second range, which is a workable rate for a major system; and higher rates can be handled better by overlay networks anyway. I disagree with the premise that Japan's deflationary environment for the past 20 years or so was a bad thing, just because a majority of the formerly 3rd world nations around their region are now nipping at their collective heels economicly.  Regardless, I don't think that Japan's experience with deflation is particularly instructive in any sense with regard to Bitcoin's own experiences.  I don't think that Japan can be generalized, since the culture and economy is both so complex and so unique.  Even if there is something instructive with Japan's example, I don't think that it would be obvious nor without cavets.  I'm not sure that any existing example would be instructive for Bitcoin, because the economy that can be expected around Bitcoin is entirely voluntary, and that might make it rather unique as well.  Some things are universal, of course, but applying the macro lessons from nations using fiat is bound to be fraught with error. Maybe, but I've yet to see a working POS system that wasn't either too complex to prevent a trusted-peer attack vector of some form, break the anonimity factor of users, or both. As noted very well by Nancarrow, quantum computing simply shortcuts some poarts of chryptography, but other parts are no faster.  The thinkg about Bitcoin is that it's not based upon the abiluty to hide a secret text from veiwing, but to make the proof-of-work system viable.  The most likley result of quantum computing on Bitcoin would be an increase in the hashing rate in the same way that moving from CPU's to GPU's to ASICs have increaced the hashrate, and even then, if we don't likel it, we can switch the algo to something more quantum resistiant.  The part that is most at risk in Bitcoin is the private keypaairs to the addresses, but even then, Bitcoin uses an upgrade path to address algos that permits a quantum resistant algo to be adopted in place of the current (version 1 address start with a "1") address algo.  Again, quantum computing is not magic. Yes.This is being worked on by migrating from a complete block to a skeleton block, with only the headers and merkle tree included. This alone would reduce the orphan risk cost by about a factor of 10.Not for Bitcoin. Bitcoins are not under great threat by the develpment of a practical quantum computer.  They're not magic, Bitcoin is fairly resistant to quantum brute forcing already, and can be upgraded if the threat proves real. Added to this, the upper bound of Bitcoin's velocity is quite high, which can have a similar effect to inflation as the average velocity increases. Well, it depends upon on which definition of deflation you're using.  But you are certainly thinking correctly about the general mechanisms at play. Etlase2 and I have a history of misrepresenting one another.  I'm trying to catch up here.Okay, your perspectives are your own, and should inform your actions.  Mine are different on this topic, and I will have different actions as a result.  Both of us can't be right, but neither of us can know that we are correct until the future is past.  As has been noted, however, Bitcoin isn't deflationary by any fundamental feature for at least 100 years; and it's current price growth is limited to it's potential market size, which cannot exceed the whole of the Earth.  At some point it must reach maturity, and once it does it's year on year price variance shouldn't exceed +-2%.  At least, it's no more likely to do so than any large national fiat system, for those fiat currencies vary so much as a direct result of their inflationary target goals. The author of Cryptocromicon put it another way that I think is better.  Paraphrasing, currency is not wealth, but the corpse of wealth. This is a modern myth as well.  There are other means to an income than what might be called a "job".  A great many people still make their own way in this country without ever submitting to an hourly wage.  This is a small minority of people, mind you, but a much larger minority of people are well accustomed to earning some portion of their income outside of the hourly wage paradigm. Furthermore, what he says is technically true, Bitcoin won't be remotely deflationary within any of our expected natural lifespans.  It's dramatic price increases are due entirely to a speculative assumption of future economic growth upon a fairl ridgid monetary base, but one that isn't properly called deflationary.  This is a growth stage, not a feature of Bitcoin itself. I was paraphrasing my own interpretation of your statements.  I'd say that I was giving your viewpoints unearned credit out of kindness for your perspectives.  You'd be wise not to attempt to disprove that.Why is my speculation "idle and wanton" while your's is not?  By mild deflation, I mean something very close to 0% APR, as in less than 2%, or closer to 0% than the normal inflationary "targets" of central bankers worldwide.  I was not implying that Bitcoin would necessarily achieve this anytime soon, but I do expect it to happen eventually should Bitcoin ever become an international reserve currency.  I have no better evidence to support that last position than you have for discounting it, which is to say nothing more than intuition. In general, it is a falacy, for the obvious reasons that the consumer doesn't delay purchases indefinately.  However, I have to admit that Elase2 does have a point here about the role of investors and speculators in the health of the modern economy.  What I don't believe that s/he understands, is that is a side effect of the outsized role of modern finance, not a requirement of a functioning economy.The finance industry has become such a huge part of the US economy, that I would say that Elats2's claim that even mild deflation would result in a large pull back from major investment, and result in increased unemployment.  Still, I would consider this to be a symtom of the longstanding effect of mild inflationary policies, resulting in the growth of the finance industy itself.  The problem isn't that investment adviser and bankers can't make money doing what they do; the real problem is that they can make a great deal of money doing what they do, but that they work in the largest 'cost center' industry in the world.  Said another way, the finance industry (on net) does not produce anything of value, but instead offers only to move wealth around in the most efficent manner possible.  Whether or not they live up to that promise is a matter of opinion, but they actually cannot produce value in their own right.  This has much to do with why Mish has, and still does, consider what he does to be a fraud.  Not that he's personally fraudulant in giving advice, but that the entire freaking industry is a fraud; pretending to produce wealth, when mostly they just move it around and take a slice off the top.A healthy economy does not require the dominate finance industry that has developed in the US and most modern "Western" nations.  We want a healty economy to develop around Bitcoin, and that means that nearly every consumer is also a producer, and that these huge 'cost center' industries never develop beyond a few percent of the gross.  Nor should it require tax benefits from governments to have economic incentives to build factories, nor these power broker parasites that tarvel around the world searching for investment bargins.  Small businesses have always been the bulk of business activity in the United States, and small businesses should be the bulk of the business with Bitcoin as well.  Under such a model, mild deflation is no more (and perhaps less) dangerous to the business climeate than mild inflation.  That is not to say that the significant deflation that we have experienced thus far is a favorable climate, it's certainly not.  So either Bitcoin will mature and stabilize on it's own merits, or fail epicly.  We al place our bets according to which outcome we deem more likely. In what way, Etlase2?  A currency is simply a market product with a well defined trade value, by whatever means that trade value is defined.  The laws of supply & demand most certainly do apply to currencies.  I know of no economic laws that do not apply to currencies.  If you do, feel free to share your insights. http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2013/12/economic-illiterate-proposal-inflation.html#rMYzZkAfFCzAbtyF.99 This isn't true as of yet, since most blocks are not full as of yet.  The greater limiting factor seems to be Gavin's Cost; a theoretical risk of loss from including each additional transaction that Gavin Andreson estimated to be around .00033 BTC per KB of transaction size.  This number will naturally change over time, due to many variables, but efforts are underway to significantly reduce this cost per transaction in order to encentivize miners to include more transactions into the block.  The same effort will also improve the average transaction rate. He attempted to convince the users to hold off on GPU mining.  He didn't get his way.
Which was true at the time.  Bitcoin is a poor currency, at the present time.  Most of us can see it's potential, though. There is a simple cause for this conflict.  All others are wrong. This just circles back to my point about the argument of whether or not Bitcoin was a good currency or not being independent of the claim that it was a currency.  The definition of a currency is binary, not scalar; either Bitcoin was designed to be a medium of exchange or it was not.  By it's creator's own writings, it's obviously true that it was meant to function as a medium of exchange, therefore it's a currency.  There really isn't a counter argument here without changing the English definition of the term "currency". https://www.barna.org/barna-update/faith-spirituality/648-is-evangelism-going-out-of-style#.UrkeevbrmFbAnd this, from the only generation that can't remember a time before the Internet.  Perhaps you might be projecting? More precisely I'm reading the bible, cannon and more, and making up my own mind about what parts I agree with.  I don't agree with the doctrine of divine preservation, either.  You make thinking for oneself sound like a bad thing.  You do realize that every protestant religion is founded upon the idea that the other guys had some detail wrong, don't you? Actually, he was eventually.  McCarthy's core premise was that the Soviet Union had sleeper cells inside the United States, and he believed that spies held very high profile lifestyles, most likely in media.  It took until after the fall of the Soviet Union to prove it, but McCarthy's paranoid premise was correct even though a great number of innocent people were included into the project as well. that depends upon one's personal view of what a high value is. https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/black-or-whiteThere are many historical examples of either being quite 'non-state', or at least anti-the-current-regime. https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/begging-the-questionThere are many things that you have no personal evidence that exist, yet you have faith that they do.  I'm sure that I can guess a few. That's still a false choice.  It's entirely possible to view 'natural selection' as it as known today as one process (perhaps one of many) by which God creates.  Like setting up the rules and letting the program run.  While it's demonstratablely true that teh process of natural selection is the dominate force in play today, that does not show that it's always been the case.  We, almost certainly, don't completely understand that process itself, because there are many examples of species on earth that do not conform to our understanding of natural selection and it's outcomes.  I have personally met many professors that will admit this, and a few that have openly converted to a more biblical worldview due to these same contradictions. I'm aware of that, and there are other explainations that are more plausible.  There is some evidence that much of the known world suffered a massive saltwater flooding event around 8 to 10 thousand years ago.  That is not to say that I think that this particular story is factually accurate, but it's not necessarily just a story either.Actually, we could have.  Our most recent common ancestor was during the middle ages.  http://www.stat.yale.edu/~jtc5/papers/CommonAncestors/NatureAncestorsPressRelease.htmlHowever, even the bible cannon contradicts itself on whether or not they were the only people to survive.  It's more likely that they were the only people to survive that they considered of note.  Keep in mind that most of the patriarchs of Genisis are there because they were the wealthy leaders of a large "household".  A more recent comparison would be the original owners of Biltmore; whose official household consisted of only three people, but lived inside the largest single private residence in the Western world with nearly 1000 staff members.  Certainly, Noah wasn't the only family to own a boat at the time.I didn't say that I was a young earth advocate. True; and if's & but's were candy and nuts, we'd all have a merry Christmas.  If you can come up with a workable way to do this, feel free to share it. They are all verboten, and some are still ignored.  just because they are ignored, does not mean thty are not verboten.  Germany is, thankfully, unique among democracies in that the legal code assumes all things to be banned, until they are explicitly permitted, while just about everywhere else, all things are assumed to be acceptable until they are explicitly banned.  The fact that actual Germans ignore the flailings of their own politicos is a sign of progress socially, but it also means that the generations of strong social cohesion among Germans is drawing to a close.  The Japanese were once as socially cohesive as a nation as well, and look at what the influence of Western culture(s) has done to them.  Unlike the Chinese, the Japanese mafia are a relatively recent phenomenon.  Have you ever een heard of the "German mafia" or "Swiss mafia"?  Of course not, because it's a clash of cultures that presents the opprotunities that give rise to organized crime.  The original Italian mafia is so old because there has never been such as thing as a single Italian culture, only the dominate one. The idea that Noah couldn't have hired locals who thought he was insane is, likewise, ridiculous.And viri and bacteria can live fine under water.  They didn't need to be in the ark any more than the fish did. I'm not wrong at all.  You're damaged, therefore you do not seek.  I, myself, am a "reformed" Catholic.  I don't hate the Roman church because of the way I was raised; for that matter, I can't really put the blame on the church doctrine, but only on the particular interpretations of individuals.  And yes, there was a time in my life that I strongly questioned the existance of God, and I did not seek. (or more accurately, simply thought I sought)  Time heals all wounds, but some require more time than others.I can honestly say that I've never really met an athiest, although I've met many who claim to be an athiest.  Upon inquiry, I've found that all of them were either agnostic (they didn't know if God exists, not that they believed that God could not exist) or they were damaged souls who had (in practice, not necessarily in doctrine) been taught that God is "a vengful God" that demanded loyalty and obedience, regardless of how well his appointed representatives in the lives of any particular child displayed their godlyness.  The obvious reaction to a vengful God is rejection.Without a doubt, if you require scientific proof that God exists before you can have faith, then you will never find it.  But I know from personal experience that a more personal form of 'proof' will often present itself when sought.  There is nothing that I can tell you that would convience you that I'm more than insane or a great storyteller, but I've seen proof enough. I highlighted the operative part of my prior post for you. I'm not a programmer, so to some extent I have to trust that those who program my client aren't hiding a backdoor.  If you're not part of the US Federal Reserve or related monetary industry, you have to trust that they will continue to accept such paper for taxes and legal debts.  Faith in some group or another is a reasonable expectation.  Bitcoin shines in that it doesn't require faith in any particular institution, nor is would the Bitcoin economy at large be at risk if (for example) the Bitcoin Foundation were to simply close up shop. Your belief is in error.  Sataoshi expressed a desire that Bitcoin remain cpu only till the "kinks" were worked out, but he didn't get to decide that issue alone either. Well, I wouldn't say 'solved' because the greater scalability issue isn't the resident size of the blockchain, but the real time latency and bandwidth requirements of the network.  I don't even know if there is really much that can be done with 'solving' scalability within the main network itself.  I tend to think that external solutions, such as overlay networks (such as Stratum) taking over a majority of small transactions.  There are a number of ways this can be done, all of which are a balance between the trustless security model of the main bitcoin network against speed and cost, that I think will end up competing in any future that Bitcoin assumes more transaction volume than Visa can deal with. You complain that Bitcoin isn't completely anonymous, and then your solution is a impossibility.  Anonymity is a scale that is derived from the actions of the user, not an absolute attribute of any currency.  While cash is certainly more anonymous than Bitcoin, even cash in person isn't 'uncrackable anonymity' because you have to do it in person.  Any detective with the resources to do so can determine who you are by interogating your business counter party and/or tracking location data near the location around the time of meeting.Keep in mind that Bitcoin is a compromise solution to a preexisting condition, and while it's certainly not perfect, I consider it unlikely that any or all of Bitcoin's own shortcomings will prove to be fatal to it's market dominance.  You shouldn't put to much faith into AnonyMint's musings either.  While he can turn a phrase quite well, I have personally put the lie to all of his arguments that I've seen thus far; to the point that he doesn't even like to respond to me at all.  Feel free to research his and my interactions on this forum, and you will learn more than you did from him alone.
I recently inquired about this issue, and the general response was that pruning is already emplimented in the reference codebase, but isn't yet enabled for the offical client.  This is mostly because of concern about what kind of impact widespread pruning would have on the "many copies keeps data safe" stragedy that the blockchain employs.  Some of the developers don't believe that there are enough full clients at the moment, and that enabling pruning would result in a significant drop in the number of compete copies of the blockchain from which new clients could bootstrap.  I'm not a programmer, but it was strongly implied that certain power users with the programming skills to enable this code themselves already do prune.  So when they say that pruning will become available when it's necessary, they kind of mean that they will turn it on when they feel that the burden of running a full client is reducing the number of full clients, and that we are not to that point yet. This is no more true as an absolute than the false meme that an equal spread of wealth leads to prosperity for the greatest number.  The causes of such wealth disparity is also important to consider. I think your admiration for the German solution to be misplaced.  It's not just that neo-nazi based ideologies or israeli dissent that is verboten.  Any kind of subculture at all is verboten, although (obviously) some are ignored.  Notablely, however, Christian based homeschooling is not ignored; and a ban on home education of any kind remains in effect as the last edict started by Aldolf hitler still in effect.  Put another way; while politics in Germany functionally ignores the dark side of Islam, but puts devout Christians who consider German state schools to be contrary to their faith in the same catagory as neo-nazi hate groups.  One might come to the conclusion that German polticos fear the idology of such (non-state) Christian spreading into a greater percentage of the electorate.   Of course not.  If there were any real evidence of God, or even of a spirtual plane of any kind, your freedom of choice would cease to exist.  You choose to not seek, which is fine.  Your salvation is your problem, not mine.  I have no interest in convincing you otherwise, but to assume that just because wars have been fought with religion as the official cause are the true drivers for the kings and warlords that prosecute such wars is to be woefully ignorant of both history and human nature.  The principle of 'Baptists & bootleggers' has been true for thousands of years, or as long as human civilizations have existed, whichever is longer. If you knew as much about the bible as you think you do, you would also know that the term 'slaves' as used in the context of the old testament is a mistranslation into English.  When we think of 'slaves' we think of chattel slavery, but the old testament does specify that, not only did "slaves" have rights (including work rules), but a faithful "slave" earned the hand of the master's eldest daughter after 7 years of service.  This was for the infidels that Jews captured in warfare, they were forbidden from buying servents from either one another or from infidels.  Can you imagine "modern" Islam (that considers Jews to be infidels) offering their eldest daughters to a Jewish man after seven years, even if he openly converted to Islam?The concept of chattel slavery has no equivalent in the Bible, old or new; and was not permitted for the ancient Israelites, either.  For the most part, our modern concept of slavery (i.e. the ability to "own" another human being) can be traced back to the Persians. You think that is low?  It was $17 at the start of the year! I don't suppose that you'd be willing to link a copy of your template, would you? http://www.wdrb.com/story/24256929/louisville-law-firm-accepting-bitcoin-as-payment Ethical, no.  Quite legal, though.  Doctor patient confidentialtiy is now a meaningless term in these United States; partly due to Obamacare, and partly due to other percurser laws. They don't need a warrant anymore.  I've seen this first hand. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wampum#Currency Just because you say it, does not make it so.  Challenge my reasoning, accept that I'm correct, or fade away. Usually. Baseball cards are designed to be exchanged as a collectable, not as an actual medium-of-exchange. A bitcoin is as much of a unit of value as the US Dollar is, as I have noted repeatedly in this very thread.  A unit does not require an external reference, as you seem to claim.  All that is required that a unit exist, is that more than a few people agree upon a (preferablely not vague, but even that is not a requirement; take a look at the variance in the concept of a "cord" of firewood) standard.  The bitcoin exchange markets set the 'standard' of price for a bitcoin on an ongoing basis.  But in the long term, a bitcoin is a bitcoin in as much as a dollar is a dollar.Okay.  Your opinion is well known on this matter, but it doesn't change the fact that Bitcoin is a currency.Just because it may not work for you as a currency, doesn't mean it doesn't work for me.  I've used it as such on numerous occasions in the past. I expect to continue to do so; but even if I'm wrong about such an expectation does not imply that Bitcoin is not presently a currency, because it provably is.  A Continental was a currency once as well, but that doesnt' mean that they must be 'worth a Continental' today to have been a currency in 1778.  Maybe Bitcoin will fade away like so many others here believe, and maybe it won't; but if I can buy stuff online using Bitcoin, and only Bitcoin, in trade; then Bitcoin is a currency now, regardless of how or why that is so. Bitcoin does not generate revenue.  Bitcoin goes up and down in market value, that is quite different.While a stock is often a speculative investment vehicle, stocks are (at the core) contractual evidence that you own a definable piece of a business venture; which (presumedly) exists to turn a profit.  It's the profit that makes the stock an asset, not it's speculative nature.Nor is it a commodity, because it has no non-monetary utility.  No one desires to aquire bitcoins for their own sake, but to spend or sell them at a later date.  You can't really do anything else with them, at least not yet.  (Colored coins might change that analysis later)Bitcoin is a currency, as I noted in the "bitcoin is not a currency" thread on several occasions. https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/appeal-to-authority A "currency" is a designed medium of exchange, that may or may not be "backed" by a commodity, or may or may not be "backed" as legal tender by some government.  While a money, such as gold, can be minted into coins (and thus also be a currency) a true money is a common commodity that functions as a medium of exchange in a free market, but may not have a 'standard' unit.  By coining that gold into a standard unit, such as a one troy ounce shape with some king's face on it, and declaring it the official money of the realm, a currency is created.  However, the past 100 or so years are proof enough that once a currency is well established and trusted to continue; the original money behind the currency is often no longer necessary.  All fiat currencies are designed by men, whether or not they ever contained (or were otherwise backed by) gold or silver.  Bitcoin is a currency because it was designed (presumedly by one or more human beings) to function as a medium of exchange on the Internet.  Whether or not Bitcoin is a good currency or not is up for debate, and whether or not any particular government agency desires to recognize that Bitcoin is a currency or not is irrelevent; but Bitcoin is a currency regardless.It is not, however, a true money; because regardless of how useful it is as a medium of exchange, or even as a store of value, Bitcoin never had a pre-existing and non-monetary utility that would have driven it's adoption in a free market as a highly marketable good.Nor is Bitcoin a fiat currency, because no government institution requires it's use in any context.  Bitcoin is difficult for some to explain, or even wrap their heads around, because it's something new in the realm of exchange mediums.  It's closest to a LETS (Local area Exchange system) wherein the local area is the entire Internet, and that uses triple entry accounting to track exchanges; but it's not a debt based system and the total number of currency units are fixed and known at any given point in time. That's savings, not new value, more commonly known as "income".  Of course, unless you're renting it out, real estate doesn't qualify as an 'asset' either; so this is another one of those economic terms that have a bit different common usage.  If you have a mortagage, your home is a 'liability' not an asset. I can and have.  Your problem is that you won't accept my definition of "currency". Short answer: yes.Long answer: Yes, all of the above.
An asset is something that generates value to the owner by some other method than speculation.  Bitcoin does not do that, it represents value that can be transfered, but cannot produce new value.  Bitcoin cannot ever be an "asset". Of course not.  Bitcoin is, by definition and design, a currency.  Your arguments are rediculous. Show me the evidence of this. I would have been rich by now, if I had kept them.  Instead, I bought stuff along the way.  Someone's got to use it, if bitcoin is ever going to grow. http://www.theblaze.com/stories/2013/12/14/las-vegas-man-explains-why-he-is-willing-to-accept-bitcoin-in-sell-of-multi-million-dollar-mansion/ I would like to do this for my client/s on an Imac, any suggestions on how I should go about throttling the bandwidth? Wow.  That was quite a hostile rant.  As far as I am concenred, you're welcome to your opinion, but I think that your placing blame for things outside of Obama's own doing.  And while my own hue isn't particularly dark, I am (like many others in the city where I live) part American Indian; so I agree with the sentiment that some people take the whole "white privilages & guilt" BS too far.  Still, I wouldn't stoop to using racial remarks against the POTUS. Yes, but you have to move out of the major cities, and be willing to accept that you can't have much entertainment that you don't make for yourself. Yes, but there is more to it than that.  First off, it has to be fairly obvious that the manufacturer and the seller intended to commit fraud.  A copycat that is obviously a copycat can easily be argued to be a parody product in court, and if the trademark holder never prosues the issue in a US court at all, then the law presumes that the product is not in violation of trademarks.  Granted, this assumes that the trademark owner is aware of said copycat product, but that's their problem.  Until an injuction against the product has occurred, selling them is not illegal; and buying them never is.EDIT:  There are a number of Chinese knockoff products that have the trademarked name diliberately misspelled, that are often sold in cheap retail places commonly called "dollar stores".  The copycats aren't very good, perhaps deliberately, and anyone who thought the product was the original had to be less than observant. Yeah, I can't see it either.  If anything, his 'ilk' have been getting the shaft even worse than under George Jr.  I could respect it, if simple favoritism were his modus operandi. Fakes aren't, unto themselves, illegal.  Selling them as the real thing is fraud, though. I was referring to a self-described minority calling the POTUS "this boy".  I find it odd that any American, and particularly one who believes himself to be a minority, to use a common (if minor) racial slight against a duely elected US president.  Or do you not agree that his relection was fair and proper?  I presume that your minority status wouldn't be of an African racial decent. Perhaps, but then they will also undermine the market leader status of Bitcoin itself; likely destroying their own savings and income in the process.  That's not likely IMHO.  If it can be fixed inside Bitcoin, it will be fixed. I find your choice of wording, strange. Bitcoin:How do you Like Me Now? Somebody produced a professional bitcoin ad...http://moneymorning.com/ext/bitcoin/videos/video-bitcoin.phpEDIT:  It's full of investment bullshit, but it's very well done. No, it doesn't bother me that some people get similar treatment for less.  Most markets vary with region or other factors.  People in Argentina get well made beef steak for about a fifth what I pay.  I get petrol for about 20% less than people in California pay.  So what?  What bothers me is that some people get special treatment as some kind of class of people to be favored by government largesse.  My premiums didn't go up because the real costs of my plan went up, or even because of the number of children in my care; my premiums went up so much because the regulatory overhead increased so dramaticly.  I don't benefit from Obamacare, and I don't know anyone who would.  My nephew and his family couldn't afford insurance before Obamacare, and they can't afford it now' and yet my nephew's newborn son was in Childrens' Hospital intensive care for weeks, and was recovering from his second surgery when he died at four months old.  Even the funeral service was paid for by others.  The medical bills & funeral costs were funded by several charities that exist for the benefit of young, struggling families like my nephew's.  Obamacare didn't make any difference to them whatsoever.  It didn't make any difference for my mother-in-law's triple bypass heart surgery either; likewise paid for by charities that exist to support people like my mother-in-law.  Government had nothing to do with it, insurance had nothing to do with it, and taxpayer funds had nothing to do with it.  Hell, her heart doctor did the surgery for free, and the primary charity was his own creation.  I would suspect that he gets quite the tax break for doing such things, and that the hospital does as well.  More power to them all. It can be "fixed" in Bitcoin, if it actually proves to be a problem. That's just nonsense.Value is always subjective.  What is 'overpay' is also relative.That's comparing apples to oranges, and you know it.  It matters a great deal what the perspecives of the researchers are towards what 'efficient' means in the context of health care.I would love too, but the politicos keep wanting to get more into my personal business.We all had access to health care before.  Again, health care access is something different than heath care insurance.  Only now, my own health care insurance plan nearly tripled in premium costs from 2013 to 2014 to cover myself, my wife and five children.  And no, I didn't have to go onto any exchange to get it, it's exactly the same as it was before, only more expensive. Why would Satoshi have to reveal him/her/themselves in order to do this?
A large accumulation of bitcoins implies only spending power, and nothing more.  They have no more authority to effect another person's transactions or costs than you do. Which would be the reason that this is never going to happen. I'm pretty well convienced that Ulbricht was a patsy anyway, and wasn't ever the true DPR anyway.  I've seen no evidence to convince me that Ulbricht was more than a hired administrator. Verily, however heath care is distinct from health insurance.  The health care  system in the United States is, undeniablely, first rate.  The great debate is not about quality of care, or even access to said care, but who gets to pay for that care.  I don't contest that the way this was/is done in (generally) in the United States prior to Obamacare was unjust, unfair and generally 'un-American'; but that doesn't mean that greater socialism (in a society that prizes individual responsibility and merit) is a path to improvement.  Quite the contrary, I would argue that most of that afore mentioned un-American distribution of heath care funding was largely due to the decades of government intrusion into the health care market since WWII.  If you think that single-payer style heath insurance, as can be found in many other former colonies of the British Empire, is somehow more eifficient, more "fair" or more advanced; you are free to believe such things, and free to move there if it matters that much to you.  But the facts don't support your position. The point is that users have a choice; to either manage the security and costs themselves, or contract out to another party.  Currently, consumers using fiat currencies don't have this choice.  Not really, anyway; as all real banks are part of the particular central banking system that they must adhere to.  If it's your central bank that is untrustworthy, it's a real competition among banks that is desired.  Bitcoin can offer that, but it does not garrantee it. Nope.  Satoshi was planning on hiding from the get go.  We know this now, for no one is that good at not being found on the Internet without prior planning. That's not a promise that you can make.  The experience with localbitcoins vendors is likely to vary significantly between regions and vendors.  Taxes are supposed to be for infrastructure and defense, not individual needs.  Do you have a right to food?  Would food insurance, subsidized by your taxes, be a good idea? Bitcoin was never intended to run on every user's machine.  Absolute decentralization isn't a requirement, and it's long been expected that Bitcoin will scale as much as it needs to scale, and will naturally centralize as much as it needs to do accomplish that scaling.  That said, SPV mode & pruning are both among the early plans to reduce the need for this as much as is reasonable.  There is no doubt that the whole blockchain will persist somewhere, and that this is more likely to be done by an institution for many reasons.   I don't know, since the US has done this pretty much consistly for 100 years, but we don't have a 'right' to healthcare. Dude, that is literally the point. An electrical engineer, reportedly. It was a trick question, the entire set of addresses that start with 192.168.x.x are part of a reserved block of addresses for a class C intranet.  There are no Internet providers that use that subnet. We don't need everyone to run miners.So?  Do you think that wasn't foreseen?EDIT: When we say that Bitcoin is decentralized, we mean that the network has no 'center'.  There is no node with more authority than others.  Massive mining centers could be shut down by fedco, but so what?  I'm doing it right now, because I need heat in my basement anyway, and electric service is 7.5 cents per KWH where I live.  That's about the same as the cost of propane, which is my other choice.  So why not, since I have the rig? Then it's China, because the US government doesn't stand to benefit regardless, since it will lose the trade advantages that come with being the one entity that can issue the international reserve currency. Interesting. That IP address wouldn't be 192.168.0.1 per chance?  Because that is the default internal address mask number for almost every wifi router in the world, and just means that Satoshi was testing out the Send-to-IP function on an internal network, or even within his own GNU/Linux machine.   You, literally, have no idea of what you speak. Can you point me to more details about this?  I'm having trouble finding it with the search functions. One difference is that there would be dozens, if not hundreds, of bitcoin services to choose from.  Consumer choice is never a bad thing.  Another difference is that we all have the choice to run our own node if it means that much to us.No it would not.That already happened, to Mybitcoin.com.  Fortunes were lost, but it was an inditment against Mybitcoin.com's security model, not Bitcoin's.No we would not.  The only reason that such wallet services would even be viable businesses is if it's generally cheaper to use such services than pay a normal network transaction fee.  But there would be any number of ways to avoid such fees, not just the paypal-like bitcoin walet service model.  Another that I think would be viable is a Ripple-like overlay network.  Another woudl be something similar to what Electrum does with their Stratum overlay network.Of course we can, more than one in fact.  But the economic drivers for users to favor services has less to do with the size of the blockchain, and more to do with expected future transaction costs.  Currently, transaction fees are being heavily subsidized by block rewards, but future network congestion is bound to force that fee up.  The developers are still working on methods of streamlining the network, but at some transaction volume in the future, fees are going to have to total $25K per block to maintain the current level of security.  Ideally, we can improve the netowrk's throughput so that the costs are spread across many feee paying transactions, but Visa's average throughput is about 2K TPS, or about 1.2 Million transactions per block, which put the cost per transaction at less than 3 cents each.  But if we can't get there, something is going to have to give, because users aren't going to suddenly start paying GAvin's Cost (about 3.3 millibiitcoins per kilobyte) if they can avoid it, and they can avoid it if some portion of their transactions can be done off-network.Compression of the blockchain is impossible, but there is another solution....Completely full nodes without pruning of any kind will not be neccessary per se, but I'd expect that some institutions would want to do it.  As for bootstrapping a new client after pruning is the default state, the client could simply be programmed to download the block headers (which are persistant data tha must exist anyway) up until some known block number, and so long as that known block number has a hash that matches the hash that the node has been programmed to expect, and that the whole set of block headers have  a single hash that the node has been programmed to expect, that client could treat that special block number as it's own genesis block from that point.  After all, users normally create a new wallet'dat file at that point, and it would be strange to need the blocks that existed prior to that point unless you were mining.This is similar to what I described above, but no network consensus about which block is required.  That special block can be updated with each realease of a client, and be differant for each indepenantly maintained client.Unnecessary.
Just curious, because I've been getting a lot more questions about the resident size of the blockchain. That wasn't complacency, that was willful restraint.   Peer pressure, whatever you call it, is not coercion.  Coercion is the use of force, as in enforcement of monetary laws.  The general opinion of a (largely) anonymous forum, whether or not you agree with that "groupthink" (it's called Bitcointalk, after all.  There's obviously a bias.), is not force.  All they can do is ignore your commentary.  Which happens to be what most of us do to you, Question.That's the great innovation of bitcoin, as mass adoption of bitcoin would make government control of commerce much more difficult than it already is.  That is no small thing.Oh, I know that.  A great many of those same people consider me a heretic as well. The truth here scares me. Plagiarism is an impossibility in a libertarian worldview.  It might be polite to cite this paper, but it's not a crime to fail to do so. AnonyMint, you are a strange jumble of correct and false.  I wonder how both Austrian and Keynesian economic theories can co-exist in your head without your head exploding from the cognative dissonance. I didn't say that I don't take any part of it literally.  Since that is an impossibility without coercion, the rest is irrelevent.  Bitcoin cannot be the mark; and as I already mentioned, I don't even condsider "the mark" to be an actual prophesy, so the interpretation regarding control of commerce (which was very relevent to the Roman Empire during the first century A.D.) is not relevent to Bitcoin, the United Nations, or the United States Federal Reserve.  It's Daniel that predicts the (repeated) rise of Israel as a nation with actual borders, and Enoch perhaps as well (in the prophesy of the ages of humanity).  I don't consider actual prophesy to be at all common, and it should be suspect (even th ebible itself says this) but I don't consider prophesy to be impossible either.  Of course, those same prophesies (both in Daniel and Enoch) arent' very useful except in hindsight, as the only thing that they are really good for is establishing the (divine?) creditials of the author to a distant generation. Bitcoin: What's in your wallet.dat? I'm certain it's not Gavin.  I was here when they were both still active, and the possibility that the were the same individual was brought up and investigated then, but they had notablely differnet English writing styles, and differnet coding styles.  While such a thing can be faked to a degree with concious effort, it's provablely true that Gavin was quite busy doing other things in life while Satoshi was busy building Bitcoin early.Which government? I know I really shouldn't be doing this, but....http://iang.org/papers/fc7.htmlI wonder if anyone has bothered to ask Ian Grigg if he is, or has knowledge of, Satoshi Nakamoto.  It seems obvious to me that Satoshi must have read his works, at a minimum. The mark is an involuntary system.  Bitcoin is, by it's nature, entirely voluntary and without coercion.  Bitcoin isn't the mark.That's assuming that I beleive that Revelations should be taken literally.  I do not.  I'm a gnostic christian, not a literalist.  Revelations is better understood if it's read as an allegory for personal death in the context of the early church experiencing a very real persecution from government, written in a kind of jargon 'code' that wouldn't imply to those same government agents that the author was actually discussing current or near term events.  The 'mark' or 'number of the beast' (666) happens to match the written character consents of the full name of the Roman emperor of the time, and that was a trick of identification that would have been somewhat familiar to Christian Jews at the time.  In short, I don't agree that Revelations was actually prophetic, but was a mass communications tool that was deliberately disguised to appear prophetic.  I would consider the (Expanded) Book of Daniel and the Book of Enoch to be the most prophetic of the books of the Bible, and I don't consider the Bible to be complete without the Apocrypha taken into consideration, dispite their dubious authorship and difficult read.  Nor do I consider all the books of the canon to be of equal value, as I think that each should be considered individually.  This is what makes me 'gnostic' (in search of the knowledge), and means that I don't believe in the Doctrine of Divine Preservation.  To me, each book, it's authorship, history and translatoins stand alone. Fallout 4: The Second Coming..."I come not with peace, but with the sword..." Neither was I, but your (apparent) belief that reproducible laws of nature are immutible and/or that our understanding of said laws of nature are sufficiently complete simply supports my point.  You have faith that your worldview is correct.  You have to, for if you did not, the cognative dissonance you would regularly encounter will either require you to alter your worldview till the stress of such cognative dissonance is below your cronic threshhold; or simply drive you to madness. From the article...I think that, overall, it's an excellent assessment of near term investment risks. Wow, this is really well done.  Thanks for the link.  I've not read it all, obviously; but from what I've read thus far, it appears to be very well researched and a balanced assessment of Bitcoin as a financial investment asset.  Whoever wrote it groks Bitcoin on a deep level in the Economic sense. Believe what you wish. We can all use whatever unit we desire.  There will never be a group, nor top-down, decision to either switch or not switch currency units. You have a faith based worldview as well, you just don't think you do.  While I would agree that Mt Everest is a real mountain that can be measured, can you personally perform that act, or do you need to trust the claim of someone else?  What first hand evidence do you possess that the proto-planet Pluto exists?  That Nelson Mandela (who died today) was more than a fictional character, or that James Bond was not?  That Americans have ever visited the Moon?The truth is, you don't.  You could have the ability to prove to yourself that some of these things are truth, but no single person could prove that all of them are truth.  You live as a lifeform for which a faith-based worldview is a physical and psycological requirement for any kind of sane or rational interaction with the rest of humanity.  You must put your faith in someone.  In whom, or what, you choose to believe in says as much about you as what, or whom, you choose to deny. If that were true, why did he spend so much money and time trying to cure his cancer; rather than willing it out of existance? I'm not proposing any such thing.  History is funny that way.The 6000 years of a "gold standard" is funny history.  Gold is a deflationary currency unit; as it's availability during any given age is limited to that which has been mined out of the ground, but by comparison to population growth across recorded human history, gold is an increasingly scarce commodity.  At some point in human history, we moved from zero jobs to non-zero jobs.  Since this occured well before the rise of inflationary fiat currencies, then the obvious answer must be that the deflationary nature of currencies, at a minimum, does not prevent jobs from being created.  The realtively short history of infaltionary currencies asl tells us that the infaltionary nature of said currencies, at a minimum, doesn't prevent existing jobs from destruction either.Perhaps, then, the evidence suggesting a relationship between the inflationary/deflationary nature of the common currency and that of the net creation/destruction of jobs is weak.
There's a whole lot of wrong with this post.  Please spend some time learning about economics and come back.   It's as amusing to myself to dissect your jokes as it is for you to ridicule my belief system. What do you believe in? Wouldn't matter.  The Sea of Galliee never freezes. Within the US, the deception goes much deeper than that.  For example, the official CPI (Consumer Price Index of inflation) deliberately excludes prices in food or energy; which just happen to be two of the most important things that people around the world really need.  Also, changes in real estate are not directly considered; instead a massaged number called "Owner's Equivilant Rent" is included.   Yes, but with cavets.Obviously, one can use paper wallets or Cascious coins like cash, just as others have pointed out, but it's also possible for two clients not connected to the Internet to transact so long as they can connect to one another. For example, say you have two parties that both have mesh wifi on their smartphones, and bitcoin apps that will let the user do this (presently, as far as I know, no current bitcoin wallet clients would let the user do this).Adam and Bob meet sometime during TEOTWAWKI, both have working smartphones, neither has any cell service.  Adam has canned goods & bullets for sale, Bob has only bitcoins to offer.  Assuming that Adam actually want's bitcoins due to the future outlook of the Internet, they agree to trade using bitcoins if they can manage it.  So long as the two apps can connect over the mesh wifi connection, Bob's client can create at least one transaction without needing access to the Bitcoin network, and it can send that transaction to Adam's phone.  So long as Adam's phone client has a local copy of the blockchain (or even just the blockchain headers and merkle trees, within risk conditions) it can verifty Bob's transaction as valid.  However, in the absence of Internet access, it's impossible for Adam to verifty that Bob isn't some hacker repeatedly spending the same bitcoins during the crisis.  The risk then is all Adam's.  He may choose to accept the transaction at face value, and forward it to the Bitcoin network at the next opprotunity.Additionally, transactions can be created in advance that permits such an offline capable client to spend funds many times before it runs out of usable inputs.  It is generally assumed that the Bitcoincard hardware wallet would function in this manner on some level, assuming it's more than vaporware.http://bitcoincard.org/ For the record, I thought the last one was a reference to late at night, and that the answer would be my username.  That's why I thought I might be in there somewhere.Obviously, I was wrong. And that is why I'm wavering.... It's pocket change.  The Federal Reserve is creating new US dollars at a rate of $85 Billion per month, or about 2.25 billion per day.  And that is just what they will admit. Zerocoins arent' even an alt-coin, it's a protocol extension to Bitcoin to improve the anonymousness of Bitcoin.  IMHO the claims by other crytocoins to being more anonymous should be suspect, and the most anonymous is to mine Bitcoins independently while providing the miner with a new address from your wallet for each found block.  The coinbase coins are the most anonymous because they don't have a history to 'taint' their anonymousness. He's been in a Federal holding jail for most of the time, and the Gmen have been watching him like a hawk for this exact reason. Let's start a thread for Bitcoin related mottos that one might see on a bumper sticker.  Short and to the point.  Anything that you put here is going to be free to use by anyone who actually does print bumber stickers.  So keep that in mind if you are into keeping your ideas for your personal profit.I'll start....Bitcoin: The Revolution Will Not Be Centralized! Okay, so what was the solution? They've moved the coins that were deposited into the server pool addresses, because that wallet.dat was probably on the server itself.  Last that I heard, the address that the feds assume was the private wallet of DPR had not been moved; and if it had it would be more likely to be proof that they have a fallguy, and that DPR just moved them to make that point clear.  It's hard to access the Internet securely from a jail cell. Atlas was a child with a great mind.  He will be truly great one day, but while he was here he mostly aggravated everyone with his inmature worldview and narrow ideology.  He needs to grow up some, but I have no doubt that he has enough of his own bitcoins that he many never want for anything. Have you tried localbitcoins.com? There are already a couple of churches and missions that accept bitcoin donations.  Google is your friend. Yes, it does.  It's expected.Yes and no.  Yes they could do it, no it wouldn't be bitcoin anymore.  That would be a 'breaking' change.  Bitcoins would functionally cease to exist.  The price would collapse, and it should.Nothing is ever impossible, but it would still be astronomically unlikely.If ther i s aflaw discovered in the address keypari algos, then everyone using bitcoin would migrate to a new address format with a new algo.  Whatever was left after some transitional period would be assumed to be lost coins, and thus salvage.  Perhaps such a flaw could be exploited to permit breaking of the addresses, but that is unlikley.  Such as it is, those lost coins will remain lost for well beyond our natural lifetimes. Pre-1993 Once upon a time, the same thing could have been said about the Internet at large.
Okay, how was this problem solved?   Okay, not guarantee.  What about Quark makes mining with GPUs or Asics difficult?Bitcoin has the ability to use two different hashing algos right now, but just uses one twice.  This kind of thing coudl be spliced onto Bitcoin without stopping the running network, I'm just curious as to the merits of such a thing.  As you noted, there is a case of deminishing returns with adding extra locks onto the same door. Just a couple questions...1) with a target block interval of only 30 seconds, aren't block orphaned at a high rate?2) how can cpu mining be guaranteed?3) what is the advantage that Quark has that those in this thread consider to be deficient in Bitcoin?Seriously, I don't understand the attraction. We were the first through the door!  Of the first 1000 or so forum members here, roughly four were NOT of the libertarian persuasion.  The political debates at the time were between flavors of libertarianism.  Of course, that all changed as the popularity of Bitcoin (and thus the membership here) exploded, but it was nice having a safe haven while it lasted. I think that you would, but IANAL. Well, I never bought anything on that site, but I sure wouldn't relish the thought of the FBI, ATF etc up my business for a mere $30K; but I strongly suspect that number is going to continue to rise.   No, I think you misunderstand the point.  The core right of mankind is the right to life.  If I own myself, which I obviously do, I own my life.  If I truly own anything, that means I have the right to destroy that thing.  I have the right to destroy myself, and I can actually sell the right to destroy myself to another.  However, if I were to sell myself to a human-hunter for sport, and he fails to follow through, he's also 'quit' his claim and, by reason of my own continuing to exist, have immediately homesteading my corporeal body once again.  It's not the selling of self in the moment that's impossible, it's the ongoing arrangement that is impossible, because I can change my mind at any time.  And if I can change my mind and walk off the chain gang, then it's not really slavery, is it?Not in my experience.  Both issues seem pretty well settled.  The first isn't prohibited in any way, it's just impossible to sustain; and the second is obvious.  If I own myself, which I obviously do, and I have the right to destroy myself, which I do, then I have a right to part myself out.  The tricky part is proving after the fact that it was an agreement I freely entered into without coercion.  If I'm only selling one kidney for a very large sum of money, and am still alive after the fact to assert that my kidney wasn't stolen from me, then I shoudl be able to sell that kidney; and I should be able to buy one in like manner.  However, selling all my parts is tricker, since it becomes less obvious that I actually gained anything. ; but I can think of a scenerio or two where even that would make sense.  Say, for example, I had an inoperable brain tumor, but my heart was in excellent shape.  My own doctors gave me six months to live.  Then some really rich guy comes and offers to pay my next of kin an ungodly sum of money for my heart, because he has a teenaged son who needs a heart transplant in the next 3 months and I'm a match.  IF I coudl verify that my own bills woudl be paid, and a fund set up for my kids to go to college, such a trade woudl be rational as long as I truly believed (and had not been decieved) that my own life was short. Ah, a state sanctioned militia.  That makes sense, actually. I've got to say, you're stretching the limits of imagination trying to squeeze that conclusion out of that verse. I'm sure that you have to realize on an intellectual level that this statement is impossible.  Even the S&M sex slaves aren't really slaves, they're just play-acting.  You cannot 'sell yourself' beyond a limited term and under very limited conditions, thus nothing like chattel slavery at all.  Even those same S&M sex slaves have that 'safe word' that makes it all stop. Wait, what?  Are you serving in the National Guard and donating your service pay to the Iraqi Orphans' Fund or what? That's actually a very common misquotation of the verse in 1 Timothy 6:10, which started with a poor translation under King James..."For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows."  -King JamesBut a much more accurate translation is this...."For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. And some people, craving money, have wandered from the true faith and pierced themselves with many sorrows."  -New Living TranslationThe latter is a better translation into more modern English.  There are many independent translations that come up with pretty much the same take on things. http://biblehub.com/1_timothy/6-10.htmTo put it another way, to love money is the source of a great many evils that men commit against one another, but it's not quite the only cause.  However, the very nature of money does not make it evil, nor is the possession of money alone a sin. I was raised Catholic, my wife was Protestant.  We get along fine. Utopians don't see the impossibility of the end goal, nor the value in a partial victory. You're inside it.  The lifeblood of any civilization is it's trade currency.  Up until Bitcoin, a dependable trade currency pretty much required the intervention into the monetary policy by the soveign, if only to garrantee that gold was indeed gold if it had his face on it.  This is no longer neccessary.  The transaction fees you may or may not choose to pay for are this society's voluntary taxation.  Nothing more is 'required' of you here.Very well.  But by doing so, you also choose to accept the culpablity of the wrongs persecuted in your name, because you can't really separate the taxes that you pay for paving roads from those use to kill brown people that don't speak English.  You can imagine that your taxes are paying for education of inner city kids all you like, but someone is paying to catch, prosecute and incarcerate addicts for victimless crimes against the state.  I pay taxes as well, but I'm not under any illusions that anything more than a very small minority of it is used to pay for anything I would volutarily contribute towards.  My taxes are 'protection' money, from the greatest protection racket around, and there is nothing noble about it at all. No, sir.  That is why it's realistic.  Even libertarians regard a libertarian society on a sliding scale, not an absolute.  That is why striving towards the goal would, and should, become harder with successes.  Unlike socialism, however, an imperfect liberty isn't a broken society.  An imperfect socialism simply requires that a iron-fisted government 'correct' the imperfections with force.  This is what we saw happen during the last century, all the while the Politburo complained that the problems the people saw was a result of an imperfect socialism, and that more work need be done.  Libertarianism, however, is fundamentally different.  A libertarian minded society can tolerate a socialist sub-culture, even while most people consider it a mistake.  A socialist minded society cannot tolerate a libertarian sub-culture, because that is the very embodiment of the 'imperfect socialsim' that they must eradicate.  Socialism cannot exist, because it requires forcing some minority to participate against their own desires and/or nature.  Libertarianism doesn't care what your personal desires or nature is, if you don't like liberty, you are (ironicly) free to dispose of it however you like.  No one is going to bother to 'force' you to live free.  However, that absolute libertarian society that you speak off is at the end of the long tail of the political bell curve.  We know that we can never get there, but that doesn't imply that doing our best isn't worthwhile; in part because an imperfect liberty is still a good place to live in the meantime. Way more than a few, but most of us are long past having such conversations on an open Internet forum.  Most of the important stuff is still in the archives, though. Then you are regressing, not maturing.So far... Because I had already been taken by another online wallet service that closed with much of my funds.  Mybitcoin.com IIRC.  So I figured that a hidden website that doesnt' even pretend to be legal wouldn't be a worse risk.  I figured (incorrectly) that as long as it had already been up and not seized, that DPR must have known what he was doing in the security realm.  I was keeping it there as I transitioned from one computer system to another and moving from one home to another.  I just hadn't gotten around to logging back into it and sending myself the funds yet before the FBI takedown.  I was procrastinating. I was using SilkRoad only to store a selection of bitcoins offsite.  I've never bought any drugs from the site, and I'm sure that I'm not the only one.  They took about 30 bitcoins from me when they snatched Silk Road, and I'm considering sueing them now considering their present value.  Anyone else thinking about this?  Anyone here have any experience with such a claim? Or the heat trace cable asic miner, so that institutions can freeze protect their plumbing assets while also protecting their bitcoin assets.  No, really, I'm not joking here.
By itself, no.  However this is simply leveraging the merkle tree to reduce bandwith redundency.  There is nothing that requires that all nodes, even all mining nodes, store a complete blockchain.  Locally set pruning rules will permit any nodes that choose to prune to maintain a fairly stable blockchain size, as each new transaction confirmed permits at least one older transaction to be pruned, after a point. Well, it's not really parallel blocks.  It's just that the blocks will be "naked"; in the sense that a block is really just the 80 byte header, the 'reward' transaction and the merkle tree.  The transactions can be included, or not, by any node.  However, as a matter of simplicity of the early network, blocks are still published with all of the transactions included.  This has never been the end goal.  It was intended from the start that blocks be published naked, which will reduce the network's overall bandwidth because transactions won't have to propogate twice. This figure is based upon a rising risk of orphan blocks, and includes a great many assumptions about how the "average" miner is connected.  The figure varies based upon the current exchange rate, the current block reward, the average rate of orphans and the difference between the average rate and the rate that adding the extra transactions provide.  In short, the figure is a very well educated guess, but it's still a guess.  The fact that it exists, can be calculated based upon a lot of changing variables, and is higher than the minimum transaction fee only establishes that a market rate for transactions will always exist. If you need your transaction processed faster, provide a fee that exceeds whatever Gavin's Cost is at any given moment.  If you don't need your transaction included immediatly, then lower your fee and you can still expect it to process at some point.  This is not an issue at the moment, and with the decreasing block reward, isn't likely to be a limiting factor in the future.Are you taling about the plan to permit blocks to be published as only the header and merkle tree?  And letting the netowrk nodes aquire the transactions that fit into those merkle trees from their peers "loose", in a manner similar to how the Stratum network functions?  This would do that, but this isn't the primary motive for doing this.  Right now, blocks are published complete, which means that the network bears the burden of propogating all transactions twice, which is just inefficient since most nodes already have all of these transactions in their own queues by the time any block is published.We haven't given up on that, such solutions are simply off network/ out of band; take a look at the Stratum overlay netowrk, which does some things similar, and then imagine what happens when wallet services/bitcoin banks agree to link together over a similar overlay network.  They can simply agree to accept the word of their institutional peers that a member of theirs has issued a payment of such-n-such to a member of the receiveing institution.  Would work much like Ripple is intended to work with individuals, but can't really because individuals don't really know enough about each other to really develop the credit trust.  While there would have to be an imbalance limit, to be settled up periodically over the main bitcoin network, most of the time major instituions' interlinked balances would simply cancel each other out.  Micropayments of arbitrarily small amounts of bitcoin then become possible.GAvin's Cost will naturally decrease over time, as it's primarily the block reward (and the market price) and the risks of losing all of one that imposses this theoretical costs of including transactions.  If the market rate remains steady, Gavin's Cost cuts in half the next time the block reward drops.  Eventually the transaction fees become the primary finacing method of professional miners, and Gavin's Cost only sets a theoretical price floor over time.There is a method of mining that does not require a full blockchain, that was noted by Satoshi in the white paper.  Also, rapid bootstrapping of a fresh node is also possible out-of-band, simply by downloading a recent snapshot of the blockchain from a trusted source and letting the new client scan it.  Neither method is yet implimented, simply because it's not really an issue.It wold reduce to less than that by simply instituting block pruning, which was described in the white paper as well, and is the real reason that the merkel trees were included in the protocol from the start.  You can hack your node to prune your own client now, if you like.  It's just not a standard feature in the reference cleint yet.Again, take a look at Stratum.Maybe, but I'm still willing to bet that hardware will outpace Bitcoin network demand growth. Actually, we did discuss this exact thing in detail about two years ago, RAssah.  My short answer is, of course any very well heeled individual and/or bitcoin based finance institution is going to go to great lengths to secure their own miing operations.  For comparision, most consumer bank branches have very large, very expensive valut systems; even though in our modern digital age such an expense is no longer neccessary for their primary business.  Bitcoin 'banking' institutions are going to compete in many different ways, and touting their hashing capacity is as much a psycological benefit for an online bitcoin bank as a time-lock safety deposit box safe is for a brick & mortor institution.  Also, I expect such banks to compete by advertising their ability to offer free transactions.  One might be able to offer those free transactions because the bank itself has recepriprocity agreements with major retailers such as Walmart, or they might just e able to do so by sponoring some significant mining operations of their own, similar to my Walmart example.  While Walmart would do it to process their own "free" transactions at their own meatspace counters in a timely manner, actual bitcoin based financial institutions would do it as a benefit to their membership.  While free transactions can be sent by anyone, only a bank with their own mining under contract can promise that those same transactions will be processed for "free" within any time frame.  It thus becomes a comparative advantage over a bank that just offered basic bitcoin banking services, and didn't sponsor their own mining gear.Bitcoin banks offering free transactions, for their own reasons, would by itself undermine AnonyMint's transactions withholding attack theory.  If numerous institutions are offering free transactions within their own limited scopes, then no cartel can develop with the premise that free transactions processing is an advantage that only a cartel member would have access to. Cutting out noise to address a particular point.Except that I demostrated several reasons why that is not an economic fact; and that it's long been understood that there will be institutions willing to mine zero margin or less for other economic reasons.  One of which I actually do, wchich is use the heat for zone heating in winter (roughly 15% of the network hash power is "other unknown" which I would be part of) another being the competing cartels (Walmart&McDonalds versus Target & Burger King) mining for major players in competing industries, for which finance is not tehir primary business, but is already a cost center.And that is the point Rassah & I have been making.  You don't respond to critisisms of your theory.  If you can't manage my objections to your theory, then you don't have a theory. Not really.  Not only would I have to be able to know which coins are Satoshi's (only the first few hundred blocks can be assumed to be Satoshi's), I'd also have to know that he didn't sell those block reward addresses out-of-band.  Neither of these things are knowable, unless he tells us.  We'd also have to know that Satoshi himself was still alive, and some heir wasn't finally making moves with inherited funds.  Keep in mind that he stopped talking to us shortly before the last Tsunami killed thousands of Japanese in a single day.  If Satoshi is actually Japanese & actually an individual, he might be dead.Go right ahead.  I don't agree that everyone will sell them, but I'll offer you an early deal.  Get out now and I'll pay you half price on all that you have. Based upon what, exactly? AnonyMint is not out of his league in economics.  That is to say, that he is obviously capable of understanding, and seems to have some kind of professional education in the topic.  However, he spends a great deal of time restating commonly held economic myths in a somewhat novel way.  It seems to me that he is either self-taught and young, or his professional education in Economics is incomplete.  He understands it like a promising student.  That said, I agree with Rassah on his overall assessment.  Even mastery of Economics (which AnonyMint has not acheived, imo) is not enough to understand Bitcoin.  It's not even close.  I had to learn a great deal about subjects that I was little better than a layman; including but not limited to, cryptography and other high math, psychology and programming.  I am far from a master of these topics even now, but I am far better than a layman in each; and at a minimum understand the roles they play in Bitcoin.  Also, I was here when Satoshi was still posting.  I know some other things that aren't even mentioned in the white paper regarding security, some that are already in the main client, others that are not; that complicate (although don't render impossible) the execution of several general methods of attacking the blockchain or the network.  I know, personally, that Satoshi foresaw much more than most of us understood.  Bitcoin's elegant design was not luck.  Personally, I came to the conclusion that the Satoshi on this forum was only a front man for a team of pros; because even thought a true polymath could do this, he often had some rather large delays between the asking of hard questions and their associated responses, implying to me that he was consulting someone out of view.  Redardless, Satoshi (& company) did not expect that mining nodes would remain fair and trustworthy with one another.  He/She/They fully expected that some major nodes would try to game the system to their own advantage, and that they can be expected some measure of success; but since these activities can be detected over time, that those nodes would be retaliated against in various ways.  This is one reason that I, personally, have real doubts that Proof of Stake has any real future in cryptocurrency, since staking by it's nature assumes that nodes with high stakes won't turn malicious, and thus there is some level of trust placed on those 'supernodes'.  Bitcoin does not have supernodes.And it's in the retaliation aspect, not his analysis of (limited in scope) economic incentives that his attack vector collapses.  He makes too many assumptions about how other nodes will respond.  He assumes that all (non-negligible) nodes will react in what he considers to be the highest profit seeking manner; thus completely ignoring the fact that many nodes have economic incentives to resist the formation of a cartel, that many nodes have economic incentives to try to outcompete and otherwise undermine the primary cartel membership (in this case Amazon, and because Amazon has real competitors, just not direct ones) and that many nodes have no significant economic incentive in either case, but do have a vested interest in the network's 'status quo'.  While he can present his attack, he doesn't respond to objections to his attack with any arguments, only insults and implications that he has already addressed such objections earlier.  I've read the thread, he's done no such thing; at least not in a rational and non-hostile manner.  Many of us have grown tired of his childish trolling masked as a somewhat intellectual debate. I don't deny that he is smart, but he is still out of his depth here.  Really, no one cares what his credentials might be, true or false, only his arguments matter here.  So far, I find his arguments sorely lacking in substance or merit.  His economic writings are bullshit. Honestly, no one really gives a shit, Anonymint. I find it all silly, myself. Even if this statement is true, which I doubt, it's still a more level wealth distribution than US dollar denominated wealth is. My younger brother has a tested IQ above 160.  He also has a mild case of Asbergers's Syndrome, and has real trouble making practical decisions as a direct result.  No one that has ever met him would think that he is so intelligent, particularly since IQ doesn't measure intelligence.  Only those who don't know what the IQ actually measures use it as evidence of their own superiority. I rang in at 149 as a teen, BTW. This last part is historicly false.  It's a widely held belief, mostly because of the degree of propaganda that the supporters of central banking have put out there over the past century.  There is, quite literally, no evidence that suggests that chartering of a central bank was ever an issue with any popular support, and particularly not in 1913 when it actually happened.  To be blunt, even the bill's planning and existance was a secret right up until it was introduced into congress, and passed with a flurry.  It makes Pelosi's "we have to pass it so you can see what's in it" bullshit look like high minded parlimentarly process.Maybe, but not only do many actual economists argue that the Regression Theory is flawed, but Gary North doesn't even use it (if one assumes he is a true Austrian, I don't) in the proper sense. I'm pretty sure that he meant that in the context of the level of work to rest ratio that prior generations have had to endure.  On net, he's correct in this sense, although it's not 'endless'. AnonyMint, you neither understand of what you speak, nor know of whom you speak.   True.  But the merit of an investment advisor is not in his ability to predict an ongoing trend, but to predict an oncoming inflection point.  If S3052 will be able to change his bullish outlook in time to avoid a crash, then I will be impressed. then you haven't been around here long enough.  I've seen at least three bubbles pop since I've been here.  It's like the Bitcoin economy is moving along at 10 times the speed of the greater economy as it grows.  I don't doubt that we'll see a $10K BTC before 2020, and maybe before 2016; but it's not all up.  Nothing is ever all up. Fair enough.  I don't think Gary North is a fair representation of Austrian thinking under any context.  While he makes for some great reading; I'd say he is very much a conservative, and is rather constrained in his thought processes to be called an Austrian economist, even if he claims the term.Well said. Looks like a book of matches and one of those wet-wipes you can get at BBQ resturants to me.
For now.  Keep in mind that we've had several bubbles already, and a 10% daily growth rate screams "bubble!". This is a really sad article by Gary North.  He claims that Bitcoins can never become a real unit of exchange, but never really offers a reason why not.  The old austrians are proving to be very disappointing in the capacity to imagine change. I know I'm being nitpicky here, but while I agree that (in an Austrian Economic sense) Bitcoins are not money, the reason for that is not because it is a planned/designed currency.  That would be because the currency unit itself has no alternative use outside of the context of being a currency. (the counter-argument about the use value of the settlement network notwithstanding)  For example, the British Pound was once a planned currency unit, but the actual coins were minted from real gold or silver, so they were also a money.  The definition of what "money" is might need adjustment to include a deliberately designed 'free market' currency system, but probably not.  Most people don't really know what "money" really is, and don't care about the details.I not sure who actually said this, but the part I highlighted is actually a myth.  While it's true enough that a great many final causes of death can be traced back to poor personal habits, it's also true that everyone dies of something.  The reality is that, in Western nations, the vast majority of people die from complications related to living much longer than a natural lifespan permits.  People get fat because they eat too much, but many get fat because they are too old to practially exercise and have the means to enjoy too much food.  Some people get heart problems because they smoke, most get heart problems because they have lived long enough.  Simply put, if you live long enough, something is going to break; the fact that so many official causes for death are related to officially avoidable things does not change the fact that Americans live so much longer than we used to. We've actually been over this point to a great deal. Addressing all three of your points at once.  Not only did Satoshi foresee the quantum computing risks concerning bitcoin, he provided a path to deal with such issues.  There is an upgrade path for the primary hashing algo, including "hooks" in the existing code to permit a second algo to be added in series to the current SHA256.  Whatever algo that best deals with the most likely threat, be it quantum computing or private asic farms, cna be chosen to be added to the system without so much as stopping the blockchian.  A similar algo upgrade path was provided for with regard to the address keypair algos.  (the leading charachter is currently always a "1", this tells the bitcoin network what address version is in play, although currently no other choice exists) Close, but you have to understand that the difficulty is a human friendly expression of what is going on, and isn't exactly how the clients handle it.  If you want to know, you really do need to understand how it's done by the client. Too late. The real question isn't can it be done.  The question is, are you willing to break your local laws? Perhaps you could find out where & when the next geek meeting is happening, lan-party maybe?  Crash the party and enlist the boys around you to help you in your photo.  There are a number of video game related vendors here that might be interested in such a viral marketing ploy.I'm sure that you know how to get a few gamer geeks to do what you want. I understand, and I'm wouldn't recommend nudity anyway. I mentioned that event only to highlight what has happened before.  You could get creative with outfits and such.  Perhaps a steampunk game-show style letter mover with an adjustable sign?  Perhaps find a partner, and hold up a large bilboard-ish sign in a well known public space?   You are not a late-adopter.  Bitcoin's market share is what?  10 Billion dollars?  That's chump change for just an online payment processor such as Paypal.  We have a long way to go yet. Honestly, I think that you might want to redo that example photo.  Viral marketing requires a bit more than a photo of you holding a single sheet of paper with a handwritten message.  Perhaps something on a plain white t-shirt?  You're not the first forum member to come up with a similar idea.  When I was still a mod, we had to deal with another female forum member who was willing to sell advertising photos of messages written onto her bare skin.  Many of those ads were not safe for work.  I'm not suggesting you do the same thing, but you're going to have to be more creative than a semi-goth girl holding a sheet of notebook paper. That's not true at all.  Many, if not most, of the early movers around here expected to see a $1000 bitcoin eventually.  I don't know if anyone expected to see $1000 per BTC before the second block reward halving, however.  I certainly didn't. Yes, but Bitcoin wasn't designed to be a micropayment system, per se.  That may or may not (more likely not) occur using less common transaction types, such as using a single send-to-many transaction for weekly payroll or a household's monthly bills. That said, the minimum transaction fee has been repeatedly reduced as the value of a bitcoin has increased.  I expect that the transaction fee will drop back down to around a cent or less with the next client code update. I'm not really the right person to elaborate. While I agree that direct comparisons to standard computer metrics is fraught with error, I disagree that the metric is irrelevant.  It's an estimate of how fast a conventional computer would have to be to match the bitcoin network as is.  Granted, no one is going to use a conventional computer system to do this, but it also shows the futility of trying to even redirect existing hardware to the task.   Don't try to convince your family of anything.  But you could ask your father, where is the value in US Dollars?  His understanding of that factoid should be instructive for both of you. If I understand the statement correctly, yes.  The "longest" blockchain is the one that required the greatest amount of computational power to create, and that is determined by the client by suming up the difficulty of all the blocks created.  It's just a bit more complicated than that, as most things are, but that is a fine way to think about it.EDIT:  BTW, the current bitcoin network is running at an estimated total computational power of just over 62,000 petaflops.  It's risen by about a thousand petaflops per day over the past week or so.  The fastest supercomputer on Earth (not classified) was benchmarked at 33 petaflops this past summer.  That computer system took three years to construct and sits on roughly 40 acres of land.  Bitcoin is way past the point that it's at risk from a falsified blockchain attack of any sort. The salt in the water promotes rust in steel water pipes.  I've literally never lived in a home with steel water pipes, and didn't even consider that.  If you have rust, you're water softener has already destroyed your plumbing, and it should be replaced with PVC plastic water pipes, or copper lines if that scares you.We don't have sulfer issues here, mostly calcium in the water.  Which is actually good for you, and my tap water tastes very much like bottled water for the same reason.  Perhaps a filter system would work better for you?If your primary concern is the smell of sulfer (it won't actually hurt you, BTW) then a single filter designed for that would be the most cost effective, perhaps an activated charcoal filter? That's not true.  As far as the transfer of funds, Bitcoin can do it within 5 seconds anywhere in the world.  It's the settlement part that takes confirmations.  Credit cards often take 30 to 60 days to properly settle a transaction.  It's possible for a meatspace vendor to accept zero comfirmation transactions at face value without much risk, due to the fact that a double spend attack while one is sitting inside a pub is very difficult, and that competing transactions on the network can be detected.  Timing is everything with a double spend attack, if the attacker sends the competing transaction too early, the vendor's client is likely to see it before the purchase has been made.  If the attacker sends it more than 5 seconds after the vendor's client does, it doesn't even matter that the double spend was even attempted, as no one will ever see it.  Also, if a double spend attempt is detected, the vendor could simply tell the customer his bitcoins have been denied in very much the same way that a credit card can be denied.  While no one would be willing to accept anything less than several confirmations for something like a car, it's not unreasonable for in person purchase values of less than $100 at a time be accepted zero confirmations at face value, if the transaction is valid and no competing transactions (double spend attempts) are detected in the first several seconds.
Screw that!  I'd personally build a stone pizza oven in your front yard, and cook exactly one wood baked pizza in it for your family, before taking a sledgehammer to the oven for your kids' entertainment. Usually those kind of softeners operating on a timer, so they are set up with the assumption that the place will be occupied and water will be generally consumed while the salt is injected.  The point of the salt, is to inhibit the desolved minerals in the water from sticking to the insides of the pipes, water heater, etc.  Also, clothes and dishes, but living in one of the hardest water regions on Earth, I can say from experience that softener salts don't really do a whole lot for dishes or clothes.  I grew up on the taste of hard water, and anything else tastes weird to me, so I don't use salt based softeners.  I add TSP to my detergents, etc. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trisodium_phosphate)It's unlikely that the softener extends the life of your equiptment enough to justify it's own costs (for a whole house unit, anyway) since it's usually cheaper to replace the water heater, etc. a couple of years early than install and maintain the water softener equptment.  If I were you, I'd consider simply decommisioning the unit, and perhaps install an undersink unit for drinking water and ice.  The deposits of minerals on the insides of pipes is very, very slow. Maybe it will be, maybe it won't be.  It doesn't matter what should be.  That said, Bitcoin's max velocity is an order or two magnitude higher than fiat currencies in the absence of a working credit system.  Credit systems depend upon faith and trust a great deal more than even fiat currencies do, and history has shown that such trust is easily lost, and economies built upon readily available credit can break down even faster than they can grow. However, modern governments are enabled by their ability to control the nature of money.  Once they lose that capacity in any significant degree, they also lose much of what has enabled them to grow to their current state.  The US federal government couldn't have ever have grown anywhere near to what it is today without the Federal Reserve Act of 1913. I sure do.  But keep in mind that there are other costs.  I don't want the kind of socially involved governments that dominate Europe, but if you like those things, such things do cost money.  If you don't like those kinds fo things, move over here and help us keep it this way.  It's become a hard fight for the past 10 years or so. Damn right!  You and me, brother, keeping the Bitcoin network running even if all the pools go up in smoke. No, sorry.  It means what it says, that a new block has been detected, not that you found it.EDIT: Actually, it could mean that.  Check the balance of your address associated with block generation. Bitcoin broke through the $1000 per BTC price point today, November 27th, 2013 on the MtGox exchange. Depends upon the state, actually.  Generally yes, though. Nope, that's income taxes.  Increases in the value of an asset (such as bitcoins owned) is capital gains taxes, which is 20% MAX and normally in the 10 to 12% range in the US. Actually, he can't.  He was finally banned with prejudice. I'll get to the rest in a minute, but I have to ask this question.  Concerning the claim I highlighted, why can't Bitcoin proliferate without businesses paying wages in it?  How many businesses pay their wages in silver or gold?  How many businesses pay their wages with Paypal or Western Union?  You've been looking at Bitcoin wrong, I think.  It's not a replacement for fiat currencies, although it could work for that.  It's a replacement for a significant part of the financial infrastucture that presently permits online commerce.  That's a multi-billion dollar a year industry that employs tens of thousands of people to produce nothing at all.Why?Yes, a majority do this.  That majority is (primarily) using Bitcoin as a payment method; as a replacement for credit cards & Paypal.  That leaves a minority of businesses that do not do this, or at least do not do this exclusively.  Some people are, indeed, saving in Bitcoins.How?First, he's not really being attacked by the Bitcoin community.  If he didn't have any respect here, there wouldn't be so much concern for his opinion.  And while Peter does know bubbles, he isn't without errors.  He's had his own misses, although his accuracy is far greater than the average Joe.  Furthermore, I don't think that anyone here is really claiming that Bitcoin couldn't be in a bubble.  It certainly could be.  Bitcoin has been through a half dozen bubbles and pops since I've been here, one more bubble is unlikely to destroy it.  Peter's complaints are that Bitcoin has neither any "intrinsic value" nor backing by a state as legal tender.  These are both (generally) true statements, but are both mostly true with gold as well, and yet gold persists as a monetary asset.  The answer is that many people have faith in Bitcoin for very different reasons than they might for gold.  Peter is a smart guy, but he's missing this one, and he's not alone.  It's perfectly fine that Bitcoin has detractors, if it was all roses with no complaints, I'd be worried that all of us were overlooking a potential problem.  Personally, I'm happy that Peter argues against it, and that others try to change his mind.  This kind of very public debate is healthy for Bitcoin. both technically and phsycologically. Yes.  He still comes around every now and again, but mostly has left for other pursuits.  This forum is full of noise these days, and he probably doesn't see any reason to be slumming.  He's not bitcoin broke, either. I'm not threatened by others being aware that I have limits, and while brilliance may not be communicable, understanding most certainly is.  You could be every bit as brilliant as you seem to believe, but you still lack understanding. It was implied, and you damn well know it. Congratulations.  You have the honor of being one of the very few people on this forum that were able to tell me something about Bitcoin that I didn't already know.  Don't assume that because you knew this little factoid, that you really grok bitcoin on the same level as myself.  I'm not a programmer, but nor am I stupid.  I was here for years in the company of brilliant people who were actualy building the bitcoin economy; and was able to converse with these same founders before all of this useless noise infested the forum and most of those same brilliant people left the forums.  There are now more than 160K registered forum members.  I remember having these kinds of arguments with detractors when one of the arguments was, "not even 10K people have even heard of a bitcoin, it'll never even reach parity with the dollar!"  Seriously, this isn't even the same forum anymore.  It's filled with programmers who don't undertand economics, economists who don't understand human psychology, psycologists who don't understand cryptology, and laymen who don't understand any of it; while they all think they are f*cking polymaths! https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/appeal-to-authorityIt doesn't much matter who the author may be, only what the argument is.  Speaking for myself, I very rarely see actual arguments presented on this forum anymore.  And when that does happen, it's generally due to a misunderstanding of the protocol by the author.  I'm not saying that this article doesn't have merit, but it doesn't have merit because it was presented by a professor from Cornell. Well, I stand corrected.  And yes, if either of those could ever happened again, it could wipe bitcoin out.  I'll give you that.  What are the odds that either of these expoits could be used agian, do you think? It is not fair to accuse Bitcoin of being insecure because of faults found in alt-coins. You're going to have to prove those events happened, because as far as I know, that is still impossible.  There was a bug that permitted someone to create a custom transaction to credit themselves a negative balance, but why would anyone do that?
What color is mine? I didn't miss that point, I took that as evidence that he didn't understand how the p2p network actually worked, that it was in Amazon's own vendors' interests that transactions be broadcast widely regardless of whether or not there was a profit to be gained from doing so.  Thus, it would be in the vendors' own interests to undermine the cartel's goals.  Amazon uses an exclusive payment system now, but most vendors can still do business outside of that system using their own websites.  Amazon is like a huge shopping mall, some people go there just to look around, and some small specialty shops benefit from being seen there.  That doesn't mean that they don't have stores that aren't in the mall. Mostly we just get tired of repeatedly refuting the same crap. That wasn't much of a breach, it was more like a bug.  There wasn't any way that anyone could still funds, fake a bitcoin balance, or some such.  There was a bug that permitted a fairly effective DDOS attack on the network, thereby preventing transactions from processing.  The integrity of the blockchain, nor it's security model, was ever in peril. Then it's a problem with MTGox, and there is nothing we can do to help.  The rebroadcasting won't help. First question, did you provide a fee?Second question, by "does not even show up in the blockchain" what do you mean exactly?  If it were to show up in the blockchain, it'd already be done.  Do you mean in blockchain explorer?  Rebroadcasting is automatic, so if your transaction is loose in the wild, but just not in a block yet, then it'll confirm eventually. Rassah, I think you are well aware that I understood his premise at least as well as he thinks that he understood his premise. Usually, the bottleneck for a fresh download of the blockchain isn't the bandwidth, it's the seek rate of the harddrive.  Since each block must be checked in every way before the client will download the next block, and your CPU isn't hammered, it's probably due to the massive number of disk accesses that both checking the blocks as well as building the index require.  If you were to start with a fairly recent copy of the blockchain, from a torrent for example, and tell the client to "rescan" that blockchain, your delays would likely be almost as bad. Agreed.  Marginal utility is a much more precise term, and has everything to do with bitcoins & gold.  Gold's marginal utility is very small compared to it's market price, so the argument that gold has marginal utility (while assuming that bitcoins do not) is of small merit at best.  Gold is, by and large, valued by the market for it's monetary uses; particularly it's store-of-value monetary utility.  Bitcoins are, by and large, valued by the market for it's monetary uses; particularly for it's frictionless-global-medium-of-exchange monetary uses.  Neither gold nor bitcoin can compare to silver for non-monetary utility, but then silver isn't really a monetary commodity in our modern industrial society, but an industrial commodity.  It's value is, by and large, set by current and near term industrial demand for silver; not by long term speculation on it's future trade value.I could argue that the Bitcoin network has features that grant bitcoins a non-monetary utility, but I don't think that such an argument is worthwhile. It means that a number of forum members have put him on their personal ignore list. Perhaps a better question is what kind of hardware is on your client computer? Normally, yes.  However any mining pool acting in a 'selfish' manner can be identifed by predictable effects.  Once the offending pool is identified, honest miners who desire to punish the selfish pool may do so, by adding a delay to the propogation of any of their published blocks, or simply refusing to forward them at all.  There is nothing in the protocol that requires peers to treat each other equally. Yeah, that's true.  It seems to me that everytime bitcoin surges to new highs, about a week or so later it crashes back down to half or so of the high, but it never gets down to the prior lows.  So the march to infinity has been two steps forward, one step back all the way.  But the one time I bet against a still higher high, bitcoin breaks it's pattern and does a double peak within a week without the crash to half value in the middle.  Sucks to be me, but that's what happened.  The moral of the story, don't assume that there is a pattern to bitcoin market movements. Well, I don't feel too bad really.  I didn't bet them all, just a lot. Doesn't matter what you might agree about.  It only matters what's possible.  Someone's going to ingore your agreement. I have to admit, I've made no progress. Well, that guy obviously has a block with learning that there are some risks that some people can't manage.  He needs to put that money into a CD or trust, and leave it for his sister.  I lost a fortune, but I learned that I shouldn't be gambling with bitcoins like it was monopoly money. Technically, Bitcoin will be inflationary until about 2140.  Although the inflation rate will be very, very small after about 2040.  The block reward will be under 1 bitcoin around 2033, if I did my head math correctly, but just imagine how much that will be worth by then! That's nothing.  Back around Feburary I shorted a small fortune in bitcoins because I thought, "There's no way that Bitcoins could surge beyond $80 apiece in the next two weeks!"I was wrong, and as a result lost a life-changing number of bitcoins.  Had I not done that one wager, I would be able to retire and move to a warmer climate by now.  And I'm not exaggerating. If that is so, then please accept my appologies and ignore my post.
Well played.:p Intrinsic theory of value then.  Yes, all value is subjective; even 'intrinsic' value. No, no.  Runing a full node that is 'quiet' is not "taking without giving back".  Dark nodes are a certainty that not all nodes are discoverable.  This is a feature, not a bug.  There are attack vectors, against the p2p network model itself, that are undermined by the very concept that dark nodes can (and do) exist.  They become a repository of the true blockchain, should (as an example) a viral vector is discovered within the network itself, permitting a malicious player to exploit all visable nodes at network speeds.  Dark nodes (probably) promise some degree of insulation from such an exploit, as well as the certainty that the attacker cannot ever be certain of success of such an attempt, since it's not verifiable.  The fact that some nodes are discoverable and others are not isn't a problem. Good God!  I'm looking at three pages of posts wherein some members are, quite literally, arguing semantics.This is why I said early on that 'intrinsic value' is a bad term to use, because it's imprecise, and means slightly different things in different contexts.  In a field where precision is paramount, it just leads to misunderstandings.Let me help...When used in an economic sense, "intrinsic value" is better stated as, "the value that the owner might attribute to some intrinsice characteristics or properties common to the object".  It was never a theory that an object can have a definable value as an intrinic property unto itself.  Even within the context of 'intrinsic value theory of money', all value is subjective.  Which is why we need markets to tell us what the price is.  (There is no way to determine how much any particular person may value his purchase, beyond what he is apparently willing to pay for it; but even then, the price isn't usually set by the buyer, but by what the next willing buyer isn't willing to pay.  Using ebay as an example, the final price of any auction is determined by what the first loser isn't willing to bid, not what the winner was willing to pay to win.) What you guys are discussing here is commonly called the 'labor theory of value' in economices, and is generally considered a false method of valuation.  As an example, I might be able to get competitive bids on how much it woudl cost me to have a 16 foot by 8 foot by 8 foot hole dug in my backyard, but that does not mean that I can automaticly increase the selling price of my home by the labor cost of theat swimming pool.  The value of the property is whatever the buyer with the highest desire is willing and able to offer for it. Bunch of killjoys, I swear! And this is why the term "intrinsic value" is such a poor choice of words. Probably not. Predictions are hard, particularly those about the future.  However, I think that it's a safe bet that someone investing funds into bitcoin now wouldn't lose buying power should they be willing to hold them for 6 months or more.  I'm in a HOLD pattern myself, but the concept of Bitcoins are not at risk, as far as I am concerned.To be fair, you're mostly right.  Liquidity implies that someone is willing to buy your coins immediately, and with regard to theis, Bitcoin-days-destroyed can be distorted.  However, there are no better metrics in the fiat currency world, at least not concurrent ones.Yes, and this is how BDD can be gamed.  Another metric for liquidity might be the ask/dib walls on the major exchanges.  The liquidity is there, though the market still isn't very deep.No calculations can be done, because that assumes we know what the right amount of mining power is correct.  WE don't, and can't really, know that.  Right now the bitcoin network is clocking in around 60,000 Petaflops (http://bitcoinwatch.com/) while the largest single supercomputer publicly known in the world runs around 33 petaflops.  It is a safe bet that 60K petaflops is an order of magnatude more than is presently required, but apparetnly we can afford it.I'm sure that you know that is a red herring.If you know what the pool address was when you deposited money to it, you could individually watch that address for changes in balance.  More collectively, http://blockchain.info/ does these kinds of blockchain searches as part of it's function.  Although that single data point isn't proof of anything, it still gives you a glimpse into the running books of MtGox.  If such visability were possible in the US banking system, Leaman Brothers wouldn't have ever been able to get away with a 50:1 lending to reserve ratio.  However, a fraudulantly fractional reserve lening institution might be able to get away with a much smaller ratio, say 2:1, for a time.   While I haven't actually cracked any of these riddles, and probally never will (riddles are not my gift), I do get the feeling that I might be a solution. What you are asking is a difference in the intent of the interested parties, and due to the semi-anonymous nature of bitcoin, it's impossible for us to know the intent of these transactions unless those parties intend to tell us. I had doubts three or four years ago, but I aired my doubts and, in every case, my concerned were shown to be due to an error in my own understanding of how bitcoin actually works.  This remains to be the case, for now I am one of only a couple thousand people in the world that understands the nuances of the protocol, and I spend a great deal of my free time on this forum correcting similar errors of understanding where I find it.Exchanges have already crashed in the past, and online wallet owners have stolen users' funds in the past.Not much changed when these events occured before, so if/when they occur again, I would reason that not much will occur to the greater bitcoin community then either.Bitcoins is the most transparent currency in human history.  As a direct consequence, it's easy to disprove your claim above.  Liquidity isn't a function of the entire stock of bitcoins turning over, as tis never happens to any currency.  Liquidityis a function of "velocity" of money, and in the bitcoin world this can be measured in "bitcoin-days-destroyed".https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_Days_Destroyedhttps://blockchain.info/charts/bitcoin-days-destroyedhttps://blockchain.info/charts/bitcoin-days-destroyed-cumulativeIf you look at the peak point in that middle link, that is nearly 4.5 million Bitcoin-days-destroyed in a single 24 hour period.  That means that one third of all bitcoins in circulation were spent or otherwise moved in a single day.  No currency in the world, and probably none in human history, has ever had velocity on that scale.There are more economic incentives for mining than just the block reward.  Most obvious, is that transaction fees go tothe miners directly.  Miners are also expected to be compensated in an indirect fasion.  Us the search function with regard to the term "Walmart/Mcdonalds allaince"Bitcoin has the first to market advantage, as well as a network advantage.  Ask those old guys who bought Betamax video players about first to market.  Ask those blue ray owners about the networking advantage.Nothing stops them from fractional reserve banking practices, if they are honest about it, but that same transparency that the blockchain provides to economics analysis, also permits continous auditting of institutional finances.  Said another way, it's impossible for an online wallet service, acting as a bank, to loan out member's funds without the transfer being observable.  So long as the service is open and truthful about their intentions of loaning out your deposited funds when you open your account, you don't have a complaint (and neither does anyone else) when they actually do so. If that is what it takes to get miners to pay attention to transactions, that's what it takes. They also don't include off-network transactions.  I never claimed that this was a particularly good comparison, but it certainly still is a milestone. This statement doesn't parse. http://www.activistpost.com/2013/11/bitcoin-tops-paypal-for-first-time-in.htmlI didn't realize that we had already bested both Discover Card and Western Union. He might be, but only because he's really 14 years old, pretending to be some uber coder trying to convince everyone he alone has discovered the Great Bitcoin Flaw (tm). I'm pretty sure the Union of Government FUDders has a clause against eating humble pie while at work. Yes, Bitcoin-QT is a full node. Wait, are you saying that you bought uncirculated block rewards for $30 each?  And that you sold one of these 50 BTC blocks for $10K?
Of course not.  Why are you still here?Oh, thank God! I would say that it was an appeal to authority...https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/appeal-to-authority Perhaps you should wait a few more years before committing any significant investment into bitcoins. Well, all of us that have bitcoins......excepting himself, of course. If the address that you sent it to was a valid bitcoin address, there is nothing that you can do.  It's just gone.  Even the prior poster's suggestion of sending a new one with a higher fee will not work, because even if your wallet client would do it (it shouldn't, you'd have to hack it) the rest of the network will reject the new one if it includes any of the coins that the first transaction has in it.  That would be, by definition, a double spend attempt.  The network is designed to make this particularly difficult, and peer nodes won't even forward the new transaction onto it's own peers if it has already seen the first transaction, because the first transaction has already used those data points/inputs and that renders the second transaction invalid.  Transaction propogation is fast enough that 99.999% of all network nodes have already seen your first transaction by the time you had the ability to compose your original post in this thread. I've spent or lost 90%+ of my original horde because I happen to like stuff. Of course I can't argue that Bitcoin's current market price is due to such funcationality.  I can't make that argument for any particular price, after all that is what the pricing mechanism actually does for us.However, the same can be said for gold.  If one could seperate gold's intrinsic value from it's monetary value, how much would it be?  No one really knows, but it's certainly less than it's currency market value, since the monetary value is in there as well.  Gold is horded by governments & cnetral bankers because of it's moneteary value, not because it makes great radiation shielding.  Personally, I wouldn't say that gold would have an industirial value higher than silver does; particuarly since industry has already consumed enough silver that the above ground, refined stocks of gold exceeds that of silver.  The natural ratio of scarcity ( 16.5 times as much silver as gold) is wrong in our modern context.BTW, that's one reason that I favor silver over gold in my personal stocks; because if gold ever does lose it's monetary value in the market, there's more of it available than silver, and silver has more known industrial uses.  The other is that silver has very real anti-microbial properties that makes it more useful after TEOTWAWKI for my own family than gold would be.PS, please excuse my dexlexia, I'm having a particularly bad day. None that I can prove. But that's not true either.  While I metnioned some huge things yet to be implimented well, the one thing that is inarguablely in use is the distance transfer and settlement functin of the Bitcoin netowrk.  This can be compareed favorablely to any banking transfer system or to Western Union, or Paypal.  No one would argue that these other systems don't have their own values, as reflected in their profit margins and market capitalizations; however those functions are characteristic of uisng bitcoins as a medium of exchange, and also drive some minimum demand for bitcoins if for that reason only.  That alone doesn't contribute to any significant 'intrinsic' value of the currency, but it contributes some, because markets do value those functions and the only way to access those same functions permitted by they bitcoin network at very low cost is to own (and therefore hold) some bitcoins yourself. That's been going on for as long as I've been here.  The bears have always been with us, the bears will always be with us.Bitcoin's issues of scaling have been known from the beginning, and so have the solutions.  Bitcoin's blockchain was never intended to be the ledger for the entire world's daily transactions.  Off-network/out-of-band transaction processing is inevitable, and expected.  It's the primary reason that free transactions are part of the protocol, not as a form of miner charity.  Miners can be paid for bulk transaction processing 'out-of-band' for on-network transactions in many ways, and parrallel settlement networks that deal with lower value/lower risk transaction off of the main bitcoin network are already under development.  Stratum is one such network, although off-network ttransactions are not it's primary focus.If you say so. Well, about that.  I strongly suspect that many of Satoshi's posts have been scrubbed from the archives.   This is likely what's going to happen anyway.  The XBT standard must be fixed, and it would be wise for us to assume that we're going to end up with Satoshis with a near penny value anyway.  It shouldn't be an issue in the meantime, after all the Japanese are used to a very fine base currency unit. In which case, it's a self-correcting issue.  So long as that's what's going on. It would not be easy at all for them to block it.  They can't block it right now, and they know it.  Done correctly, they can't even find it. I'm exactly the same way, except I mostly hold silver.  I've never directly bought anything with silver, but I've bought everything from mobile phone service to honey candies to digital artifacts (TF2) to handmade things on Etsy with bitcoin. After all, he's only human.  He's spent his entire career talking about and selling gold.  One can really expect for every smart man to notice the inflection points in history while it's happening.   A lot of people were still investing in buggys & horse whip manufacturing long after Ford Motor Company was mass producing the Model T. Well, maybe a little wrong.Both are true with gold as well.  Gold's intrinsic value is what it could be used for if it wasn't desired for it's monetary value, and as a jewlry doesn't count.  Gold does have industrial uses that are ignored because it's monetary value prices it out of that market, but if it no longer had any monetary value, it'd be fair to say that gold wouldn't be significantly more valuable to industry than lead is.  I wouldn't think that knowning that the intrinsic value of the stuff you're investing in is about one-thousanth of what it's current market value is would sound to many of his listeners as an acceptable bottom.What Peter means when he says that bitcoins (the currency) has no intrinsic value, he really means that it has no non-monetary use.  In this sense, he is correct.  Bitcoin has no non-monetary use.  However, Bitcoin (the system/netwrok) does have features/characteristics that have usefulness beyond the context of a simple means of exchange, and all of those features require the use of bitcoins (the currency) to utilize.  In this sense, Bitcoin does have an 'intrinsic value' in the economic sense.  While I can't pay my taxes with it, I certainly can do many useful things with it, that no other curerncy in history can do without third party help.Such as create blockchain enforcable contracts...https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/ContractsAnd, perhaps eventually, the transfer of asset titles...https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AnkP_cVZTCMLIzw4DvsW6M8Q2JC0lIzrTLuoWu2z1BE/edit?pli=1http://www.newscientist.com/article/dn24620-bitcoin-moves-beyond-mere-money.htmlAnd the (terriblely underused) transaction scripting system promises to do much, much moreI, for one, do see value in a completely impartial, automated and near zero cost system that not only replaces most of the functions of brick * mortor banks, but most of the functions of the county clerck as well.As noted above, I want them for their unique usefulness.  But even if I didn't, my gigahashes also heat my bsement in winter.  Nothing is wasted as far as I am concerned.Time will tell. Mining is probably a waste of your time. And what do you think? I should have left this in this thread days ago....https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/burden-of-proof
https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/tu-quoqueI can do this all night, https://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/personal-incredulity This is incorrect.  All value is subjective, even nominally 'intrinsic' value.  Whatever value his penis has is only for him to decide, based upon how much he values offspring (or other uses for said penis).  His offspring have zero value to me, however.See what I did just there?  The term 'intrinsic value' gets English speaking economics professors in trouble, simply because it conveys the wrong idea.  It's not that anything can have a value that is intrinsic, but that any given item can have intrinsic characteristics that we, both individually and as a society, value.  Said another way, we value the object because of it's intrinsic characteristics, but how much we value it depends upon our subjective preferences.  Value is never an intrinsic characteristic itself. You might be the programmer, but don't forget that when it comes to economics, you'll forever be my student. Yes, very conveniently.  Particularly in the middle kingdom, where gambling has been officially illegal for most of it's history; but has never really even been curtailed during that entire time.  The Chinese don't really have a moral compunction with gambling, like we decendents of Christiandom often do. NOW I'm offended.I'm simpy amazed that this is what you took away from those same 8 pages. Is that what you told yourself when you put me on your ignore list? My nephew mined three blocks in a row with a laptop, but that's been a while. Seriously, do you guys ever stop?  I've been hearing this same crap since 6 cents per bitcoin. I suppose so. No, there were other people around, just not many.  The genesis block was released the same day that bitcoin was offically announced on the cypherpunks list, IIRC.  There was no mining for any significant period of time before others from the cyperpunks forum downloaded and started the early client.  The evidence is in those first couple dozen block headers.  IIRC, it took about 3 days before someone other than Satoshi mined a block, but the decreasing interval between blocks makes it plain that others were already involved by that point.  There are timestamps in the headers, after all. I'd wager that by the time we get to the 'fall' part; neither this forum nor any of the past or present posters in this thread will still be around to discuss it. Bitcoin was not premined.  There were just not many people involved in the early mining that first year, so Satoshi's computer mined many due to a low degree of competition.  It's also evident that the minimum difficulty level was a great deal higher than what his own machine could do, since it took a while for the block interval to stablize at anything near 10 minutes.  In the beginning, blocks were hours apart.  That might be what you are mistaking as periods of stopped mining.  There were no periods of halted mining that I know of, although there was a bug that permitted a DDOS attack against the network that had to be fixed around 2010, and that DDOS delayed some blocks.  More recently, there was a bug that could have forced a blockchain split; and there might have been a halt in mining over that, I'm not sure. If there were any critical feature that any alt-coin possessed that a majority of Bitcoin users could agree is an improvment; that feature would quickly be intergrated into Bitcoin's protocol in short order.  The fact is that we can't agree on such things, and that is why the alt-coins exist at all. The very fact that Bitcoin is, by it's nature, completely detacted from any fiat currency is the long and short of it's inflation-hedge case.  Cans of soup are an inflation hedge.Bitcoin's strong growth phase must eventually level off, but where that mature level actually might end up is anyone's guess. He did make some good points, but I wonder if he thinks that anyone (himself?) actually knows what gold will be worth next year.And he still seems completely ignorant of blockchain enforcable contracts. In 2-3 years Chinese rice farmers will be pricing their harvest in bitcoins. I don't have access to google translate at work.  Do you mind a summary? While the inner workings and musing of the Chinese elite are always hidden, and their agenda strange, we do have some evidence that Bitcoin is being left alone by some implicit approval of the elites.  Namely that a couple of major Chinese websites, state operations one and all, are openly accepting bitcoins for services and products.  They even have a sound reason for doing it.  Since the Yaun isn't an international reserve currency, and they can't really snuff it out anyway, open support for Bitcoin could undermine the US dollar's hedgemony without actually breaking the currency for which they have so much invested, and perhaps give the Chinese an edge in some emerging markets for which there is evidence that bitcoins are being used as a System D (grey market) international currency.  Particularly in resource rich regions of Africa.  The Chinese elite aren't stupid, so they tend to know when something is inevitable; certainly better than most Western elected politicos.   I know what you mean.  I dithered around with the price fluctuations, and by the time I finally bought some, the price had hit an all time high up until that point.  I couldn't believe that I had paid 6.5 cents EACH!  Of course, the price pulled back to under 6 cents almost immediately.  I had bought at the peak!  I was the fish!  It took weeks for the price to recover.  I'm sure glad I learned my lesson.  There were so many forum members predicting the Great Bitcoin Crash (tm) at that time, so I guess they had to be right!
Dude that was stated in the context of hitting $1000 per BTC during the 2011 calender year.  Don't be a dick. Silly boy.  Just because you are no expert, doesn't follow that there are no experts on this forum. Oh, yeah.  That's exactly how network effects work.  The network grows so big that the heart can't pump the blood to the brain anymore.... Nah, dude.  Once you go crypto, you never go back! I agree, but I think that it could still push up the average time to confirm.  Transactions that were not yet available when the selfish pool found a block solution cannot be added to that block, but would likely be found in the public block.  Then if the selfish pool releases their hidden block, any transactions that made it into the public block but not the selfish block would have to re-enter the transaction queue.  But then there would be a delay, as most miners that accepted the public block would have already removed those transactions from their queues, and can't replace them until after that particular mining node had already discarded the public block as an orphan.  What we are seeing here could be a side effect of selfish mining put into practice. Where can I get to the NXT whitepaper?  Or somewhere else wherein the PoS system used here is described in details? I think I might...http://arxiv.org/pdf/1311.0243v2.pdfhttp://threatpost.com/researchers-debate-value-of-new-bitcoin-attackLooks like a mining pool has attempted this 'selfish mining' theory, to gain a profit advantage. No, it's similar in nature, but not quite the same, I think.However, after reading the whitepaper for it, I can see how the 'selfish mining pool' can gain a profit advantage.  I don't agree that the end result is that all miners choose to join said cartel pool, because it would become rather obvious that one pool is doing this when they win block races too often for chance, and the rate of orphaned blocks increase.  Also, I can think of a number of counter-stragedies other pools could use to negate the selfish pool's outsized advantages, not the least of which is to simply do the same thing.  If all mining pools act in a similar manner, no pools can gain a profit advantage; but then orphaned blocks become much more common.  Much better would be to simply identify pools that don't play by the rules and take counter-measures until they quit acting badly.More research is required.... Prior art?http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2013/11/the-best-way-to-take-control-of-bitcoin-rally-other-greedy-selfish-miners/You claim that you've laid this attack out months ago.  Perhaps you have.  It's still not the first of this type of attack that I've seen claimed, but I have to admit that this is the first of it's type to earn it's own whitepaper.Of course, the authors of this same whitepaper also offer a simple solution to this kind of attack as well, that simply involves a small protocol change in how mining clients decide upon the block version that they build upon.  I've yet to read this whitepaper myself, so I'm not yet ready to comment on their take on the attack. I'm amused.Can you envision any information that might force you to reconsider your position?  Or are you truely this certain that you understand this topic? It's called a gavin. The very fact that you regard this whole debacle as a form of a Tragedy of the Commons failure is evidence enough that only you regard yourself as a member of the "technologically capable".  In fact, most people have resorted to mocking you simply because trying to reason with you is futile, and none of us are here for your benefit. Is this perspective still true if Chinese speculators maintain a higher overall demand than US speculators?  Or would the souring of the US outlook undermine the Chinese speculation as well? You might as well put me on ignore also, because I'm not the one displaying ignorance while feigning understanding. Perhaps you misunderstood what they were talking about.  Have you ever considered the possibility that you're wrong? While the percentage of total hashrate controls the percentage of blocks that said cartel can control, they can't control the others in any fashion.  Control of blocks is not akin to control of transaction processing, nor is it akin to delaying of transaction processing.  I can accept that, under some rather extreme conditions, such a cartel could force up the market rate for transaction fees, and perhaps backlog transactions with insufficient fees for a period of time if blocks are regularly full; however this is a far cry from the assumption that such a cartel can delay those transactions to any noticable degree.  (It might be measureable, but not likely noticable to the average bicoin consumer/merchant)  That all changes at the 50% mark, ut getting there is no small task.  As I write this, the network Petaflops rate is roghly 1000 petaflops higher than when I mentioned it yesterday. It took three years to build the 33 petaflop supercomputer that holds the top spot worldwide. You think that is so?  You must not be much of a libertarian.  Reputation matters a great deal here, and I have a very good reputation.  A great many members here will take my opinion of you on faith, whether or not I come across as a dick or not. Yes, much hand waving.  Again, just because you can say it, does not make it so.  There is zero evidence that a cartel of any size less than 51% of the total network can delay fee paying transactions issued by others to any noticible extent.  With 51% of total hashrate, such a cartel could do so, but there are other consequences to that cartel for doing so, and even then it requires that the cartel keep it up.  If they ever stop, those delayed transactions complete nearly immediately.  It's apparent to many of us that you still don't really grok how the p2p protocol actually does what it does, so you have made up a theoretical flaw based upon what you believe happens. It wasn't an argument, it was my personal opinion. That's probably because there are now two different transactions that attempt to spend the same coins, so any nodes that saw the first one (almost all of them) would regard the second one as invalid and refuse to forward it.  You're just going to have to wait until the delayed transaction gets picked up.
So I assume that you are giving this backup to your friend for safekeeping, but you don't quite trust said friend to not attempt to crack your wallet.dat file.  Why on Earth would you give this friend your wallet.dat, encrypted or not?  I'd think that the only reason to give a copy of your wallet.dat file to anyone is to a trusted person, so that they could open it upon your death, you could even put the passphrase into your will so that it could be opened by your executor.  But otherwise, just put a copy on an older USB drive, rent a locker at a bowling alley, and put the USB drive and other things into the locker.  Cheaper than a safety deposit box, and also not registered with any government entity. There is no way that this cartel starts with anything near 15% of the hashrate.  Just because you say it, does not make it so.It may or may not reintroduce 3rd party risk.  Consumers may or may not be willing to invite government back into their economic activity.  Doesn't matter, it's their choice.  But if the majority of small value transactions are off-network, the majority of Amazon-cartel's transactions will have no mining value anyway.Reduced costs are free costs to someone.  Please respond to the effect that sero profit margin miners would have upon your theory.They would do it for free, because it would still be cheaper at scale than their current "cost centers" for online commerce security, as well as the overhead with the handling and security with regard to both credit card transactions and cash transactions today.  Do you think that armored cars are costless?  That IT security gurus work cheap?  That Walmart puts cameras above every cash register because they trust their $7.50 per hour part time cashiers to be trustworthy with hundreds or thousands of cash dollars?I'm not trying to stop you from fixing whatever you think is broken, just don't try to fis inside Bitcoin.  Go start an alt-chain, and if you're right about the problem, as well as how to fix it, then you will profit.  For that matter, considering your proposed fix, you don't even have to start a new coin, inflation coins without the block reward reductions already exist, and have for years.  Go have fun. Because you don't know what you are doing.  You're welcome to start your own alt-coin, however, and see how it turns out.  Nothing is stopping you. The merchant will care.  He will not get paid until the transaction is processed.  If the transaction is withheld from the majority of the miners, that opens an opprotunity for a double spend attack after product has been shipped.  This will harm merchants directly, and they will either not accept bitcoin transactions via Amazon at all (nullifying your trhoery altogether) or only accept bitcoin transactions with the added garantee from Amazon against double spend fraud.  This will hurt Amazon. libbitcoin is a programming library for bitcoin client functions.  It's not a client unto itself, but makes the building of clients easier and more uniform.  Darkwallet is, indeed, based upon libbitcoin. Offchain activity is irrelevant to my attack. You can't predict the future. If offchain becomes the dominant mode of commerce, then my attack will be less useful. But it doesn't make my attack not exist for as long as onchain activity is the norm. You can speculate all you want about the future being not on the blockchain, but I deal with the reality as it stands today. Please don't argue this point further because I will ignore it as it is not relevant. It is a strawman.[/quote]You can speculate as much as you like as well.  Once again, I don't need to disprove your theory.  You need to disprove my objections.  Thus far, you have failed to disprove any of them.  Not one, and I have provided at least 6 market forces that undermine your theory.  I have not even touched upon the technical/protocol reasons your theory is flawed.  What part is nonsense?  First, show me that Amazon has control of 58,000 petaflops of computational power.  Then show me how they would be able to commit same to such a project without completely starving their existing businesses for resources.  I know that you can't show either, because while Amazon certainly has quite a network, they are actually using it for a great many other business functions.Furthermore, the 33 petaflop supercomputer sits on more than 40 acres.  Amazon doesn't possess 40,000 acres of server farms.I understand your attack better than you do, you just don't know it yet.  The percentage of global commerce that Amazon may control is what is irrelevant.  You don't know enough about the protocol for me to even explain why this is.Won't work.  It's been tried already.  It didn't work for them either.You've never actually stated anything of substance.  If you ever did, you'd have to admit failure when others ate out your substance.  Personally, I'd like to see it.Prove it.YES IT DOES! The nature of the protocol requires that the cartel delay transaction processing for it's customers because it withholds them from other miners.  There is no way to avoid it!  That's what you can't wrap your head around! Search this forum for the elusive "mystery miner" of yesteryear. You have just verified my point.  Standard Oil wasn't a cartel/monopoly to start with, they were the market dominator due to efficiency.  So they were the market dominator before they changed their methods to dirty tricks, in order to maintain an untenuable market position.  The regulatory capture was critical to maintaining that position.  Regulatory capture is (probably) impossible within bitcoin, since bitcoin is, itself, resistant to regulation.They didn't.  They had a dominate market position, as I stated.  During the 90's they used copyright law and dirty tricks of their own to maintain that market position, but in hindsight, we know that it was already be eroded by GNU/Linux.  You're using linux right now, and you do it everytime you do just about anything on the Internet.  More than half of all servers are some flavor of unix successor, that was already true when the US Department of Justice was sueing Microsoft for anti-trust (monopoly) violations.  It just took a while for the rest of the market to notice the quiet changes underway.If you disagree, make an argument; rather than just a childish remark.Again, I don't need to disprove your theory.  I only need to point out objections.  If you can't defend your theory, then you don't have one.  I can prove that off-network transactions exist today, if I desire. I can tell you how to do some with a MtGox account, and I've done it many times before the Silk Road was brought down.  Coin-mixers do them as a matter of their primary function.  All that is required for them to grow in scope is for a market force to require them.  Something as simple as a percentage rise in the transaction fee would be enough.  A government crackdown would certainly do it.I have seen that news.  Strangely, my phone is still rooted.  If the simple fact that a law against it existed really worked, then the US doesn't have a drug war going on anymore either.I'm the naive one?You still haven't read all there is to read on this topic.  You probably haven't even read all that I've personally written on this topic.  I wouldn't want to read all that myself.Just because you say it, does not make it so.One.  Mining as a secondary effect to electro-resistive heating.  I.e. you can't undercut the miner who's rig heats his flat.  There is also whole threads regarding using asics embeddeding into heat cable to warm pipes.Two.  The Wal-mart|McDonalds|Sears alliance versus the Target|BurgerKind|JCPenny union.  Competing cartels can mine at a negative profit, because they're primary business is selling retail products, not mining for bitcoins.  Only if regulatory capture is an option.  There has never been an exception.  There is no evidence that regulatory capture is possible in bitcoin mining.I already addressed this one.That happened long before you think, but why couldn't Microsoft gain a regulatory capture advantage over Linux?  Because it wasn't a company that could be regulated, it was simply the product of a new kind of development.  Open source.  Which turns out to be rather resistant to regulation by governments.  Bitcoin is open source, and p2p, and distributed.  All things deliberately designed to contribute to it's resitance to regulation.My point is that there is an alternative, even for Amazon's vendors.  You just seem to be blind to the alternatives.Doesn't matter if they do. Nope.  This is where your theory falls apart.  Out-of-band transactions exist, and they exist because fee-less transactions are permitted.  The cartel can't grow, because it needs to have a dominate position among miners to start with.  It can't happen.  Currently, the bitcoin network is more than a 1000 times faster than the fastest unclassified supercomputer on Earth.  It would take nation-state level resources for Amazon to even match one of the top 10 mining pools, and they would have to commit those resources to this end for an indefinate period of time.  Even the NSA couldn't pull this one off, and they tried it more than a year ago.  You can't bankrupt the independent miners, there is simply no way to undercut the guy who's mining rig heats his flat.You refuted nothing of the sort.  What you are describing is an intentional network split, although asyncronous.  The small side of the split always loses, there is no exceptions.  No cartel would be willing to commit the resources to acheive this end, because it would be a money pit until they hit 51% of the hashing.  Over 58,000 Petaflops.  The fastest supercomputer on Earth is 33 Petaflops.  And that is now, what will it be in 20 years?Everyone can give 0-confirm transactions to their customers.  That's a question of business risk, not capacity.  It happens now.  Please search for the fast-transaction problem and/or the vending machine problem.That happens now.  No mystery there either. Historicly, cartels rise as a form of regulatory capture.  Said another way, cartels form functional monopolies in a regulated industry, within a country, because governments exist.  What influence any particular govenrment, or all of them together (unlikley), can have upon the bitcoin economy remains to be seen.  However, it cannot rationally be assumed that cartels will rise in an unregulated environment.  They never have before today.And before you start spouting about Railroad Robber Barons or Standard Oil; the railroads were a government project from the start and Standard Oil was no more of a monopoly than Microsoft was during the 1990's.  They were simply market dominators who had not yet been out innovated by new competitors.I could prove it, with great effort, but (once again) I don't need to do any such thing.  It's your theory.  In the long run, you could make a fortune betting your side of the theory if you are correct.  I'll stick with my side, and we will see who goes broke first.You just talked yourself into a circle.  I can easily prove that a mining cartel cannot be the most efficient.  I can prove it with existing examples, and have literally done this more than once over the past three years with nearly identical claims of cartel/monopoly based theories.  The key you're missing is that the protocol doesn't require that miners be paid within the system itself, or even at all.  Fee less transactions exist, and they can be paid for out-of-network.  Beyond that, off-network transactions are not only possible, they already occur quite regularly; even if they remain a small minority of the total economy.  On-network transactions are the high-mark of trustless security, but Satoshi undrstood that not everyone would really require such a high degree of security, nor trustless interactions.  In fact, he was counting on parrallel networks (such as Stratum) to develop without his own help that would handle less perfect transactions among parties that trust one another well enough, and thus remove a significant amount of network traffic from the main bitcoin network.  By the time your attack could even be tested, the majority of transactions wouldn't even be using the bitcoin network at all, and the main network would be more akin to the ATM network banks use today.  More of a backbone of the most risky or sensitive international transactions than what Joe Six Pack uses to order an ebook for his kindle.Motivation alone is not enough.  There also must be a credible regulatory path.  I don't see one.  If there is one, than government regulation is a greater risk than the rise of a single mining cartel.Dude, that's not even possible.  Reading all of that, I mean.I might be clear to you, but you don't understand the system yet.  Amazon can't withhold funding from the network.  They can only delay processing of their own transactions.  Time is definately money, and there is a hidden cost to Amazon to do this under any conditions.  They also open themselves up to a double spend attack if they do this in any significant capacity, and someone is going to use that against them eventually.  If you think that Amazon holding their own transactions so that other miners can't get their transaction fees is a problem, why not just issue fee-less transactions?  The fees would just be going back to Amazon otherwise.  You have not discovered something new here, AnonyMint.  Just because Amazon might refuse to pay other miners a mining fee, doesn't mean that they are denying funding for the network.  Other miners are just as able to ignore Amazon's transactions, and just as able to refuse to forward transactions to them.  In fact, I'm fairly sure that games like this already occur.  I'd be surprised to discover that no miners refuse to process free transactions, except for those who are on some kind of whitelist.  Miner favoritism is expected, but in the aggregate, has zero effect upon the network as a whole.  On the aggregate, the network is, and will remain, impartial towards fee paying transactions.  And fee-less transactions are expected to be ignored by a large portion of the professional mining class.  Why would it be any other way?  I've already explained two conditions wherein miners can literally "afford" to lose money on mining.  You didn't even bother to respond to them.Two or more competing cartels is an outcome that functionally prohibits the complete takeover of the currency, which was the endgame of your attack theory.  I can't think of one reason that a consumer should care about any cartels, if the currency continues to function as far as he is concerned.  Cartels aren't the risk, a monopoly is the risk, and that is impossible.What do you think they will do if it's no longer efficient?  Do you think they will just sit back and take it?  Or do you think that they will contrive to come up with other solutions, with or without Amazon's explict permission?So?Ha!  I knew we'd get here eventually.  Again, Standard Oil was not a monopoly, or even a cartel.  Standard Oil was a temporary market dominator, and could only remain such as long as it was the most efficient provider of services.  As for the dirty tricks, Microsoft, Coca-Cola and Ford have all been caught playing dirty trying to maintain a dominate market position that would eventually fall anyway.  No one still considers Coca-Cola to be a monopoly on soft drinks, if they ever did.  I don't know anyone who still buys the meme that Microsoft is, or ever really was, a monopoly for operating system software. Generally speaking, POS implies that the higher the number of coins that any particular miner has in savings, and is willing to 'stake' (i.e. freeze for a term, in order to gain a mining advantage without interest paid) than that miner can gain a bias advantage towards either mining in general, or towards special numbered blocks.  So Amazon, under your theory, would be able to magnify their advantage somewhat by staking their bitcoin earnings, and make their odds of finding the next block even higher.  POS throws the 51% mining rule off a bit, making it more into a 66%/33% rule (lessor versus major stakers).  However, POS in practice means different things to different people, so it also matters in detail how it might be implimented.  POS has been attempted by several alt-coins in different fashions, but none have amounted to much as of yet.  So far, the market doesn't put as much faith into POS as do the founders of these alt-coins.  I contributed to the destruction of one such alt-coin, because the particular version of POS permitted an attack wherein a trusted node turns malicious. (pure POW such as Bitcoin uses doesn't have trusted nodes, all nodes are untrustworthy)  I just framed how such an attack could occur, and someone else actually performed said attack about a month later.  Now I can't even remember what it was called. Sure I can.  I'm doing it right now.  It's 33 degrees outside, my electric rate is 7.5 cents per KWH, and my basement needs supplemental heat anyway.  I also mine solo, and haven't caught a block in over a year, but so what?  If I ever catch another, that's just free money.  The need for heat pays for my electric consumption, and my mining rig is already a sunk cost.  If you think I'm unique, you're deluding yourself.Go ahead and raise anything you like with moderators.  It's yourself who seems immune to reason.BTW, coinbase rewards don't diminsh to near zero until around 2130.  So I doubt that either of us will live to see resolution here. My point is that you have to actually show how a rise of a single cartel can happen in the first place.  You have not shown this.  As I have already pointed out, the rise of competing cartels was expected, and planned for, from the early days.  Simply saying that Amazon can control the transactions within it's own payment system is one thing, but saying that they can progressively take over all mining by this does not follow.  There are simply too many counter incentives to presume this.Anyone who deals with online vending knows that Amazon's payment system is preferred by vendors because it's cheap and effective, but it's not the only way these same vendors sell products.  Almost all of them have their own websites, and can take payments outside of the Amazon ecosystem.  If Amazon were to turn hostile to those vendor's own interests, it's relatively easy for those vendors to abandon Amazon.  The same is true with any aggragate commerce site. Bitcoin might adopt proof of stake in the future, as the protocol does permit it to be spliced into the blockchain with some effort.  However, proof of stake is a much more complicated security model that has yet to prove itself.  Proof of work certainly works, even if it is computationally expensive.  However, proof of stake doesn't really alter his theory much, and might actually make it more likely if implimented poorly.   Oh, I know when I've been beaten.  I also know when that is not the case.  I've been bested by several of the older forum members, just search the archives and you will find many examples of people who know how to structure a premise and present an argument.  You might learn something while your there that will serve you well when you're old enough for college. Dude, you're publicly failing in two threads at the same time. You seem to enjoy using big words, but it's still not different however you say it.  An Amazon.com vendor may or may not be compelled to use the Amazon.com POS; but that is no garantee that the transaction can be kept within house, but even if it can....Saying that Amazon can have it's own mining servers isn't remotely sthe same as saying that they can lockout the vendors from the bitcoin network.  You seem to lack a basic understanding of how the p2p netowrk actually functions.This is a dodge.  Any native English speaker would know that my posing of the question above was retorical.  Either show how Amazon could prevent progagation of transactions across the main bitcoin network, or admit that you don't know how this part of your thory would actually occur.All I see is that you had no point that was visable.  Again, it's your theory.  It's not mine to prove your theory wrong, it's yours' to prove my objections wrong.  You havent' even tried to do that.  You're the one that stated it as an economic attack.  I simply preesented four simple counter forces to your theory.  If you cannot address those counter points, then you have no theory.  Your back in class, son.But how does the idea tha tAmazon can mine it's own transactions lead to this conclusion?  It's a stretch by any metric.  I've seen no argument that they can, economic or otherwise; and I personally know of several effects in the protocol that would undermine any such efforts, economic incetives notwithstanding.  I haven't even touched on those points yet.Thus?  You've just made a conclusio without an argumetn.  You are presuming your conclusion, really.Nope.  I'm not the one who missed something there.  BTW, I do agree that a major player can delay[/b] the procesing of bitcoin transactions under certain conditions.  The obvious problem with this is that delays are part of the protocol, and thus delays are not, into themselves, an issue.  Your premise depends upon Amazon preventing competitors from mining on fee paying transactions outside of their own network scope.  This is not possible.  If you disagree, show me how] such a mechaism would work.  With details, not vague statements.You have done no such thing.  Baseless?Look whose acting all professional now.  You get one forum member who's been around long enough to have seen this crap before, and you just fall to bits.  This is why the developers don't pay you any mind, they know you're full of shit. If they are provablely false, then prove it.  It's your theory. You are a sad, sad man.
I'm not that interested in proving it, so you can keep your false pride.That's not different.  Customers don't interface with a pool or miners now.Granted.Your conclusion is dependent upon this premise highlighted, but this premise has no basis.  Even if Amazon could prevent it's vendors from issuing their own transactions to the greater bitcoin network, by what mechanism can Amazon prevent transactions on the main network from propogating?  The. core is that they can't.You're sticking with that, I see.I don't care if you get angry.  I'm not going to read all this noise.  You can link back to whatever proof you have offered others, but I don't need to disprove your theory, you need to defend it.  Anger is a sign of your failure.  I'm not a professional. I just did.  And you're not the first, either. I've decided to respond to this theory in as much detail as I can muster, since it seems to be a perversion of my 'Walmart versus Target mining cartels' concept from two years ago....Indeed, it does make no difference.  I makes no difference now, however the miners are funded.  Mining has always been intended to be a competitive function that tends towards a zero markup.  I'll get there soon....No, we could do it sooner than than that, and I expect it will happen within the next two years.  However, I don't consider it an attack, I consider it a feature.  I'll explain why shortly....Not even close to being the first.  This is one of the set of memes that pops up repeatedly under the many "I'm a noob, but I alone am so smart that I have discovered the Great Bitcoin Flaw!" posts.  Let me summerize the root of this (assumed) attack vector, for clarity.  If I miss a fine point, I'm sure that you will point it out, and we can adress it then.As I understnad it, the thoery is that a greedy mining pool could choose to withhold fee-paying transactions that it has received, and retain them until it has solved it's own block; with the implication of boosting it's pool payouts relative to other pools. In turn attracting pool miners away from other pools, until such point that the first pool controls more than 50% of the total mining power, functionally owning the Bitcon network.There are many counter-economic effects that would contradict the leverage that such a mining pool could gain over the network, so I'll only go over a few of the most significant.First and foremost; the mining pools, nor any other miner, are not significant contributers to the fee paying transactions on the bitcoin netowrk.  Said another way, it's not in the interest of merchants to only submit their transactions to one mining pool, even if it's the largest.  It's in the interest of merchants to spread any transactions intended for themselves as far and wide across the bitcoin network as possible, as that reduces the risks involved in a well timed double-spend attack.  And being a p2p netowrk, there is no way for a mining pool to prevent any valid transaction from spreading regardless of whether or not that particular mining pool forwards said traansaction to it's competitiors or not.Second, the largest miners have an economic incentive to cooperate with one another with regard to the bandwidth and information flow across the network, since working together they have a small, but notable, speed advantage over small mining outfits that must rely on slower Internet connections.  The more and faster peer connections major miners have to one another, the faster that they (as a group) can include those fee paying transactions into their own queues.  The faster they can do that, the more likely that whichever miner (among themselves) to solve the next block will have all of the fee paying transactions available at the moment.  Any effort to corner the market on transactions would be regarded as not playing square with the rest of the major players, and will end up getting that pool cut out of the core of the network, and edge connected miners have a slightly higher rate of orphaned blocks as well.Third, one unstated premise with this kind of attack vector theory is that the fees and block rewards are the only way that professional mining operations can make money.  This has never been the intended result of a mature bitcoin network.  Since mining profits are desinged to trend towards zero, the protocol permits 'out-of-band' methods of paying for transactions.  For example (and this is where we get to my Walmart verus Target theory from two years ago), it's expected that as Bitcoin matures, major retail outfits will not only start accepting bitcoins for meatspace purchases, they will also start supporting mining themselves.  Likewise, one such advantage that Walmart could offer over it's competitors is free transactions accepted at the counters.  Since it's not safe to accept such transactions without confirmations, it then becomes highly in Walmart's own interest to sponsor a mining outfit that will process free transactions intended for Walmart's own wallet of addresses as quickly as possible.  Said another way, it's in Walmart's interest to pay a mining out fit (be it a mining pool, a seperate company, or an internal group to Walmart corporate) to process transactions at a loss.  Of course, it's also not in Walmart's interest to process a competitors' free transactions (i.e. Target) in the same way, so Walmart is also paying to keep Target's free transactions out of their own mining pools.  This sets up competing cartels, that each serve different players in each industry.  Say, as an example, that BTC Guild took contracts to mine for Walmart, McDonalds & Sears; while Eglius took contracts to mine for Target, Burger King & JCPenny's.  While this certainly is consolidation of the market for mining services, and consistant with the dirve towards driving the profit margin for mining to zero (or perhaps lower, under certain conditions) it's also impossible for there to be only one, because if any single mining pool were to gain more market share over the others, the others would suddenly be able to offer these out-of-band services for much cheaper to unrepresented merchants.  The cartels are, thus, self limiting in scope with regard to the bitcoin network itself, which is all that we really care about on the macro scale.And fourth, there will always be a minority of small and sigular miners that mine at less than zero profit for various reasons.  One such reason is simply that mining produces heat in the winter, and thus a mining rig, once you already own it, is nothing more than an elector-resistive heater.  If you live in a area with both a high heat demand & relatively chaep electricty (i.e. Iceland) any actual coins your mining rigs produce become secondary profit.  No mining pool will ever be able to compete with that, if for no other reason than bandwidth consumptionbecomes a greater burden than solo mining in this context.Questoins?  Objections? It doesn't matter how many times you say it, AnonyMint.  Just because you can say it, or even that you have a link to someone else saying it, doesn't  make it so.  You are welcome to your opinion, but I've read over the theory of that mining cartel attack, and I think it's just FUD.  There is more to Bitcoin than either you or him understand.  More than I understand, and I'm one of the people who actually understands how it works at the protocol level.   This is a fundamental truth that often gets lost in the noise.  No currency is, itself, wealth.  Nor is any currency, itself, capital.  If & when the  common currency is discarded, the standard of measuring wealth and capital simply changes.  The wealth and capital are still there the whole time, but for an internim period it may become difficult to quantify the value in such a way as to be able to accuractly compare the values of different forms of capital.Nor is gold, itself, wealth.  As was so well stated in the Cryptocromicon, gold is the corpse of wealth. Care to explain how? Well, the last time we had a huge run up, I thought that "this has to be a bubble, and it has to pop soon."  So I 'shorted' a small fortune in bitcoins, and lost the majority of what I had when the price surged further and hit my stop-loss limit.  And by "a small fortune" I meand that literally.  I could have retired by now if I had just ignored the temptation to gamble. Oh, definately not.  Peter is no keynsian, although me might be a bit of a moneterist. nNot yet.  They have the encrypted wallet, but not the passcode.  Maybe they never will, because I'm not convinced that this guy is DPR at all.  He certainly is at least an employee, but then even he won't have access to the company funds. True enough, but bitcoin also has methods for upgrading both the address algo and the blockchain algos while maintaining backward compatibility and without a need to even pause the running network.  If there is even a credible threat, bitcoin can change to address that threat, whether or not most people desire to remain with their old address style/algo. Some people will prefer banking institutions anyway, althouth  they wouldn't function quite the same.  But no, we don't need to go there.  Another solution is overlay networks, online wallet sites that agree to delayed settlement, mass transactions, blockchain contracts, etc.  There are a lot of ways to move the burden of transactions off of the main network (that the protocol supports) than the obvious general rule today that all transactions are recorded on the blockchain individually and in a near term.  Many to many transactions is one method of reducing the absolute number of transactions, for example. Yes, there is a chance. The lack of comprehension, probably willful, is palatable.  It's also bitter. Can't think of a witty response, Mr. President?  Or have you finally decided you have better things to do than attend class? Nor is that likely to occur unless and until either the breakers aquire a 150+ qbit quantum computer or a serious flaw is discovered in the address algo.  Even if both were to occur, the odds of succes aren't particularly high. Why do you assume that bitcoin will, or must, become "the single global currency"?  That would be quite a victory, but is far from necessary or predictable.Why do you assume that any wealth distribution is abnormal?  The US $ denominated wealth distribution in the US is far worsh than what you presume to state for bitcoin.Why do you assume that you have structured your math problem correctly?  The math may be inarguable, but the application of same is not.You presume a lot, I notice.Why?  Where do you get such numbers from?  I've already shown that neither the absolute number of bitcoiners, nor the precise wealth of any particular bitcoiner, is knowable.  So your application of simple division is bullshit.And why do we assume this?  I don't.  Even if I were to take such a presumption as a given, that does not imply that the curernt distribution, whatever it may be, will remain constant.  There is no reaons that it would.Who cares?  The answer to your bullshit ssumptive questions are still bullshit assumptions.  Garbage in, garbage out.Again, so what?  There is no example of any currency, in the history of mankind, that has ever been evenly distributed.  Why must bitcoin be different in this regard?I'll concede that your level of research is very basic. You still don't understand what's happening here, do you? Believe it or not, I'm doing more than just sitting here waiting for your responses.  I will have to concede one thing however, as it's become apparent that there is no way you're actually old enough to have attended Cambridge. I don't see an argument here.  You do realise that those people who don't own any bitcoins at all cannot rationally be considered in the wealth distribution, right?  Or do you consider all your British compatriots to be tragicly poor due to the fact that incrediblely few of them own any US $ denominated account balances? Wait, I thought you didn't have time to educate me?  I'm starting to have fun with this. Again, proving that you don't understand how bitcoin works.  While this does show (roughly) 98% of coins are kept in 2% of addresses, I never contested that.  I contested the claim that 98% of coins were "in 2% of the hands".  There is no provable corrolary from the number of addresses with balances to the number of actual people who own bitcoins.  To demonstrate, I have a client that has 1000+ addresses, and maintains a distribution of funds.  Nor am I unusual in this regard.  Furthermore, MtGox uses four distinct wallets for it's internal user wallets.  Some addresses could have tens of thousands of bitcoins pooled from several users, others can have next to nothing at any given time.  It's actually unusuall for an online wallet service to use individiual addresses linked to individual users; because it's cheaper and easier to account for member to member transfers internally without using the blockchain.  While it's still possible that every address with a balance is realtive to the number of users who own those coins, that is almost certainly not the case.  Even the mainline client makes no effort to consolidate funds into single addresses, so the most obvious 'guess' regarding the distribution your data represents is that that is the distribution of the size of individual transactions, not the distributions of individual users' wealth.  The later is deliberately unkowable, by design.BTW, for a long time the top address was the coin mixer pool for The Silk Road.  The Silk Road had tens of thousands of registered users, many thousands of which were regularly active.  That little factiod alone shatteres your presumptive wealth distribution.Epic Fail.
Oh, this is going to be fun...I've made no such claim.I don't have to, really.  You're here trying to argue (prove) a negative.  It can never happen.  I don't have to disprove your premise, your premise is false on it's face. Why?  The Bitcoin Foundation is no more able to enact it's agenda than anyone else is.  Their impotent.  Their only function is to play the part of the, ultimately ineffective, NGO for the major governments of the world; because that is how the statist psycology works.  The protocol doesn't provide a mechanism for blacklisting, and simply wishing for it doesn't make it so.  But making the case for same, even if you know in your deepest of hearts that it's never going to happen, does so much to divert the ire of politicos who are conditioned to believe that someone is in charge of all this bitcoin stuff.  Even if the foundation can lean on US developers to cave into their desires, the open source nature of bitcoin is certain to take that development consensus away from them, and someone else is going to be releasing the dominate clients going forward.  The Dark Wallet project is already doing exactly this, and those guys cite the Bitcoin Foundation itself for the motivation.If the mainline client starts blacklisting, anyone who uses it is going to slowly remove themselves from the bitcoin economy. I take it that you really don't know how bitcoin actually works, do you?I'm surprised this lasted this long. More neo-marxist, monetarist bullshit.  Just because you can imagine it, does not make it so.  It's actually impossible for the money supply to always accumulate to any group.  Eventually the distribution must drop below a functional level for a medium of exchange, at which point a free market chooses something else less scarce to be the new medium of exchange.  This crap has Cambridge written all over it, it's somewhat suprising that the UK is still a first world nation.  Citations?  Fail.Show your work, child.  How do you arrive at this conclusion?  Make sure that you explain how such a cartel could maintain loyalty among it's ranks when mining services are distributable with relatively low cost of market entry. I care not at all about your past bullshit.Bullshit.  You can't prove anything.  If you had any education in the dismal field, you would know this much.I agree that the above highlighted part is mathmaticly correct.  However, your unstated premise is that the average inflation rate is the only variable force on the demand for money.  This is not supportable, and is easily disproven.  For example, bankruptcy is a countervailing force.  Anohter unstated premise youseem to have is that, because this effect is evident under the current fiat currency systems (i.e. central bankng, farctional reserve) that it must always have been this way or cannot be any other way under a different monetary system.  While it's possible that that second statement is still true, it's still unsupportable.  Just because it's true in every case that you (or I) could be aware of does not condlucde that it must be true under any system.You would have already failed my class.Again, no we are not.  It's actually impossible for all nations to face the same outcome even if allnations have similar issues (which they don't).  Once the first major nation defaults, the situation on the international stage has changed, and the next must fail in another manner.  The cascade probably makes it worse for the late nations, so the best time to default is early.  Iceland has proven this already, as they don't really have any lingering effects of telling Euopean banks to poiund sand.I notice, also, that you really never did say why you identify with Britons in particular.  From whom do you draw your economic education & understanding?Again, I'm not a hard money fanatic.  I would assume that a fanatic would actually own some, at least a little.  I don't own any.  However, I do understand the difference between a debt owed betweeen contracting parties and a debt based currency. I wasn't trying to rebut a non-argument.  You may continue to live your life believing that anyone who disagrees with your bullshit doesn't comprehend.  You have my permission.  However, you are far from the smartst person in this room.  I'm one of the nicer lot here, and eventually you're going to hit one of the not-nice and have your virtual arse handed to you in public.  I don't have the time or inclination, and suspect that you'd just bail if I should try, but I will enjoy that day.By your own logic, it doesn't need to resolve anything.  Like all thinkgs, demand for money comes in waves, and recedes the same way.  We call it the business cycle.  Debasement is not required, although it is often beneficial for certain parties.And I quote..."With a central bank that can create base money out-of-thin-air (or authorize banks to do it by lowering reserve ratios), they can just prevent write-downs for decades until we reach for example now 550% total debt-to-GDP in the UK we are facing now"Considering that I live in teh US, I'm not "facing" anything that happens in the UK.  By including yourself (by way of the "we" above) in that group, you betray that either you identify with Britons, or you have a poor understanding of English grammer rules with regard to context.  I don't believe that I'm the one with poor comprehension skills, but at least one of us has poor communication skills.  I'm dyslexic, so that's my excuse. This is not an argument.  Whatever you think, or feel, is correct is not an argument.  It's bullshit.  This sounds like the distorted (and wrong) economic education that marxists try to tell me about whenever I'm forced by circumstances to interact with them.BTW, you really have misunderstood the meaning behind the Quantity Theory.  Changes in velocity do not support your position that debasement is an economic requirement, it contradicts it.  The very notable fact that velocity of money is able to change in response to the demand for money implies that hard currencies are more flexible in practice than is often touted by academtic economists.  You metioned that you live in England, perhaps you do or have attended Cambridge?  Or, perhaps, like to echo the bullshit of someone who has for strangers on the Internet? Switzerland is not neutral.  There is no answer to this poll for the notion that no nation state can be neutral with regard to bitcoin. Yes, there has been.  Regression theory requires it, and takes it as a given.  Evidence of same isn't even a requirement.  Or are you contesting the regression theory?Prove it.Maybe, but irrelevent.  Commerce often requires debt, even if momentary in nature.  That does not imply that commecre requires a debt based currency.  Think about what it is that you are really advocating here.  If you owe fiat to anyone, you owe a debt; but when you pay for it in fiat, you're paying for it by transfering debt to another party.  You are never actually settling the debt.  Yes, modern fiat currencies work this way, and they will continue to work so long as the public continues to trust that the issuing government will continue to exist & continue to honor it's own debts.  (which is one reason that an outright & open default on foregn debts is never acceptable to an idebted nation)  This does not conclude that all mediums of exchange are, themselves, a debt of another party.  Physical gold rounds, silver bullion, trade barter in canned goods and bullets, etc. is not the exchange of a debt unless you're the creditor.  All that is required for you to see the difference between a two party consumer debt and that of a debt based currency system is to reason it out a bit. Credit, yes.  Debt based currencies, no.  The difference is not trivial. Yes, most people have no problem using both of these unit standards where appropriate.  These guys just seem to think that they are important somehow. Dude, you don't even know who you're talking about.  I'm no goldbug, for one.  It's a falsehood that is easily provable.  Money predates nation-states, it's only the advent of nation-states that has permitted debt based money.  Credit is something a bit different.  Gold & Silver (not a gold standard paper currency) are two monies that have no counterparty risk, there are others also.  When you pay with gold, real gold coins and not warehouse receipts, the debt is immediately settled.  Without counterparty risk, debt based currencies cannot exist.  With regard to modern fiat currencies, the counterparty is the government that issues the currency.  I.E., "The full faith and credit of the United States..." (or, in the case of Britian, the Crown)  I was generallizing.  I know that miners can choose their own rules, but the default set of rules say that there is a limit to the free transactions.  Changing those rules requires programming skill and the desire to do so. But I did not take the top anything addresses out of the equation, so the average win should an address collision ever succeed would be 1 BTC right now.  If someone is trying to collide with one of those top 10 addresses in particular, then the odds are nominally zero before the heat death of the known universe. This is a falsehood.   Yes, the second bitcoin caller on that link tried it, but Peter just talked over him and wouldn't let him finish that point; declaring that it's not true and/or not the same.  Which, of course, is bullshit on Peter's part. Yes, there are some astronomicly unlikely disaster scenarios that gold would not be of any use.  Neither would anything else be, for that matter.  Returning to a gold standard without any central banking or fractional reserve lending is vastly more likely, however.  No matter how advanced a society we become, and no matter how successful Bitcoin (or other cryptocurrency) ever becomes, gold & silver will have a value.  Peter's point is that, in the absence of that modern industrial society, wherein trustless transfer of value over distances no longer has it's own use value, that it's possible that Bitcoin will not have an another use value.  Even then, if the human species has not been wiped out, I can think of several non-monetary uses for gold.  If you lived 500 years ago (assuming gold had no monetary value) what would you do with it?  That exact scenario played out with platinum, since it was so uncommon that the Spanish had no experience or understanding of it, they used it as if it was common scrap metal.  They made cannons and ship ballasts out of it.  If I were to survive a complete breakdown of modern industrial society, and lived anywhere near the ocean, the first thing that I'd be trying to get is a boat.  And gold plating would not only make a wonderful external ballast, but since it cannot corrode it would also make a great hull skin to protect a wooden hull from rot and barnacles.  Anyone with a seaworthy boat can scratch a living from the sea today, as the somewhat famous boat peoples of asia have well proven.  Athough it'd be wise to keep one's distance from the island of Japan. No, it just shows his bias.  Since it's not gold, and to him that is a bad thing, then bitcoin is substandard.  Calling it fiat is a shortcut to his audience.  He knows it's not fiat, really.  That's it, right here.  The block only permits a limited amount of zero fee transactions to be included, and any additional transactions must meet the criteria for the fee schedule to be included into a block.  Basicly, too many people are choosing cost of transaction over time to confirmation.  This is to be expected as the number of transactions increase, as this sets up a market for the fees (higher fees are more likely to be favored into the next block) while still providing for a free (or out of band transaction fee) methodology. Yes.But you can get out before the crash, and limit your losses.  I'll give you twice that for whatever you have.  $10 each, limited time offer.
Again, it doesn't matter what we decide to do here.  Literally no one, inside or outside of this forum, gives a flying f##k what our opinion on the proper bitcoin unit may be.Including me. Not if Undefeatable pulls of his epic bitcoin hack!  I'm still waiting to find out he intends to do it.  I'm sure he's go a great plan, such as hijacking the computer science lab to make a beoulf cluster to brute force the blockchain!Panic!  Sell everything!As a gift to the membership here, I just want to say that I'm willing to take those worthless bitcoins of of your hands for the generous offer of $1 each. The bitcoin defenders are poor in understanding here, particularly the first one, but Peter does make some good points here.  Gold cannot go to a use value of zero, while it's possible that Bitcoins can.  Granted, if gold were to drop to it's 'intrinsic value' it would be somewhat comparable to the value of lead, maybe slightly more due to much lower toxicity, but close.  Considering that refined lead is under a dollar a pound right now, that would represent something on the order of a 99.99% loss in value.  "You didn't lose everything, you've still got .01% of your life savings!  Don't Jump!"While it's possible for bitcoins to go to zero, the only way that happens now is if there is some tragic & unfixable flaw discovered in the protocol that gives Bitcoin it's 'intrinsic value' to start with.  Again, possible; but the tragic and unfixable flaws with using electronic precious metal deposit receipts as an online trade currency are, if not altogether obvious, already demonstrated by the folding of both Egold.com and the persecution of the Liberty Dollar.  Governments will not suffer any competitor to exist if they can help it, but they can't help it with Bitcoin.That last caller seemed to know his stuff, but was cut off by Peter before he could actually finish the argument. Good luck with that. Of course not. Who said anything about your lifetime? Short answer - yes.Long answer - yes. And currently there are only just over 11 million BTC in circulation, so the average address has about 1 BTC.  If the odds of such a thing occuring to you, by random bad luck or otherwise, simply divide your massive bitcoin wealth up into a few addresses. As long as the transaction total is over .05 BTC, you shouldn't have many issues. Maybe, maybe not.  That depends on a lot of variables, some of which are controllable.  Even if so, the existence & validity of the transaction is provable.  If one were sending them somewhere that one could wait for, such as a donation or sending it to oneself for consolidation, the time frame to confirmation would be less of an issue. In fairness, SHA-256 isn't used to create bitcoin addresses, it's used to secure the blockchain.  The current address algo is 168 bit, IIRC; but if it ever looks to be at risk, it can be upgraded.  The first character of the address is what denotes the address version.  The primary reason that there is no 2xxx... address types yet is because there isn't really a better algo to migrate towards. There are also ways to merge wallets, so by the time there is enough dust to spend, even having them in seperate wallets shouldn't be an issue.  That's assuming that the dust do not grow in value in the meantime to the point that the minimum fee is below the dust value. Yes. The effect you're referencing is called 'normalcy bias', the general belief (however false, intellectually) that bad things aren't going to happen to us because they never really have.  The problem with this statement, is that statistics and mathmatics don't have a normalcy bias.  Whatever can happen, eventually will; but whatever cannot happen, will not.  While it's not actually impossible for a random address keypair collision to occur, the odds are astronomically unlikely.  The odds that a potted petunia and an adult whale were to pop into existence 20 miles above the surface of the Earth is about as likely as any single individual, or even all of us, have of forcing a single keypair collision within our own natural lifespans. While that's a cute little retort, it's not actually true.  A great many people, both wealthy and otherwise, do use gold as money, or at least as a "store of value".  http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article43069.htmlAnd India is far from the only group to continue to value gold for it's monetary properties.  The "western" nations are fairly unique in the total abandonment of hard currency principles in favor of ever increasing abstractions.  While the average, middle classs American adult has near zero experience with gold or silver coins, that's not true for the average, middle class Chinese adult or the average middle class South American adult.  There is a high, and perhaps even deserved, trust in the US federal reserver note as well as the Euro.  That trust can turn in an instant. Good idea, but don't you think that DPR would also have a salt?   That's not what I'm talking about at all.  On that point, Peter is correct.  Bitcoin is not gold, but nor is it fiat.  It's something altogether new and different from either, that is designed to do the best job of either.  What I'm talking about is Peter's talk about intrinsic value.  Not only is gold's "intrinsic value" such a small part of it's market value as to be practically irrelevent, he argues that bitcoin's don't have an intrinsic value economicly.  I can easily prove that they do.  The only kind of intrinsic value of anything, is how useful it is to the marketplace. While gold does have physical properties that are useful to industry, and silver has chemical properties useful to both industry and medicine; neither of these 'intrinsic' uses have value to the market to compete with their monetary uses, because the market will always be looking for methods of achieving the same ends using cheaper inputs.  A great example is the use of silver in antibacterial products; while it works great and has been well known to medicine for over a century, silver is not often used in medicine except in the most dire of applications, wherein our modern anti-bacterial sciences fail us too regularly.  I.E. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus  While bitcoins have no physical properties to exploit, they were designed to significantly uncut the market costs of the transfer of value over distances.  This 'feature' alone provides bitcoin's "intrinsic value", even if it's next least expensive competitor in kind is what most determines what that "intrinsic value" should actually be.  Neither Visa nor Western-Union have the power to undercut Bitcoin in this market, without first becoming Bitcoin themselves.And that is not even considering the "intrinsic value" of blockchain enforcible digital contracts, should they ever become common. Well, that radio show completely undermines my own faith in Peter. Of course they do.  Neither is really in charge of anything. Let's get back on topic, please.Now, with precision, how many angels can dance on the head of a pin?
Yup, me too.  I still have a GPU mining rig in my basement ready to run.  I've moved to a county in Kentucky that, literally, has the cheapest electrical rates in the United States.  For the time being, that's a base rate (same rate, summer or winter) of 7.49 cents per KWH.  Since I've lived here, the monthly 'fuel adjustment' fee on my bill has always been a credit.  I could heat my house with straight electric heaters all winter for about 16% less than I could using natural gas in the city.  I would invite miners to set up a rack in my basement, if I thought that mining was profitable.  If nothing else, I'd get free heat out of the deal.  It might still happen.  But if I ever got wind that that the network was under assault, I'd mine at a loss with whatever I had available.  Even if I had to air condition the basement during the dog days of summer. I assume that if such a thing were to ever be developed, neither you nor I will fail to notice as it takes over the world. Don't tell us, show us.  Do it, if it can be done.  If you can, I'll sing your praises and so will the rest of humanity.  We'll name the currency unit after you.But please, don't try to convince us that it should be done, when we really don't know how it could (safely|effectively) be done; particularly if you don't know either. The only reason that economists use the term 'intrinsic value' with regard to commodity based hard currencies is because there isn't really a better term in English.  It shouldn't be taken as a literal statement that gold or silver have value because of their scientific properties.  Gold and silver are valued by humans because of their particular scientific properties, but to what degree any particular person values those properties depends mostly upon what their own experiences and needs might be. The percentages are not the lie, how they are included into the total calculation is.  Housing prices are not included at all, only "owner's equivalent rent" (i.e. an assumed to be calculatable amount of rent that the owner would be charging himself, if he was renting from himself.  Only a nutter could believe that this BS is based upon any reality, it's only an organized guess).  That's one example, as each catergory is factored in differently.  Food isn't factored in directly either, there is an assumption of a change of buying habits, with the net effect of suppressing the significance of food on the CPI.  For example; as the cost of beef goes up, there is an assumption that those who would have bought steak, are now buying ground beef, those who were buying ground beef, are now buying chicken.  This is bs on it's face. It doesn't really matter what we do here.  It's not really up to us.  The membership who would vote on such a thing, in an obscure forum, in a particular thread, have no more authority to make any such determination than a church business meeting in Kansas has any authority to vote on the legality of pot in Germany.  No one gives a shit, and our opinion matters not at all.In the long run, the market will tell us what the answer is. You do know that pie chart is a lie, don't you? Nonsense.  I dare you to try it, and see what happens.  You assume that the rest of us will just sit back and watch.  If any of us were to come to the conclusion that you were serious, or capable, of doing such a thing; you'd be lucky if you made it home before your phone was hacked and your identity was switched with some guy the Mexican cartels were looking for.  And that's not even cconsidering the hidden reserve hashing capacity that can crawl out of the dark to undermine all of your efforts. Sure, that's uncommon; but that's because there are not many people that are exposed to more than one monetary system that uses cents.  If bitcoin were to adopt a cent model, there would be a lot more of such confusion wherever cents are the local fiat model.  It'd be much better to use the mills system mentioned earlier, since it's no longer in common use otherwise. Granted, I was cherry picking, but monetary expansion is not low.  It's closer to 4.5%.  You miss this because you assume that the federal reserve is the only institution in the nation that creates currency, which is not so.  The Fed is the only institution that has a mission statement and supporting legal structure to create new currency at will.  The entire fractional reserve banking system is designed to distribute the creation of new money across the many member banks.  They do so every time they create a new loan, and that loan is repaid.Yet, you are cherry picking your examples also.  $8.50 for a ten pack of tube socks is high to me, I'm used to getting them for about $6.50. Nothing was premined.  Nakamoto might actually have 1 Million BTC, or that might be someone else.  But I know that there was no premining.  I was here well before the 1 millionth BTC was mined, and I did some of it myself.  Kindly stop spreading bullshit. Seriously!?  Both of these neocons are on Obama's side on all of this, they are just sore that they lost!  Do you really think that Gitmo would be any more closed with McCain, or that ObamaCare would be any less of a disaster under Romney?  Or even vise versa? With various local fiat currencies that use the cent model. What the right answer here is really depends upon how one defines inflation.  Most people think of price inflation, particularly at the supermarket.  True inflation is the expansion of the monetary supply relative to the user base.  We have undoubtedly had that, but the CPI does not now, and long has not, considered the costs of food stocks or energy into it's caluculations; however it does (sort of) include a calculated value of housing.  So while the actual pump costs of a gallon of gasoline has risen by more than 50% in the past 6 years, the real estate market is still way below the peak value in 2007.  The real estate market crash "destroyed" a lot of credit availability (i.e. money supply for many consumers) and has overwelmed the inflationary policies of the US Federal Reserve in the meantime.  So, in reality, the CPI number published by the government fails to represent the amount of monetary expansion during that time.  This cannot continue forever, however, and eventually we will get our inflationary period.  I still doubt it would be "hyperinflationary" because hyperinflationary destruction of a currency is a vicious cycle of the loss of public trust in a currency, almost always triggered by a political event (war, invasion, revolt, revolution, etc.) and not a fiscal policy event.Austrian economists understand the money multiplyer theories just fine, they are just bullshit.  The government like to claim this stuff to justify it's own entitilement programs, but consider this...If the "money multiplyer" of food stamp program funds really was $1.73 of economic "benefit" (defined how, exactly? It's never said) for every $1 of aid, and that multiplier is both consitant across time and consistant across a range of largesss (two things left up to the public to assume although this is never actually stated), then it would be easy to permantly avoid recessions by simply dialing up or down the monthly food stamp benefits in order to match the largess to the target level of economic growth.  It would be an immoral action to do anything else.  The fact that this is not happening, and never really has (it has been tried, so we know it doesn't really work) is proof enough that multiplyer theory is false.  All of the multiplyers presented in the media are the calculated results of past events, not current economic conditions.  If past events really provided significant insight to future economic trends, then "ideal" stock prices would be easy enough to caluculate for just about everyone, and any significant diversion from that expectation would be newsworthy, offering a huge profit opprotunity for the quick. Bitcoin IS the unit of measurement.  It seems so unmoored only beause it's trying to measure something that is subjective, the value of products and services.  The measurement system still requires the pricing mechanisim that a live trade market provides, and even that is only valid momentarily. No one can do that without the consent of the networked, as that is one of the fundamental rules hard coded into the protocol that will invalidate a mined block.  It would take quite the event to convince the bitcoin networked that is a good idea. I seriously question that premise. Because it is familiar, and thus confusion with it's other contexts cannot be avoided.  This is all fine opinion, but this is still all conjecture.  It's also one reason that we have the running testnet, so alternate clients can test their functions against a running network before going live on the main network.  Libbitcoin isn't the first alternate client either, as a couple of different simple clients have been written in Java and Python.  Notablely, those clients were developed after Satoshi disappeared, and they managed to not break anything.  The network is rather resilient, actually.  The bugs are only a problem when they are discovered in a client that has been widely adopted already.  The BDB bug was in the main reference client.  It's impossible to protect against all screwups. They are named.  I, personally, was the person who suggested naming the units after important figures in bitcoin's history, and I suggested that the most important figures would have the lowest denominations.  I did this after how the US FRN has the pictures of the early presidents in order of those who are considered the "greatest" presidents, starting with Washington on the $1 bill and Jefferson on the $2 bill.  I suggested that the smallest current unit be called a satoshi, and (IIRC) someone else suggested that 1000 satoshis be called a gavin.  That pattern continued up the list of core programmers at the time, but no consensus about the names of other units (other than a satoshi) ever developed.  I'm pretty sure that thread died without resolution.  If you really want to reopen this debate, return to that thread and awaken it, please.
While this is a fair point, it has zero relation to the OP proposal. I used to get topup codes for Virgin mobile prepaid cell service for a 6% discount using bitcoins over credit, but Virgin sold out the US brand to Sprint and that changed.  So I can't really offer you a current example, but it sounds to me that there is a profit opprotunity there.  Become the online shoe salesman that accepts bitcoin. Really?  This is your argument?  That the satoshi is too large of a unit to use in daily transactions for 7 billion people?  Roughly 30K people use bitcoins sometimes, and less than 100 use them daily and exclusively.  Do you really think that bitcoins will ever be the exclusive, or even primary, unit of exchange for all the people on this planet?  I doubt it.  Yes, there can be unit divisions less than a satoshi.  So what?  How many decades before we need to even name that unit? Satoshi had a point.  He hasn't been here for some time, and his comments were relevent to the state of Bitcoin at that time.  The main client was still, itself, very rough.  Very much still beta.  IT's also a monolithic implimentation.  Which is fine for early work.We are beyond early work.  I have long complained that the main bitcoin client didn't have simple unix like tools.  Libbitcoin seems to intend to be that set of unix tools.  I want to be able to pipe a transaction to a file, move it with a usb sneakernet, and pipe it to the bitcoin network on another machine.  I want a client that can do this for me, automaticly.  I want a client that I can create the keypairs on one machine, and manage the funds on a headless server half way around the world, without either of those machines even knowing the IP address of the other.  I want an online wallet service client that can logic bomb my funds onto the bitcoin network if tripwire is activated.  If the tools exist to perform each of the simple operations that the bitcoin client performs; then clients that can do a great many things can be developed to suit small group needs. Sounds good.  What's stopping you now? This is provablely false.  Most units of measurement are, in fact, arbitrarily chosen standards of agreement.  Currencies are, truthfully, a unit of measurement; but only of value.  Value is, itself, highly subjective.  No currency has a constant value relative to anything other than itself, and often not even to itself over time.  Yes, Bitcoin is both a currency and a commodity, in many respects; it's also a service, and that service also contributes value to the users. Bullshit.  These sex workers aren't undocumented.  They file returns, they just lie about how much they really make.  Waitresses do it, restaurant owners do it; just about any cash dominated business does it to some degree.  That's a rational (although arguablely immoral, and certainly illegal) response to the tax policies of the US.  Tax avoidance and tax evasion are two terms that describe exactly the same activity, where one is considered criminal and the other is not.  Cash transactions have the same annoying feature, so vilified by government agencies, that Bitcoin has; in the sense that a cash transaction, between two parties that don't have a reason to involve the government, doesn't leave a paper trail.  For all intents and purposes, if there is no paper trail, then no taxable event ever occurred.  So what good does drawing in the "undocumented" workers do?  Only the stupid & largely unsuccessful are going to trade their anonimity for a $200 per month health care subsidy anyway.  I've known a few 'undocumetned' workers in my time, and in my experience these people aren't going to be signing up for this kind of thing anyway.   It wouldn't work for them, since most of them have regular jobs anyway.  What they do is, the jump the border fence and spend a few days with a 'documented' relative.  they gather up his personal information, including his tax id number, and 'become' him in another area of town, or even in another state.  These duplicates never file for taxes, and never get any benefits; but the original guy with the tax id is working 6000 hours per year, working four different jobs, claiming 6 kids, and probably getting back more in his tax returns than he actually (personally) paid into it.  The only guy that could file for a subisty is the one guy with the tax id number, and he makes too much money to bother. Although I'll agree that Peter doesn't understand Bitcoin, I'll also say that he doesn't really need to understand bitcoin to make a reasonable assessment of speculation risk.  In this clip, he remains skeptical of bitcoins, and thinks that they have many halmarks of a bubble.  That's quite true from a traditional investment perspective.  Perhaps traditional investment perspectives don't apply (yet) to Bitcoin.  Who am I to disagree?  Anyone rational will go through all these same stages of distrust, although many of us proceeded much faster through the darkness than Peter has been.  I, for one, had real trouble believing that it was anything more than a scam in the early days; I just couldn't shake that idea that it could work.  And so I kept coming back and re-reading the white paper until it all 'clicked'.  I can now honestly claim that I understand how bitcoin functions, on a low/process level as well as a macro-economic level, better than 95%+ of the membership of this forum.  One day it will 'click' for Peter as well, along with the rest of humanity.  The vast majority of people will not know, nor need to know, how Bitcoin actually does what it claims to do; eventually they will just trust that it does it, in the same way that the public generally 'trusts' that the central banks know what they are doing and have much to lose by screwing it up.  (This is the real source of the "faith and credit" of the average Joe, the belief that the rich guys running the game have more to lose than Joe does if things go sideways; bitcoin will not alter the root source of the public trust either, most will simply start to trust bitcoin because they can see more and more big players who have much to lose puting their faith into it)In short, Peter's distrust is rational at his own stage; and therefore warning callers (asking for his opinion) against bitcoin investing is also rational. You do realize that the only reason that they have such low 'taxable' reported incomes is because they don't tell the truth about all the cash profit, right?  Do you really think that full-time professional sex workers in California only make $25K per year?  Seriously, would you do that kind of work for that?  If they don't make four times that much, they couldn't afford to live in California.  They only qualify for medicaid because the government buys their BS.They aren't going to have their tax returns "fully vetted". Ever.  If you have a job that removes your income tax from your wages before you get it, then you're subsidizing their (high risk) lifestyles.If that idea offends you, to bad! It's the law of the land, after all! We can't possibly change a law once it's passed (by one vote)!  Whoever has even heard of changing an "established law"?  Next you'll be telling me that slavery was banned in every modern society on Earth!  Such nonesense! Sorry?There isn't even a certainty that you can always mine bitcoins with your asic.  Bitcoin is modular, and theoretically could add any other similar hashing algo to work in series with SHA256.  If this were to happen, all those ASIC wouldn't be completely useless, but would be like a V8 on a moped.  The limiting factor of mining would become the other algo in use.At least the GPU's could still be used for games. No matter what you come up with, it will be attacked. I see. Then you need to wait till you can post in the alt-currencies section. I don't understand the question.  SHA 256 is not used to create wallet files. Do you want instructions on how to set up a standard wallet client? Oh, but it does.  You just don't see where it's going yet, apparently.  No matter; carry on and you'll get there with the rest of the short bus. While not technically a monopoly, it's definately government led collusion by regulatory capture.  The end result remains the same, no different than the Robber Barons of the US railroad industry colluding to inflate shipping prices.  The cabal benefits so long as no players undercut the cabal, which can't really happen when government is part of the cabal.Sure.  I need private insurance if I desire to drive on the public roads.  But driving is an earned privalige, not a right.  I have a right to life, and shouldn't have government telling me that I have to buy a particular product to continue to exercise that right to life.  The major insurance companies have long been for Obamacare as they were in favor of Hillarycare before it.  It's only the small & otherwise innovative insurance companies that were opposed.  Stop and ask yourself why this is. http://benswann.com/mr-president-im-leaving-the-medical-field-hanging-up-the-white-coat-a-letter-to-president-obama/This guy literally grew up in the maternatiy ward that delivered him, and he interned at that same hospital.  He just 'went Galt'. As of this exact moment, (5pm Eastern Standard Time, Oct 23rd 2013) the value of a single bitcoin is $222.74.  Making those 10K bitcoins worth $2,227,400.  Since that order was two pizzas, each one is is now a $1,137,000 pizza.Largest year over year asset value increase rate in the history of mankind. Truer words have never been posted, but that is not to say that Obamacare is actually an improvement in this regard.  Ironicly, I'm personally of the opinion that, if a static baseline of public health care access is the goal, (as so stated by so many, although not in those words) then a single payer form of health care industry (a la Canada) is as good a solution to the 'problem' as a market based system would be.The issue here is that we didn't really have a problem, at least not one that couldn't have been made worse by government aid.  The grand 'problem' was never that American's didn't have a reasonable baseline of health care, there are laws that require any public health care facility (hospital) to treat patients regardless of their capacity to pay; and if, in the future, they filed for bankruptcy, they didn't have to pay those bills, ever.  So in the US, even if you were uninsured and unemployed, you could reasonablely expect to receive the same life saving care that the rich guy who crossed the median to hit your 20 year old car with his 2014 BMW would receive, regardless of who the hospital expected to be paying the bills later on.As of this moment, we have a health insurance reform law that, as implimented, has outlawed about eight times as many existing health insurance policies in Florida alone than the government claims has been able to sign up for subsidized insurance plans via the health care websites across the entire country in three weeks time."Florida Blue, for example, is terminating about 300,000 policies, about 80 percent of its individual policies in the state. Kaiser Permanente in California has sent notices to 160,000 people  about half of its individual business in the state.  Insurer Highmark in Pittsburgh is dropping about 20 percent of its individual market customers, while Independence Blue Cross, the major insurer in Philadelphia, is dropping about 45 percent."http://www.kaiserhealthnews.org/Stories/2013/October/21/cancellation-notices-health-insurance.aspxI'd almost prefer a single payer system myself, over this BS, and that is probably the point of it all. Okay, but I can also make the argument that every American is rich by any historical or global standard.  I'm upper middle class, by American standards; but I can still afford to pay my medical costs directly.  That's what I do, too.  I do not take a dime out of my health savings account in a normal year, and have only taken $1K out of it in the entire time that I've had it.  Because I'm saving for a time when I really need it.  I have a major medical plan that is attached to the medical savings account, with an annual deductable of $6500.  I've not yet hit this mark in a year, but then I also don't pay for expensive testing that's not likely to tell me something about my condition that I can't guess.  Eventually, my condition is going to be very expensive.  That's not your problem.  It's mine.  If you can afford your own care, shouldn't you be expected to pay for it?  Either directly or via taxation?  But if you can't afford it, who then is responsible for your bad luck?  Other taxpayers?   Perhaps not. I'm not in a position to make this argument.  Regardless, medical patents really shouldn't exist; and then this issue wouldn't exist either.Prohibition of lawasuits creates other perverse incentives.  We have a real world example in the case of vaccines for children.  Did you know that you can't sue the manufactuer of your child's vaccine, even if it provablely caused harm, if it's listed on any state or federal vaccine schedule?  You can, however, beg permission to sue the federal government as it has legally assumed all liability for childhood vaccines; but you have to beg such permission from a federal court, and even if you win you're taking funds from taxpayers, not the vaccine manufacter that screwed up your kid.  Artificial limitations on civil liabilites creates it's own issues, is a violation of both the non-aggression principle and 1000 years of common law, and is begging to be taken advantage of by souless corporations.Overtesting is in the eye of the beholder.  Again, the US is the most expensive medical care industry on Earth for many reasons, but some of those are contributions to the high quality of care.  Sure, odds are good that if you get a good bump on the head, and the doctor sees no ready signs of a concussion, you'll be fine.  But what about the times those odds don't pan out?  Going with the greatest odds is cheaper overall, but if you're the guy that caught brain cancer early because the emergency room insisted on an MRI after your head injury; odds are better you would be thankful for wasteful uses of medical testing.
While that is fair of you to say, links to articles are not facts.  They aren't even sources.  I want to know what assertions are being claimed as facts here, and what conclusions he draws from said facts.  I'm predisposed to disbelief whenever someone attempts to use the Internet as support for an argument, and it doesn't even matter if I agreed or not.  The biases, reputation and trustworthiness of sources really do matter; particularly since almost no one who reads such articles can replicate the research methodology in order to check their work.  Most of us have to be able to trust that we're not just being lied to by educated bullshitters.   Could you post some of these facts you refer to?  Please show your sources. I didn't tell that story looking for pity.  I told that story to highlight the point that everyone has their own issues, whether they are presently aware of them or not.  I am aware, and in some ways that's a huge advantage that my grandmother (and more) did not have.  I can either hope that medicine solves the mystery, or I can arrange my life to better fit my most likely future.  Like all things, I hope for the best but plan for the worst.  My assets are almost all set up to benefit my wife and children should I suddenly drop, which can happen.  I'm presently three years older than my grandmother was when she passed away, but 20 years younger than my father.A market based health care system would be great for controlling value of service, not necessarily overall costs.  In fact, I'd doubt it would work that way at all.  The medical industry is far from the only one that the US is, by a wide margin, the most expensive in the world.The obvious answer there is to reform the medical patent schedule.  I don't believe that a government created monopoly shourd exist at all, but that is the world we live in. Because there is a difference between health care and health insurance.  The health insurance system in the US is broken.  However, if you do have insurance, or can otherwise pay the costs yourself, the US has the highest rate of health care access and the highest health care quality for the middle class of any nation in the world.  The proof is in the pudding, as the wealthy still come to the US to get care when things get serious; although that's probably going to change.  Can I get cheaper care for common problems in other nations?  Yes, that's provablely true.  But for cutting edge care, historically speaking, that's the US.  I, personally, have a degenerative disease.  Entirely incurable.  Unless I die bungie jumping, snow skiing, or crossing the street; it will kill me.  It's killed my grandmother, my uncle and my father.  My life expectancy is, however, a good 10 years longer in the US than anywhere in the world.  It's also not covered at all by any national health care system in the world.  (which has much to do with the discrepancy in life expectancy)  Honestly, it's not covered by any form of health insurance that I've found here either; and I'm entirely ineligble for life insurance.  However, I don't have that kind of insurance.  I have a health savings account, so I'm basicly self-insured pre-tax.  I, and I alone, decide whether that money will be used to extend my lifespan for a little longer, or become an inherited asset for my children.It wouldn't surprise me either, but again, you're talking about health insurance not health care.  I would agree that every American should have access to health care.  No one should be denied critical care, but no American should be taxed to pay for the poor life choices that leads them to lung cancer (smoking) or diabeties (over eating), nor should anyone be compelled to help pay for my, rather expensive, hospice care when my turn comes.  I lost the genetic lottery, and rather than have more blood children, my wife & I have chosen to adopt.  My eldest son might be just as screwed as me, but my younger sons are not my blood children.  My brother has chosen to eat himself to death before the family curse catches up with him.Again, I can solve this grand dilemma in 5 minutes.  Simply make any form of health care that was available to the very richest 30, 40 or 50 years ago tax deductible, as well as paying for same for others a corporate tax deduction.  Hell, make anything that was available just 15 years ago, as a recognized form or health care, tax deductible.  Sure, we'd have thousands of people in cali deducting yoga classes and weekend trips to the spa, but we'd have corporations willing to support free clinics and religious institutions sponsoring non-profit hospitals again.  If profit was the problem, then return to the age when health care insurance wasn't a benefit that employers used to attract middle class professionals.  Return to the age that Jewish hospitals paid to train the skilled and devout, rather than just the skilled and well funded. That just means that care costs more for Americans, on average.  Of course it does.  That doesn't equate to UK residents having better healthcare, better access or better outcomes.  The reverse is generally true. UK residents don't have better health outcomes than those in the US.  That's a myth.   Yeah, that's usually not good for anyone but the arms dealers & funeral homes.  But then, the history of fiat currencies says they have an average life expectancy of about 100 years and that there is a 100% mortality rate by 200 years.  The US federal reserve note is approaching 100 years old, so it's going to happen somehow. Giant spikes compared to what?  It's been fairly stable for the past several months.  Based soley on bitcoin's short history, a several months long smooth trading trend portends a sudden and dramatic price movement is due.  So far, the price movements up have generally stuck, while the price movements down have generally been temporary.  That is, after all, the only way a price goes from half a penny in 2010 to $140 in 2013. Any answer that anyone could provide would be speculation, and that is part of the problem.  Almost no one can get to the details of the plans supposedly being offered, so it's impossible to verify the claims being made by such ads.  If this were a radio car dealer's ad, I'd be smelling a bait & switch.Do you smell bait? We've made some people who make a living of the status quo nervous is all.  As you have said, once it's inevitable that bitcoin is the new gold, the 1% will be buying it up from us like madmen, inviting us to join their ranks as they kick out the guy who was late to the party.  It's not the investors or venture capitalists that bitcoin puts a 'dent' into.  It's the central banks and those who profit from them that will be upset.  Unfortunately, we aren't talking about a class of people that take their sudden obsolescence in stride.  Their not just going to put down their buggy whip tools and look for a new job without pitching a fit.  And when these people have a hissy fit, armies march and nations burn. How do you define "work" in this context? Not really free.  We're all paying for them.  And I'm pretty sure that both you and the fetus must be registered Democrat before payment. Dude, that's the whole point.  Obamacare was designed to fail, but softly and in a manner that the libs can cry, "see! markets don't work! we need a single payer system!"But it's failing before it even gets that far.  And, at this point, I think that it's a fair point to note that patents are a government monopoly that shouldn't really exist.  Furthermore, a single payer system would just be one government enforced monopoly negotiating with another government managed monopoly regarding your health care options.  That's not going to end well even if you believe that at least one negotiating party has your best interests at heart. Doubtful.  The author has a history of writing smut.  Atlas didn't strike me as the kind of person that could convincingly or descriptively write about intercourse.  At least not human intercourse. You're in the wrong state to learn how Americans think.  Cali is just South British Columbia, warmer but just as many liberals.  I hated it there.  Come to my state and spend some time, and you will come to know how different the culture really is.Attempts have been made to do exactly that, but the liberals keep insisting that health care is a right and not a market.  The market says otherwise, and charges more to compensate for the overhead of government "regulations".  We haven't had a free market in healthcare, or anything else, since WWII, and probably earlier. I've read the free sample from Amazon.  I'm curious, did you bother to ask Atlas if you could mock his personna in a book?  Or are you going to pretend that the character "Atlas" has no relation to forum members, real or imaginary?And where did you get the title photo? Again, still waiting for the great stories about wonderfully low priced health insurance.Coinseeker?  RodeoX?  Anybody? I was finally able to watch most of it.  I agree that his solution, while it may be the best balance of many bad choices, is flawed in the sense that it's not going to be implimented by him; or even by economists in general.  It's going to be implimented by polititians.  If it can go wrong, and I'm sure that even he can admit that it could go very wrong, then it is a wise bet to assume it will go wrong.  Obamacare might have worked (as a social program) under the correct implimentation as well, but it doesn't because we are talking about government actions.I'm of the opinion that his "choose death now" path is the better one in the long run, because it will effectively purge the economy of institutions that function as parasites upon our economy and our society at large.  (Think about this; every bank teller, every tax consultant, every lawyer, every polititian earns a living performing necessary work that the private sector would call a "cost center".  They don't produce anything.  If Bitcoin comes out the winner, it will be because the public recognizes that using it will cut out the cost centers, and our society will not need a tenth of these people anymore)  The drawn out "Japanese model" won't do this, although it may avoid a civil war.  Even if one path could be said, with any certainty, to lead to civil unrest and the other to decades of economic maliase; I'm not sure that a full blown civil war would actually be more costly in human lives and suffering as compared to decades of rationing of resources (because health care may be first, but it won't be last) leading to reduced access to many important resources for the childhoods of the next generation.  I have five children; but only one life of my own.  If the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few, then I choose the quick death now. For the life of me, I couldn't watch that video. But I'm not unfamiliar with Rich Duncan's work.  The problem is that his perspectives are no more certain than anyone else's.  Japan has largely been in this same boat for two decades or more, and yet they seem to zombie on.  The primary reason for this is that, as a culture, the Japanese seem to have an endless trust that their government knows best; and American's generally do not.  Still, I'm not stupid, and have taken more drastic steps for my own family than just a few weeks canned goods and a few gallons of water.  I'm not going to bet against an economic breakdown, in part, because I'm of the Austrian school of thought at well.  However, I'm not going to 'talk my book' either; because such social breakdown is a social breakdown.  A debt deflation may or may not be a trigger for a social breakdown. Funny you should mention this, because I recently encountered a one year old that could sign some of these things while working in the Sunday morning nursery at church.  I asked if she was hearing impared, because she kept signing "more" (tips of fingers on each hand together, and tapping tips of fingers to each other repeatedly) after running out of wheat wafers.  She wasn't, and I asked why she is learning signing, and the answer is that they can communicate quicker with signing than speech, even though they can understand their parents fine.  It was kind of surreal watching a baby who can't walk or talk doing sign language, even if it was only single word communication.
http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2013/10/how-the-feds-took-down-the-dread-pirate-roberts/ The vast majority of public school districts in the United States are not nearly as logical as that.  If anything, swimming is a competitive sport; so not only would they not actually teach you to swim as a beginner, they wouldn't dream of letting you in the pool with your shoes on.However, the YMCA sponsors swimming lessons for a very low cost.  Homeschooled children like my own take them during the school day, usually.  And the swim lessons sometimes include survival swimming as young as 3 months old.  Yes, you can teach an infant to swim.  I've seen it first hand.  But most moms would be hard pressed to do to their own child what is required to teach an infant to swim.  But once they learn, it's awesome to watch. That's true also, but I'm not sure that it matters.  The vast majority of people either don't know that currencies are debt based, or they are of the mistaken belief that the US $ is still backed by physical gold held in reserve.  The failure of such a currency is entirely dependent upon the public's faith that it will still have spending value tomorrow.  The fact that we know better doesn't imply that we can predict the outcome.  As the saying goes, the market can be irrational for longer than you can stay solvent.  The fiat currency market has been irrational since at least 1971, and probably 1913; and that hasn't really matter yet. While I agree that those are all nice, and I've already engaged my older children in most of those, my wife & I long ago agreed to invest time and money to teach a few things that we consider "life skills"; i.e. skills that any independent person might need to know how to do to save their own lives.The first one on the list should be self-evident, but very few schools teach it.Swimming. No, I failed to make a recent backup since upgrading.  But no matter, I figured out how to trick my phone into unlocking long enough for me to turn on the 3G radio, and then once I logged in using my current gmail account, it decided that it was happy and let me enter my pattern in the normal way.  So I've managed to defeat my own phone's security, which was no small task.  I use a custom rom and it apparently had a few non-standard security tricks in play, including a 'tripwire' kind of thing that might have nuked itself if I hadn't managed to convince it that I was who I pretended to be within it's time frame.  Thank God I'd had previously rooted my own phone, or I'd have been screwed.EDIT: I could tell it was doing some kind of tripwire countdown, because it was using the vibration function as some kind of timer notification.  I think that it might have been counting down using binary code, but I wasn't paying enough attention to be sure.  I know that it wasn't simply a regular repeating pattern of vibrations.  I can't find the original author of the rom, and it's very specific to my particular model of phone, and very well made. I agree with your premise that a shift in the worldwide value 'standard' is underway, but there is no special condition to imply 1) that such a shift will necessarily be catastophic, since it's happened before without significant problems.  Most of the world didn't really even notice when Bretton-Woods failed, just kinda shrugged their shoulders and carried on.  Or 2) there is no certainty that the world would chose Bitcoin as the successor under the current state of geo-political affairs. My toddler got ahold of my phone, and spent over an hour playing with the unlock patterns, until it hit it's max attempt limit and sealed my phone up without internet access turned on.  I've been trying to use android SDK to either fix those settings or backup the entire phone (which I failed to do since upgrading to Mycelium wallet) and both paths have been failures.  The phone is well sealed.Any ideas as to how I can get the secret keys off of the phone using ADB connections over USB? 1) You might have to limit yourself to only one hooker at at time, that's a tiny back seat.2) There's always some 'important' campus feature that would be very expensive to repair.3) Yeah.  Well, I didn't get to go to Harvard either.  I was accepted to MIT, but dad said, "Congratulations son, now how are you going to pay for that?"  Turns out, the Montgomery GI bill stipend isn't enough to attend MIT. My kids probably average around 3 hours a day, engaged in deliberate study of academic subjects.  However, that's just about every day, including Saturdays and most of what most kids consider "summer vacation".  They still complain about the amount of time that their studies (and chores) consume, right up until I threaten them with enrollment and a 7am bus ride.  When they are really small, they think the bus is cool, so I occasionally take them on a public bus trip. (navigating the public transit system is a useful skill in it's own right)  My younger kids are not really old enough for "school", at 4 & 5, and are so close together in size and age that most people assume that they are twins.  They are my rough & tumble boys, and they fight like Cain & Able.  There are a number of differing learning styles, and professional teachers have to learn techniques for hitting as many of them with each lesson as they can, in order to teach effectively to their entire class. This actually takes up as much class time as anything, and isn't something that can be avoided. But homeschooling allows the teaching parent to tailor the lesson to match the personality & learning style of the child.  This is a huge time saver, and very effective once it's well implemented.  What takes the most time is actual lesson planning, but I'm willing & able to spend the money to have that cognative labor performed by others, by buying curriculium developed for homeschooled children that fit their learning styles and our ideological parameters.  Currently we use Sonlight for my older children.  (sonlight.com)  But one can homeschool a child well for free, using nothing but a library card and a little guidance from a website like this one... http://www.oldfashionededucation.com/Or this one...http://www.amblesideonline.org/And other online resources such as this one...http://www.khanacademy.org/And this one...http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/Money is a trade for time, in education as much as anything else.  BTW, my kids have access to both Kahn Academy & MIT's Opencourseware via their Roku.  The meatspace lecture model is a dying educational paradigm regardless of it's quality. How random.  Bot, much? Let's test that theory.  Get hammered, steal your father's favorite car, snort cocaine off of the back seat with a pair of hookers, and total the car into the founder's statue at your private school.  If they don't produce a horsewhip after that then you can assume you're safe.  If your mother says, "boys will be boys" then you're destined for Harvard. Probably not often, but I wouldn't be so sure that it never happens.  I'd wager that there is a wavier somewhere... Yes, but then there's still that issue with the horsewhip... Perhaps.  Time will tell. I have to admit, this didn't happen in my school, and for the most part neither did the kind of bullying that seems to happen too often these days.  There was, literally, no drugs or weapons within my school when I went there.  And I attended a private, all boys, high school as well; suit, tie and black leather shoes required.  We didn't have weapons there either (drugs, probably; but it certainly wasn't blatant) but we didn't consider a pocket knife a weapon at that time either.  My high school had a dedicated faculty position called the "disciplinarian" who was second only to the principal himself.  I'm sure you can imagine that any such behavior incidents were handled in a completely different manner as compared to the public school systems.  No one was ever 'suspended' from my school, and if you were expelled, it's a fair chance your parents wept for your lost future.  In my grade school prinicpal's office, she kept an old paddle on the wall, mostly to intimidate the students.  In my high school, the disciplinarian kept a horse whip on the wall.Not exactly an ideal environment for low stress learning either, in recollection. The average public school district budget nationwide was about $12K per year per student, K through 12.  Many private schools (particularly Catholic or Baptist elementary schools) are well under that number.  However, many private schools are much more than this number.  Decades ago, my parents sent myself, my sister and my brother to a private elementary grade school that charged $8K per semester.  It could easily be twice that now.Logicly speaking, if we can afford the public school now with taxes, we can afford it without the taxes and paying for it privately.  That's a mathmatical truth.  However, we can't really afford the public schools' budgets anymore, and that is a major contributor to municipal debt and insolvency today.  So one can take that both ways. You're welcome to it, but I would recommend that you correct my letter salad. I can tell I'm getting tired. Good for you, but that makes you the exception, not the rule.  I'm sure that you already knew that, though.Futhermore, homeschooling isn't expecially expensive, although it can be.  Private schools are much more expensive.  Public schools exist to provide a basic education for the middle class, which is a fine goal unto itself.  However, IMHO the system has been corrupted by personal and private interests, so that the public school districts have many hidden agendas which burden their budgets; resulting in a declining quality of education dispite a decades long trend of rising educational budgets.And turning back to the topic of the thread, sending children into a forced social situation in order to learn to manage hostile personalities (what advocates might call, "toughening up") would be considered child abuse under any other context than education. I am of the opinion that the 8 year old "wimpy kid" learns nothing of lasting value by being exposed to an age peer bully; instead learning (at best) conflict avoidance or submittion to authoritarian personality types.  These are skills that can be taught as easily in a high school controlled environment, if they are really needed.  I, for one, have never had the experience of getting into a fistfight as an adult, particularly at work.  If you get beat up by a bully in school; you get to be suspended for a time, and get to see that same bully when you both get back.  Teh same experience as an adult in a workplace gets one of you fired and/or arrested while the other gets a lawsuit settlement for the "promotion of a hostile work envirnment".  School social envirnments don't translate well to the adult world, unless your adult world is a penitentiary. Political crisis, sure. That may or may not lead to a currency crisis. To a point, this is true enough.  However, the environment that a child is expected to learn within has as much as an affect on his/her outcomes as the motivation of the 'rents.I don't need to look. The public school system, and even a few of the private schools, have repeatedly contacted my wife & I to get my kids into their "gifted & talented" programs.  That may be an experience unique to us, however, I can't be certain.  I know my own parents were offered similar conditions if they would remove me from the private school I was in, and put me into the public school.  I would have jumped at least one, and maybe two grades in the move.  My dad said no.  I was bitter about the whole thing at the time, but now I understand.Public schools need the stats, private schools need the prestige that successful graduates bring.This is a myth.  One that is not improved by the common name of "homeschooling", since it's a misnomer.  It's a rare day that my kids stay home.  My daughter has cross country practice four days a week right now, and an all day coop class on Fridays. Coop is an elective school, wherein the students take classes from other homeschoolers' parents.  I've taught Praxeology, (Whatever Happened to Penny Candy? and Whatever Happened to Justice?) and am considering offering a course on investing stradgeties (Rich Dad, Poor Dad; What the Rich Teach their Children that The Poor Do Not and  The Clipper Ship Stradgedy) or Cognative Programming (How to win freinds and Influence People).  While some private schools do offer courses like these, I've never even heard of a public or charter schol offering anything like this, and that is another point at which you are at a disadvantage to private or homeschooled children with your education.  While it's possible for a child with truely invested parents to get a very good education in a public school, it's not possible for anyone to receive a complete education, simply because there isn't enough time.  Since all public schools, and most private schools, must focus on a general education; they can't really commit time or resources to the kinds of elective education that homeschoolers can.  If your father was an economist, it's more likley that you will be an economist or a businessman in a related field of work, because children really do learn from their parents and their parents friends.  As a homeschooled parent, I can introduce other children to the particular skill sets that publicly educated children generally don't have access to.  It's not as if the 1% is actively keeping this information to themselves, it's the very nature of publicly funded education that limits your educational opprotunitities.  Honestly, which is more likely to offer you an advantage in a career as an adult; Algebra 2 or Praxeology (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Praxeology)?  Now, be honest with yourself.  And think about this, we teach all children mathmatics; why don't we teach all children Economics?I would recommend any and all of those books, BTW.EDIT: I forgot to mention my eldist son's electives.  He's much more of an academic then his sister, but still has a weekly bowling league. In the past, he's attented regular groups such as Choir, Music Theory, Karate, he has been in several church plays as an actor and backup singer.  My son is the introvert, like myself; so he really isn't 'into' social things; nor is he nearly the athelete his sister is (which isn't to say she's some kind of star, either), but has competed on a rifle team with his 22lr Marlin adn want's a competition class youth recurve bow for his upcoming birthday, so he can shoot in an archery team that is near our new house.  He will probably be taking a piano class soon, but we have to wait until I can get my father's baby grand moved into our new home.  That piano has been in my father's family for four generations at least, and looked rough when I played under it as a tot.  Yes, I was born into the 1% and I'm not ashamed of the fact that I was born with advantages that my family could provide.  As mentioned, my brother fell out of the 1% years ago dispite all his gifts, and has no visable prospects of returning by his own efforts.
That is part of the issue.  It's not about the guns, it's about the basic human right to defense of self.  It has very little to do with a small metal object that makes loud noises.http://www.a-human-right.com/ You're too close to the issue, and obvious to everyone by yourself, well conditioned. While it's true that most public schools actually can pay higher wages than private schools, there are mitigating factors that result in a great many of the very best teachers choosing to teach in a private school setting, or simply leaving the profession.  My wife went to public school for 12 years, and is very well educated.  I won't imply that it cannot happen.  But I went to a private school for 12 years, and have had teachers that were considered the best in the entire state in their subjects, some of which had PhD's.  Today, my wife has a BS degree in Biology, and worked for a time as a microbiologist for Proctor & Gamble; but she is a stay at home wife & mother who homeschools five children from age 13 down to age one.  I'm not required to do so, but every few years I have my older kids take standardized tests, just so that I can compare their progress against their age peers.  When my oldest daughter was 10, she tested equal to an average (nationally, not state) high school junior (second semester) across all subjects.  My oldest son (who might literally be a genius, like my brother) took the same test at aged 8 (while running two grades ahead) and rang in as a first semester freshman.  In college.  (My little brother once took a IQ test with me, that was also a application exam for Mensa.  While both of us passed; the test was geared for a young adult.  I was 18 starting my first year of college, while my brother was 11.  I just squeeked in with an IQ of 136 and a percentile of 98.5 or so.  My little brother rang the bell on that test, and maxed out it's measurable range at 160+ IQ and a percentile of 99.9.  Today, my little brother has two degrees and is working on a third; but also has a mild case of Asberger's Syndrome, and has never held a job that pays more than $9 per hour, never been on a date with anyone as far as anyone in my family is aware, and is morbidly obese with absolutely zero career ambition; while I have five kids and have earned six figures for the past 6 years straight.  Raw IQ is no indication of success in life.)This is not to say my kids are particularly smart (which could be true, but), it's to say that a homeschooled education is the only way to get the quality of education in this country that compares on equal terms with the quality of the public education systems in most of Europe or Asia.  At least for any reasonable tuition level.  You will one day look back on your public (and private) school career and either feel like you've been cheated of a quality education, or feel like those were the best years of your life. Either outcome is sad, IMHO.BTW, I have a mild case of dylexia, so if I start moving letters around, it's because I'm tired (and MS Internet Explorere doesn't handle long form entries well) not because I'm illiterate.  When I went to (private) school, they tested for dylexia but didn't find mine, but when my father attended the same exact school decades before I, they treated his left-handedness as a mental dysfunction, and spent a great deal of time and stress on forcing my father to write with his right hand.  It's not like modern medicine didn't already know better by that time either.  All schools are institutions, and all institutions suffer from bureaucratic inertia and entrophy.  As a homeschooling parent; however, I can change my childrens' curriculum at any time, should I learn something new or discover an error.  In fact, I do this regularly.  Google, Wikipedia and Youtube are regular contributors to my childrens' education. What if there was a uniformed policeman who was in the room with the mother and children, and had fired the five shots at the same man under exactly the same conditions.  Would your culture have considered that man a hero for doing his job, and for being in the right place at the right time?  If not, why not?  If so, then why not the mother under the same conditions?  Really, I'd like to know. Ever considered the possibility that it's your cultural upbringing that's in the wrong?  Because I certainly have, and concluded otherwise.   I'm not sure that I agree with this, and I'm a long running bitcoin bull.  It might happen, but I would think that before any particular society were to abandon their local fiat currency and commit the work necessary to both learn about bitcoin and price goods locally in bitcoin, that local fiat has to have some kind of crisis of confidence.  I can see this happening in many developing nations rather without much additional motivation than what the recent history has provided; but as to places with a long history of a well respected central banking system (I.e. The US, UK, Germany before the Euro, not sure about the Euro now) I doubt that even a minor crisis of confidence would motivate even a small minority of the general pubic to trade bitcoin in meatspace for a loaf of bread.  Certainly, so long as Bitcoin stands the test of time, such a crisis must come for all fiat; but I would consider it unlikely to occur in my own lifetime.  That is, so long as the US doesn't erupt in another civil war; which at this point is still a low, but rising, risk factor IMHO. Would you care to elaborate?  What part of this story would you disagree with?   To clarify my own position, I'm not opposed to gun regulation per se; but I am opposed to efforts by anti-gun political factions attempting to impose social contraints that are presented as "sensible regulation".  For example, while the 2nd amendment most certainly does grant me the right to own & carry a weapon, that doesn't mean that I get to do so without conditions.  The CCW license movement that swept across the US during the 1990's is an excellent example of such.  I don't have to ask for permission to buy the handgun, but a formal process that notifies the police of my intent to carry concealed for my own protection is in my own interests, whether I were to call it a permit or a notice.  But the idea of people who don't understand how firearms actually work attempting to dictate the maximum number of rounds that I may have in my handgun is not "sensible regulation".  As noted, I carry a Sig Sauer Mosquito handgun, which is a medium compact framed semi-auto chambered in the very small 22 Long Rifle.  Statisticly speaking, a single shot from a 22LR isn't even lethal enough to even be considered a "lethal weapon" under the law, because less than 20% of adult single gunshot wound victims actually die, at least not from the initial trama.  (impact trama is the 'one-shot stopping power" that large caliber fans harp about)  So, should I ever get into a real firefight, I'm either going to have to be accurate enough to hit a vital organ (i.e. headshot through the eye socket, not likely under the influence of adrenaline) or I'm going to have to be able to hit my attacker several times rapidly to approximate the level of trama that a larger caliber weapon can achieve in a single shot.  Up to four when comparing a 22lr to a 45 Mag.  So artificial limitations on shot capacity only serves to favor the larger caliber handguns, is unlikely to ever have any non-negligble effect on the lethality of some crazed gunman on a rampage, which is the official reason for such a "sensible regulation".  Spend enough time listening to the anti-gun crowd and their ideas, and anyone who has any real experience with firearms will learn that the group is composed of two types of people; one group that doesn't understand how firearms work or how they can actually be used as a defensive tool to the improvement of socity, and another group that does know but is opposed to firearms for some political or ideological reason that is unrelated to their professed motivations.  It's the latter group that thinks up the details of the "sensible regulations" they then can easily sell to the former group, since the former group doesn't actualy know enough about firearms to know better and have long been conditioned to believe that pro-gun rights types are wrong in the head and shouldn't really be listened to.  I know that it's cliche, but it's still very true in politics.  Gun control isn't about controlling guns, it's about controlling the public debate; and the pro-gun crowd tend to be the least manipulatable group.  Even the long conditioned anti-gun crowd in Australia and Britain are starting to second guess their own presumptions, since they are finally acknowledging that they have a rising rate of violent crime while the US overall has a long running trend of falling crime.  While it's not fair to presume that the increase in CCW license holders is the only cause, or even the major cause, of such a falling crime rate; it is certainly a positive contribution to the net trend.  A fact that can be proven in every single state that has already passed such laws. I'm going to answer this question in two parts, because there is a short answer and a long answer.The short answer to "would you like a society in which everyonhe carries a gun?" is probably not.The long answer is because we live in a society that, historicly speaking, has defaulted to permissiveness with defensive weapons, and as a result of that those who choose to carry a firearm in public are a self selected group.  Since they are self selecting, those same people make their daily choices based on the perceptions of risk versus inconvience.  When in an area, or choosing to proceed into an area, with a reputation of elevated risk of violent crime; such people are likely to carry.  The corrolary is that those same people are generally likely to leave the weapons at home when they travel in or through an area with a reputation of safety.  The percentage of people who carry all of the time is very small, and usually related to their occupation, i.e. cop, prosecutor, corporate investigator, etc.  The vast majority of this self-selecting group is very trustworthy with weapons, as my prior article should demonstrate.  As previously stated, I have a concealed carry license that is valid in upwards of 30 states today, but to be honest I rarely actually carry a weapon in public.  I live in one of the safest cities in the United States with over half a million residents, and it also happens to have one of the highest per capita rates of CCW license holders and the hightest per capita rate of class III weapons ownership in the United States.  So excluding the mandatory gun possession in Switzerland and like places, the highest rate of machine gun ownership on the entire planet, probably across all of human history.  Like Switzerland, crazy people are not unheard of, but misuse of those weapons is so rare that such incidents can be counted on one hand, if it's even happened here at all.In summary, permission to carry a weapon is not equal to the practial reality that all adults would actually do so; and if a majroity of adults ever felt they needed to, then there are other things wrong with that society that gun control couldn't possiblely help resolve anyway.  I can see of no logical reason to not trust those who choose to carry that they know what they are doing.  Stats show that they are at least as trustworthy as the uniformed police in this regard, and gun control isn't going to improve that issue.Those who choose to carry are under the same obligations as the police to not harm bystanders, and it's also a leap of logic to assume that every CCW gun owner is 1) carrying in the resturant and 2) willing to intervene on behalf of the store owner, or even other patrons.  Being robbed while heeled becomes a risk versus benefit calculation with regard to responding with force, since the robber doesn't know you're armed also.  Some choose to hand over the cash and deal with it latter.  But not having the gun means that is never an option if the situation were ever to arise.  I'm in favor of defaulting to the condition that my daughter has the choice to defend herself using whatever technology is available to her, at least until she personally demonstrates that she is not really an adult.  After all, we all know people who are just children walking around as adults; and if they should ever show that they are willing to harm others then they shouldn't be able to retain the right to carry a weapon.  But that is not most people.  That is, in fact, a very small fraction of adults; even in our childish and violent modern culture.  Again, history shows that those who are willing to go to the trouble and expense of getting a CCW license are exactly the kind of people that a free and safe socity would prefer to be in the majority among the armed in public. That's also not true.  And whatever industries that you work in are, by definition, of limited scope.  You can't rationally assume that your personal experiences are indidicative of the market as a whole, although I won't contest the point.I suppose that would depend upon what industries we are talking about.  I'm sure that manufacturing for international markets would have an advantage in metric, simply because that market is larger.  Still, if that were universally true, then why does every car that I've ever owned have both metric and American standard parts, regardless of where it was made?  There are metric automotive tool sets that have oddball sizes (9.5 mm wrench, anyone) that are actually metric conversions of commonly used AS part sizes.  For the most part, Americans just have full sets of both AS and Metric, which is wasteful in some ways.  But we're Americans, so waste of resources is what we do.EDIT:  For those who don't know, a 9.5 mm wrench is the same as a three-eights inch wrench.  Intended for a rather commonly used nut size for cars made in Japan, and to some degree cars made in Germany; for the simple fact that the size of nut is economicly and structurally ideal for it's use.  In part, because it's commonly used in the United States, and therefore mass produced to great economies of scale. BTW, in some markets the AS continues to dominate, even in Canada.  Such markets are usually local in nature.  One great example is the trade in bulk firewood.  The standard way to measure bulk firewood in the US and in Canada is by the cord. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cord_(unit) Historicly (and often legally) defined as a stacked volume of wood measuring 4 feet by 4 feet by 8 feet, or 128 cubic feet.  To this day, your government continues to recognize the cord as the standard bulk measurement of wood, while also continuing to discourage it's use, while encouraging the cubic meter.  (A measurement of volume that is, notably very close to a "face cord" which is usually one-quarter (half and half again, base 2) of a full cord)The cord is the commonly used standard for bulk firewood in a great many European nations as well, that also officially use the metric system.http://www.ic.gc.ca/eic/site/mc-mc.nsf/eng/lm03963.html I didn't claim that it was a conspiracy.Again, I'm as familiar as anyone else is in the system.  I'm employed in a job that requires it's use.  I know what it's good for.This is false.  It's the dominate choice because Europe was so screwed up with slightly different versions of the Imperial System beforehand, and it's the dominate choice today because developing nations have a vested interests in conforming to their primary markets.  The domiance of computers help keep it in use, but it's far from a market based victory.  Most of the nations that employ it today were forced to by government edicts.And a pint is a pound of freshwater.  The major advancement of the Metric system was using base 10, which is good for mathmatics.  Like I said, AS is primarily a base 2 system, which is easier for the human mind to conceptualize withut calculators or pen and paper.  Notablely, however, caluclators didn't exist when the Metric system was in accendency; which is why it had to be forced upon most populations.  Although it did encourage the study of arithmatic among the masses.Which, pratically speaking, isn't a particularly widely used mental calculation, in the real world.  Think about it; while it's trivial for you to convert distances that you measure in centimeters (the width of a table, for example) to distances that you would travel in a car (in kilometers) how likely are the average perosn to ever do such a shift of scale outside of the context of a math class?  Yes, it would be very difficlut for me to change thes same scale in AS; moving from inches (or feet) to miles,  shifting between scales of measurements is not a regualr use of either system by common people.America does compete with the "Imperial system", and every American child learns metric in school; but there are very good reasons that the American Standard dominates within the US itself.  One of which is that base 2 is easier to do practial calculations in your head in, beyond simple changes of scale. I question that.  I see the Feds arrest a guy that lived with roomates, and couldn't really afford a car.  One who walked to a internet cafe to access the website for maintaince issues.  And yet, the feds say this guy is the one in charge (among at least six admins) and claim that he is the owner of an $80 million encrypted bitcoin wallet that they can't seem to break into. I, for one, think that this guy was an employee.  While he wasn't starving, he certainly didn't act like a guy that had access to 80 million dollars in an untaxable format. The P90 is hard to get, because it requires a Class III weapons license, due to the fact that it's manufactured with a 12" barrel.  Perhaps you intended the PS90?And it's very expensive compared to a 38 special handgun or a 22 rifle, both of which would serve quite well with practice.  And the price difference can pay for a lot of ammo for practice.  I personally carry a Sig Sauger Mosquito, a compact semi-auto chambered in 22lr.  The ammo is cheap and I can hit the target quite quickly, and I don't have to worry about a red mark on my forehead from recoil.And it's better to conceal a weapon if you're leaving your house, because one doesn't really want to either alarm the liberals in a crowd or to alert the criminal to your defensive capacities.  Or do you think that defense of one's family only applies inside the home? And damned expensive, hard to get in the US, and not very concealable. This study, by it's design, excludes any shooting that the police themselves can claim is justified.  So this only includes cases of homicide by police, that even the police weren't willing to sweep under the rug.  Intuitively, the real odds of being killed by a police officer are higher if one were to also include on the job shootings.  Since CCW license holders don't have an on-the-job justifiable shooting catagory, such a comparison wouldn't really be valid. Is that what your government tells you?  Mine has been telling me the same thing, even to the point of requiring that it be taught in my school and forcing me to use it in the military.The natural rise of the American Standard was haphazard and still has strange artifacts of history (such as the mile), but most of the measurements (particularly volume and weight) are base 2 (halves and/or doubles) and are much easier for actual humans beings to conceptualize without the aid of a computing device.  It will take nothing less than being conquored by a foreign power to stop Americans from teaching the AS system to their children and using in daily business.  There is a good reason that a measuring tape manufactured in China will have both Metric & American Standard printed upon them.  Americans will use both, but generally only use metric when forced to by circumstances, or when talking to Canadians.  American construction workers hate metric, and every young architect quickly learns to produce prints in AS, regardless as to how great the metric system is to his trade.American cars have Km's printed upon speedometers as a matter of law, but they are small print because Americans don't want them. No Notablely, I stumbled upon this article...http://www.lewrockwell.com/2013/10/dean-weingarten/cops-more-likely-to-murder%e2%80%a8/That attempts to compare the murder rate of sworn police officers against the murder rate of licensed concelled carry permit holders.  The not very official rate of police officers that committed unjustifiable  homicides, while working or otherwise, is around 1.5 per 100,000.  Which if they were a nation amongst themselves, would make them safer and more trustworthy than Germans.  One would expect such a law & order group to be upstanding.  But here's the unexpected part, the rate of concelled carry permit holders that commit homicides (with a firearm or otherwise) is just over 0.5 per 100,000; making the self-selecting lot of those who pursue such a permit the most trustworthy group in the world.EDIT: In the interests of disclosures of biases, I am among that self-selecting group.EDIT: It appears that those above numbers were for domestic homicides, not all homicides; but the trend remains true. I'm still waiting for the pro-Obamacare posters to tell me how well their experiences went. Then move.  Canada would be glad to have you.
By screwing over us for short term gain, you will screw over yourself and your childrens' grandchildren.  Is that discount really worth your freedom and your future?  I hope you can count the cost of the unseen, as well as the seen.http://rense.com/general96/horrible.html"Well, I have done it! I have read the entire text of proposed House Bill 3200: The Affordable Health Care Choices Act of 2009. I studied it with particular emphasis from my area of expertise, constitutional law. I was frankly concerned that parts of the proposed law that were being discussed might be unconstitutional. What I found was far worse than what I had heard or expected.To begin with, much of what has been said about the law and its implications is in fact true, despite what the Democrats and the media are saying. The law does provide for rationing of health care, particularly where senior citizens and other classes of citizens are involved, free health care for illegal immigrants, free abortion services, and probably forced participation in abortions by members of the medical profession.The Bill will also eventually force private insurance companies out of business, and put everyone into a government run system. All decisions about personal health care will ultimately be made by federal bureaucrats, and most of them will not be health care professionals. Hospital admissions, payments to physicians, and allocations of necessary medical devices will be strictly controlled by the government.However, as scary as all of that is, it just scratches the surface. In fact, I have concluded that this legislation really has no intention of providing affordable health care choices. Instead it is a convenient cover for the most massive transfer of power to the Executive Branch of government that has ever occurred, or even been contemplated. If this law or a similar one is adopted, major portions of the Constitution of the United States will effectively have been destroyed.The first thing to go will be the masterfully crafted balance of power between the Executive, Legislative, and Judicial branches of the U.S. Government. The Congress will be transferring to the Obama Administration authority in a number of different areas over the lives of the American people, and the businesses they own.<snip>This legislation also provides for access, by the appointees of the Obama administration, in direct violation of the specific provisions of the 4th Amendment to the Constitution, of all of your personal healthcare information, your personal financial information, and the information of your employer, physician, and hospital. All of this is a protecting against unreasonable searches and seizures. You can also forget about the right to privacy.  That will have been legislated into oblivion regardless of what the 3rd and 4th Amendments may provide.If you decide not to have healthcare insurance, or if you have private insurance that is not deemed acceptable to the Health Choices Administrator appointed by Obama, there will be a tax imposed on you. It is called a tax instead of a fine because of the intent to avoid application of the due process clause of the 5th Amendment. However , that doesnt work because since there is nothing in the law that allows you to contest or appeal the imposition of the tax, it is definitely depriving someone of property without the due process of law.<snip>This is not about health care; it is about seizing power and limiting rights. Article 6 of the Constitution requires the members of both houses of Congress to be bound by oath or affirmation to support the Constitution. If I was a member of Congress I would not be able to vote for this legislation or anything like it, without feeling I was violating that sacred oath or affirmation. If I voted for it anyway, I would hope the American people would hold me accountable." State site is still down.  Anyone actually been able to get a quote?  You don't have a case, and you don't understand my ideology. As an aside, years ago I produced a version of single payer healthcare that would actually work, not cost much in taxes, and could have been a workable compromise between the unmitigated disaster that we face now and an unregulated free market system.  I presented that plan on this forum as well as others.  Feel free to search for it.The problem with it, that I could see in advance, is that it was too simple.  There wouldn't really have been any way to game the system, and the beaucracy would have been minimal.  Less even than what exists for medicaid or medicare, and it could have compeltely replaced those structures.Heres the one rule for government funded healthcare...If the medical procedure, product or drug was commercially available in the United States 50 years ago; it could be 100% deductable on either personal or corporate income taxes.That's it.  If someone who can't pay enters the emergency room for a real emergency, they get immediate care like they do already, and have for decades.  If they need followup care, such as for a broken leg, that can be provided by a great many clinics; public or private, so long as they use methods that have been shown to exist fifty years prior.  Private hospitals could take those costs incured directly off their taxes, private corporations could reduce their tax burden by sponsoring free clinics to do these kinds of things.But if you need or want medical care that wasn't available by 1953, you're still going to want private insurance.  No codine, sorry.  Take four asprin, they're free.  Polio vaccine if you want it, on the taxpayer's dime; but you'd need to pay for the flu vaccine.But, you see, it's not really about affordable health care.  It's about redistribution of wealth under the disguse of insurance.  The truth is that most of the real health care that people get, emergency or otherwise, before 40 years of age is both routine and relatively inexpensive to provide, when paid for out of pocket and out of the context of an insurance risk pool.  Think about how much it really costs to x-ray and set a child's broken arm.  No part of this process is technology that is more recent than my own birth.  While Mom & Dad might feel compeled to upgrade Junior's painkillers or get a waterproof swimming cast, those are not actually health care requirements; those are electives.The geratest irony is that this redistribution of wealth isn't from the rich to the poor.  It's mostly from the young & healthy to the old & infirm.  Pretty much how Social Security has been hammering all of us for longer than I've been alive.  In other words, you're going to be paying for my care subsidy in a couple more years; since I have a degenerative genetic disease that has managed to kill off half of my father's siblings before age 60, and will likely be forced off my corporate health care family plan and into the exchanges during the next union contract negotiation.  I would say thank you, but I understand that I'm also screwing over my own children in this process. The Federal Controlled Substances Act is the law as well.The Federal Reserve Act is the law as well.The bank bailout is the law as well.I, for one, choose to oppose bad laws.  Just like my great-great-grandfather chose to oppose the Fugitive Slave Act by participating in the "Underground Railroad" by hiding fugitive slaves in a root cellar in his home, in the downtown Portland district of Louisville, Kentucky; before they were to swim or run across the Ohio River Bridge into Indiana.  The ACA is a raw deal, for you included.  You just don't understand it yet.  My greatest fear is that you, and those like you, won't understand until it's too late to prevent the inevitable economic effects.  Effects that no one can completely understand or predict. Even though Roberts sided with the idea that the mandate fee is a tax, that means the entire act is still unconsittutional.  I'm still wondering why the Republicans haven't brought this part up, but the constitution requires that any tax, revenue or spending bill must originate in the House of Representatives.  The Senate can modify it and return it to the house, but they can't start there.  The version of the Affordable Care Act that was "deemed passed" (not actually passed) was the Senate version.  By declaring the mandate legal under Congresses power to tax, the Supreme Court had to declare it a tax.  I can imagine Roberts sitting there thinking 'I sent you guys back a soft pitch! What the hell are you waiting on?!'  The Repubs can destroy this act anytime they see fit. It may seem that way, but that is not the reality.  It's a beautiful irony that, although the Affordable Care Act requires that all providers on the exchanges offer to cover pre existing conditions, there is nothing that requires them to do it for free.  Already one guy with a pre-existing condition, who can't get health care otherwise, managed to get a premium quote from his state exchange.  It was $33K per year in premiums alone, not counting the deductible and co-pay.  This was after the subsidy, too.  How about that trash?  I can't even get on my state exchange to see how I would fare, because it's been down since about 10 am. A better question, is would "crimes against personal freedom" be considered a violent crime?  If it is not in Germany, that's enough to move the numbers to nearly even, since kidnapping is certainly counted as a violent crime.  I'm pretty sure that any of those "crimes against personal freedom" would be a catagory of violent crime here.  Definitions matter a great deal in the context of statistics.  How can we even compare countries that report the same crime as entirely different classes of crimes?Okay, would those be considered violent crimes?  They are here.  I'm gaining new insight into why it is that European nations appear so safe statisticly, while the US appears so violent.  It seems to be, in part, because your governments don't regard some common types of social crimes to be violent in nature, while ours generally do.  If someone called you on the phone and threatened you with bodily harm, would the threat alone be a violent crime in Germany?  It would in Kentucky, and I'm pretty sure that's generally true in the United States.  I know it's also true in California, Ohio, Indiana & Tennessee at least.  It's likely to be true in every state that my Kentucky State Deadly Weapons Permit is honored, which today is well over half of all of the states last I checked. Shutdown or not, Obamacare begins in six hours.  Even the deliberate removal of the funding from the "budget" wouldn't matter.  They haven't passed a budget in five years, so I don't know why it would matter now anyway.  Go sign up for your doctor hunting license, and see if you can catch one when you need one. http://www.kentuckystatepolice.org/pdf/cik_2012.pdfHere is the link to the comparable document for Kentucky.  Interestingly, they don't produce a crime rate, only an absolute number of offences.  For all of Kentucky during 2012, the total number of crimes that are considered violent (i.e. Assault, Homicide, Kidnapping, Robbery, and Rape) is 36,965.  According to Wikipedia, Kentucky's population was 4,380,415 on July 1, 2012.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kentucky#Demographics)36,965 /4,380,415 = 0.0084386981598775 or 843.9 per 100K.  Did I do that right?According to page 2 of your submitted document, total violent crime in Germany was 195,143 in 2012. This includes, as stated, Murder & Manslaughter, Rape & violent sexual crimes, Robberies, and Dangerous Bodiliy Injury (which I will assume is comparable to assault here).  No mention of kidnapping, is that not a crime in Germany?According to Wikipedia again, (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics_of_Germany) Germany had a population of 80,219,695 during the official census of 2011.  Which seems the most current numbers available, so we'll run with that. 195,143 / 80,219,695 = 0.0024326071047765 or 243.3 per 100K.Assuming we have good numbers, and there is no reason that I can see to assume we do not, and assuming I did that correctly, (I'm sure that if I did not, someone will mention it) we would have to assume that a German is about a quarter as likely to be a victim of a violent crime, randomly speaking, than a Kentuckian.  I must say, I did not expect that outcome.EDIT::  Wait, brandishing a firearm isn't a crime?  Undoubtedly that number is too low to be relevent, but what else isn't part of German crime stats?  If you pull out a weapon to threaten another person here, that's already assualt even if the threat is hollow.  If you threaten someone bodily harm over the phone, it's terroristic threatening, which is a violent crime here also, filed under the catargory of assault.EDIT2: Wow, I didn't know there was such an epidemic of kidnappings in Kentucky.  Another damn good reason to own a handgun.  Not enough to alter the overall outcome even if Germany's kidnapping rate was as bad, though.  I also noticed that both violations of gun possession regulations (i.e. getting caught with a handgun in public without a permit to carry) or getting caught with a gun in your possession while committing a federal drug violation (i.e. caught growing pot in the woods, and there is a shotgun in your truck) is almost always (I say almost, because I'm sure it's not a perfect corrolation) an automatic charge of assualt of a police officer.  There are certainly enough drugs and guns in Kentucky to make that combonation into a data changer, but I have no way of filtering out the real crimes here from the charges that police stack up on a perp.  These stats are not convictions, so the charges alone would contribute to the "crime rate". That all sounds like you've done some research on the topic.  Sure, the US gun death toal is pretty high, but did you know that if you remove the statistics that come from cities of greater than 250K, the gun death rate is lower than in The UK, Australia, Russia or France?  Even if you remove the gun death total from those same large cities as well.  I'm not talking murder rates either, I'm talking about deaths from firearms.  If we were to include murder by blunt or sharp weapons of opprotunity, The British Isles don't look so civilized anymore.  Even Germany wouldn't look so good anymore.  If one considers just the rate of violent crimes overall, and not just those involiving a death, The UK already is higher than the United States even without removing major cities from the mix.  Australia isn't far behind, either; and Russia has been well over the US since the fall of the Soviet State.  You don't hear about such statistics because they really don't support the agenda of groups that tend to use such arguments.It is not the place of politicians, or anyone else, to "fix" the social problems.  Those problems are the direct results of culture clashes, in large part; and are concentrated in areas where those cultures overlap.  This isn't Germany, so there is no way the US is ever going to be able to enforce a prohibition on parrallel cultures.  (We can argue about whether it really works for Germany some other time)That all said, if we were to do an honest comparison between Europe and the US, we would be comparing individual US States to individual European States.  Comparing the US as a whole to individual EUropean states is deception, and a comparison of the US overall against Europe overall would have to include the Eastern former block countries, and Europe would look far worse than it should in reality, would it not?  If we were to compare very civilized & modern Germany to, let's say, my home state of Kentucky, how do you think that Germany would fare?  Germany does not permit personally owned firearms.  Ketucky is one of the most weaons permissive states in the United States, including the registration & licesning of Class III weaponry (Military arms; I.E. fully automatic machine guns, armor piercing rounds, incidiary rounds, explosives and weaponized vehicles such as tanks, silencers etc.)  If you've got the funds & a clean criminal record, you can get it here.REally, I want to know how that woulc play out.  I'd be willing to wager that Germany looks more dangerous than Kentucky, from a violent crime statistics perspective. Santa was a lie told to small children so they might be more trusting in the presence of old strangers.  Ever notice that a baby is always sceptical of a guy in a santa suit?  That's probably a rational response to old men they don't know. Go to Youtube and search for the Honey Badger video.  You will know you found the right one, when you have a voiceover from a guy with a high pitched voice who, at one point in the video, "honey badger don't care, honey badger don't give a sh*t" Of course I was being sarcastic.  I know that there is no such thing as an out of pocket maximum under the individual market section of the Affordable Care Act.  Those kinds of requirements only apply to employer sponsored plans.Your primary motivation is noted in my prior paragraph.  BTW, I just checked my paystub for what I pay.  I pay $1.21 per week for a family plan (I have five kids) that pays 80% on everything after the first $2500 (annual deductable) and has an annual out of pocket maximum of $6500. (pays 100% of expenses after I've paid $9000 total in a year, $2500 + $6500)  I have a 'health savings account' attached to it in order to pay for the deductable and out of pocket expenses that I contribute $124.04 per week into.  I hit that max out of pocket every year with five kids, and all total it's still cheaper than the "regular" plan, and if I ever don't hit that max in a year, I keep the difference for health care in my retirement years.Under the Affordable Care Act, this plan is illegal.  AT a minimum, I'd be taxed an additional $3K or so as a "gold" plan.  I'd be curious if you can find anything of comparable value for my family.  Note, however, that there is no way that I'd be eligible for any kind of subsidy.EDIT: A regular plan (instead of the HSA/high deductable plan that I use) at my workplace would certainly be a more predictable expense, but the annual costs for me would be closer to $10,500 based on prior years. Don't forget to ask about the out of pocket deductible and maximum out of pocket annual limit.  Those are the numbers that I'd be most interested it. Great!  Now I'm hungry again. I'm okay using the CL in linux, but this is a mac.  I retired the linux boxen so that my homeschooled kids wouldn't have so much trouble adapting to the dominate computer windows model.  I was using BlackboxWM before. I honestly don't understand CL on a mac, and don't have either the time or motivation to learn anymore.  Such as it is, I already found the spot to swap out the wallet.dat files, and when I restarted the client it automaticly rescaned.  Turns out that it was a backup of an older wallet that I already emptied out, so there was nothing left on it. Only if they are willing to do so at a loss, and the potential for loss is infinite.  And their loss would likely be others' gain.  Let them try. Excellent.  How do I do it?  Do I need to be a guru to safely do it?  Because if I do, I need a front end with the ability to keep me from making an irreversable error.  But that's just a workaround, and a bit of a cludge as well.  Just because I choose to retire a set of addresses (or my client chooses for me) does not mean I wish to discard those private keys.  I still want those private keys, in the event that someone (accidentally or otherwise) were to send me bitcoins using an old address.  So I never discard the wallet.dat files associated with addresses that I've done business with in the past, even though I do empty their value before I change them.  The only reason that I change them is because I've switched machines, or I've had more than one machine with clients at a time.  When we found out about the wallet.dat stealing virus a couple of years back, I emptied my existing wallet.dat and created a new (encrypted) one simply because I didn't know if my prior one had been exposed or not.  But I still have that wallet.dat for the reasons mentioned.  I really do need a method of merging in old wallets to my current one, even if those addresses are all marked as tainted-do-not-use.
The price of everything fluctuates.  One reason that Bitcoins appear unstable is because your frame of reference is (probably) a different currency, such as the US dollar.  Another reason that Bitcoin appear unstable is because they have a small market capitalization (i.e. the total exchange value of all of the bitcoins together) relative to those other currencies that they exchange with.  The latter effect will diminish as the Bitcoin-using economy grows, but will never completely vanish.  The previous effect is actually an illusion caused by perspectives.  For example, once upon a time the US $ was backed by, and therefore held a fixed exchange rate with gold.  Gold is money, currencies are just widely accepted coupons.  If you take an ounce of gold as your fixed perspective, the relative value of every fiat currency on earth has been pretty volitile over the past decade.  Not as volitile as Bitcoins, but Bitcoins are a fiscal experiment that isn't even five whole years old yet, and doesn't yet have a user base even as large as the Monegasque franc. Okay, I've downloaded a new client to my iMac and it's presently catching up to the blockchain. But I see that the vanilla client still doesn't have a means of importing or merging an external wallet.dat file.  I see this as a kinda important feature.  It seems to have the ability to export addresses, but not the ability to import them; and even then I don't think that's quite the same as the ability to split or merge a wallet.  While I can take this new client's fresh wallet.dat and discard it, I have at least 4 old wallet.dat files that I really should merge together into a current wallet.  I have no idea how to do such a thing.Also, what do I need to do next?  Do I just replace the fresh wallet.dat with the old one, and then restart?  Or do I need to do more to get it to rescan the blockchain?  Where is the data directory on an iMac, I'm an old GNU/Linux fan and even though the internal code are similar, nothing seems to end up in the right place. I recently cleaned out my safety deposit box, and found an old thumbdrive inside it.  It was inside an envelope that was marked "bitcoin drive, cold storage" in my own handwriting.  The file descriptor says that the wallet.dat file was saved in October of 2011, so it predates the native wallet encryption.  I need to install it into a new client (I have an Imac) so that I can send whatever may be on it to my new addresses.  Does anyone have some recommendations?  Has anyone already done this, and have some warnings for me?  I'm afraid of downloading an old client version to install it into, because I know that it would be exposed during the bootstrapping process. A local copy of the blockchain isn't particularly useful, either.  We are well past the point of diminishing returns on the 'multiple copies keeps data safe' method. Guys, if you think that he's doing it wrong, then do it yourself.  Otherwise leave him be to make his own discoveries. If, by "full" you mean one that can mine/hash, it's not worthwhile.  Not anymore.The report button.We could, but no, that wouldn't be proper. Hmm, I don't think that you quite understand what a wifi bridge actually is.  It is not a mesh node.  Still, it's an interesting idea.  Wifi sucks for mesh work, though. You have a point here, but I was talking about your claim that using bitcoins in commerce online has not become any easier.  My own experiences notwithstanding, it's provablely easier for a layman to use bitcoin today than it was when I joined this forum.Closer to 80%.I doubt it.  I value bitcoin for what it makes possible, not for what it makes easy. It's the job of vendors to make bying from them easy.Sure, but Unicorn Piss doesn't have any trade value, nor does it have a decent security model that would lead to it ever haveing a trade value.  Bitcoin does, and you know that.  While it's possible that Bitcoin could still fall flat on it's face and never amount to anything, it has the potential for great things.  Moreso now that a US federal judge has declared that Bitcoin is, indeed, money just last week.  Now the Senate financial oversite committiee is rushing to get information from their usual suspects about how to 'regulate' bitcoin, an implicit admission that bitcoin isn't going to go away anytime soon.  Also, that pirate40 is likely to spend quite a while as roomies with Bernie Madoff.  I hcan honestly say that I, personally, was never a big enough sucker to be taken by his scheme. The main site that I had in mind whaen I wrote that was this one...http://muslimagorist.com/marketplaceIs it a scam?  Not to me, I got what I ordered.  Nor do I even know what a Shaniqua is.  I'll be the first to admit that Bitcoin really won't have arrived until I can buy stuff from walmart.com and have it shipped site-to-store, or buy more bitcoins at the customerservice desk, andI actually have said this in the past.  However, I think that day will come in some fashion or another.  In my home city, there is now a points based foodie network for buying foodstuffs at 'participating' resturants.  There are now over 50 such resturants in this network.  While they don't use bicoin for this, it'd be trivial to do so, or establish a bitcoin to foodie points exchange.  The old business models are dying, new ones are emerging.  I have always had the talent to foresee the near future of these kinds of things, and it has profited me well.  I'm far from the only one with this talent on this forum, and that is why we favor Bitcoin so much.  Again, not for what it does do now, or makes easy now; but for what it makes posssible later.  However, Crumbs, I do say we needs bears like yourself to keep us all in check.  You provide a valuable service with your presence here. It's also one of the driving forces of the overlay network, Stratum...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=55842.0 Why?  I've been doing the majority of my bitcoin transactions on my android phone for well over a year now.  The times that I have to type in the addresses (as opposed to just using the camera as a scanner) is somewhat annoying, but I'm confident some kind of standard will emerge there as well, in time.  It's certainly no more difficult to type in an address string to buy something online at some new to me website than it is to buy something online using bitcoin; and that's also bound to get easier once browser linked wallet clients become trustworthy.  I've been on commerce sites that buying with bitcoin was almost, but not quite "one click simple".  I've scanned QR codes right off my monitor, and never even fired up my destop bitcoin client.  In fact, my desktop client is hardly even used at all, these days.  I'd be just as well to move those funds into cold storage.  I'll admit that I still do the majority of my online buying using other methods than bitcoin, but that's likely to shift significantly if Amazon ever develops a payment method compatible with bitcoin.   While this is true, bear in mind that this, also, is by design.  Off network transactions will occur as soon as they are cheaper than on network transactions, and can support a safe enough model that consumers can trust them for whatever it is that they are doing.  But then, such transactions don't contribute to the ongoing security of the blockchain, and thus don't contribute to the mining race.  So a market balance between on and off network transactions develop, above and beyond the market balance for the on network transaction fees.  The off-network market undercuts the demand for the high-security model of the on network transactions, and thus lowers the fee; all else being the same.Try and get either Visa or the Federal Reserve to deliberately design a system wherein their competitors are on an immediate equal footing as themselves. Your analysis is flawed.  The most "efficient" way to pay has nothing at all to do with the power consumption, but everything to do with the costs of using the system to the consumer doing the paying.  In this context, "efficient" means "cost effective".  There is no doubt at all that Bitcoin is orders of magnitude lower in system costs for the end user than Visa.  I don't even need to demostrate that one.  Bitcoin is also significantly lower than the same metric applied to paper currencies traded in hand, but that comparision needs a bit more explaination.While bitcoin's total energy consumption seems high, it's also relatively easy to get a pretty reliable estimate of what the system costs to run.  The total costs of running a paper currency system are more difficult to estimate, in part, because so many of those costs are obscured from the users.  Most are paid for by inflation and/or taxes, so users don't bear those burdens anyway; some such costs include (but are not limited to) The costs of manufacturing the paper and printing the currency itself.  The costs of the beauracy required to administer the currency & regulate the banks.  The cost of enforcement of currency related crimes (i.e. counterfitting) that would otherwise be irrelevent under a cryptocurrency, plus all the associated court costs, prison costs, attorneys, and social costs of prosecution; and so on.  And to that, the costs of the people involved in the handling of said currencies (outside of the beauracy); for example, cashiers and managers who must be trusted with such funds and the labor time required to properly manage such funds for every retail store, compounded to every retail businees in the country with a cash machine.  Then there are the armored truck companies, banks and such institutuions that exist for the sole purpose of accumulating, protecting and accounting for other people's money.And then account for the costs of heating and air conditioning the buildings all those institutions must maintain in order to comfortablely house and employ all those bankers.And I haven't even touched on the transaction costs that consumers commonly bear directly; such as the gas and time required to travel to a bank on a regular basis to conduct their personal financial business, nor the costs and risks involved in distance commerce using paper based currencies, such as mail order scams or online scams.There is no such thing as a free lunch, so no matter how the costs of any paper currency are officially paid for, the burden must eventually fall upon the consumers.  The finance industry in the US is now one of the largest industries recorded in the GDP, and by far the largest that does not actually produce a tangible product or offer a free market service of it's own.  If you take the slice of the GDP that is attributed to the finance industry, and that is how much the system costs overall.  http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/12/15/financial-sector-economy_n_1151058.htmlDivide whatever number you decide upon there by the current number of American households, and you come up with the appproximate cost of the system for each household per year.  Not exact, mind you, because some people end up bearing more of the burden than others due to the high externalities of the system (by design), but it's a pretty good number since most of the burden falls upon the middle class anyway.  Once you've done that calculation to your own satisfaction, do an estimate concerning how many individual transactions that would actually be per year per household, right down to the candy bar at the corner store for little Jimmey.  That's going to be a pretty high number; but even assuming that all such transactions remained individual, near-time fee paying transactions on the blockchain (an unlikely assumption, but the worst case scenario for our Bitcoin) and times the current minimum fee.  (what is it now, roughly half a cent, right?)  See for yourself which would be cheaper for you individually, and for society collectively. If any of you guys, who are reading this post without commenting, actually do pursue anything along these lines, please let me know. I've recently moved, and have moved just beyond the current build-out range of the cable company.  I hate sat tv, sucks during a storm, which is one of the only times I watch tv.  Plus it's expensive.  I know that I need broadband Internet, for my homeschooled kids if nothing else.  So I manage to get broadband out there, to be installed this Friday.  Still, my wife complains that the smallest ones need distractions when the older kids are supposed to be studying.  We've been without tv since the move, and their all a bit ancy.  (personally, I don't really watch much tv anymore) So I do some research, and settle upon a Roku 3.  I do some more research, and discover that the devices support "private channels" that anyone can set up without prior approval from Roku, so long as they have a developer's account and a streaming server to use.  (Roku doesn't actually provide any content for the devices, all content is provided by others)  While many of these private channels are ad supported, or simply fly-by-night projects that die once the developer loses interest; my idea was that of a subscription model, paid for only in bitcoins.  If some talented coders here could put together a "Bitcoin Network" for the Roku, using legally accessible content (I read about one guy that created an unofficial Kahn Academy channel, since all of the Kahn Academy videos are copyleft), the developer could actually make a living maintaining the channel.  Or more than one developer in competition could actually make for some quality programming under the right conditions.  Alternatively, bitcoin supported ads such as Project Wonderful might be another model worth persuing.  Since I don't intend to do this myself, I grant this idea to the forum membership.  If you've got skills, and plenty of freetime, (unemployed coder, perhaps?) see if you can carve yourself out a real income doing this.  If nothing else, I'd like to know if it's possible to actually earn a living providing bitcoin accessible content.  That alone would be worth an article in Bitcoin Mag. On the Internet, nobody knows that you're a teenaged entrepreneur! He's a fraud because he's honest about it?  Rich Mayberry is pretty darn honest about it also, investing (and advising same) is a crapload easier than teaching middle schoolers economics.  Why the hell do you think that Schiff does it?  Moral obligations? Well, Schiff is predominately an Austrian economist, but they don't always see things the same way either.  I've been following the predictions and blogs of both him & Mish for many years, approaching a decade now.  While Schiff has had some misses, Mish has been a freaking oracle.  I know for a fact that Mish has been aware of bitcoin for a number of years, because I pointed it out to him myself, but his first impression was just like mine, very skeptical.  I don't believe that he has ever commented on bitcoin. While that is generally true, it's not absolutely true.  There have been some very real 'intentional communites' that have come together with only a common idea, and did fine.  Still, your opinion seems valid here, as any community with any staying power is certain to develop said blood relations over time, regardless of how they start out.Once again, you have a strange notion of both "society" and of "collectivists", IMHO. There certainly is, but they don't hang around a digital currency forum.
Oh, they're good.  Downright addictive.Unless, of course, you're allergic to raspberries. Not quite, I just don't consider it my duty to convince you or anyone else of my position.Not entirely incorrect, however.  I'm an INTP, and as such I'm ever capable of reassessing my position based on new information, and suffer little due to cognative dissonance.  As such, an INTP can't remain so flexible unless there is some degree of doubt in the validity of his/her position, and I'm no exception.  I have no problem admitting that I don't consider myself perfect, in thought or action.  I've changed my position on some things over the course of my adult life, including my position on economic theories.  That's why I'm an Austrian now, I used to be much more of a classic monetarist.  Although I can't recall holding positions similar to your own at any point in life. That is far from true, unfortunately. Zarathustra is a true believer.  He doesn't come here and make his statements because he needs to convince himself, he comes here because he thinks it's his duty to convince you.  I recommend use of the ignore button to the left. This has devolved into childish fight.  I've had enough of it.  This thread is now locked.BTW, Crumbs... You're a dick, and I've not yet seen another side of you.  If you have any redeeming merit, start clinging to that side of yourself.  Just because you say it, or read it somewhere on the Internet, or listen to some guy who said it in some cute way, doesn't make it so.I'm finished arguing with idiots about this.  I'm just wasting my time. Again, you fail.  I said nothing about exponetial population growth.  While that might happen if we manage to get off this rock, it certainly doesn't have to happen.  The natural world all has limits, and humanity isn't really an exception.  If that is "doom" in your eyes, then doom it may be.  But I'm not going to cry over what cannot be avoided, and if we can avoid it (by getting of this rock) nor will I be disappointed to be wrong.And ham radio operators could never do what they do without a 'stable' oscillation, and a car engine would never go anywhere without it's 'stable' cycles.  An economy is much better compared to a machine in operation than a static construction such as a bridge.And shock absorbers are not oscillation dampers.  Bumps in the road aren;t oscillations, they don't have a predictable pattern.  Talk about your bad model.I was giving them the enefit of the doubt, because most certainly some of them are basicly 'simple minded' after a fashion, and are often taken advantage of by others.  It's actually an established rule of politics, often called the rule of the Baptists & Bootleggers.  Feel free to look that one up. You give him and his like too much credit.  While there is a certain kind of 'smarts' required to obtain and maintain these positions of power, there are many different kinds of 'smarts'.  The kind of 'smart' required to succeed in a social position of power (i.e. politics) is decidedly distinct to the kind of smarts required to analyse a complex economy.  The latter kind of smarts is both rare and humbling, as the end result is usually that, no matter how well you did in school nor how many times your mother told you were so smart, you're not smart enough and you can't be.  And that is the fundamental lesson not taught in economics courses.  Those classes teach the students methods of simplyfying the overal picture, in such a manner as to be able to approximate the massive issue.  But just like chaos theory implies that the choice of direction a butteryfly may take can impact the course of a typhoon halfway around the world and 6 months later, the long tail of data in the economy cannot be rounded off and accurately approximate such a huge and dynamic system for any real timescale.  Oftentimes, the long tail of data isn't even available for analysis.  How do you know what deals that the recycler in Africa makes, if he is not willing to tell you the truth?  What if you never ask? Degenerating?Bitcoin was designed to be a tool for 'anarchy'.  Your choice of words exposes your bias.EDIT:  Oviously, this is a trolling post thread, intended to evoke a response.  It obviously worked.  Well played. I'm pretty sure you're well aware you're misrepresenting my educational background.The problem with "stable" is that it is a subjective valuation.  All economies oscillate, it's called the business cycle.  Unfortuantely, there are many people who will make well intended, but ill advised, attempts to suppress that oscillation.  The result of which is that 'forces' become pent up, and create greater havoc when they are finally released 'out of phase'.  Still other people stand to make huge profits from the timing of changes in teh business cycle, and have a perverse incentive to encourage the realses of such 'forces' on their own timescales, thus making things even worse for everyone else.  George Soros famously made an even bigger fortune doing exactly this to England.  To most poeople, 'stable' would mean that an economy grows at or slightly better than the population rate.  By better, most people would say somthing around 2% APR.  The problem is that even 2% annually is an exponential growth rate, and cannot continue forever.  By definition, that which is not sustainable cannot continue indefinately, no matter the best wishes of  anyone.  To myself, and in this context, 'stable' would mean that the natural 'forces' that result in the business cycle be left alone, so that the magnitude of those oscillations don't have the chance to compound.And that is what I mean by the 'right' economy.  The one that develops naturally from the people and conditions that are present and develop in the future, without influence of well intended politicos and self-interested powers.  It would be possible for some of those oscillations to be particularly harmful, even to the point of severe social strife, but over the truely long term, such oscillations (by definition) balance out. You've already failed the test. If by that, you mean real ecological damage, than yes.  In such a case, such 'externalities' do, indeed, negatively effect an economy of any nature or size.  The cavet here is that not all claims of environmental harm are, in fact, harmful.  Burning firewood, for example, isn't actually net harmful, even if human beings in the near environmental space may find it uncomfortable, or even personally harmful.  Inasmuch as fossil fuels are burned for energy, they are not necesarily harmful either.  Burned 'clean' such actions only produce CO2, which itself shouldn't rationally be considered a pollutant.  It's a greenhouse gas, yes, but it's also so difuse in the atmostsphere that it's actuall net contribution to global climate changes is highly debatable on scientific grounds.  But that is a huge tangent.He can be taught!"War is the health of the state." I don't want a progressively increasing economy.  I want the right economy.  The best way to have that is to take a 'hands off' approach, because politicos really don't know as much as they think they do.I don't deny this either.  I don't know anyone who has besides your claims that someone has.  I just don't find such a society to be ideal.  If you do, why are you still here?  There certainly are groups within the US and elsewhere that prefer the kind of "natural" lifestyle you think is appropriate, and some of them will even accept you.  You just have to find them.  Or create your own.The obvious answer is that you really don't believe that you would be better off without modern industry and/or the Internet, or you would be doing so.  You certainly are still free enough to do so, despite you claims to the contrary.  It costs you almost nothing to go hiking into the wilderness, and 'camp' in public parks.  There have literally been cases of people that have been found camping in national parks that have been there for years.  Camping isn't illegal, yet.  People have done it in city parks, although that is certainly illegal.  I've even seen a tent that is shaped to resemble a car, put up in a city parking spot.  I've seen people camp in freeway medians; which if you have ever driven though Kentucky, you would realize is not very difficult to do undetected.  Learn to set up trappin snares, there are such books in the public library, and you would never even have to 'hunt' for your food.  There are tribes in Africa that get most of their food from simple snares, because they still use an atlatl (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spear-thrower) instead of the more effective bow and arrow for hunting. You obviously don't have an accurate understanding as to what actually went wrong with that reactor in Japan.  That reactor was designed with a multiplely redundant emergency cooling system.  It was specificly designed to suffer an earthquake of a power of 9.0 on the Riecther scale within 20 miles or so of the epicenter.  It was desgned to suffer through a tsunami.  It was designed to suffer though a complete failure of grid power support, as well as total failure of all of the AC water pumps.  What was never considered was the incredible odds that all of these things would happen in the same day.  It was a harsh lesson learned, and many heroic engineers and techs working for a private company lost some or all of their remaining lifespans in concerted efforts to save public lives.  It sucks to be that tech, when that crap happens at your plant; but just like joining the military, they knew what they signed up for.  If you don't thik that there are equally heroic corporate employees of every other nuclear powerhouse in the world, then you don't really understand why these men and woman get paid the salaries that they do.  But know that the nuclear industry knows that such a one in ten thousand odds event can happen, they are already reconsidering their own emergency cooling plans because reglatory agencies require them to and because they don't ever want to be the next set of guys to have to die to save humanity.  For that matter, the complete breakdown of civil society is one of the most common emergency scenarios that nuke plant disaster planners have long considered, and one of the easiest for them to plan for.  It's way harder to plan for a 35 foot high tsunami wave.   Fukushima power plant had diesel powered pumps that could run underwater, and generators that could survive an earthquake; but not both at the same time.  And furthermore, none of those failues would have mattered at all, had  Fukushima  not been involved in their once in a three year refueling cycle when the bovine fecal matter made contact with the rotating cooling device.  The other reactors were all automaticly in emergency shutdown stage 60 seconds after the earthquake was detected, and never caused any problems; but that one (number 4, IIRC) was not set for automatic shutdown due to being involved in a fuel rod exchange that very week.  Fresh, hot fuel rods were waiting in the storage pool, while engineers and tech were running all over a damaged and dangerous reactor trying to get the emergency neutron sheild down into the remaining core, and everyone managed to forget about the storage pool.  The water in the storage pool evaporated enough that the tops of the fuel rods were exposed to air, and then they caught on fire due to their own internal heat.  It was not really a 'mealtdown' in any practical sense, but radioactive smoke is no small thing.  To the best of my knowledge, Fukushima could still be in operation today, if the populist government had not halted all nuclear power in the nation, as teh damage to the reactor itself was not really significant.  Nothing like Chernobel for example, or even Three Mile Island (which didn't actually release any radiation BTW, but did damage the reactor) I'll offer 0.2 BTC, if you're willing to mail it to me before I pay. This is, almost word for word, Mish's complaint with Schiff and other hyperinflationists today.http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2011/05/hyperinflation-nonsense-in-multiple.htmlhttp://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2012/08/reader-questions-on-hyperinflation.html Nope, not a new idea.  The 4S was specificly designed to run unattended for 30 year refueling cycles, and is quite capable of utilizing downgraded weapons fuel.  It can also use a Strirling engine at the surface generator house, although it's actually desinged to use a liquid salt to boiling water heat exchanger.  Stirling engines are more efficient, but they are also more expensive to build, so the 4S can do either.  The early test version, such as may eventually be built for Alaska, assumes that the waste heat is used for municipal hot water distric heating.  This is more commonly called 'cogeneration' and the total energy efficientyc is much greater than that of a Stirling engine producing electrical power alone.  And the 4S is just one example of this style of small, unattended reactor design, other companies have similar designs.  Another design that aims towards similar ends, but uses a classic deep pool unpressurized light water design is the SLOWPOKE (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SLOWPOKE_reactor), intended primarily for municipal district heating and is largely incapable of electric power geneartion because it niether operates at a high enough carnot efficiency to use a stirling nor is it designed to biol water for pressure, since it's an open top design exposed to atmostphere at the top and boiling water is used as super-critical limiting feature in the core.  It's literally impossible to 'meltdown' the core in this one, because it depends upon the presence of a precise amount of water in the core space for the proper regulation of neutron flux, and either the presence of steam bubbles, or the pressence of normal air (in the event of pool water boil-off) permits too much neutron flux to escape the core to maintain a critical reaction. Great kid, very smart.  But that isn't an original idea.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toshiba_4S All that federally "owned" land, particularly out west, is the perfect example of the American form of communism.  Undeveloped land is the most basic of resources, required for any form of industrial production I can think of.  By definition, communism is public ownership of the means of production.  There has never been any claim that those resources actually need to be in production to qualify for the definition. And the past of money.  There is a reason we have the term, "not worth his salt".
And that is exactly my point.  200 MW is hardly worth the effort of all that geoengineering.  Despite the fact that it would pay economic and ecological dividends, both in actual power and in local climate mitigation, for 10K years or more.  We simply don't, as humans, think out that far.  We discount the value of such a massive construction to our great-to-the-power-of-whatever-grandchildren.  If we can't get a net positive return on investment within out own lifetimes, we don't see the value in it.  This is the short term thinking that afflicts the human race with some of it's greatest flaws.  There is a 'food forest' in Vietnam that has produced food for humans for 300+ years, almost without human labor to maintain it.  There is a theory that the Great Pyramid in Giza was not a burial site at all, but an elaborate water works construction; from an age prior to the Egyption culture when the local climate was much wetter.http://atlaspub.20m.com/giza/pg5.htmhttp://sentinelkennels.com/Research_Article_V41.htmlhttp://www.thepump.org/BAsicly a massive ram pump, used to send the water of the "Upper Nile" (which no longer exists) great distances.  A similar 'ram pump' construction was once proposed to push a portion of the water flowwing down the Mississippi River West across the Great Plains, although today the Mississippi River basin has enough trouble maintaining a shipping depth.Humanity just has real problems thinking in such long range terms, even when the benefit to our decendents is certain.  One reason that a space elevator is never going to be built. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SkyTranhttp://www.septa.org/fares/pass/independence.htmlBTW, roads were never public land or publicly maintained before the foundation of the USPS, which provided funds and legal status for the public development of "postal roads".  Today, all roads are postal roads.  Makes one wonder how we ever had roads before the USPS.http://matternet.us/http://www.incrediblehlq.com/http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/travel/destinations/10great/2009-09-03-apple-farms_N.htmhttp://www.huberwinery.com/http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GE_Consumer_%26_Industrial#Appliance_ParkGE's appliance park was the original 'industrial park'.  How did it get it's name, might you ask?  From the 50 acres of company maintained parkspace on the East side of the employee parking lot provided to the public free of charge.  Eventually the city parks department took over maintaince of the privately owned park, and since then portions have been sold off to other companies; so little of the original park remains, but my point is that we used to do things this way.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biltmore_EstateThe Biltmore estate is ran as a private park, but there is some fees depending upon what exactly you want to do.  Walking the gardens is still free.  And yes, it's still privately owned.http://bernheim.org/Berhiem Forest is a private park of huge proportions in Kentucky that is as large as many state parks.  It was priavely oned once, and now it's owned and maintained by a fountation that the original owner stipulated in his will shall forever be a public park, and shall forever be free to access.  The Bernhiem foundation does receive some state tax funds indirectly via state agriculture education subsidies, as it's the primary location for aborists to study in Kentucky.  True to their word, all of the forest is hike accessible during daylight summer hours; but there are portions that are so difficult to access, no one besides the arborists are known to have ventured there in years.My point is this, we can and often do these very public things privately today.  Whether or not these privately owned public spaces accept public funds today or not, they aren't dependent on the support, or likley even the existance, of the state. Like Los Vegas? Nah, they don't really need drinking water that bad. Who cares?  How do you think the salt flats got that way to begin with?  It was once much like the Dead Sea. You're talking about tidal power generation, I'm not here.  Still, tidal generation is an excellent example of what I'm talking about.  The few naturally occurring ideal places to put a tidal generator are all owned by people who don't want you to touch their ocean view.  They don't want you blocking their yachts from entering or exiting the bay either.  And the environmentalists don't want you to alter the shape of other coastlines, even if the benefits could possiblely outweight the massive costs of construction work on any foreseeable timescale.What I was taliking about was literally a controlled drain of the PAcific Ocean into the saltflats.  No dependency on weather patterns or the orbit of the moon.  24/7 power generation so long as the output water was at or lower than the average evaporation rate of Death VAlley, which is considerable.  Power forever, literally, so long as the pipes and gensets are maintained; in the same sense that most hydroelectric plants are power forever, so long as they are not damaged and the run of the river remains the same.  Difference only in which direction is the source and sink.  Again, it will never happen.  NIMBY all but garrantees that large scale geoengineering projects are imposssible, no matter the cost/benefit analysis of it all. That's not capitalism.  That's communism.And around and around we go, where we stop, nobody knows. REally?  So what you're saying is this; even if crumbs had not long ago earned his treatment, we should prevent that which comes around from going around because you somehow are innocent, and must deserve to be protected from offense?  Did I get that part right?I'm just saying, the reputation of she who is offeneded is at least as important as the offenseive material itself; particularly when she isn't the intended target. This is a rediculous idea.  Again, nuclear power industry accidents across all of the history of the world do not exceed the amount of radioactive material that is launched into the atmostphere by the worlds coal plants in a single year, and we have been burning coal for almost 200 years, and seriously powering industry with it for over 100 years.  Modern nuke plants don't really 'blow', and even if 100 of them had leakage accidents similar to what happened in Japan (very, very unlikely) we still wouldn't exceed what humanity has already dosed our environment with over the past 100+ years.  That plant had a quadruple redundant emergency cooling system, which we now know isn't quite good enough for a 1:10K year tsumami wave.  It's certainly more than enough for a global economic breakdown, since the idea is to give the enginneers time to put the reactor and hot fuel rods into a longer term stable state.  For some designs (undamaged) this simply involves lowering a neutron shield that waits inside the reactor, and the heat level will slowly reduce to the point that additional water supply is no longer pressing.  For some designs this actually requires that some (all?) of the hot fuel be removed by very well trained operators and placed into open storage pools, with or without neutron shielding between the rods.  Most of the open storage pools are not designed to collect rainwater for level maintaince, but do you really think that should it become obvious, the engineers can't arrange such things for most or all of the power plants?Furthermore, not all radiation, or radioactive materials, are equal risks.  There is a persistant background radiation in our lives that is completely natural, and it's certainly higher than a layman would assume.  All concrete is mildly radioactive for the same reason that all coal is mildly radioactive, because all rocks contain some trace amount of thorium.  It's just that common. Recent post by Dmitry Orlov, highly relevent to this thread.http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2013/06/life-outside-mental-comfort-zone.html#moreEDIT:  A quote highly relevent to those who engage in this thread, perhaps myself included..."the brain of the body politic seems to have had its corpus callosum severed (that's the crossbar switch between the two hemispheres of the brain that allows them to act as a unit). Each side thinks that it represents the whole even as the two sides have all but lost the ability to communicate with each other" And chickens.  Corn makes for a fine chicken dinner after about four months. I suppose that it really matter what one means by "collapse".  I'm of the opinion that markets can't collapse by their nature, they either grow or decline, but never cease.  Even the classic 'buggy whip' market never completely died after the invention of the "horseless carriage", as there are still niche markets such as hobby mini-horse carriage racing and the Amish/Anabaptists that require them for practical transportation.  The survivability of markets notwithstanding, your own personal economy could very well 'collapse' if one is not careful.  And there is some risk that it could collapse even if one is careful.  When the bovine fecal matter finally makes contact with the rotary cooling device, I doubt anyone west of The Hamptons is going to completely avoid it. Another solution would be to build huge culverts to funnel the Pacific Ocean from San Diego to the Salt Flats, which happens to be about 200' below sea level and was an inland sea itself that finally dried up a few thousand years ago.  A few water turbines near the Salt Flats, and with the evaporation rate of the area, easily 100 Megawatts or more for as long as we like.  More, if we decide that an inland sea would be a good thing to have there.  It would alter the immediate environment, increasing humidity, cloud cover, and rainfall for several hundred miles around.Not that the NIMBY crowd would let something like that happen either. Wow. You're response is to cite a theoretical method, and present it as a near term viable solution.  Solar antennas might one day power nanites, but even then the tech might be a bit out of reach.You're dreaming.  TAbletop fusion is closer to a productive stage than solar antenna tech. Mmmm, Soylent Green....That thought is like opening up a fortune cookie after a great meal, and all it says is "That wasn't chicken". I wholely reject your absurd distortion of the terms in use.  But even then, I can lay one down for you...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IroquoisYes they were a matrilineal society (and a matriarchial one, IMHO) and yes they did trade internally and externally.They were stateless, both by the true defintion of the term, and your's as well. So this http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kowloon_Walled_CityAnd this http://mises.org/daily/1121Or this http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jewish_anarchism#Religious_Jewish_anarchismor this https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hallstatt_culture#Culture_and_tradeAre not both capitalisitic and stateless socieites?  A note on that last one, since it's not widely known.  Not much is known about the Hallstatt culture, mostly due to the combined effects there being now known written language associated with the culture and that history, while not really written by them, is heavily edited by the victors.  The Hallstatt were not victors.  But two thinkgs are known to be hard facts about the Hallstatt culture, 1) they honored no rulers and thus were leaderless, and during the age that also made them stateless by the dominat definition (they respected no king, paid no taxes and fought no wars) and 2) they traded with their neighbors, particularly mined salt.  You would win that bet, I'm sure.Fair enough.  Your thread is your thread.  Work it out between yourselves, or not as you may prefer.  Again, I'm no one's counselor.   I did so deliberately, because any lying or defamation is generally irrelevant to my point here.  I know about your reputation, and it's as good as anyone else's.  That said, I've personally been burned by several former forum members who spent a great deal of time building up said reputations.  I'm not saying that you're one of those people, I honestly don't know.  But nor does it matter, because I've learned the hard way that trust should be hard earned when money is involved.  BTW, I (we) don't get all the trolls mostly because what you might consider trolling, I might consider to be just an angry customer, or a joke, or just an artist.  Just because it's at your expense, doesn't mean that it's trolling.  To get deleted, it generally has to be offensive to many (if not most) people, and lack any redeeming value such as entertainment value or a rational dissenting opinion; which is why I've never deleted any of your posts TECSHARE, despite the fact that your username ends up running across the reporting system more than most.   I'm not here to keep the peace, and I'm no one's counselor.  Oh, don't get me wrong.  They can be made elsewhere, just not in any volume, nor at any price, that works economicly.  There are also other techniques, but they are more expensive, too bulky or otherwise have some other downside to their employment.  Which is why we use photovoltics as the most common method of solar power, it's the best choice among known techniques.  Solar power will come when it's economicly competitive, but for many reasons (including resource availability) it's not possible to do more than about 4% of the US total grid in solar.  In most counties, the 'net metering' laws that exist to favor the small, home solar installation are void if more than 1% of productive capacity is solar; because beyond that point the negative effects of distributed and unreliable power sources upon the grid become too large for the power company to ignore.  They would either have to have control of those power sources, able to disconnect them; or at least be able to highly predict their total output capacity at least an hour in advance.  Look up the term 'spinning reserve' with regard to grid power systems, and you might understand the problem with unpredictable renewable power to the power company. They have been rediscovered.  Sepp Holzer, from Austria, is generally considered the single most influential person in the modern permaculture movement.  And he didn't think of the idea, he's just a very talented farmer who's family ranch is above 1500 meters above sea level.  He either had to figure it all out, or his family farm would fail.  He has literally proven several agriculture 'facts' to be false; such as it's impossible to grow fruit trees above 1000 meters above sea level.  It only takes one example to disprove such things, while Sepp has literally grown hundreds of fruit trees to fruiting above 1500 meters, of many different species and varieties.His family farm didn't fail.
That would be coppicing, which I already mentioned as the more likely outcome of cutting a mature standing tree in winter.  If, and only if, the stump dies; would I then bury it and use it in this manner. I wasn't talking about the uranium fuel cycle, I was talking about the thorium fuel cycle.  Even with U235, up at least until the latest screwup in Japan, and likely even afterwards, all of the radioactive materials released into the environment by all of the nuclear power facilities, all over the world and since the dawn of the nuclear age is less than the radioactive materials that are released into the environment every single year bye the burning of coal worldwide.  Yes, burning coal is known to be worse for ratioactive waste materials than the entire nuclear power industry, and that doesn't even consider all of the other bad effects of burning bitumous coal for power.  The accumlation of nuclear waste is a well known problem; and is handled (or not handled, as one may look at it) in the US the way that it is for a particular, strategic reason.  Europe and most of the rest of the world will generally "process" spent fuel rods to remove the 'hot' fission byproducts from the fuel, and then recycle the remainder of the useable fuel back into their domestic fuel cycle; as a typical reactor fuel rod will still be about 1.5 to 2% fissile U235 when the critical reaction can no longer be maintained for useful power production, no matter what the concentration was at the beginning of the fuel rod's service life.  So Europeans generally encase the fission products into leaded glass balls about the size of a softball, and store those products forever.  The amount of long term storage space, using this method, is incrediblely small; however the term period is incrediblely long, considering the high concentration of risk.  In the US, we (deliberately) don't process spent fuel rods, instead we just pretend to store them forever.  The reason for this is strategic, not economic.  You see, the US does not have any viable uranium mines from which to extract weapons fuel in the (considered rather remote at the time, and it still is) event that we are cut off from our primary source allies, Canada and Australia.  The massive 'long term storage facility' that has never been opened in Nevada isn't really intended for storage of materials for 10K years, nor would that be neccesary.  The storage facility is basicly an artificical mine, that the US military could draw upon under such very unlikely conditions.  If those conditions are never met, it's highly likely that the US nuclear power industry would demand access to the stored materials in the future, in the event of some 'uranium energy crisis' if the cost of refining and importing refined fuel from other nations ever exceeds the cost of simply processing and re-refining the stored 'spent' fuel.However, since thorium is three times as abundant than uranium in the Earth's crust, and 100% of thorium is fissile (compared to roughly 1.2% of uranium) switching to a thorium fuel cycle, again a tech that we have known about for 40 years, would easily power our modern industrial economies for 10's of thousands of years at the current burn rate, even if every human being on earth today consumed energy at twice the rate of the average American today.Actually, that's generally true; there are no technological (and likely no economic) barriers torunning the entire world on renewable resources.  But while there are no barriers, that doesn't mean that there are no limits.  The greatest issues are political & social.  While it is scientificly possible to power all of the world using only a km wide band around the whole of the equator of solar cells, it's not actually possible to build that many solar cells using the science that we have and the resources that we are aware of.  The problem here is that almost all electronics require trace elements commonly called "rare earth minerals" in order to manufacture the semiconductors required.  Solar cells, and some kinds of modern batteries, require an awful lot of these rare minerals.  This is one reason that China is the only place affordable solar cells are produced, because of all of the "rare earth" mines in the world, over 90% of the known resources happen to exist within the borders of the Middle Kingdom.  If you thought our dependency on oil was a geopolitical conundrum, this is way bigger.  NASA literally cannot build a spacecraft without underpaid miners in China, and no one else can either, because the "rare earth" mines in the US, Europe and Russia are tapped out or nearly so.  The problem is similar for windpower, due to the need to use fancy inverters to produce mains power from unpredictable wind resources.  Waterpower isn't so affected, but then the 'low hanging fruit' of productive capacity in this arena has long been utilized; and further projects face a case of diminishing returns, particularly with regard to the popularity of harming natural ecosystems with flooding for reserviors for power storage.  Some site can, and many already do, use 'run of river' waterpower methods, but these suffer from the similar issues with weather unpredictablity as windpower.And none of that even considers the NIMBY social issues that any grand scale geoengineering projects would have to overcome first.  One of the most promising wave energy sites has been tied up legally for over a decade because construction would disrupt the view from the beachhouse of a US senator.  Renewable energy projects of the scale required would, quite literally, be everywhere.  Good luck with that. Honestly, TECSHARE, it doesn't much matter whose idea it was.  You don't have a monopoly on ideas.  It's called competition, and is generally considered a good thing around here.As for who is scamming whom, I care not at all.  Let the buyer beware.  If anyone sends either of you any funds at all, let it be known that they take the risks.  Don't get the idea that mods filter out scams.  We don't.And anyone offering a service, but self-moderates his advertising thread to remove detractors, deserves negative trust IMHO. We've had the technology to do this for forty years.  It's just not being developed, and it won't in the current geopolitical environment.  It's wishful thinking to believe that wind, water and solar are ever going to be able to run our modern industrial economies.  Nuclear power is simply required if we really desire to move away from using coal.  I don't know where you got this idea, but that's not true.  I know of no argument to imply that a free market would produce more than the current market. It might, or it might not; depending on the desires and needs of the people.  The difference would be that productivity would not be siphoned off by an ever more needy state, and those who are dependent upon the state would have to learn how to produce something of value as well. No, no; this wasn't it.  If there is nothing else I'm sure of, it's that the FedReserve will not do anything that will end the game early.  They know the con at least as well as outsiders, and they are dependent upon it's continuance.  They will do and say anything they can to fix it, even if that means completely backtracking on prior statements and actions.  If the trigger is monetary in nature, it can only be because Congress did something to deliberately disrupt the Fed's power, and I think too many of them know the score to consider such an action either.  Whatever the trigger is, it won't be directly due to monetary policy of the US.  Much more likely is that the trigger be related to the monetary policy of Japan or China, either of them could break the US Treasury now, it's just not been in their interests.  The Failure-to-deliver chart for US treasury bonds has tripled in the past three weeks.  The last time that has happened, Leaman Brothers was hung out to dry.  And that distraction barely worked the first time. Well, I've been expecting it within the next couple years for a decade already, and recent events make me wonder if we have more than a couple months.  But again, we never know in advance what the 'last straw' will be.  For the Brazilians, it was a 10 cent bus fare hike; for the founders of the United States, it was a 3 pence per pound tax on tea.  When a society is being attacked with a thousand cuts, it's hard to tell when you hit that last one. The amazing thing about such things is the amount of inertia that faith in the system has to keep things going for a time, yet when faith in the system is lost change happens quite rapidly, and sometimes violently.  Look at Brazil over the past several days; they've been having economic issues for a long time, and have a government openly determined to suppress the trade value of the fiat currency for well over a year, but in the end it was a 10 cent hike in the price of public transit that was the trigger.  No leadership to arrest, no common theme, just a million people across the country that suddenly all had enough crap at once.  The United States has been running on public faith inertia since at least 2000, but the rash of federal scandals is severely undermining that faith.  When that 'faith bubble' finally pops, what happens next is anyone's guess. Indeed.  Government is the disease that it attempts to cure. Democracy is the idea that the people know what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard. More curious.  What's in Montana? Yes, you are preaching to the choir; but those in this world who have studied Praxeology have seen this kind of breakdown coming for some time.  Ron Paul has been quoted as saying that this is the kind of stuff that prompted him to run for congress, back in 1974.  There is an entire book, website and newsletter series that I know of devoted to investing under these collapsing conditions, and thus profiting from the misfortunes of society at large; and they have been around for some time.  One such website is http://www.chaostan.com/While none of us knows quite how the 'great correction' is going to play out, some things are certainly predictable.  One such thing is that Americans are going to throw a hissy-fit once they learn that they can no longer afford to drive their pretty SUV's everywhere they go.  Another is that particular classes of investments are forever; such as alcohol, guns, ammo and uncontaminated land.  And strange as it may seem, common table salt if you live more than 100 miles from a shoreline.Gold, on the other hand, is pretty much useless unless you already have at least one of the first four things above.  It's also wise to stock up on gardening books, and perhaps take up beekeeping as a hobby.Personally, I've already done all of these things. Actually, I did kill one post in this thread earlier today, and it might have been yours.  Can't remember for certain.  So let's say I did it. Heh.  Well that 'paid mods' thing is fairly recent, and is based upon some kind of participation algo, so it can't be argued as a method of favortism.  People get funny when money is involved, even at the very small amounts we are talking about here.  I've been a mod here for a couple years, never really thought about getting paid for it. The clock is no longer ticking. The Punisher?  No.  I've literally never banned anyone on this forum, at least not personally.  It's never come to that for me.  The problem that I have is that the only tool I have is a nuke-ban, which is such an over the top action that it seems entirely disproportionate to the kinds of offenses that I generally see.  If I had a more intermediate action that I could take, such as a term limited posting ban, I'd use that I expect; but AFAIK only Theymos has such fine control of punishments.  I have, however, pulled Theymos into conflicts wherein I felt that a response was required, but a full nuke-ban was overkill.  He really doesn't like playing judge, though, and I can't say as I blame him. More entertaining than many, not as entertaining as some.  I've noted to others in the past, the skill of the troller in entertaining me is one of the reasons that some people get away with it.  I'm not shy about admitting I'm biased in favor of clever trolling.Thank you, apology accepted. Pretty much all of the mods are libertarians of some flavor, I assumed you were referring to myself because I'm the one here. I've given away much money, and bus tickets, etc to a great many people; so I suppose it's possible.  I'm much more likely to give money to a bum with an old high & tight or a pair of jungle boots than a tail.A snipe is a bird in my world, what does it mean in your native tounge?No. Feel free to clarify.  I was refering to you in the third person because I was answering someone else's charges.  I wsn't even talking to you, but if you feel degraded by it, good.As to the point about my assumptions, I'd call them educated guesses.  Are you going to assert that my conclusions are incorrect?  Or are you just attacking my methods?The irony of that statement is that, yes, I've given you much of my time and consideration. Case in point, you're not banned, yet.  You walked into our house and took a grand shit on our kitchen table, and I've let you continue to do so.  As Rassah has pointed out, I literally have to suffer fools as a mod on this forum; but there is only so much I'll take.  And you in particular, have leveled slander against me that you show no inclination towards either supporting or correcting.  If you've read your PM's today, you know that you have a time limit, and the clock is ticking.  So you need to choose; either prove your claims, withdraw your claims, or you can go completely bonkers until I pull the pin.  And no, I have not deleted any of my own posts, so whatever you think you saw is still there.  If you feel you've been unfairly treated, I'm sure Theymos would just love to hear your gripes.  Go ahead.  Don't forget, you're here of your own free will.  So you must get something out of all this.Okay.EDIT:  BTW, those bitcoin transactions you note on your facebook page, that's capitalism.  How do you not hate yourself?
It's clear enough to me, and since I'm that libertarian mod you speak of, that works out fine.  It's not a requirement that you understand.It's at least as likely that exposure to libertarian thought causes significant cognative dissonance in those who don't understand the philosophy, including yourself.  Sometimes I actually try to soften the blow for some of you guys, because I feel sorry for you; it must hurt sometimes.  Other times I don't feel any such pity, because stupidity should hurt somewhat. Yes, I do pay taxes.  Against my own will, so that I don't get my own head kicked in also.  I also have the joy of paying the NSA to watch me, as well.Here's an irony; up until very recently, I received EBT benefits as well.  I was required to accept them due to terms of a contract, with the state.  I know, a further irony.  The reason was because I was fostering two brothers, and the birth parents already received EBT, and I was obligated to maintain all benefits until such time as parental rights were terminated.  They were terminated shortly after my wife & I adopted them, because there is no way that we qualify and no way that we were going to pursue them anyway.I've never lived in Texas or Tennessee, nor do I smoke, nor do I frequent furry bars; so I seriously doubt I've ever given you a cigarette. I saw your husband's hairdo.  At least I hope that was your husband.As previously noted, several.  Posted them already, you didn't bother to read any of them.  Many of them predate your forum membership, just as that entire thread did before you got there.Don't you have some evidence of my bad behavior to gather up?  The clock is ticking. It may not be nice to point it out, but it is what she is.  She is an able bodied, young adult who lives off of the kindness of others and the forced taxation of others; by her own admission above.  No matter how I may feel about food stamps, the food assistance program was established to help out families who could not afford to buy enough healthy foodstuffs to feed their families.  Not only does she not have kids, (god help them if I'm wrong) she isn't incapable of supporting herself, she just chooses not to participate in her own support.  Other people give her things either because they feel sorry for her, like her enough to overlook her parasitical lifestyle, or are forced to by government taxation and redistribution schemes.  That is unethical, and the very definition of a parasite. You're a parasite.  I wouldn't call that ethical. That just means that someone else is paying those taxes on her behalf, not that taxes don't get paid. This makes me even more curious.  How do you access this forum, if you neither own anything, nor buy time at a cybercafe? Maybe.  I don't remember that one.  I'm pretty sure there are still taxes in NH, though. And no one buys anything on your behalf either, I suppose. I thought you lived in the US, do you not pay sales taxes?  Do you never buy anything at all? Seriously?  You don't think that there is a rational reason that murder and rape are crimes regardless of government?We're not even speaking the same language. Just a little bit of research into the topic for which you attempt to speak would have saved you from shame, assuming you actually feel shame."In 1992 [5] Dunbar used the correlation observed for non-human primates to predict a social group size for humans. Using a regression equation on data for 38 primate genera, Dunbar predicted a human "mean group size" of 148 (casually rounded to 150), a result he considered exploratory due to the large error measure (a 95% confidence interval of 100 to 230).[6]Dunbar then compared this prediction with observable group sizes for humans. Beginning with the assumption that the current mean size of the human neocortex had developed about 250,000 years ago, during the Pleistocene, Dunbar searched the anthropological and ethnographical literature for census-like group size information for various huntergatherer societies, the closest existing approximations to how anthropology reconstructs the Pleistocene societies. Dunbar noted that the groups fell into three categories  small, medium and large, equivalent to bands, cultural lineage groups and tribes  with respective size ranges of 3050, 100200 and 5002500 members each."http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar's_number#Research_backgroundTrolling again.I absolutely agree.  That's why armed mugging is so popular   I point a gun at your face & offer you a profitable trade:  Your life for your wallet.  After a quick negotiation, you conclude that it's in your enlightened self interest to part with your wallet & not your brains.  Another deal done [/quote]Mugging is popular where you live?  Perhaps you should move, or choose another profession.  That one will get you killed where I live, and I do mean that literally.That wouldn't have been my choice.  My choice would as likely to have been to shoot you in the face, since I'm more than confident that I'm both fast and accurate enough to defeat you, since I actually can afford to practice.  Again, I live in a city where at least ten percent of the adult population possesses a permit to carry a weapon concealled.  I was 32 before I even met anyone who was mugged in my city.  To this day, in a city of roughly one million people, the reported muggings are less than 100 in a year; half of which occur within a three block radius of a particular housing project in the west end of town, and almost all of them after dark.  I've never been in that neighborhood after dark, and don't know anyone who would.I cut out the remainder of your trolling, BTW. It's a perspective developed from observations.  So yes, that's my opinion. I can't see it, something on that site keeps crashing my browser. Nope, got a plan.  The hardwoods I'll require that they are cut in winter, so they'll "coppicce" and grow back.  The regrowth rate is so much faster because the root system is already in place.  As for the stumps that can't regrow, or just fail, I'll cover over with a layer of good soil and use as a huglekultur bed (http://www.richsoil.com/hugelkultur/) for the replacement fruit tree guild.  Basicly the stump and roots rot in the ground, providing long term fertilizer and water retention for the seedling fruit tree. I'm in the process of buying  a few hectares of land just outside of my home city.  It's kind of strange, because I've always been a 'city boy'.  I know almost nothing about farming, but then nor do I need to know that stuff.  What I plan on doing isn't farming, per se.  It's permaculture.  See, the land I bought is almost completely wooded.  Old growth timber 70 feet high, 30 to 50 inches across, and a complete canopy.  It's downright dark in the deep woods at midday.  I plan on a 'selective cut' of timber right from the start, to balance out some of the purchase price & to open up the canopy; letting me transition the property into a 'food forest'.  There is one house on the property already, that has been heated with wood grown from the same lot for as long as the house has been there.  When I walked the lot, there were at least four deadfall trees that hadn't yet been cut up.  In other words, the growth of the trees, even matured, outpace the heat needs of the single family home in this climate.  Some pawpaws, apples, pears, etc; mixed into the forest, and in a decade or so the 'food forest' will produce a great deal of food.  Problem is, permaculure doesn't produce on a modern industrial timescale. Murder is not a crime, in your opinion?  Rape?  You require a state to define your mores for you?You most certainly are.  The earliest mention of the term 'capitalism' was in the Communist Mannesfesto by Karl Marx.  How do you think he defined it? http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitalism#Marxist_political_economyDo you need me to translate that?  Private entities aquire commodities to be used as resource inputs for the production of other commodities.  In it's simpliest form, that would be "private ownership and control of the means of production".  Marx's complaint with this system was that it generally treated human labor as a commodity itself, which he regarded as inhumane.  Many avowed capitalists did then, and do now, hold a similar view as to the special nature of the "human capital".  Ultimately that's a moral, and not a feature of capitalism per se, and capitalism can and often does work within the constraints of such a social moral.  That seems to be your complaint as well, but like Marx, you confuse a common stage of a industrial economy with a fundamental feature of capitalism.  For example, Britain & the US both had child labor and "sweatshops" a century ago, but as our societies grew more affluent across all classes both societies grew to regard children as precious, and also to regard minimum working conditions as a moral case, ultimately reflected in child labor laws and such.  Every single industrial society on Earth that has followed us on that path has also progressed through those stages.  Does anyone here not remember the cases of 12 to 14 year old girls working in unheated or un-air-conditioned shoe factories in China during the 90's, electronics factories Taiwan during the 80's, or fields in Mexico pretty much anytime in the last century?  The reasons you don't hear about such things anymore is because those societies grew too affluent to put up with such conditions anymore.  Not because of a few high profile activists & actors whining about it in front of American Wal-Marts.Naturally no.  In practice, it depends.  Using your example, prove that any such land was stolen.  Bear in mind, I've personally got as much claim to be a 'native' American, or at least the heirs of same, that anyone does.  While the tribal traditions of the Eastern 'longhouse' tribes most certainly did recognize real estate and personal property, it was very much a 'homesteading' type of culture.  If it was wild and uncultivated, no one owned it, until they killed it or cut it down.  So the idea that white men were willing to come into their region and then offer them low value gifts in exchange for the tribes to 'sell' the white men their untamed stretches of land was laughable.  For the most part, the stories of selling off land for nearly worthless beads was a myth, as the recipients largely knew the gifts were of little value.  They didn't complain because their cultural traditions didn't grant them any kind of exclusive claim on the untamed wilds, only on the areas that they had already invested their labors into cultivating.  The wild animals belonged to no one until the hunter killed it, and the fruits of the pawpaw tree belonged to no one, until someone picked it.  It was rudimentary, but it was certainly an example of a belief in the right of private property.  The cases that probably did exist of land disputes between natives and white settlers must have been relatively rare, and likely less common than land disputes between white settlers claiming the same stretches of untamed forest as their own.  The real problem for the natives was that the whites vastly outnumbered them, and were just as free to homestead around them as anyone; and ultimately that many of those same homesteaders were also racists, sometimes violently so.  If you dispute this perspective, then prove it.  If you can prove that any such land was actually stolen, it's not theirs, and the heirs of the wronged are entitled to compensation from the estates of the wrongdoers, but not from their heirs if those heirs didn't profit from those estates.  If those estates no longer exist, sadly, there is no one to sue; for those who are at fault are long dead, and the grandchild cannot be rightly held to the debts of his forefathers.And what do you claim is it's natural state? Says the one without capital, or knowledge of what it is.  By what logic do make this claim?  Are you going to come and take it?  With what, exactly?No, they don't.  Limitless accumulation of resources is a self defeating enterprise.  It you even knew what capital was, you'd already know that, but you're not willing to learn something new. Yes, you could.  Start by not wording your opinons as facts. Don't make statements in a vacuum.Sadly, I'm not surprised.Yes, you could say that.  Families are communal by definition, and by nature.  The problems only arise when the well intended try to apply the communal elements of a family beyond Dunbar's Number.  It can't work only because it's simply not scalable.  Capitalism may appear harsh from a certain perspecitive, but it's both sustainable and scalable.  The assertion that it requires some degree of slavery or government force to function is false, and provablely so.  The sad fact is that, yes, slavery has historicly been found coincincidntal to capitalsim. It's also been found coincidental to just about every other known form of governance, including those matriachies that certain posters seem so fond of.  Corrolation is not causation.It's a balance of motivations, however.  You can look at trade as an advesarial relationship (a conflict) if you like.  That's not a completely unsupportable position.   However, trade is almost always more profitable for both parties when both parties benefit, because voluntary exchange is less costly than war.  In the cases that voluntary exchange is not mutually beneficial, such exchanges cannot (by reason) be voluntary.  That's conflict, war, theft, and force.  Those are the halmarks of governments.  Corporations cannot fight wars because they don't hold monopolies on force, their governments do.  Would corporations wage wars if governments did not exist or were too weak to prevent it?  I don't know, maybe they would.  The East India Company was known to function in such a manner in far flung corners of the British Empire.  Still, corporations are not naturallly occuring "corporate' structures; as they all require the support of some government to even exist.  I question whether or not corporations, as we know them, could even exist in the absence of supporting governments. Perhaps you could avoid that by not stating your personal opinions (the world is a 2 year old, all borked) as an objective observation or fact.  It's not, there are many people that are quite capable of managing themselves (i.e. 'adults' in your worldview) that do not feel the need to intervene with the (follwoing through with your analogy) childish tantrums of governments or societies at large.  I don't consider those 'tantrums' to be so much a flaw of societies, but the failed experiments not yet permitted to follow through with a natural ending.  If the whole of Europe devolves (again) into a roiling toddler fight, the adults will be those who choose to stay out of the way as best as possible.  The Roma have a culture that is at least as old as the rest of Europe and isolated from the rest of Europe, and doesn't suffer from the cultural connections to particular parcels of land.  The Roma don't have national loyalties, don't fight for nations, and don't care what happens to most of Europe.  Whatever happens to Europe (Germany, France, Italy, whatever), they'll still be Roma.  Whatever happens to the United States, there will still be Anabaptists; and again, they don't much care what happens to the rest of us either.  They may or may not be the 'adults' in the room, that remains to be seen; but nor are they among the 2 year olds. A further irony, is that both of those cultures deal with the greater world on capitalistic terms, and among themselves on  particularly communistic terms.  But of course, I don't trade with my own children either; I trade with those beyond my family unit.  Capitalism is how soverigns deal with each other in peace; they make agreements about borders and property, etc.  If you don't agree that you own yourself, and that I own myself; then we cannot trade on peaceful terms.  If you do agree that I own myself, you must also agree that I own the fruits of my labors; and therefore have the right to tarde those fruits under my own terms, or otherwise rent out my labors, as I alone see fit.  If we can agree on this simple principle, then capitalism is the only economic system that can arise from that on any significant scale.  No other form of economy can naturally or voluntarily grow beyond Dunbar's Number.  Therefore the only form of peaceful anarcy that could ever exist is an Ancap society.
Wow.  You make it sound like the whole of society woudl self destruct without the 'adults' around to make us eat our broccoli, and stop smoking, and recycle, and don't get the Big Gulp.  Who the hell do you think you are?  Do you think that you are better suited to decide for me or my children?  Do you think you have the right to tell me I shouldn't eat cake?  Everything in moderateration isn't unhealthy, and chocolate is good for human beings.Statist mentality in a nutshell.  There is no greater evil that can ever be done by men to men, but by those who belieive they are doing so for the greater good. Yeah, I'm done with you.  You're just a troll, although a particularly thoughtful one. Is the whole of your worldview about your own personal opinions? BTW, if you fear things might really get this bad, order a map of the salt "licks" in your area from your state geological survey outlet.  If you live farther than 100 miles from a coastline, you might find this information particularly valueable. Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms should be the name of a convience store, not the name of a government agency. I didn't.  Personal gain just happens to be a major motivation.  It's not the only one, and I never claimed otherwise.  But we don't get from horses to aircraft without that particular motivating factor.  Necessity may be the mother of invention, but greed is the baby-daddy, no matter where it's born. Yes, difference.  Much difference.  Off topic difference, not going there right now.Dude, it's what they do that makes them exceptional, even by your standard; not who they are.  Still, that doesn't change my point; capitalism provides the economic incentive for such exceptional people to create things.  You can choose any notablely excectional historical figure you like, and without fail the things that they may have invented would still have been invented.  No one is special, not even the special people.  Without Thomas Edison, we might not have General Electric Corporation, but we would still have electricity.  Joe sixpack might not matter in your worldview, but he (and his many other non0mattering fleshbag citizens) matter a great deal, economicly speaking, more than your average Bill Gates or Albert Enstein.  Do you doubt that, if Al had kept his job as a patent clerk, we wouldn't have the General Relativity Theory (or someting very much like it) within a decade of when we actually did have it?Something more than 'creativity' motivates those people, and you know it.  Still, such creativity doesn't do more than contribute to the quality of life for the artist, which is all that it's intended to do anyway. by forcing those same dirt farmers to work to feed those who wanted to put a man in orbit.  Capitalism isn't the only way things happen, it's just the only way things happen for everyone.Some people, sure.  Those people are statitisical aberations.  Statisitical aberations don't drive economies nor advance socities.Create what?  As you pointed out value is subjective.  American indians once entertained themselves by creating sand paintings on the ground.  They must have valued the joy of creating them, otherwise they wouldn't have done so.  They are certainly valueless to me, since they were created as an artform more temporary than sidewalk chalk art.  We can only measure value based upon those willing to create for themselves and those willing to create for others for pay.  Generally, price is what something costs, but value is what it's worth to the person paying that price. Just nonsense.  You still can't support your worldview with actual facts.I've never depended upon a job for my own survival.  I work because I enjoy it, I work a lot because my wife and kids live well as a consequence.  But I certainly don't require the job.  I am quite capable of doing exactly what you seem to think is a great idea for everyone, scratching a living in the woods.  Sure, it can be fun for awhile when you're young and unattached.Science is another tool for captialism, in this case.  Science alone produces nothing of value.  Just like that scene in The Lion King wherein the warthog theorizes that the stars were "giant balls of burning gas millions of miles away".  He was right, but what value is such knowledge to a warthog?  Or even a farmer?  The scientific knowledge concerning how to build a toilet, or how electrical impulses can be organized into a machine readable signal, is likewise useless without capitalism.  The founders of IBM believed that there was only a market for a couple dozen computers worldwide, and the first one ever built was sold to General Electric to calculate payroll.The existence of free riders does not invalidate capitalism.  And copyright law is a monopoly, not capitalism.  You think so?  You think you're sticking it to 'the man' with you're freeriding?  You're wrong.Bridges are owned by the state.  By definition, not capitalism.  How has capitalism caused you're own poverty, specificly? I don't think you get where any of it comes from.  You've lived under bridges?  I've done some 'urban camping' of my own in my time. Now you can argue with people from across the US and around the world in real time, and it costs you nearly nothing of consequence.  It's not quite free, but it's now cheap enough that buying an overpriced coffee can get you an hour or two of free wifi access.  The Internet itself existed for 20 years before the 'private sector' gained access to it at immense costs, and another 20 years later and more people in this world have regular access to a personal email account than have regular access to a flush toilet.  Why?Because nearly all of the Internet is privately owned property engaging in exchanges for mutual benefits (i.e. Capitalism) whereas the vast majority of urban areas in this world are served either by water monopolies or publicly owned municipal water services.  Sure, a flush toilet is an expense, but it's value is in it's ability to deal with the human waste problem effectively and cheaply.  Even under a bridge, you benefit from our modern society in the sense that potable water is cheap.  Filling your water bottle up at a public fountain costs you nothing, but it still costs someone something, just not enough for them to bother with the costs you incur.  Less than a penny a gallon where I live, but in another part of the world wherein a gallon of drinking water might cost as much as a dime, but the average wage is $2 a day; four gallons per flush just doesn't make economic sense.  And yet, there are still people who will save for a cell phone and service to gain access to the Internet, because the efficiencies of communications make their trades more profitable.  The farmer can find a buyer for his harvest faster, without wasting time and energy traveling into town to speak to some dealer in person; as an example.You cannot fathom the many ways that capitalism has improved your own life, even during the midst of your poverty and homelessness.   Indeed.  Cities developed long ago due to the efficiencies of groupings, and it's quite possible for a standard 1/4 acre lot to grow 50% or more of the food that a family of four would consume.  However, the knowledge of how to grow 'victory gardens' is all but lost in America, and generations of growing nothing but fescue on poor soils, and then throwing away the cuttings, has left us with quite a challenge.  IF a major currency crisis sets off a series of bad events and leads to a "world made by hand" imagined by some, or even a major economic collapse such as occurred in Russia during the 1990's; then there will be much suffering before enough of the population has both the knowledge and the resources to grow respectable amounts of food on urban plots.  There certainly aren't enough horses in this country to even come close to replacing lost bulk transportation capacity if we lose access to petrol.  But at least there will be plenty of unskilled labor able to do the work of gardening, if there are people willing to teach them all how to do it under such circumstances. Well, let's break that word down, shall we?Gentlemen comes, obviously, from a contraction of 'gentle' and 'men'.Men - noun, plural of man. Man - noun 1. an adult male person, as distinguished from a boy or a woman.  2. a member of the species Homo sapiens  or all the members of this species collectively, without regard to sex: prehistoric man.  3. the human individual as representing the species, without reference to sex; the human race; humankind: Man hopes for peace, but prepares for war.  4. a human being; person: to give a man a chance; When the audience smelled the smoke, it was every man for himself.  5. a husband. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/manGentle - verb, adjective1. kindly; amiable: a gentle manner.  2. not severe, rough, or violent; mild: a gentle wind; a gentle tap on the shoulder.   3. moderate: gentle heat.  4. gradual: a gentle slope.  5. of good birth or family; wellborn. http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/gentleLooking at that, it says to me that calling a rich man a 'gentleman' is a nice way of saying he's weak and soft, and otherwise quite un-man-like, despite his biological gender.Therefore, money makes you a gentleman because luxury makes one fat, weak and soft.  I'd say one pretty much leads to another. unless you're to much of a man to become 'gentle' regardless of your finances. No one does, really.  That was my point.  To assume that the population will necessarily go mad just because of a currency crisis is at least as unsupportable.  There have been currency crisies in the past, and the degree to which the population goes mad varied significantly along with the details. That's called a chicken tractor, and is a method that has been known and in use for several decades now on a small scall.  If you have enough chickens, you don't even have to plow.  Even still, there is a legal definition for "free range" and "organic" and neither of these terms are allowed to be used with chickens that use a chicken tractor.  If the are ever locked up, even for their own good, they are not free range.  Silly, but true. Based upon what, exactly?  I would say it very much depends upon the details.  While it's unlikely that the dollar collapses without coincidental civil strife, the portion of the US "society" most immediately dependent upon the trustworthiness of the dollar are those whose paychecks are directly or indirectly dependent upon the government itself.  A very visable breakdown of the dollar, lacking realistic possibilities of returning to a viable currency, would be a harsh blow upon the government to maintain it's grip of control in any local sense.  Whether this is good or bad very much depends upon the particulars of your own local situation, and your particular viewpoint on the value of the federal government itself.In any case, living in a mountain town isn't a bad place to weather any kind of storm. Oh, I think you need to.I started that thread with one. I was using as a segway whether or not it was a joke. That's not the primary reason.  The main reason was the way their society was organized and how the human mind works.  Rare did the tribal group grow beyond Dunbar's number without conflicts, except when there was an external threat to their people that compelled them to unite.Although the lack of electricity to run elevators and fresh water pumps is a really good reason to leave urban areas that are concentrated enough that buildings higher than three stories were common.  City planners and emergency management professionals have long known that populations go crazy after three days without water, and either resort to unsanitary consumption that results in mass outbreaks of deadly diseases or mass civil unrest as groups who believe that resources are deliberately be held from them revolt against their perceived oppressors (whether true enough or not); often both these things.  Once upon a time, every city and town would make certain that the water towers held enough water for their demographics for three days at least, should the power fail long term and the pumps couldn't be run.  Population growth has outpaced those demographic predictions decades ago, and many urban areas couldn't supply three days without power no matter what.  Some 15 years or so ago, I worked on a public works project for the Cincinnait Water Works; installing an entire system of diesel & natural gas fired emergency pumps all controlled by central controls with minimum electric power requirements, and gensets to supply those minimums.  It's an awesome system.  It's a real pity that Cincinnati doesn't have the legal right, and therefore the capacity, to draw freshwater from the Ohio River.  They have to draw from the Little Miami and Great Miami Rivers. Done correctly, aquaponics is hughly effective, no doubt.  But doesn't your system require electricity? Nope.  You claimed you 'engaged' me because of my namecalling and meanness.  I expect you to prove it.  I will not suffer your slander.  If I called you anything harsh or unwarranted before you earned it, prove it and I will apologize.  Fail and you can expect whatever consequences of your slander that I can bring to bear.  And don't forget, you brought this upon yourself.Hundreds, some better than others.  A dozen of them were listed in that other thread you abandoned because you couldn't spin an argument, most of which were there before you were even a member of this forum.  You choose to ignore them.  I'm not obligated to do anything, and I'm not here to entertain you by doing tricks.Correct, "Racist Bastard" does not count, because you earned that title.  
I can't speak to your claims, since I didn't review them; but you can pretty much assume that mods aren't going to do anything about someone who is likely joking, or isn't but can't really follow through, unless they are really being an asshat.  Being offensive to one or some isn't enough, you would have to be offensive to just about everyone, and often, to be sensored for your opinions alone.Also, since the new reporting system was put into place, the root problem with the old one never really changed; namely some people will report people that they don't like in mass to the point of spamming the reporting system.  I, for one, grew tired of checking for these reports and finding nothing particularly noteworthly, and don't put much time into researching them anymore. He was serious. Quote me, now. I'm sure that everyone here, including you, were aware that was a joke. You object to something altogether different than what is advocated.  Again, you don't understand what capitalism is, and are apparently unwilling to reconsider your position; and thus assume that we are your opposition because you misunderstand our position.  Your confusion is not our responsibility; and despite our attempts to clarify your misunderstandings, you don't seem to have any interest in understanding anything.  I'll admit, in the beginning I misunderstood your position as well, as your's is a rather unusual perspective in my experience; but I'm no longer confused.  I understand your position, I don't disagree with it in any significant way; but you have a severely closed mind, either unwilling or unable to consider circumstances or possibilities outside of your prior consideration or comprehension. Dude, just walk down the hall.  I'm sure that he works in the same five sided building you do. The Spanish did not introduce the concept of ownership to the Americas.  Get your real history straight. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Civilized_TribesThese were some of those 'Matriarchal' societies that you favor, and they most certainly had a concept of land ownership, particularly of homesteading.  They were often referred to 'the people of the longhouse' because they built long multi-family dormitoriesEDIT:  BTW, just because you're another American mutt, doesn't mean that you're not a racist.  It's your beliefs that make you racist, not your bloodline. Racist bastard.  My grandfather was full blooded Cherokee.  He was also Southern Baptist.  Leave your hollywood stereotypes at the door.  They didn't live in teepees either.  They owned farms well before any of them had seen a white man, and they most certainly did own trees.   Interns generally don't even get the fish for a day, the daily pay of the unskilled cabin boy is a better deal for the cabin boy.  Your priorities are screwed.I know how, and my children will know also; but subsistance farming isn't a preferable lifestyle to most.  Specialization is for insects, but free trade always improves the lifestyles of those who freely engage in it.  And yes, I can prove that.http://desertislandgame.com/Capitalist pig! Form a premise that we can agree upon, and then try to build up from that logical beginning.  For example, you have already conceded that you own yourself, and that I own myself.  That's a premise.  And based upon that premise; that I own myself, then no one else can own me without my consent.  How exactly, did I come to owe anything?  Did I consent to some great 'social contract'?  If you're going to say that I owe because I was born, when did I agree to that?  Even communist societies raise children for the benefit of the communist society, not for the children.  How do the children born in China under Mao owe Mao, or even China, anything?Don't you wonder how I knew that?What is there to elaborate?  Those words are opposites, and they are absolutes.  There can be no middle ground; literally speaking.  If you are working for someone, either you agreed to the terms in order to improve your own conditions, or you were forced into servitude against your own will.  Being 'forced' to work for a living simply because the alternative is hunger is not involuntary; society does not owe you a living, much less a comfortable one. EDIT:  Pop Quiz!  What is the capital in this context? More nonsense.  Pay is giving the cabin boy a fish out of the day's catch, he learns to fish by observation and participation in the trade of the fisherman.  His increases in the skill of the trade increase his value to the captain of the boat, and also his pay.  Eventually his wages exceed his need, and he can save up to buy his own boat from the boatmaker; or simply convince the boatmaker of his creditworthiness based upon his reputation as an experienced fisherman and crewman, in which case the boatmaker secures an ongoing source for fish for his own family's table.  Every step without coercion.  Employing an unskilled laborer is both giving him a fish for a day's work, and teaching him to fish. I owe society nothing, but nor does it owe me anything.  Specificly, I don't owe the society that I was born into any loyalty, although I might choose to grant same for some time in exchange for ongoing consideration.  Likewise, my society does not owe me any support, although support might be provided.  You have convinced me of nothing, and have yet failed to provide an argument.My image of your capacity of rational thought is a bit lacking.  I know too little of the rest of you to form an opinion.  I honestly have no opinion upon your values, because I see no evidence that you have formed any of your own; all you do is quote other people's opinions.  That would be like me quoting my pastor in a debate with an atheist, and never so much as mentioning the Bible.  The impressions, opinions or value judgements of others are entirely irrelevant.And my point is, once again, made for me.  Now you want me to read (again, mind you) the opinions of an ancient socialist, as if I should sudden declare, "Of course!  How could I not have seen it before!"More word salad.  You are a liberal arts major, aren't you.  That degree is perfect for a career in food service, BTW. They may have a say, (the right to express an opinon on the matter) but there can only be one person who "owns" me.  I'm the decider.  How my decision about me affects others is secondary at best.In short, no.My decisions to respect their rights also considers what I consider to be rights.  As long as I'm not trying to harm them, my decision to harm myself or my own property has no effect upon their rights.Labor is time.  Nothing more, nothing less.I've already presented many arguments that you have simply ignored.  Why waste my time, when you aren't really trying?  I'm not at all obligated to convince you of anything, It's you that is trying to convince me, remember?This doesn't parse.  Do you think I have a poor self-image?If they have the choice to quit without being thrown into some kind of debtors' prison, it's not slavery no matter what the conditions may be.There really isn't a middle ground.  Either labor is voluntary or involuntary.It needs at least one verifiable, objective, fact.  A subjective opinoin never qualifies.  Are you a liberal arts major?No, they are not.  Argumetns are about objective facts put inot a hypothesis about the causes and effects of those facts.   Nothing less is an argument.  You might as well be blabering about how you 'feel' about things. More word salad. Lovely opinion.  Did you have an argument?Says you.  Argument?By my understanding of the term, slavery implies involuntary servitude.You think that highly of your own opinion, do you?Maybe for some people, but some people are easily influenced.  I'm not one of those people.  I require some convinceing, and you are falling down on the job.I disagree, my labor is as much to sell as anything else of my property.  If you disagree, make an argument.So what if it is?  If my life is mine, I have the right to dispose of it as I see fit, including to waste or destroy it.  And no one else has the right to trump my decision.Are you a person or a random word bot? http://www.treehugger.com/gadgets/meet-earl-your-solar-powered-backcountry-survival-tablet.htmlA kindle type e-ink ereader, that can run Android apps natively, with a built in GPS/AM/FM/SW/LW/Weather Alert receiver, a FRS/GMRS/MURS transceiver, a complete weather monitoring sensor set, and a solar panel.Holy sh*t! Alternative title...A Fool and his Money soon parted. So we do agree on this basic root principle.  We are already getting somewhere.I'll address the next princple after addressing your other statements...I don't disagree, but nor do I agree completely.  My issue with the above statement is that what is a 'fair' price is a matter of perspectives, but what is the market price is independent of such perspectives.   Again, we don't disagree on the substance, but on the causes.  While the above is true enough, it's not the fault of the employer that you cannot get a better wage than what he chooses to offer for his work. nor are the circumsatances that compell you to seek employment his responsibility, so long as he is not conspiring with those agensts of the state to do so, in which case we are talking about fascism again.And why is that, if you were to choose to reject such claims?  If you choose to honor such claims, or honor an ideology that respects such claims, this cannot be slavery since it's voluntary on your part.  What about those who have a different ideology than yours?  Is is then acceptable to force your claims upon their person?What you call capitalism is, hopefully, dying.  For myself and my family, I wish no part of it.  You project your biases upon those you percieve as being in opposition to your ideal worldview, without honestly or accurately considering why there is oppossition at all.  While it's possible that we are all deluded or hopelessly indoctrinated like you seem to assume, we are certainly not all ignorant nor stupid.  What would that foretell of the likely future successes of your ideology, be it correct or not, if you cannot change the minds of a few moderately to well educated people on an internet forum?  Simply decrying our perspectives as faulty, particularly lacking a rational argument as to why, is unlikely to do more than waste a lot of time.  And the quote you provided from Bookchin is not an arguement, it's an opinion.You should not project so hard.  Personally, I don't consider Adam Smith to be the best author in this realm.  His language is difficult to read, which inhibits comprehension; and his was mostly arguing against mercantilism, not so much in favor of capitalism.  In some sense, he was arguing about national policies, and thus was arguing in favor of a soft facism.  Adam Smith was a great (classic) liberal, but he was still stuck in the idea that nation-states are necessary for such ideas as he advocated.  Now back to the regularly scheduled discussion...If you agree that your body belongs to yourself, do you agree that my body belongs to me?  If so, then do you agree that my life also belongs to me, since I can't have one without the other? It's too early for either of those books.  IMHO, anyone new to this realm of thought should read Whatever Happened to Penny Candy? and Whatever Happened to Justice? first, followed by Economics in One Lesson before trying to tackle either one of those volumes. Well, of course not, but at least it's a start.  What you seem to be railing against could be either corporatism (i.e. fascism) or merchantilism, or both; but it's certainly not capitalism in it's natural form.  Both of those could be considered corrupted versions of capitalism, so I can see the confusion, but one should be willing to start with first principles.  The first principle is this...Who owns you?  Is there anyone who has a greater claim upon your body, thus your life, then yourself?  If we cannot agree that I own myself and that you own yourself, as nominally free adults, then we can't proceed.
What?My error on your stated gender aside, you don't know what capitalism is.  You can't define it in a coherent way.  If you could, I'd have something to work with.  In it's simplist form, capitalism is defined as private possession and control of the means of production.  It's really much more complex than that, and forms naturally from a known set of naturally arising default rules of humanity; but you have to start somewhere.  But capitalism isn't a political system.  Despite claims to the contrary, capitalism existed even in the Soviet Union at all times.  And I can prove that.  There is really no way to avoid it completely.Who are you talking to here?  If you are still talking to me, I don't see 'reds' anywhere.  I've never even met a true communist that I'm aware of.  Forums on the Interent are the only places I've ever had conversations along these lines, and I've lived in Chicago and California.   Specificly, any social structure is stable to Dumbar's Number (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar's_number) but this has more to do with the fact that members share values and futher tend to value those relationships.  Beyond Dumbar's Number, only certain types of societies are stable, and all of them are either dependent upon human nature or maintained by the threat of force.  There is literally nothing in between that is stable beyond 3 generations. BTW, if you have ever heard the statistic that many unions put out about how a part-time employee at Wal-mart is so much more likely to be collecting welfare or some other government aid while working than, say, Target.  (often referred to as the 'working poor')  The legal assistance benefit is the reason why; because in many states (particularly California) a single mother is eligible for a great deal of government aid at a much higher annual salary than, say, your unemployed white male under 40.  The legal aid department was very good at identifying aid programs for which these part-time single mom's qualfied for.  It's not that the part-time single mom's who worked at Target didn't qualfiy, they just didn't know to apply.  My wife never qualfied for any of that crap because she was married, I was working full time, and she's white; but she did know a few cashiers who were able to get something along those lines even in Kentucky due to the help of legal aid.  My wife wouldn't have wanted a handout anyway, but learning about that perk and how it's commonly used greatly affected my perspectives regarding Walmart and the trustworthyness of the propaganda that spewed forth from my union.  That revelation might have been the turning point for me; as I was once a Democrat so blue that I was a county delegate to the Demcratic Party's state convention.Hell, as a still younger man, I was a card carrying Green!If you are not a communist at 20, then you have no heart; if you are still a communist at 40 then you have no sense. When did I call you an unsupported "name"?I haven't been.  I generally give your side every opprotunity to argue your case, but that doesn't happen.  Most of the time; when the claimant doesn't simply assume that the superiority of his position is 'self evident' s/he resorts to 'feelings' of 'fairness'.  Make an argument.  But it has to be your own argument, not just a hotlink to some published somebody.  If you feel said somebody makes a good point, restate that point in your own language.  If you can't, then you didn't understand the point to begin with.I don't agree that what usually happens "when wage slaves rise up to knock their bosses out of their position" is a fault of capitalism, in practice or in theory.  Therein lies your problem, not everyone agrees with your worldview.  If you want to found a communist collective in the middle of a anarcho-capitalist utopia, you can.  No true anarcho-capitalists would prevent it.  They may not trade with you either, but that's a different issue.  However, your position (anarcho-communism) does not permit a dissenting sub-culture to exist.  The very premises that such a worldview is founded upon cannot ever achieve it's end goal without completely destroying competing worldviews, as the random 'capitalist' would take advantage or undermine the social structure of the communist non-state (a contradiction unto itself).  Ultimately, communism requires a state to enforce the worldview upon the people, because there will always be those who disagree.  All life is poitics.Son, you really don't know me, and you are not guessing well either.My wife graduated from college with a BS in MicroBiology.  Got a job within her field doing product testing at P&G.  Worked there for 6 years, never earned more than $12.50 per hour and hated her job.  After she had our first child, she quit P&G; taking a part time job about a year later as a cashier at WalMart.  She worked there for 4 years, loved that job making $7.75.  She was offered health care coverage, even though she was only part time, as well as other less common perks such as a great employee discount on damn near everything, and a legal assistance benefit.  The discount was so good, the company had to safeguard who all got the discount cards, mine had a photo id on it so that no one else could use it.  My wife was not eligible for health care coverage at P&G because I already had a family coverage plan, and they never offerered legal assistance.At the time, I was a full on 'drink the cool aid' unionist, and she applied to WalMart, in part, to yank my chain.  She even noted during her interview that she was married to a 'salt' union orgainizer in the construction trades. (I can't remember why that even came up)  It didn't even matter, she got the job without issues.  She was, quite literally, the smartest person in the store anytime she was there.   She was offered management after 9 months, but didn't want full time work.  She only quit that job because the demands of increasing motherhood and homeschooling took precidence, and considering that I have made over $100K every year for nearly a decade now, we really didn't need the (by then) $8.50 an hour cashier's work.I know from second hand experience that, although WalMart certainly isn't the greatest employer ever, it's nothing like what it's often portrayed as in union propaganda.  I may not have a 'global' perspective, but I certainly do have a 'local' one.  From where I've been standing, your worldview makes no sense. Amen, brother.  I'll show this one to my kids later. http://www.tomwoods.com/blog/the-question-libertarians-just-cant-answer/This is strangely appropriate. The withholding of capital (in this case, the growing forest and the land it grows upon) is using it.  In one sense, it's savings.  In another sense, the growing forest itself is capital at work.  Seriously, you guys don't understand what you are speaking about.Says you.Bullshit.  I am not a slave to my employer.  If anything, I am a slave to my government to the same percentage that they take my income in taxes.More bullshit.  I'm presently a member in two different unions, and own stock in both the company that I work for and several other companies.  You are not prevented from doing the same.Maybe, maybe not.  The key word is defense.  You don't agree with my views on property and rights; fine, don't work for me.  If yo utry to take my stuff because you think you have the right, expect a vigorous, and perhaps violent, defense.  This would not be different in any socity, no matter how primitive or "ideal" in your view.  What belongs to them, belongs to them.  You can choose to work for them, under their rules, or not."Liberated" capital?  Theft is worse.Derp, Derp.  Some are simply deluded. Well, that's also true enough. They were wrong and provablely so.  While it's true that every society that formed writing also developed commodity money systems, the development of money was always a concurrent development with the rise and growth of the barter economy.  Commodity money just made such barter arrangments more efficient and easier to negotiate.  Barter most certainly did exist in the past, and most certainly still exists pretty much everywhere today; most people don't recognize it as such.  Construction workers do it regularly, as they will oftern trade hours.  For example, a plumber might need his house repainted and the painter needs his toilet replaced.  The only money that moves is in the purchase of the paint and toilet from outside suppliers. I'm lucky to be able to spell anything correctly.  That has zero bearing on my accuracy.Autarky is a german word.  It's meaning in English is "self-sufficient", but considering that you regularly used both terms, in English, together to describe your ideal community, I was curious if it had some othermeaning for which I am unaware.  Otherwise you are fond of redundancy, which would imply that you were quite young.Heh.  Girls and their ideas.  http://www.sinfest.net/archive_page.php?comicID=4059You really don't have a supporting argument here, do you?Okay.Indeed, they do 'eat themselves'.  Eventually.  Neither of us are likely to live to see that day, however.  And if you do, you won't really enjoy the fall.  Be careful what you wish for; as someone else has already noted, the Soviet Union collapsed upon itself (after decades of "eating itself") and during the 90's the average life expectancy of a Russian male fell by 2 decades.  Said another way, a whole lot of people died, and a whole lot more people suffered for a long time.  The most likely to prosper either had huge families with access to arable land for which to grow food for their extended families, had longstanding ties in the mafia or other criminal trade organizations or both.  The Swiss, quite literally, are too numerous in this modern age to be able to grow enough food to feed their own population.  The Russians could do it, and the US might still be able to do it; but nearly all of Europe will not be able to do it.  Maybe the Greeks and Spanish.  If what you think you want comes to pass, many of you will resort to cannibalism before you get to your stable matriarchy.Says the matriarchial anarchist looking for others like herself! PERMIES.COM http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2013/06/communities-that-abide-preamble.htmlAnother good post from Dmitry Orlov.  Yes, he's as much a 'progressive' as he (counter-)attacks in this article, and he has many questionable 'facts' in here, but it's a great read.  There's also this little tidbit..."This is why every successful community I've looked at knows how to exclude (shun, expel) people. Every successful community jealously safeguards its separateness from the surrounding society. This is critical to their survival and for achieving much better outcomes for their members than the surrounding society. In my understanding, these practices must also extend to the family, the extended family being a microcosm of community. (...)  As far as the labels of patriarchy and matriarchy are concerned, the winning label for me is, of course, anarchya well-organized, copacetic one. And, sure enough, most of the successful communities I have looked at are, in fact, anarchic in the structure of their self-governance. But most important is their separatism. Their value systems are their ownnot yours. Do you wish to improve these communities, bringing them more in line with your own value system? Well, there is a word for that sort of activity: persecution.The women who took offense and spoke up after my talk zeroed in on some specific areas, indicating that the communities I chose as examples of success are in fact intolerable by their standards. Some of these communities do not offer birth control to women, and/or resort to corporal punishment to discipline children, and/or do not give women equal rights, and so on. It's a good thing I didn't include any communities that practice polygamy or infanticide, or I would have probably caused a riot  (there probably are some polygamous communities that I would consider successful; not sure about infanticide). I did include one group (the Roma) who practice arranged marriage. All of these deviations from the current American politically correct norm are problematic for those who allow themselves to regard others through the lens of their own value system (a common failing). But is that even a valid approach? My approach is to study these communities as if they were a different (sub-)species of hominid. After all, none of you will ever be allowed to interbreed with any of them. Do lions practice polygamy? Yes. Do males kill cubs sired by other males. Yes they do. Does this make them worth emulating? Probably not, but they are still worthy of study, because they are what evolution wrought, and were it not for poaching and habitat destruction (a.k.a. persecution), they'd probably still be a success story. Similarly with human communities that achieve significantly better results than the rest: you may not like them, but then who do you think you are anyway?"Emphasis is mine. Ah, yes.  The classic issue of children in an anarchy.  This is where Myrkul and I have had great disagreements in the past.  It's not a simple question.  If a child is born, does s/he have full rights immediately?  If so, who may excercise those rights on their behalf?  For how long, with what limits?  Under what conditions can the child assume their own rights entirely?  The standard answer is that parents have those rights in an 'escrow' of sorts, and that the child assumes those rights upon reaching an arbitrary age of maturity.  But what about those children who mature early, or those adults who will never mature completely?  What about the parents that violate the rights of their own children?  There is a huge rabbit hole here, and before this goes further, please consider whether or not another thread would be more appropriate. Simply repeating or restating your, already circular, definition does nothing to change the issue of understanding.  We, apparently, don't see the world in remotely similar contexts.  Our worldviews are, thus, incompatible.  Without some degree of effort towards reconciliation of our worldviews, and use of language, we are almost literally speaking different languages.  Your half-assed answer above does nothing to improve the reader's comprehension of what an economy is, and thus is not a real definition.  Please try again.First, are you a German speaker?  Because I don't know of any English definition of "autark" that would make any sense in this context, and even a google search sheds no light.Second, the above excerpt just sounds insane.  I've never had any interaction with anything that resembles a church mafia (although the state mafia is hard to avoid) and your claim that (I assume) traditional marriage was "for the purpose of doing business and paying protection money" is far from a fact, and you fail to provide any support for the claim.  Your calim is, therefore, quite literally baseless.The problem of unsustainable growth that you refer to has much more to do with the effects of fiat money and fractional reserve lending, further juiced by the past 150 years or so of the industrial oil age, than it does have to do with any actual fault with capitalism or even traditional marriage contracts.  You have identified a longstanding problem of the modern world and completely misinterpreted the underlying causes.You seem to have more in common, ideologically,  with a communist hippie commune than you do with any flavor of 'anarchism' for which I am aware.  I don't think you're going to have much luck finding fellow travelers here.  Bitcoin literally has zero chance of ending the economy.  I really don't think you know what the word means.  Is English your first language?First off, I've read it before, and he is somewhat full of shit, although not completely.  He is wise enough  to 'condition' his statements to apply to the modern state of things.  Second, I wasn't asking for your recommendations.  Have you read it, or are you just throwing out  philosphophers in order to sound smart?  I ask, because he starts off with this..."Private property as de iure institution needs a foregoing state to come into existence. The stateneeds foregoing power and foregoing power needs armed force. The ultimate foundation ofthe economy thus is the weapon, where possession and property are identical because thepossession of it guarantees property of it."With the condition I highlighted, 'of the day', the author is deliberately avoiding discussion of natural property rights, as that is not the state of things today and not what he is talking aobut in the essay.  That said, the basic premise of the essay is roughly correct.  Namely that the modern state requires property rights as part and parcel to it's justification for it's existance, and further requires the monopoly of the use of force, i.e. "the gun".  Not simply a gun, but all of them, and this is a root cause of the 'gun control' efforts the world over across all of human history.You should be very careful in this forum doing what you seem to be trying to do.  You will find that you are not the smartest guy in the room, if you ever were, and most of us cannot be bullshitted. Biomech nails it on the head.  He has displayed a working knowledge of how the world really works.Zarathrusta; however, has displayed that he doesn't even know what an economy is, much less what the words "capitalism", "capital", "business" or "property" mean.A different question, Zarathusta, what about Bitcoin attracts you to this forum?EDIT:  I noticed that you never would commit to reading a book, if I were to recommend it.  I see now that my prior choice would have been presumptive.  I might recommend a different set of books as a starting point.  I was going to recommend The Stealth of Nations by Robert Neuwirth, but perhaps The Beeman by Laurie Krebs would be more your speed. No, it's not.  Capitalism starts with the definition of capital.  You don't even know what it is.There is no such thing as a non-business doing community.  Even the hippy-nerds who trek out to the desert each year for Burning Man are doing business, even if they might consider the thought offensive.  Capital accumulation is a required feature for survivival.  There are no mammals that I know of that do not do it, and it's even fairly common among insects.  Stop and think about what you believe.  How did you get there, and did you consider the root principles to get there?Ah, now we are getting somewhere.  So you believe that a gift economy isn't business?  How would anyone give a gift, without accumulating capital first?  What are they going to give, prayers and well wishes?The Penan are hunter-gatherers.  They hunt and gather, capital accumulation by definition.  The snare is capital, so is the bow and arrow.  The gathering basket is capital.  And even if none of this were true, the Penan consider the forests that they inhabit to be their property, and thus logging to be a crime against themselves and their culture.  It's a collective form of property, certainly, but it's a very real concept of property.  Thus, by definition, the Penan consider the forest that grows their food to be their capital.Capital is anything required to produce.  To the hunter-gatherers, the tools of same are capital, as is the lands traversed.  To the sheepherder, the sheep, the sheepdog, the grazing fields, the shearing tools, etc are capital.  To the farmer, the plow and workhorse, and the fields, are capital.  So yes, the root of the word is a "head count", but no it's not about submission of animals per se.  If you want to be a hunter-gatherer, go do it.You make assumptions about my beliefs you cannot support.  The modern concept of capitalism isn't the natural form of same, but capitalism certainly has a natural root.   You already need that.  You can't really mine one bitcoin, you can only mine 25 at a time.  Pool mining permits you to contribute your mining resources to a pot, but you are paid out of the pot's successes and not your own successes really.  But that is a trick of averaging, not the result of real mining effects upon the network. That's just bullshit.  There is not now, nor has there ever been, a society that did not value "capital".  You just don't know what the hell capital actually is.  There have been a number of different cultures that treated personal property in a different manner that I can think of, but none failed to "accumulate capital" and managed to survive long enough to develop writing, or at least be noticed by a culture that had already developed writing, in order to be noticed by history.  If you can name a culture that you believe satisfys your conditions, name it so that I can point out your errors of fact. Otherwise your  just another socialist troll. Show me this ideal culture that you refer to. This statement is false.  Many of the modern legal/corporate structures are finely grained in their differences in specifying both the possession and control of the collectively owned and maintained capital of the company.Only in the sense that said appropration is by force, against the will or consent of those with a prior claim to that capital.  We do have corporate structures that are specificly designed to limit corporate ownership to present and/or former members of the corporate workforce.Can a capitalist enply non-coercive methods to maintain control of his capital?  Yes.  But the strawman you set up above should be set alight, because those are all examples of coercive methods.  Just because the cops are private thugs doesn't make it a non-coercive solution.How are you going to afford the service robot?Good God, where do you people come up with this crap?
That's not the only thing that led to the downfall, there was a lot of religious bigotry that resulted in civil strife.  An irony, considering the main reason why most of the early settlers were escaping religious bigotry in Europe. If I were to direct you to a non-fiction book that laid out, in great detail, an ongoing, unruly, untaxable & mostly free market society; would you bother to read it? Fixed that for you. Myrkul isn't a capitalist in any real sense.  Most people don't even know what it means.  I'd wager that you don't really do either. The perfect is the enemy of the good.  There are no perfect examples of a free market, or of a communist nation, or even an absolute monarchy either. When I get tired, my mild dyslexia creeps in through strange places.  I swear that was all correct when I typed it. One generation's revolutionary is the next generation's bureaucrat.  That was a great part of the problem; Mao lived in an information bubble of his own making.  He didn't trust the "intellectuals" but those whom he did trust were no more worthy of such faith, and tended to be less informed upon the subjects for which they were expected to advise than the intellectuals who proceeded them.  Like anyone else, they were just trying to maintain the little fiefdoms that they had built up during the revolutionary period, even if that required deceiving the monarch in order to maintain political favor. Yup.  It was a key part of Mao's ironicly named "Great Leap Forward" campaign...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Leap_Forward#Backyard_furnacesGod, I love Wikipedia. Actually, most of those who grew up in the Walled City stayed in Hong Kong, and the ethos infected the remainder of the middle and lower classes across the city.  That is one of the contributing factors that makes Hong Kong the capitalist light that has largely led (nominally communist) China out of the darkness.  China would not be the industrial powerhouse without the established culture of Hong Kong to draw upon, and Hong Kong would not have been the same without the Walled City within; and I mean that in both a good and bad way.  Bear in mind that once upon a time, the communist leadership in China believed that they could teach rice farmers to refine iron and make alloy steel in grass fired clay kilns across the countryside; and that was how they were going to be able to keep those evil capitalist American navies out of their business. Opps!  I just got caught with my own pants down.  You were referring to the English bill of rights!Well, even then those idesa din't just spring up suddenly, they were largely deveopled over generations alongside common law, which itself developed due to a general lack of  interest or interference from the monarch or the noble class. Which, in turn, was greatly influenced by the old Swiss Confederacy, as well as the Five Tribes Confederation. (http://www.iroquoisdemocracy.pdx.edu/)  I'm sure that you are used to being the smartest guy in the room, but you would be wise to not present your viewpoints with such confidence lacking support.  There is much that certain members of this strange forum in this little backwater of the Internet will teach you if prompted.  How they are prompted will determine if those lessons come soft or hard. Be careful here.  Mild trolling is tolerated here, if the content has redeeming value.  But if you're just trying to stoke a semantic argument (one greater than the one that, largely because of you, has already be burning in this thread) I may decide to intervene.  To some degree, it matters how entertaining you are.What?  At least I'm an honest mod. That's not at all true.  Go back and read this thread, there are definable examples to at least 1291 (the foundation of the old Swiss Confederacy, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Swiss_Confederacy#Foundation) and some credible, yet undocumentable, examples of same that go back much farther.  Do you contest that the Swiss Confederacy was founded upon ideals that would be consistant with a modern sentiment of a "voluntary" society?  Bear in mind, that the foundation 'myth' (can't be supported with any historical documents) of the old Swiss Confederacy is the story of William Tell (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Apple_and_the_Arrow) leading an uprising against a tyranical & absolute monarch, and that the 'Founding Fathers' of the United States appealed to the Swiss for financial support during the Revolutionary War because they believed they would find ideological like minds.They did, and some rather wealthy ones as well.EDIT: That particular book is part of my kids' homeschooling curriculum, for kindergarten. That's been the case for over 100 years.  The funny thing about using machines to replace workers, is that those workers always seem to find some other useful skill for which to spend their time.  Just stop and think about how much more work you would have to do every day without a flush toilet. I can garrantee that Myrkul would not agree that a freedom from want would not be a human right.  When Myrkul says "freedom" he generally means "liberty to excercise our basic human rights, without interference from third parties", but that would result in an awful lot of typing if he had to write it that way every time.Freedom from want is not a human right, but a human does have the right to not be prevented from seeking out their wants by others; with the cavet that their wants do not harm others in their pursuit. Neither is Praxeology (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Praxeology) but it is most certainly a science.  The root goal of science is to be able to develop theories of the natural world, with the goal of making predictions.  As with anything outside of the hard sciences, it's very difficult or impossible to make a controlled test of a hypothesis; this does not mean that a well formed theory cannot be used to make effective predictions.   Praxeology is damn good at making predictions.  Other social sciences have varying degrees of usefulness in this regard.Well, If I had kep[t reading, I would have noticed that you already agreed with me.I disagree with this last part, at least partially.  While we can't prove anything, we can certainly demonstrate that the general trend has been towards greater freedom for the individual, however that is defined. Is that what you think?  The first direct tax upon the citizenry of the new United States (as opposed to taxation of the states themselves) was the Whiskey Tax that resulted in the Whiskey Rebellion.  That was a tax on distilled alchohol that directly affected the livelyhoods of less than 1% of the population.   And correlation is not causation...[/quote]Nope, but it sure as hell gives a good idea as to where to start looking...As to this, I have no idea.And it looks like we have really touched a nerve today.... Indeed.  That statement needs to define what "freedom" means to the observer.  Rights are not the same as abilities, and permission is not the same as liberty. It worked fine for the lower class chinese refugees who moved there or lived there, although by most accounts it was somewhat like the City of Rapture from the first Bioshock, without the amazing bio-tech.  Children were unlikely to be well educated by any modern measure, and by 12 most boys were running freelance jobs of their own; often specializing in providing their neighbors with drinking water, sewage handling, etc., as there was nearly no infrastructure other than the buildings themselves.It didn't work for the British government, however, and the walled city did provide a safe haven for crime, both 'organized' and otherwise.  The famous "Triads" were rooted in the walled city.  And since the entire thing amounted to Hong Kong's version of a homeless squaters' tent city, the colonial government decided to tear it all down and run everyone off.  It still took many years, because the residents were not the type to be run off easily, and the cops were afraid of going inside even in large groups; and with reason.  Any kind of arrest that had to be performed inside the walled city was akin to ZeroDarkThirty in it's operation, and almost as risky for anyone who looked English or was wearing a badge.EDIT: The closest modern example of the anarchist order of the Walled City would be the neighborhood of Ajegunle in Lagos, Nigeria. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ajegunle) The entire city of Lagos is an accident of history itself, and much of the city proper lacks "modern" infrastructure. (for which there is a particularly anarchist solution, with respect to drinkable water, known as "Pure Water" street sales.  Both the government and environmentalists hate it.  The government because it cannot be taxed and therefore undermines their own efforts at funding a municipal water distribution system, and the environmentalists because the empty bags are usually street litter afterwards)Ajegunle itself is considered the 'darkest' and most crime ridden area of Lagos, and that is saying a lot.  Still, many of the young poor have been able to create their own way in life as a direct result of the DIY spirit from Ajegunle.  They tend not to have much respect for government regulations either, in part due to growing up in an area that is basicly ignored by government largesse.  Some residents of this area are highlighted in the economics book, The Stealth of Nations by Robert Neuwirth; which is something that likely could not have happened with residents of the Walled City since any old white guy walking around asking questions about how residents do business without governments is as likely to disappear as simply be ignored in teh Walled City.
Yes; but examples of cultures/societies that were more anarchist than anything else have existed, some of which existed without major issues for longer then the United States has existed in total.  I'm not an anarchist either, and I do agree that the world isn't really ready for a total self-governing society just yet.  But the key word there is 'yet'.  The age of the Internet has brought us real examples of voluntary associations able to perform complex social functions that only governments and/or corporations had the organizational structures to perform effectively before.  Bitcoin is one beautiful example of this; as it performs the function of a central bank & minimalist regulatory structure entirely without compulsion, and largely without any third party human intervention at all.  I can't imagine how the other problems may be solved (collective defense & funding of same, being the primary issue, and the one that you highlighted) but that is not to say that they are not solvable.Furthermore, your complaint is an issue with sustainablility, yet history displays the error of your thinking; as nation-states are not much more stable than the odd anarchist culture.  They also, historicly, have a habit of invading one another every few generations.  The execeptions to that rule also happen to be the most anarchist of nation-states to have existed, such as the union of Swiss Cantons prior to this past century.  Who also happen to have had, and somewhat still do have, a clanish & militant culture; which is why they were not themselves ever conquered fro without; as any attempt to do so resulted in a loose union of city-states to band together and actually act like a nation-state in the shadow of any external threat.  The Swiss cantons were so stable, that they existed as functionally independent city states for eight hundred years, while the nations that go by the names and borders of Britian or France suffered through wars of succesion, military coups, popular revolutions and religious civil wars; functionally re-inventing themselves every couple hundred years at best.The nations-states we commonly refer to as "Western" are all between 150-250 years old (excluding the entire WWI & WWII debacle) and are thus all getting a bit long in the tooth.  Hell, Britian itself is overdue for another religious civil war; and the French have been inclined towards killing their own leadership for a couple of tense decades already.  A quick move towards an anarchist-like nation-state might be the best chance to avoid getting sucked into another world war, no matter it's long term risk factors. Much has changed. I'm sortof doing that, actually.  I'm in the process of buying about 5 hectares of mostly undeveloped forest land.  I live in a climate wherein trees grow readily without help, so according to the US government, the actual land is worthless; but it's still a viable investment under some conditions.  Most of the value, according to everyone else, is the house that sits on the land.  The house is barely livable, and I consider the ~3K trees to be the valuable part of the deal.  I figure that if I must, I can grow a garden and sell firewood, should the pols succeed in taking the remainder.I trust her fine, and she is waking up, but that doesn't yet matter. You and I know that, but it's really hard to convince a woman that Argentina is a case example comparable to the United States. I think that you know that is easier said than done.  For most people, the tax consequences alone of early withdrawal results in most people delaying such a decision.  My wife would never let me do any such thing, until the day that I can show her that it's already happening to others, by which time it will probably be too late.  The only thing that I can realisticly do is take out a "loan" against it, for which I can only get half of the nominal value and I have to pay back. And yet, it happens anyway.  Worse, in the US the bailouts were added to the deficit, to be paid by my grandchildren instead of current taxpayers.  That's such an awful precedent I can't see any path back to respectablility for the US.  The current deficit is impossible to repay already, and continues to grow.  Default and economic breakdown are inevitable.Furthermore, so many things are illegal in the US today, the average middle class American commits 3 felonies per day without their own knowledge of the violations.  The IRS scandal right now is proof that the average government agent is not aware of the laws that govern his own job, and that the basic understanding that picking on a group that you don't agree with is a felony was absent from the IRS.  It's also absent from the ATF, I've seen that one personally; and government agents tend not to listen to those around them who have a deeper understanding of the law. We'll never know. So would my hat. I seriously doubt that, but......this is true.  It's a talk forum.  It logs all access as a necessary part of it's primary function.  If this makes you want to find your tinfoil hat, hide in the closet and suck your thumb; perhaps you shouldn't be using this forum?  Or any forum, for that matter.Heh.  Good luck with that one.Yes, be safe.  Use a brain.  Good words to live by.  If this thread is deleted now, I'll eat my hat. The cause of this OP is proof enough that is not so. Much better. What?  No it doesn't.  There need not be an operator at all.Go back and read # 7 again.  Keep doing it until you grok it.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Contracts Is this the same guy who posted on his blog the same thing a month ago?  If not, this guy is going to be very disappointed that he was not the first to make this connection. Mostly these are implicit contracts, managed by the electronic devices doing the interaction on behalf of users.  I'd wager that not one in 10K will really know or care how their cell phone can incrementally pay for petrol in bitcoins without a need for trusting either party.  When you drive up to a gas pump and call the attendant for a self service cash fill up, he has to trust that you will come in to pay afterwards, and not drive off.  If you walk in and pay cash up front, you have to trust that they will give you any change back.   But both of these things require that a human observer oversee the business's side of the transaction.  However, people do like the convenence of driving up to a pump and using a credit card at the pump.  So does the company.  With contracts, this is possible using bitcoins, entirely without a human observer making any such decisions to prevent drive offs. Doesn't matter what I may or may not know.  It's an objective observation that a consensus algorithm is not an obvious "most promising" anything.  If you hadn't stated it as if it were fact, I wouldn't have objected, but that is not what you did.  Your opinion may or may not be shared, or supportable with objective or subjective arguments, or even considered common knowledge; but it is still an opinion.I really have no opinion on whether or not ripple's new consensus algo is "the most promising alternative to Pow" or not.  I consider that a silly idea on it's face.  My personal opinion is that comparison is akin to the next most promising alternative to good health, life or freedom; the next most promising alternative is not usually acceptable. First off, those are distinctly different professional disciplines; so just knowing what he needed to know from each of those disciplines without screwing it up was no small feat.Furthermore, there is more to Bitcoin than you seem to be aware.  The way the security methods and economic incentives fit together is not simply complex, it's probably perfect.  There are subtle, secondary security features in the protocol that; while not making the 51% attack impossible, do contribute to making it generally unprofitable.  Most of these secondary interactions are not mentioned in the white paper, but were present from very early on, and were not simply added to the protocol later.  Just consider what can be done with blockchain enforcable contracts.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Contracts That's not at all obvious. It certainly doesn't leave PoW obsolete, it doesn't even serve the same function.  Ripple is a p2p credit system.  It's not a monetary system at all, and it's recent attempts to develop it's own internal currency are going to hamper it's utility.  They are simply trying to be all things, and it's not going to turn out well.Oh, consensus can certainly fail.  Deadlock for a necessary change is a failure. http://www.zerohedge.com/news/2013-05-11/argentinas-modest-proposal-buy-bonds-or-go-jailHowever, if this even halfway works in Argentina, the US will be next.  Only the US federal government knows exactly where those retirement accounts are. Yeah, good luck with that.The poker players just changed to bitcoin. It's already too late.
I can state with fair certainty that he does not. Indeed.  There is no real need to name that unit. 1) It's already in use in exactly this fashion....2) It's not too long as a spoken word....3) It IS a geeky in joke. The name for 0.0001 BTC has been largely decided long ago, it's either a Millibit or a Gavin.  The smallest unit is a satoshi after the creator, and this one is after the second most important figure in the creation and development of Bitcoin; Gavin Andreson.  Much like how the most important presidents, according to someone, are presented on the currency of the US, the most important being the smallest denomination. This is not a video game.  The value in quake knockofffs was original maps and cheaper access to the platform, but in the end it was still just entertainment.  People do and will take real money/value much more seriously. Nope.  Dinosaurs were precursers to modern birds.  A horse sized chicken would stand up fine, and then eat you. For now... ShamWowCoin! Namecoin is a differnet animal.  It attempts to deliberately serve a niche market (domain name services) in a novel way, and does not attempt to compete with Bitcoin as a general medium of exchange.  All the others are trying to compete with Bitcoin in it's own world. But you guys keep forgeting that Bitcoin is not static, it has solutions to those problems, even (relatively) secure zero-comfirmation transactions.  The alt-coin section of this forum exists, in part, because anything that pops up that is particularly novel can be incorporated into the exiting bitcoin codebase, if desired.  There is also an entire class of transaction types in Bitcoin that have not even been implimented yet, like blockchain enforcable contracts, that really don't have any equivilance in any alt-coin I've explored.  For an alt-coin to ever challenge Bitcoin for the top spot, either and unfixable flaw in Bitcoin will be discovered or an alt-coin develops with a novel advantage over Bitcoin that, for whatever reason (technicall, political) cannot be intergrated into bitcoin itself.  Small tweeks aren't going to cut it, it's going to have to be something as big a leap as Bitcoin's blockchain was to precursers such as hash-cash; or it will always be a distant second. Did you bring a shotgun? I didn't.  I still think they apply to LTC, and find it unlikely that LTC will ever have more than a niche use, particularly if it ever grows valuable enough to justify the development and manufacture of ASICs for Scrypt mining.  And don't tell me that it can't happen, it most certainly can.The reduced block interval isn't novel, and would prove to be a hiderance in the long run.That doesn't mean that it's not profitable to trade in the meantime, nor that it can't work, I just don't think that the market will ever have a greater than niche place for it. Trust me, I don't need the tip. Nope, the algos are modular; both on the blockchain hashing side (currently 2 cycles of SHA256) and the address keypair side.  The code includes "hooks" that would permit another hashing algo to run alongside (and eventually replace) SHA256.  I'd wager that another algo will be in use alongside SHA256 by 2020, as SHA-2 type algos are not particularly resistant to quantum computing.  Also, the protocol deliberately provides an upgrade path for bitcoin addresses.  That is why all current addresses start with a "1" character, as they are all address type number one.  (there is another address type used only for testing, that starts with an "a" I believe)  Future addresses could use different algos, or have other definitive features that make them incompatible with the current address format; which would call for a new addresss identifier, and thus that first character would be different.  There is already an early proposal to make an address type that would still use the same algo, but use a modified value variable to hold sub-satoshi value sets; as an example. Litecoin doesn't offer anything novel either, IMHO.  A shorter interval will permit greater transaction throughput on the low end, but still fails the promise of 'near instant' transaction confirmations.  In the long run, cutting the interval to one fifth of Bitcoin's will ultimately run up against network propogation delay times, resulting in exponentially increasing rates of orphaned blocks.  Using a GPU resiliant POW function (scrypt) is only a temporary restriction, since it's main limiting factor is deliberately high memory usage, and cache memory available to GPUs will continue to increase.  And ASICs can still be developed with sufficient cache memory to crush CPUs, which would happen as soon as the value of LTC were to increase enough to justify the initial research investment.  In the meantime, the huge memory requirements make an android smartphone version of LTC almost as difficult as a GPU miner.And if I happen to be wrong about the value of Scrypt as a POW algo, Bitcoin could simply take that idea if LTC were to ever start claiming significant amounts of the market share. Harder, since as soon as quantum computing becomes a semi-real threat, Bitcoin can & will switch to quantum resistant algos. Well done.  That's the 'subtle' one.Anyone else like to take a shot at the less subtle one?Put your hand down crary, your nickel should be forthcoming. It might just prove that there is a sucker born every minute, even on the bitcointalk.org forum. Definately 20 chicken sized horses.  Chickens are omnivores, and one the size of a horse would be a velociraptor; whereas all horses are herbavores.  I would much rather be fighting many small herbavores than one very large one that would consider me a potential meal. Crary, I need more detail.
I'm thinking that's just a typo, so I'm going to say no. It's not John Smith, but it's not uncommon. There is also the internal economic problems that China must contend with.  The US is a large part of their manufacturing demands, and thus drives a large part of the employment prospects of their rising middle class.  Dumping their accumulations of US dollars would be almost as bad for their own economy as declaring war upon the US or a protectorate/trade ally (think Japan, South Korea or Singapore).  Their orders from the US would end almost immediately, and many current orders would be cancelled.  Their manufacturing economy would crash, layoffs would insue, followed by civil unrest in a culture not known for giving their leadership a pass when their quality of life suffers. Several reasons, actually.1) Dumping shows China's hand completely.  There is value to keeping the opposition in the dark for as long as possible.  In politics, he who is most upfront about his stragedy usually fails.2) Dumping also would cause price shocks in both the gold markets and bitcoin markets, and thus China is unlikely to get as much for their dollars in the long run.3) A controlled release also grants the opprotunity to reverse course, if conditions change dramaticly. I just noticed that there are actually two errors on that infographic.  One is more subtle than the other.  Correctly describing either error will win the prize. So what? Every criminal I've ever known is very interested in US dollars, too. http://www.zerohedge.com/sites/default/files/images/user3303/imageroot/2013/05/20130512_BTC.jpgLet's see who can spot the error first!Winning post gets a bit-nickel from myself.  (BTC 0.05)Rules are as follows....Post a description of what you think the error is, more detail is better.  If two entries are close in time (i.e. within an hour) I reserve the right to choose the more accurate, but later, entry.Only those with a post count under 100 are eligible, and current or former mods are not eligible no matter how many posts they are willing to delete to get under 100.Please don't delete your post history to play, this will get you disqualified if I can catch you.I am the only judge, and my decisions are final.Please include a valid bitcoin address. Well, it's not really an alt-coin.  It's misnamed, really.  ZeroCoin is an adaptation of Bitcoin, like a highly dependent overlay network that establishes a p2p coin laundry/mixer; breaking the chain of custody that is inherent in the normal blockchain. Perhaps, but everyone needs a hobby. Interesting.  I wonder if there is any info that might shed light onto his political and economic beliefs. Republican administrations generally create greater deficits and grow the federal government, while Democratic administrations generally prosecute unjust wars and suffer from scandals of corruption.It's and irony, isn't it? I've literally been talking about this kind of thing for years.  Heat trace cabling for public and private infrastructure being a big one. I don't have the luxury of ignoring members.  Those who would most likely earn it, are the same group of people that need be moderated.I wouldn't agree that Etlase2 falls into that catagory anyway.  He is as free to make his silly proposals as I am to mock them.And mock them I shall, it's one of the things that makes that "Global Moderator" tag worthwhile. Etlase2 and I have a history about this kind of thing.  He proposes BS,and I point out it's flaws.  It drives him nuts.  He's being fuzzy because he is afraid that someone is going to point out flaws. Not in any way that's provably sound, in the mathmatics proof sense.  Proof-of-work is mathmaticly provable.  This is no small hurdle.Oh, wow.  Here we go again.  Havn't read your description completely, but I already have a complaint.  Your description is 'fuzzy', as even you mention that your numbers are "debatable".  Worse still, you start by establishing a two-tier class system (like common versus preferred corporate stocks), wherein ownership of the high class assets are what give you special rights to be a 'supernode'.  While this might be 99% attack resistant (I'm not conceding this, just not contesting it yet) what prevents any one person or group from accumulating those Shareholder coins until they can functionally perform a >1% attack?  On the flip side, what incentive would a SH coin holder have for selling one?  How are they created, and how (or by whom) are those recepients chosen?  God this thing is complex, and it's not even close to a complete protocol.  What prevents a SH coin holder from using that power to disrupt the network itself, by voting against consensus?  I contend that some of these features are impossible on a practical level, and some might be impossible on an implementation level.Good God!  That's an awful way to make an argument, Etlase2.  Haven't you learned anything during your tour here? Since that same cycle is usually only disrupted by revolutionary events, whether or not it ends "well" or not very much depends upon who's back is up against the wall at that time. And it works, because that is not the only method available to it.  Ripple is a fine concept, but fails because it's dependent upon a viable web-of-trust; something that can, and often does, collapse in real life. http://zerogov.com/?p=2972Does anyone here live near Cocke County, Tennessee? If a trustless, anonymous, authorityless cryptocurrency could be developed that did not require proof-of-work; and be credible, it would overtake Bitcoin in no time. (assuming bitcoiners were unwiling to modify bitcoin's running protocol to match)  This is the primary motivation for alt-coins that attempt to use proof-of-stake and hybrid POW/POS systems to create the timestamping ledger/blockchain.  It's just that they are all so complicated; it's either difficult or impossible to prove that they are successful in this goal, and otherwise do not introduce new attack vectors.  In the several POS alt-coins I've seen, they either break anonimity, authorityless-ness, or provablely introduce new attack vectors. (for example, teh problem with trustless POS is that often the mining with that POS can build trust/stake until they are functionally supernodes, and then turn malicious at that point)Proof-of-work is (relatively) simple. Probably UPS and a lot of other private package shipping systems.  Alternatively, simply a service to ferry your US mail to the USPS on shore.
And yet, as you point out, the important fact is not what is important for some of us, but what most of us are willing to pay for.  What you may want, or I, is irrelevant.Go for it.  Make our own alt-coin if you have the skills.  I wouldn't trust it as far as I could throw it, personally.Neither of us will likely  live to see the endgame.  Again, that's not even going to happen for another 115+ years.  A parachute type sea anchor?Really?  We're not talking about a car ferry, so it's really a water taxi that can seat roughly 30 people and their carry-on gear.  A vessel that large and faster than that is old hat.  Most large cities wrapped around a bay have one or more of these in their harbor already. It's closer to giving your kids a dollar, and telling them to pick out their own candy at the store.  If you've ever seen a six year old deliberate over the selection for an hour, clutching that dollar in his hand, you've just seen the principles of Praxeology in play.  Particularly "opprotunity cost calculation".  Giving kids candy is a real 'tragedy of the commons'.Those who need to understand will learn.  It's a fairly easy concept that free transactions can take a long time, so if you need speedy, pay the fee.Probably; unless the confirm times average over a week, which they eventually will.  Again, there are other ways to pay miners for support off network.  On network is retail.  Free transactions must be possible for off network solutions to develop.Most, maybe.  Until they learn that Litecoin permits free transactions.How much?  Can your quantify it, or you just guessing?  Obviously, that was retorical, I know your honest answer.  You must make many assumptions about how much network "health" (a very subjective metric to start with) would be lost, and how mch is enough.  These things are unknowable.  Let the market decide.The individuals don't need to be well informed for the 'market' as a whole to be well informed.  Look at intrade.com.  The curious task of economics is to demonstrate to men how little they really know about what they imagine they can design. ― Friedrich von Hayek  Okay.That's the idea.  The market finds a balance.  There is no other way. The first mover advantage & Bitcoin's much greater network effect.  On many technical points, AOL was a better network than the Internet at large.  The Internet improved.  AOL is not dead though, still used by old people running modems. A light client has to trust other nodes to not collude to tell it lies, but doesn't have to trust a single node; it can request reports from several random nodes and compare notes.  If node A says XXX = 5 BTC and node B says XXX = 10 BTC, ask nodes C, D, E & F to see what they say (by default, the bitcoin client talks to at least 8 randomly chosen peers).  If all of the others agree with A, node B is lying to you, and you can safely ignore it forever.As for bootstrapping a fresh full node, a full blockchain isn't actually required.  The reference client is built with both a zero trust methodology and a high degree of paranoia, both great places to start for such a project.  However, a full node can be altered to start it's own bootstrapping from 1) an internally hardwired & pre-pruned copy of the blockchain, which it trusts automaticly because it's part of it's own code, 2) from the most recent 'checkpoint' encoded into it's own code (search for the term on the forum) in much the same way that the genesis block is encoded into the clients' codebase now, or both.  It's neither necessary, nor particularly helpful, if every new client has to start from the genesis block; eventually clients that start with an internally checkpointed block number from within the past year or so will be much more common.  A client that uses both methods can entirely skip years of pruned transactions and hashwork, and still mine against the resulting pruned blockchain. Yes, if so desired.  Note, however, that these are not changes that cannot be replicated in Bitcoin itself.  The faster block interval is unlikely to change, but the hashing algo is deliberately modular in Bitcoin.  There is nothing magical about SHA-256.Indeed.  You do realize that Firefox is a direct code successor to Netscape Navigator, right?  Netscape (the company) did not cease to exist because they failed to compete with IE, they ceased to exist because they were legally destroyed by M$.In the same way that Firefox is an open source version of Navigator and has successfully incorporated features into the codebase that Windows IE pioneered, there is no innovation that any alt-coin can make that Bitcoin can't just steal, if such an innovation proves to be desired by the public.Again, evolution.  I have no doubt at all that bitcoin will be something quite different, but it will still be bitcoin.  Keep on mining your litecoins, though.  Bitcoin still needs it's evolutionary failures.  Keep in mind that this is a bitcoin discussion forum; if bitcoin didn't have something to gain from the alt-coin section, would it be here? Bitcoin has the first mover advantage, and by a long margin.  The only way any alt-coin ever "makes it" is 1) if it serves a niche market Bitcoin was not optimized for (i.e. Namecoin) or 2) manages to make a huge leap in some technical or economic fashion which cannot be replicated in Bitcoin itself (almost impossible) or 3) Bitcoin turns out to have some fatal bug in the protocol itself.Which of these scenarios is most likely? Why so many alt-coins?Evolution, of course.  Those are the dead-end muations. While I don't think that Bitcoin is ever going to exclusively exist as money, and that some form of fiat currency will continue to exist pretty much everywhere on Earth; I do think that Bitcoin (or it's successor) has the potential to become the world's next global reserve currency.  I can't envision a future wherein international trade is likely to return to any kind of gold standard; too many problems with letters-of-credit and such that Bitcoin solves natively.  In two generations, banknotes with the promise of "backing" by Bitcoin reserves will be common enough as well.  The age of paper fiat currencies is fading away, but it will take many generations before fiat is no longer dominate. That's the most accurate part of the article. It's too late to regulate.  The Bitcoin network is too big to suppress, the protocol is regulation resistant by design, and a large portion of the userbase would actively resist attempts by any government to annex bitcoin.The only bitcoin users who are going to submit to regulations are the corporations that labor under such regimes already.  The common user will actively evade regulations whenever possible.  The common man already does so whenever he can using cash and barter transactions.  Have you ever heard of anyone paying taxes on a yard sale?  And the taxman hates the farmers' markets.  Bitcoin makes such evasions commonplace, almost trivial in nature.  Evasion of regulations and taxes within the bitcoin userbase will be more common than not. I'd say that one half to one full percent of the purchase price would be about right.  That's about what the credit card companies charge to deal with fraud, and I wouldn't expect that zero-conf frauds would amount to greater rates of fraud.  Start at one percent, and see how profitable you are.  If it's profitable enough, some competitor will come along and force you to lower your rates.  If it's not profitable, you'll stop doing it too. In truth, there are several ways to solve this problem.  I expect that most will be tried in some form or another, and the best solutions will come to dominate, and most clients will evolve to be able to use those methods. Blueseed will be no worse, nor better, protected from unidentifiable attacks than any other naval vessel in international waters.  Admirality law applies in this context, and firing upon any ship flying a legally recognizable flag is an act of war.  That doesn't mean that it can't happen, but there are a number of less risky methods of undermining the Blueseed project than attacking the ship itself.  With the right kind of insurance coverage, sinking the ship won't even end the project.  Just make sure that the underwriting company is a major US corporation, so any losses that Blueseed takes can be translated directly into tax losses for the US tax base. Bitcoin generation does not end in 2040There IS a minimum transaction fee, it's just optional for the miners to accept or not.  Some will certainly not accept free transactions eventually, others will accept free transactions that are paid off network.  The on-network transaction fees are the "retail" method of paying for the network.  There are a number of likely off-network methods of paying for miners to run the network.  This is not a tragedy of the commons scenario.  Free transactions should always be possible, let the market decide if they are viable, not the code. Not easy.  Let me se you try it.It's fine for a great many things.  A movie streamed over the Internet, for example, because it can be cut off if a double spend is detected.  Game or digital content licences (on Steam or iTunes for example) can be reversed.  Online services (monthly access, or even daily access) can be reversed.  All of this with a simple transaction, not using blockchain enforcable contracts.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/ContractsUsing contracts, particularly example #7, opens up some rather creative solutions beyond the simple transaction.  The "loyalty card" system can be implimented within an android phone, without a actual card, and the balance revoked at will, so one could use it as a running balance for a vending machine at work as easily as one could use it at av ending machine that they never expect to visit again.  One could use #7 to pay for gasoline at the pump, again without a 10 minute wait.  Even the most basic contract is significantly more difficult to "double spend", and may actually be mathmatically impossible under certain conditions. Or simply pay an access fee to be a first tier peer to one or many of the largest mining pools.  If you think about it, BTC Guild could crediblely charge a small monthly fee for peers to be added to the top of their peer list, garranteed to have the highest connectivity (wherein free peers might be throttled, or not even able to connect continuously).  Logically, the major mining pools already have direct peer connections to each other, so a direct peer connection to any of the top five would only be a single hop connection to the lot.  Such a direct connection would be of value to any retailers that accepted zero confirm transactions, which would likely be the norm for meatspace retailers like Wal-Mart should they ever start accepting Bitcoin directly. I've been thinking of an idea, but I lack the skills to follow through, so I'm going to lay it out here and let anyone who wishes take it up.I would like to have an android client that can connect to any given electrum server, but also via TOR.  I'd also like the client to have the ability to create transactions offline using confirmed transactions for which it is already aware, and connect to other clients like itself via a shared wifi hotspot like a piratebox. (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox_DIY)  In this fashion, the android client can develop a set of transactions in optimal amounts that would allow it to create several transactions without the need to reuse it's own change inputs for a time wherever the transacting parties have a piratebox (or any other accesspoint) with or without a live connection to an electrum server and whenever trust isn't an issue.  The use case here is like the cash you carry in your wallet.  There is only so much there, and it doesn't require live internet to work. Not a centralized service so much as a combined contract mining agency & insurance agency.  You pay a small monthly fee, and it becomes the insurance agency's problem that your vending machines don't get double spent against.  Your machines connect to the agency's servers, which then make every effort to get those transactions out to the largest of the mining pools as fast as possible, in order to limit the risk of being the loser in a double spend.  Agencies also might trade lists of addresses that have been known to attempt a double spend, and therefore flag those addresses should they pop up in their customers' machines.  There are many ways to undermine the likelyhood of success of a double spend attempt.
Yes and no.  This is more like the Walmart versus target contract mining issue.  Use the search function against "walmart" and my screenname, and you will find that I have commented along these lines extensively in the past. If anything, he under estimates it.  For the most part, his opposition isn't interested in convincing him of anythin, most who post here are just trolling him.  In the long run, not only are we all dead, our grandchildren will receive the benefits of our foresights.  If Sweft is correct, and he actually does something about it beyond arguing about it with people on the Internet, then his grandchildren will benefit and they will be thankful for it.  If we are correct, our grandchildren will be thankful.  In the near term; however, there is no point in us arguing about it, since Bitcoin is presently, and will continue to be for long after my natural life span, a rather inflationary currency.   A 51% attacker can do almost anything, except steal bitcoins that he has never legitimately possessed.  It is impossible for any attacker to steal my coins in cold storage, even if he sold them to me a couple of months ago, due to checkpointing.   No meatspace POS system shoudl ever accept any transaction that is not immediately lockable.  This should be obvious enough.  Snack machines shouldn't take IOU's.Maybe, but as far as I am aware, both the race attack and finney attack are theoretical.  Are there any examples of either being employing in the wild, that does not involve a contrived lab-like setup?  Has anyone, ever, posted on the forums with a "I've been double spended against!" with a credible story?  Online websites should only accept 6 confirms for instantly deliverable goods such as online data streaming, etc; (maybe not a movie, since a double spend simply cuts off the feed halfway through the movie) but meatspace transactions below a certain value are pretty safe.  It's technically simplier to fake a coin operated snack machine using slugs than to double-spend attack it for a bag of chips. A double spending attack is much harder, even while duping snack machines, than your scenario implies.  There are techniques for detecting a double spend attack while in progress that can be employed, none of which are necessary yet, and thus have not been implimented.  Several of which don't require any outside support for the snack machine, and provide no warning for anyone that does not have a sniffer on the machine's network connection.A double spend attack is very timing dependent, and for practical reasons requires that all spend attemps hit the bitcoin network within 10 seconds of each other.  Good luck coordinating that in meatspace. I don't, personally.  Yet, for this exact reasoning, I have long ago predicted that Reykjavík, Iceland will likely become a mining hub due to the confluence of factors including a relatively low electric rate (due to geothermal resources), a high demand for space heating and a high degree of international Internet connectivity, along with other more minor factors.  I also predict that asic mining chips will eventually be included into electric "heat trace" cabling intended to produce spot heating to protect public and private infrastructure from extreme cold.  I've personally been involved in many such projects, and the cable currently in use, although really just a continuous resistor, is already very expensive.  A co-mining method would simply represent an alternative income source to counterbalance the capital costs of such infrastructure.  Oil and gas pipelines in the arctic require quite powerful heat cabling across their entire length.  Imagne the hashrate of a strip of asic chips along a linier network and power line, with each chip placed one per foot along it's length AND circumference, in order to achieve a targeted watts per foot.  In my own mild climate, the watts per foot range is 3-7 watts per liner foot for insullated pipes of less than 3" in diameter and 7 watts per square foot of insulated surface.  I have not even seen a project that was les than 3 watts per square foot.  Every public parking garage in the US built since 1985 (in regions that freeze in winter) has pressurized sprinkler systems required by code & insurance, and every linier foot of insulated pipe you might see when you look up has at least 3 watts per foot of heating cable that must energize whenever the local temp drops below 33 degrees (and usually much warmer due to insurance worries).  What do you suspect woudl happen once Bitcoin is as big an economy as many of us believe it will be?  Do you honestly think that Bitcoin wise engineers will not incorporate spot heat co-mining in such infrastructure? You just described green addresses. This is a nonsense statement.  It's impossible for any entity to bankrupt all other miners, no matter his transaction fees.  Not only would any such miner have to aquire the capital investment in order to build his network to beyond 51%, an uphill battle considering the vast majority of the current running network (now or at any other time) is a sunk cost already paid for; he would also have to compete with the hobbyist miners who benefit from co-generation of waste heat.I have a GPU based mining rig that I choose not to use, that I can use for space heating in my garage at will.  No miner can bankrupt me.Therefore your "law" is invalid. I do know what a 51% attack is.  Even then, it would be limited to whomever had recently sold the attackers something of value.  A 51% attacker cannot steal coins that he has never legitimately possessed. http://www.poeleaboisonline.com/en/poele-godin/644-wood-stove-quotle-petit-godin-3720quot-finishing--enameled-cast-iron-enameled-steel-or-painted-anthra.htmlLike this one, preferablely new or well cared for used.  I need it in Kentucky, United States.  Well, you have a point there.Those are exactly the conditions that I would expect a big drop, due to the eventual popping of a bubble.  And that is largely what happened.  Honestly, I expected it weeks before it happened, and lost a small fortune short selling with a stop-loss limit  at $72.  It never eeven got back down to where I thought it made fundamental sense, so I would have lost it anyway.It's much like the point about violence and terrorrism; terror attacks make big news but not really big body counts, as a nominally "free" US citizen is 9 times more likely to die by the unwarrented actions of a police officer than a terrorist.Really, the perception of risks are out of prooportion with the reality of those same risks. From my own perspectives, the block chain split was of zero consequence.  If it were not for the activity on this forum at the time, and my interaction with this forum, I (personally) wouldn't have even noticed.  The same would have been true for most users who either don't spend bitcoins on a daily basis or don't fret over the time to confirm.  Once users are competing for blockspace, a 24 hour long time to confirm will become more commonplace for much more mundane reasons.  And the price crash wasn't even the worst crash that I've seen since I've been here.  On a percentage basis, dropping from about $250 to about $50 over the course of a week or two isn't as bad as dropping from $32 to $2 in 2011 (2012?), although it happened much faster. I didn't claim that he was some kind of oracle.  You have the right to disagree, and to be wrong in any other number of ways. Excellent video Mike, but there is one thing that you might be able to improve on your identity+rock=realestate_owner analogy.  You said that no society would ever do this, but once upon a time, the British had a system of sovernign gold debt using sticks.  What they would do is when the king/government desired to borrow gold (usually to fight a war) he would require that goldmongers (early bankers) exchange the gold for a stick that has been etched on both ends with the debt amount, and then broken in half.  The treasury kept the long end, and the "lender" kept the short end as the record of the "exchange".  Theoretically, anyone who had the short end of the stick could come to the treasury in London after the repay date and claim the gold in deposit by matching up the broken ends of the stick.  In practice, the king just declared ursury illegal and ordered the treasury sticks burned.But a society would, indeed, do something like this.EDIT:  BTW, that is where we get the term, "left holding the short end of the stick".EDIT:  Any gold bug worth his salt, and  particularly Ron Paul himself, should know this history, BTW.   Yes, I do; and much more.  No, 10 watts per person isn't enough to maintain anything near current standards.  It is enough to maintain current standards for 10K+ households, however.  Alternatively, it's enough to keep a million cell phones charged and the local infrastructure running.  More likely, however; one quarter that number of cell phones and refrigeration for foodstuff is where the dust settles.  Communications and hygiene are two high priorities for our society, and there is no form of mass communication more effective than the Internet.  People will make special efforts to make sure that their cell phones work and the refrigerator is cold.  Which of those two things is more important depends upon the generation of the person you are asking, but there is no doubt that those two are most important.  In places where the flow of water requires power input, that would be high on the list of priorities for rationed hydropower as well, but in the long run people simply move out of such areas.  In addition to the hydroplant, Louisville also sits right on top of the largest self-replenishing aquifier in the United States, and it covers more than the county.  As I sit here at home, the water table is no more than 26' below the grass, which is why I can't have a basement.  I have considered, in the past, buying a driven wellpoint and a hand operated well pump just to keep around should I ever need it, but I have never gotten around to it.EDIT:  My kindle uses a tenth the power that my android cell phone uses, and both can run for a long time with their transceivers off.  Did you know that there are apps that permit you to download the most commonly accessed Wikipedia articles in English, and save them to your phone for offline use?  And the long term educational and survival value of an e-ink based e-reader cannot be overstated.  Literally a one-pound library that can be maintained with a 2.5 watt solar cell, and still not take too much sun time to prevent you from charging your other devices. "Collapse" is in the eye of the beholder anyway.  There is a minority of peoples and sub-cultures in the United States that Kunstler's version of collapse would have near zero effect upon anyway.  And there is a much larger sub-set of the population that collapse would have relatively minor effects upon.  The city of Louisville, Kentucky (where I grew up) is a city of just about one million people with it's own 10 Megawatt hydroelectric plant less than a mile from the downtown district.  Some sub-cultures and some locales are better suited for the coming "collapse" than others. The ideal flat tax income rate is zero.  That's exactly what it was up until 1913, and then they knew a constitutional amendment was necessary.  Even so, the Supreme Court has twice ruled that the amendment did not alter the definition of "taxpayer", which up until that time included foreign nationals doing business in the United States, and citizens of one state working in another.  You wouldn't know it by how such events unfold these days, but according to legal history, a natural born citizen working for a labor wage within his state of residence is exempt from federal income taxation.Not that I'm stupid enough to argue that point on my own tax forms. http://kunstler.com/blog/2013/04/smack-down-time.htmlNormally, this guy is very intuitive.  But apparently all of the media hype about Bitcoin came at him, and he felt the need to comment on it without his usual due diligence.  I've been trying to comment about that on this blog since Monday, but I just can't manage it for whatever reason.  Maybe I'm banned, but it doesn't say that.  Let's see if some of you guys can manage it.  Amazingly, none of the regular commentors ever came around to challenging his take on Bitcoin.Do what you will, gentleman; but remember that this guy is an another fellow traveler despite his lack of understanding. Riiiight!  Welcome back, Satos... I mean, Bakada. This entire thread is wild speculation.
Spoken like a newbie who thinks he has it all figured out.  ZeroCoin might have it's place, but it's far from critical. This is false.  Bitcoin is significantly more private than credit cards.  Credit cards, by their nature, are intimately connected to your real world identity.  It's literally impossible for them to be private from third parties.  With Bitcoin, even as it is, at least some degree of anonimity is possible regarding any person or organization that is not directly part of the transaction, although it often takes some degree of extra care. Only for the time being.  This is the adoption phase.  It is to be expected. That's actuallly true, for some; but provablely not true for all.  This can also be said for Gresham's Law.  Part of this Regression Theorem, as trader's generally expect that bitcoins will be worth tommorrow roughly what they were worth yesterday.  If there is great insability (as we presently have) or either significant inflation or deflation then traders can no longer be confident of the value of those bitcoins tommorrow, and thus one party to the transaction faces an increased risk of some kind of loss if there is significant movement in trade value in the near future.  In the case of inflation, it's the merchant who accepts such a currency that faces potential losses; while in the case of deflation, it's the buyer who faces a potential loss due to increasing opprotunity costs.  In either case, relative stability contributes to bitcoin's value as a medium of exchange.  Hyper deflation is as bad for a trade currency as is hyper inflation, but it's 'delta' rate of change that matters, not so much the direction. More likely the 'brand name' will change ownership a couple more times over the next several years, until it either ends up in the hands of people who can keep up or goes underground completely.  The website has already changed ownership twice. Yes. I think it's kinda borderline.  We'll see if we get any complaints first. Why? The effect would be neglible. I'm about 2.5 out of your list, but you missed a few...5)  Hardcore libertarian/moderate anarchist6)  Rabidly anti-central-banking7)  Praxeologist and/or Austrian Economist8.)  Greedy and/or gullible speculator. The bitcoin Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel using the built-in Web-of-Trust (WOT) trading bot.  I believe that the channel is called OTC (over the counter) or something like that, and a lot of heavy traders lurk there. I don't believe that you can derive the uncompressed public key from just the compressed public key.  I'm pretty sure that you need the private key for that. That's not at all so.  No matter how it's represented, there is no way to inflate the currency base beyond the protocol.  Moving the decimal point for bitcoins is no more inflating the currency than if you were to start referring to all your exchanges and prices in cents rather than dollars or euros.  It's just division.Beyond that, as others have already mentioned, the protocol doesn't really even care where we put the decimal point, as it simply counts in satoshis anyway. The client is capable of displaying the balance in mills, but has to be set to do so, as that is not the default. It's a meme.http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/imminent-ned-brace-yourselves-x-is-coming Wouldn't work completely.  Not only is an EMP not very likely to do widespread damage to small, disconnected electronic devices (cell phones, Ipads, Ipods, Kindles, etc), a great many people now own computers that are moderately guarded against EMP by virtue of EMF shielding that is required due to the very high frequency rates that modern cpu's and memory buses operate at.  Without such common EMF shielding, pc would be subject to crashing anytime an old spark-gap vehicle drove past on the street or anytime that streetlamp that is going bad turned back on.  It's also a known issue, so some geeks will go the extra step and actually build their own computers into a faraday cage or buy a case designed as a faraday cage using decoupling power supplies.  I would say, with near certainty, that a nuclear war wouldn't get every copy of the blockchain even if it can still get mine. Really?  So your logic is that, since there are non-zero percentage of wireless subscribers in the United States and Hong Kong (many of which are held by regular business travelers, not residents) then it's reasonable to assume that enough common Africans with a cell phone maintain more than one phone number?  Do you maintain more than one cell phone subscription?I'm not worried about that either, the trend is obvious.  There are likely to be older model smartphones by the time that Bitcoin is truely mature anyway.  And even if that wasn't so, M-Pesa ran on normal cell phones.  A service similar to BitcoinSpinner could run on just about anything, if the service provider was interested in doing so.Must?  My wife doesn't use a smartphone, and her phone cans still surf basic web pages.I did.  It's false.Issues, sure.  You think small.If you're waiting for governments to provide for infrastructure, you'll be waiting a long time.  And yes, a minimalist cell tower could be powered by solar alone, but most of them usually have a small genset at well.  If you want to see how wireless communications can actually work in distant places, do some research on how the US miliatry does it.  I used to build these things.  It's not trivial to establish and maintain a 100 kilometer link, but nor is it beyond reach. Stop and think, young man.  5 volts at half an amp, or 2.5 watts.  A standard bike headlight is about 3 watts, whatever shall we do???http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-p20hxRVj5cOf course there are already existing infrastructure for charging phones, as some people have made a business out of using a solar panel to charge phones for others.http://www.technologyreview.com/view/428569/solar-charger-made-for-africa-coming-to-the-us/And using a cell phone to send money isn't even a foreign concept to Africans as much as it is to Americans...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M-PesaTherefore, you're argument is invalid. False. More people have access to the Internet via cell phones worldwide than have access to a flush toilet.  Access to electricity is not a pre-requisite.  
Is this a serious question, or are you trolling here? I was thinking that much of what is going on in the world, I've been thinking about energy security for my family.  I could, and probably will, buy a couple sealed cans of kerosene; but I know that I can do better than that.  I was thinking about heating my home.  In my area, natural gas is the cheapest method of home heat, and the most common.  It's also second only to electricity in it's dependency on infrastructure for it's ongoing availablity.  There is also much in the way of propane and firewood heating in my area, but storing up propane requires buying or leasing tanks.  Wood is ideal, being both locally available and renewable.  It does have one downside though, as it would eventually rot should nothing of consequence occur in the near term.  Kentucky coal is an option, but it's of the bitumous variety, and thus it's incrediblely smokey and messy.  So I'm considering buying a truck-bed full of anthracite coal, because I can just dump that out by the toolshed and it would literally never degrade.  Perhaps I'd buy a pallet load of 40 lb bags instead.The problem is that anthracite is only mined in upstate Pennsylvania, which is quite a shipping cost.  It's also the only reason that anthracite isn't a common heating fuel in Kentucky, as the shipping costs make anthracite economicly unviable compared to natural gas around here.  In order to compete with natural gas from the local power company, a full ton of coal would have to cost about $180 delivered.  I wouldn't expect anything like that, but Lehman's would charge me twice that before shipping costs. (https://www.lehmans.com/p-2316-anthracite-coal.aspx)I'm wondering if there are any bitcoiners from upstate Pennsylvania who might be planning a trip South this summer, who might be willing to stop in Louisville, Kentucky with as many 40 lb bags of anthracite as they were able to bring with them. I'm not seeing anything out of the ordinary, care to expound? Then either start as a hobby business, and simply sell what you can sell; or just add bitcoin payments to another existing business model.  Maybe bitcoins will become  a significant part of the business, maybe they won't.  Doesn't really matter, if the goal is to aquire bitcoins for your own purposes cost effectively. Yes, you've missed the point.  How easy is it for you to buy US $ in the UK?  It is an easy transaction currency once you have some.  Try starting an online business of some sort, and accept bitcoins.  That's what is needed more than a better ways to trade government fiat for bitcoins. Sadly, I loaned him 60 BTC. I don't believe Ian's intent was to default.  Hopefully he will return on his own and attempt to make amends.   Even that wouldn't actually break the network.  It'd just pick up where it left off once the internet was back up, or an alternative connection could be established.  The Internet would have to go down, stay down, and no one be able to rebuild a network with more than 1 meg per minute transfer rates between nodes.  Basicly nothing short of a nuclear EMP, in which case most of us are going to have greater problems than our bitcoin balances. I can't see the article.EDIT: Nevermind.Not one of the attacks is a threat.  This guy doesn't know what he is talking about.  Even the 51% attack that he references wouldn't give the attacker arbitrary access to any coins that he didn't recently possess.  These aren't hacks, they are, at best, attempts at defrauding a limited set of users via a convoluted set of double-spending.   While double spending isn't entirely impossible with bitcoin, it's damn difficult due to timing requirements.  The 51% attack basicly gives the attacker more time to do the double spend attack, so long as he is willing and able to maintain the 51% attack.  Considering that the current hashrate of the honest network is roughly 30 times faster than the world's fastest supercomputer, that's not chump change anymore.  There isn't a whole lot that nation-state resources could do to bitcoin at this point, IMHO, since the rate of increases outpaces the normal construction time for such supercomputers. http://activelydisengaged.com/actively-disengaged-64-fight-power/ Probably not. I've never even heard of it.  Are you sure that it was for real? Good lord!  That clip was awful!What is with these talking head shows?  Not only can they not find detractor that knows what he's talking about, they don't seem terriblely interested in finding a proponant that doesn't seem like he's never made it out of the newbie section here. It's not normal, but nor is it uncommon to have delays.  Did you pay a transaction fee? I've bought many things online with some, but most of them I sold recently because I thought that the price was in a bubble.  I then 'shorted' the bitcoin price with the $ value in the account, but lost it all when the price of bitcoins hit my stop-loss number.  I lost a small fortune, but I can honestly say that I actually had one for a short time, even though it never did me any good.Live and learn. The really sad part is that is probably not true. I bought many at 6.5 cents each.  I've lost or spent almost all of them since, though. This should serve a lesson to even members who have not lost due to Ian.  A public thread on this forum is no certainty of proof of debt.  He can't delete PM's.   where's that global warming when you need it?!Sorry to hear about your hives. I loaned him 60 BTC myself.  I definately didn't get a payment either.
It tells me that this is either an april fools joke or you've lost everything gambling. Always was. Encrypt your wallet, and do it well. I was being literal.  Fascism is a form of socialism.  In my opinion, the worst flavor.   Oh, I see.  So in the end, only the honest businesses, doctors, lawyers and such got the shaft.That sounds about right.   You're more likely to burn out your machine than succeed in mining anything.  Wasn't me.  I was broken last week. Considering how many Russian mafia fortunes were stolen, I wonder how long it will take before EU ministers are found dead in an alley with needles in their arms; or their grandkids are taken in retribution.  Really, Russian mobsters are the last group that I'd think that a bunch of socialist leaning politicos in Brussels would want to upset. Nope...http://www2.egovlink.com/press-release-bitcoin.cfm You guys have to have been working on this well before the FinCEN guidance report. Wow.  Just, wow.If this is not a joke, then it's a huge step forward for bitcoin. I doubt it. Atlas was an idea man, for sure, but just because he thought of some things first doesn't mean that they wound't have been thought of by others in due course. I didn't mind him, but he was young and prone to aggravate both friend & foe alike. It's more than possible, it's likely, IMHO. That quote is taken out of the context of an ongoing conversation.  The basic point is that, while economics can't practically be separated from the social aspect (a core premise of Praxeology, BTW), a great many modern 'economists' (Krugman being one example) will in one article discuss the mathmatics as if the social context of such events doesn't matter while in another article discuss their political ideology as the 'logical' outspring of rational economic thoughts & theories.  It does matter how wealth is distributed across society; to every ideology, but it doesn't matter to most Macroeconomic theories commonly preached by higher academia.  The mathmatics becomes an abstraction, and the social context is lost in the numbers. I was once an electritian in a former life, and I have experience with solar arrays, dc power conversion & ham radio.  So, yeah, I think I can manage it. It's been a couple of months since I last email those guys, but last I checked, they claim that they are still only a couple months away from release.I've grown accustomed to disapointment. Nothing.  We're talking about backup infrastructure for bitcoin. Newbs!Bitcoin doesn't require internet access to transact, but it does require a connection.  A packet radio connection, or modem connection over ham radio would work fine for spending.  It wouldn't work as well for mining.BTW, I wasn't talking about the "web" either.  Try reading a bit more before you display your ignorance, please.EDIT:  A pair of android based bitcoin apps connected across a piratebox (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox_DIY) and two people can transact in meatspace miles from a working 3G signal. I'll just leave this here....https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=159617.0
Or that bitcoin can work without the Internet. Huh.  An online 'pig in a poke' game.Interesting. Hotlinking to Silk Road, or any other site that would generally be considered illegal activity where this forum server is located (United States) is verboten.  Google is your friend. This really doesn't parse, but the whole Mt.Goatse thing was a perverse running gag, like your photo.Legally, yes.  We (mods) have never been the kind to be so concerned about legal demarcation lines.  Breaking social barriers, however, will get you attention.  We all know that you post that kind of stuff to get an emotional response, and that's trolling by definition.  This isn't 4chan. http://thefnf.org/donate-bitcoin/Give freely, gentlemen.  Think of it as an investment into Bitcoin infrastructure under our own control and with our own values. We had a blockchain split, due to a database bug.  We have naturally occuring blockchain splits all of the time, but the network is normally self-correcting.  The bug was preventing a self-correction. It was a big deal only to the developers, as their reputation was impacted.  Users weren't impacted except for some short term confirmation delays.  If you weren't trying to move funds at the time, you woudn't have noticed. The computational power doesn't back the bitcoin economy, it secures the blockchain against a brute force attack, commonly called a "51% attack" here.  Even a successful 51% attack would not "bring it down".  More like aggravate the legit users for as long as the attacker can keep it up, and maybe perform a double spend against a particular user the attacker recently had a transaction with.  If that user isn't you, then your coins are safe even during a 51% attack, you just can't spend them while the attack is ongoing. That's a very old report you were reading.  The current data can be found at www.bitcoinwatch.com, down near the bottom in a pie chart.  BTW "other" is a collection of unknown miners, that may or may not be a single entity, but probably not.  No single group comes close to 50%. I've noticed a change in common terminology over the course of this thread.  For the past several years, this forum has been dominated by US membership, thus the most common exchange prices were almost always quoted in US $.  That has been noticablely changing over the past few months, as Europeans continue to join the forum, and now it's at least as common to see a price quote in Euros and I occasionally see them in British Pounds as well as less commonly in South American fiat currencies.Personally, I find that to be bullish, in a growing bubble kind of way. I'm afraid that your wrong about that this time, MtGox was originally a trading site for card gaming.  I was here when that site started as a bitcoin trading site, before it was hosted in Japan.  It most certainly stood for Magic The Gathering Online Exchange. You make a good point, I should have locked this thread already.  In my own defense, I'm inclined to let posters speak their mind as much as possible, even those who too readily let their crazy out for all to see.But with that, this thread is now locked. Nonsense.  The innovation of Bitcoin isn't it's decentralized nature.  Paper cash is moreso.  The innovation is that the transaction settlement system is automated, unstoppable and cannot prevent new players from entering into the network.  Anyone can offer mining services, even when Walmart has a mining cluster, if they are willing to mine at a loss.  Many are and can.  I do, as I have a GPU based mining rig I bought used last fall that is offsetting a portion of my heating demands for my detached garage.  I'd be using that electricity anyway, but I can't make a business model out of waste heat from a mining rig.  Even if Walmart and Target are fighting over half of the network, they can't stop me from participating at whatever level I desire.  Central banking is about control, not centralizatin per se.  If you really view it as a problem, don't use it.  No one is asking you to, much less compelling you to.  Just go back to your legal tender and go pay your taxes like a good little socialist/capitalist/Morman/whatever.  That's real slavery, and you don't even realize you're already part of your own solution. Satoshi believed that there would be few professional mining outfits, and that most users would not often have to pay a transaction fee, because in a future that bitcoin had adoptence and success near the level of a minor national currency, most businesses would be accepting them.  For major retailers such as Wal-Mart or Target, accepting bitcoins via free transactions would be a comparative advantage they could wield over smaller competitors because these major retailers could afford to either build their own mining farm or sponsor a professional mining outfit by contract, so that their free transactions could be favored by those same contract miners in the same way that fee paying transactions can be expected to be favored over free transactions now.  The same kind of arrangement could occur between bitcoin "banks", who agree to transact off-network between their members whenever feasible and to mutually favor each other's userbase regarding free transactions within their own transaction/mining pools.  Thus, the market for transaction fees was expected, from very early on, to compete with partial trust parallel payment networks built up specificly to avoid direct blockchain transaction fees.Therefore, few professional miners as mining without sponsors or some other off-network method of income would eventually become difficult; and mostly free transactions (to consumers) because the primary burden of paying for the network would shift to the corporations that desire to get you to spend in their stores.And, yes, that is the short version.Oh, I doubt that.  There are not many assholes quite like me.  I havn't even put any effort into this one.Because it's not a problem, and you don't see why.  Start with the above summary, but there is much more to it. Of course not.  How could I?  You had not provided such a link in the post I quoted!  Do you really think that you're opinion is so highly valued that we actually read everything you write?  I still won't read it, and I still know you didn't get it, because of this statement...Yes, I do.  Hell, I was here.Not even close, buck.  I've had this conversation so many times, I feel like a third grade teacher ready for retirement.  You really have no idea.  Please, for the love of God, use the search function! I'm not entirely sure what you mean, but a bitcoin can, at present, be divided down to 0.00000001 of a full bitcoin. A link to all of them.  Dude, put it in! You didn't understand why he said that.Here, you're the latest inspiration for this...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=159349.msg1684347#msg1684347 We seriously need a stickied topic for newbies that collects all of these regularly recycled "I'm a newb and I am the first person to think of the Great Bitcoin Flaw (tm)" subjects.So I'm starting it right here.First off, before you post anything about the GBF (tm) that you have thought of, read the whitepaper here...http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdfOnce you're finished, go get a coffee, use the restroom, and come back and read it again.Then sleep overnight, and in the morning, read it again.If, at this point, you think that you understand Bitcoin, you don't.  Read it again.Only once you get to the point that you start to think, "WTF?  How does THAT work?!"  and "How the hell does that contribute?!" are you finally starting to 'grok' Bitcoin.At this stage, come back to the forum and use the search function on those terms that you found.  Ask some questions.  And in about two weeks, give or take, you'll begin to have a functioning grasp of how the system actually works.  Ask more questions.Hopefully, this process will allow you, Sir Newb, to understand why you're not the first person to think of your Great Bitcoin Flaw; why you're wrong; and perhaps even how the community has progressed past or mitigated whatever it was you were imagining is wrong. It's also provablely false that Bitcoin isn't being used as a medium of exchange, so where does Krugman file that inconvient little fact? No broadly useful enough, sorry.
It's Yusuf Islam to you, infidel! Those were not my responses, except the requirement that you prove you understand the topic before you propose sweeping changes.  You will find that I'm not alone in this regard. A census list has names and addressses. The dollar is, already, and established frame of reference.  It doesn't need to be backed now, because it once was backed by gold.  It's the Regression Theorem.  A p2p credit system needs a currency as a frame of reference because it doesn't have a history of use as a medium of exchange, and it's total base would be both largely unknowable and subject to extreme flexibility.  I've already given you the tools you need to understand, but you don't even know which end is the handle.  Bitcoin has both a history as a unit of exchange and it's base is both perfectly knowable at any given moment and it's future base is highly predictable; two attributes that are significantly better as a currency than both the US $ and gold.I don't suffer fools easily, at least not for long.  You do know who you're talking too right? More likely they want funding to develop the code, and then an open source clone without the backdoor would be devleoped and would be the actual system used, and the banksters get left with notihing of useful value for their "investments".  It's open source, dude, if there is a backdoor, it can be found in the code and either altered or exploited.  IT's not really going to happen in practice. No, you proposed altering the blockchain to be encrypted, which as many have pointed out, would break the zero trust rule.  My alternative doesn't do any such thing, as I presented a method to do it outside of the main blockchain.  Furthermore, I've since discovered that some group has already annouced that they have developed a parrallel p2p netowrk to work with Bitcoin to do pretty much what I proposed, in practice, and intend to present the system at some upcoming confrence.  It's being called Zerocoin.You can decide to quit, but you can't close the topic from me.  I hope you learned something, at least. Yes, there is a rational; and yes, you don't see it.  It's not even that you don't quite see it, you're not even within a line of sight yet.A monetary base forms the frame of reference for value calculations.  In this sense, the monetary base must be knowable, and it also must be difficult (if not impossible) for the common user to create new currency.  For Ripple, a peg to the US $ would work fine, as it has for Paypal.  But without a currency base to use as a common frame of reference, Ripple users would be able to create debt based currency as easily as is done in a LETS and would remain as local for the same reasons.Krugman hasn't been correct on any topic since he's been at the NYT's.  I'm somewhat certain that he lives in opposite world, and you might be his neighbor.Wait a minute...You own an old copy of an economics textbook, over fourty years old, Krugman fan...Do you live in NYC?  Your choice of username makes mroe sense now. It doesn't, because the wealthy are the only group that can efficiently save their funds in gold, land, etc.  It's much more difficult and economicly inefficient for the poor and middle classes to do the same thing.  Thus, inflation harms the lower classes more, percentagewise, because they have to keep a majority of their savings in dollar denominated assets for liquidity reasons. Ripple is p2p credit, yes.  Ripple is not a currency, however.  The distinction is not trivial.  Credit does not equal currency, and serves a different function.  Bitcoin can exist independently of Ripple, and Ripple can exist independently of Bitcoin; but Ripple cannot exist independently of an established common currency base.I didn't say that you couldn't change your mind.  It does tell me more about you, however. Nonsense, I proposed a system that offers users a choice.  There is a significant difference. Don't gamble on SatoshiDice? I know for a fact that there are "quiet mode" full clients running on Tor that act as bridges from all Tor clients to the open Internet.  You have to use a full client, and it has to be "quiet mode" and well locked down to prevent leakage, but it's possible to transact in Bitcoin without leaving a mark. Puppet, credit systems within bitcoin will develop when the market is right for them.  To some degree, they already exist, but are very personal and unsecured.  I've done several myself.  As you already noted, Ripple is a decentralized consumer credit system.You promised to respond to my arguments yesterday.  Did you not have a rational response? You could use tor.We didn't say it wasn't an issue, we said that the way that you want to do it can't be done without breaking the zero trust requirement of the main blockchain.  However, your idea did spark my own....The root problem isn't that the openness of the blockchain permits some transactions to be seen in cleartext, it's that it permits all of them to be seen.  But this isn't entirely true, as off-network transactions do occur and hiding services (commonly called bitcoin laundries or bitcoin mixers) also exist.  Examples include transactions that occur directly between users of MtGox, or directly between users of Silk Road.  The advantage of such services, particularly with large user bases, is that it's impossible to track the flow of funds among the membership without access to the server itself; and the disadvantage is that users must have trust in the sysadmins to 1) not steal their coins, 2) not be bested by motivated hackers and 3) not roll-over when the MiB show up at tehir door.But what if you could run a decentralized service?  Sort of a hybrid between the full blockchain and a hosted wallet service.  Take this one, for starters...An alt-chain, wherein the headers contain all the info that Bitcoin's headers contain, plus some additional info that ties each block to a recent transaction on the main chain, namely that the miner of the alt-chain first creates a send-to-self transaction, then references both the block number that included that transaction, the transaction ID#, and signs something in the block with that addresses private key.  The point is that 1) it establishes a timestamp in lockstep with the main bitcoin chain, 2) leverages the difficulty level of the main blockchain since in order to alter that block later, the alt-chain attacker should have to also alter the main blockchain and 3) establishes the miner's Proof of Stake.  Once that has been established, the structure of the alt-chain block is as follows.  There is still a merkel tree, but instead of each pair of transactions being hashed, blocks of encrypted data is being hashed into the tree, and the miner's only job is to verify that the blocks of data are 1) not corrupted and 2) are signed by at least two other alt-miners.  Heres the overall idea.  Instead of a running ledger, each miner is effectively a trusted supernode that manages a limited userbase.  The data blocks are updates on the values of their users' accounts.  Each of these miners have traded keypairs with at least two other miners, so that they can 1) negotiate transfers between users of each others userbase and 2) verify and sign their submitted data blocks.  This means that, although the compromise of any single miner by hackers/MiB would open that set of users/transactions to view, it would be practically impossible for any single node to decrypt an entire alt-block.  Thus, some portion of that block would remain unknowable, and insomuch as this system would be a popular off-blockchain transfer system, funds that pass through it would break the chain of visable custody.Even writing it down, I'm not conviced it can even work, as users must be able to trust the miners/supernodes and those miners would have to be able to trust each other.  Not really worth my time.  Prove that you understand how the system actually works, and then I might consider hearing out your theories. No.  There is no encryption method that would work that wouldn't simply be a waste of resources, since the key would have to be widely known anyway. Can you prove that's my only wallet? Amen.  Stupidity should be more painful. Perhaps it could, but how would that work?Therein lies the rub, no one has been able to work out a better solution than what Satoshi has devised from the beginning.  His solution is both elegant, well interconnected, and easy to understand (from a theory basis, not from a practical implimentation basis). It's more than feasible, it's part of the future development plans of Bitcoin from nearly the start.  Maybe even the start.  As I said, Bitcoin was designed for future flexibility in addresss types, so that new address types can be created, and easily identified by both human and machine, without breaking backward compatibility with the current address type.  The future clients will just have to check the first ascii character to know how it should process that address; and teh running network won't even skip a beat.  There is much to the finer details of Bitcoin that are so elegant and so well thought out, I have long said that Satoshi was either a polymath or three or more geniuses in their own fields working in concert.
Excepting that, as I mentioned, the current addresses don't store floating point variables, but integers instead.  So the decimal point for BTC are actually near the middle of a 64 bit integer for convience, and a single address can thus hold the entire 21 million BTC with room to spare and never create a buffer overflow error.  An address with a floating point variable would be able to store fractional satoshis, but wouldn't necessarily be able to store the entire monetary base.  This should never happen anyway, but it's more of a security/code issue than an economic one. I'm growing concerned... No, not the same at all.  It's easy enough to prove that gold exists, if you can find it.  You can't prove that I have any bitcoins at all, even if you have a copy of my wallet.dat.  Because it's encrypted also.  You have to have me and access to my computer.  If you have me, then it doesn't much matter because you can use rubber hose crytography.  But if I have gold in my safety deposit box, I may be able to evade capture but not if I return for my gold.  With bitcoins and an Electrum neumonic wallet, I could flee to just about anywhere and recover my bitcoins using a borrowed laptop if I must. Yes, but clients cannot use more than 8 decimal places because of a technical limitation.  Specificly, the value of any address is stored as a 64 bit integer.  All bitcoin addresses store only satoshis, not BTCs, and the clients  present the totaled values to the user with the decimal point added for human readability.  The decimal point doesn't actually exist in the current address structure, but the protocol permits new kinds of addresses to be created for any number of reasons.  The first ascii character of your bitcoin address denotes the address type, which is why all currently valid bitcoin addresses start with a "1".  The addressses designed for testing features on testnet are identical except that first character is different.  I believe that it's an "a" IIRC.  An address that used a floating point variable for the value could store sub-satoshi values.  Future address versions could also use different encryption algos than is currently used, or be different in a number of other ways. I certainly do.  The real question is, "why is there a limit?"  The simple answer to that question is that Bitcoin was designed as a digital approximation of a finite natural resource, such as gold.  Actually, precisely as gold.  Every decision concerning an arbitrary metric within the bitcoin protocol was intentionally biased to approximate the mining of gold as best as was reasonablely possible.  My point was that the limit isn't a problem in the same manner that a limit on a fiat currency would be, because a BTC is (potentially) infinately divisable, so there cannot ever be a liquidity crisis as a result of a limited currency base. They'd just declare bankruptcy and stiff the exchanges that permitted them the credit to run naked shorts.  We have nothing to gain by permitting holders of US $ to short bitcoins naked.  They can short fully covered, like the rest of us, and still lose their shirt just fine.  I should know, I lost nearly everything. There actually isn't one, it's an arbitrary number.  Actually, we come to 21 M because of how the block reward subsidy is issued.  50 BTC per block for the first 4 years (10.5 M BTC) and then it halves, and continues to half until it's too small to represent with a 64 bit integer.  No matter how long that takes, the total number of bitcoins issued will always approach, but never quite reach, 21 M BTC.But that's actually inmaterial.  It could have been any number, as long as it had a maximum.  Bitcoins are infinately divisable under the protocol, and are presently divisable to eight decimal places.  It's really just a reference point. Actually, we can take a good guess based upon the floating market value of silver.  Since silver is a commodity that is currently used by industry (unlike gold) a portion of silver is "consumed" by the production of consumer products.  Meaning that some amount of silver is incorporated into consumer products, and the recovery of much of that silver is (presently) difficult and expensive.  Silver mining has failed to keep up with industrial demands for decades, so the "above ground" stocks have declined over the past decade or two despite ongoing silver mining projects.  Silver, however, no longer has much of a monetary premium, if at all.  It's simply not what most people think of when they think of 'hard money'.  Currently, there are fewer above ground troy ounces of (economicly recoverable) silver stocks than that of gold.  Yes, gold is more abundent in a mined and refined form than silver in our modern world.  So if gold were to suddenly and completely lose it's monetary premium the world around, it's safe to assume that it's exchange value would seek a market value at or below that of silver over time.  As it does so, more industrial uses will become economicly viable until it finds a new place as an industrial metal just as silver & platinum have already.To some degree, gold is already used in very niche industrial products, but only where it's use outweighs the cost and difficulty of developing a cheaper alternative material input.  I have no doubt, that if gold were less than silver per ounce, we'd see gold plating on ocean ships quickly.  It's immunity to saltwater corrosion would not be of small value. Honestly, I really didn't care.  Such a revelation neither harms nor improves my personal opinons of him.  And since I'm ethnicly part-Jewish, I've grown accustomed to disagreeing with the liberal wing of my greater relations anyway.I'm also ethinicly part-"native American", and the Office of Indian Affairs can stick it up their arse, too. Krugman is Jewish? We won't kill your account.  We don't really give a sh*t.  I don't disagree with the current fee policy, and think that it works well enough to not screw with it.  You can lobby for whatever you think is best, but I would suggest that you actually learn what the fee policy is, and why it's that way, before you proceed. Heh!The publicly accessible roads in my home state have never been built by governments until very recently, and even now only at the county & city levels.  There are plenty of roads, mostly in the countryside, that are still privately owned.  I was recently looking at buying a 10 acre wooded lot that used to be part of a larger farm.  The road frontage, which is gravel, is shown to be 1/2 owned by the owner of that plot and 1/2 owned by the owner of the opposite side.  In other words, four or five feet of gravel is owned by one person and the other four or five feet is owned by the other person.  The only deed restriction is that the owners of those properties cannot deny the owners of properties further up the road "innocent passage" (English Common Law legal term, just look it up).  Likewise, as an owner of undeveloped land in the state of Kentucky (technically a commonwealth) I can't deny anyone innocent passage across my land as long as they are on foot, don't intend to cause harm and are not intending to hunt on my property (not harvesting my wildlife against my wishes, which would be a 'harm') and are not walking after dark.Not that most rednecks would know that I have an old right of 'innocent passage' across their fields, nor would they consider such hiking to be 'innocent', but still. This is not true.  It should be relayed just fine.  It'd just sit in the miners' transaction queues until it's old enough. The part I highlighted is absolutely correct; the latter part is probably also correct, but is irrelevent to the core issue.  The specualtion about the reasons why are simply value judgements.  Political perspectives infecting the conversation again.  Again, it's not that I'm disagreeing with your speculations; just that they aren't really material to whether or not money "works for society" or not.  Unless, of course, one considers collectivism to "work" for society, so perhaps I just contradicted myself. I'm sorry, I assumed since you still had an economics textbook to refer to, that you were a student.  Learning that you are at least 40, and posses an economics textbook (presumedly from 20 years ago?) completely alters my mental image.  In my defense, most of the economicly uneducated in this forum are young and impressionable.You're probably just too old to change your mind. I stopped right here...." but they never mention the rather important point that deflation and debt deflation were clearly factors in the economic and social turmoil that saw the fall of the Roman Republic in the first century BC and its replacement with the despotic Roman empire (for a timeline of Roman Republican history, see below)."Because this is a strawman setup.  Of course "debt deflation" (as it's commonly defined, usually by Kenyesians) had significant effects upon the course of the breakdown.  That's freely acknowledged by most Austrians.  What your lot seems to misunderstand is the praxelogical effects of debt itself that leads to these ends.  It's not the debt deflation that is the root of the problem, it's the debt fueled boom that proceeded it.  The debt deflationary period is called a "correction" for good reasons.Go right ahead.  If you honestly beleive that money is a tool intended to "work for society" then there is nothing that I can do to change your mind.  Nor would I care to try, you're as free to be wrong as the next guy.  And yes, I want a tool that works for me, for I am the only person that I can trust to best handle my tools.  The prisoner's delima doesn't apply to free market trades in the absense of third party coersion, so in a free society wherein the vast majority of economic interactions occur in the absence of such coersion, it's literally impossible for the collection of individual interactions (presumedly favorable to both sides of the trade) to be a net negative for society.Think, young man, think.  Think for yourself, not just how your professor expects you to react. Politcally and socially, sure.  Economicly or mathmaticly, not so much.You're missing the point.  Credit availability is a problem for whom?  I'm not trying to be a jerk, I'm trying to be a better economics professor than you apparently have been exposed to thus far.  The classic method involves asking questions of the student, in order to lead them to a deeper understanding of the topic.  Economics is more than mathmatics or statistics, it's people, so both the who and why does matter.Yes, you do.  To some limited degree and term, you must.  We all must, as there is simply no way to avoid it.  We can deliberately choose to limit that kind of exposure, but it's impossible to completely avoid it. And do you know who can least avoid it?  The poor.This reminds me of a quote..."The curious task of economics is to demonstrate to men how little they really know about what they imagine they can design. -― Friedrich von HayekJust because that was the idea, son, don't mean that is what actually happens.  I question whether or not that was the true design, or simply propaganda to cover the scam, anyway.Before Bitcoin, there was nothing truly detatched from fiat currency systems to invest into.  You betray your own though processes; as investing into regulated industries is investing into areas wherein the government has deliberately limited your choices, and then taxes you upon any successes that result despite them.  Even investing in gold is taxed here in the US; both up front (sales tax) and on the back end (capital gains tax).  The best way that I've found to invest without taxation is to use a Health Savings Account, but governments limit my choices there in other ways, and there is zero chance of fiscal privacy regarding one of those accounts.  There is also zero chance of investing in anything not dollar denominated.  It's acctually illegal to invest such funds into physical gold, for example.  An ETF, sure; but not actual coins.You say that it's not a viable alternative to credit based fiat.  Okay, that's your opinion.  What is it good for then?  Again, why are you here?  Are you trying to convince us, or yourself?Think, young man, think. Someone comes up with this idea, or something like it, about every six months or so.  The answer to "why not" is that we don't need to.  There are other solutions to the size of the blockchain, most notablely the one that was proposed by Satoshi himself in his whitepaper.  The blocks were designed to be "pruned" of long spent transactions, if the user desired that, but never to require such an action.  That's why the internal block structure uses a Merkel Tree instead of a flat file format.  Including special blocks to update a running list of non-zero balance addresses would not only require breaking the current system, it would also eventually be blocks of such massive size as to be counter-productive.  There is no full client that utilizes pruning that I know of, but there is nothing preventing you from coding that yourself if you have the skills and believe that pruning is a near term need.Furthermore, anyone who desires to avoid the blockchain altogether can simply use a light client, such as BitcoinSpinner or Electrum.Search the forum for "pruning" of blocks, light clients, and "Stratum" for more information. The only "example" I can find there is a reference to the Great Depression, which is only considered an example of a deflationary spiral because there exist no better examples.  The Great Depression was cause by a number of events in concert, most of which are actually bad political and international trade policies.  The example of the Panic of 1920, and the fact that it's nearly identical to the first two years of the Great Depression, is evidence enough that a deflationary spiral is, at most, a minor contributing factor to the depth of the Great Depression.  I say that it's a false theory.Easy peasy, since I get to choose the time frames.  Any society that has ever existed upon a gold standard, prior to that same society's move towards currency debasement.  You're getting your cause and effect wrong, The Roman Empire didn't collapse because they used a deflationary currency (gold, silver, salt, nails) they debased that same deflationary currency because they were in the process of multi-generational collapse.  Money is simply a tool. It's not better, nor worse, for society at large.  That's actually impossible.  The "market cap" of an economy is simply a reflection of the total wealth of that economy.  It doesn't matter so much who happens to possess that wealth, from an economic perspective.  Central bankers inflating a fiat currency is a hidden tax upon the entire currency userbase, as it transfers purchasing power from those who earn and save in a currency to those who create and have first access to that currency.  Said another way, every person who earns a paycheck is taxed in order to support the central banking system itself.  Since most central banks in our modern world are arms of governments, it's those governments that benefit from such inflationary policies at the expense of pretty much everyone else in the country.  However, governments are part of sociey, as it's usually defined, so such transfers are akin to removing water from one end of a pool and pouring into the other end.  Sure, you've moved some molecules around, but you have no hope of affecting the water level.Furthermore, one would have to define "society" in the context of economics, otherwise you're just advocating a political perspective with broken math.Not till now, but that's exactly why Bitcoin exists, to present a real alternative.Where did you get that idea?  I'd just prefer that governments not make those choices for me, nor limit my choices.  They limit my choices all the time.And it's your choice also, now that Bitcoin exists.  I suggest that you choose to invest elsewhere.  Bitcoin is, after all, a very risky investment for which you seem to have zero faith.  Why are you here?  Do you want us to convince you of your errors, or are you trying to convince us of ours?  In the case of the former, all the benefit is your own; in the case of the latter, your task is futile.
We can agree that both high rates of deflation and high rates of inflation increase the risk of long term contracts.  What is "bad" is a realtive perspective, in the context of economics.  Again, bad for whom?Risk.  You're forgetting about risk.  That's why you shouldn't lend, if inflation is high.  It also matters why inflation is high.  High interest rates are often a reflection of a high systemic risk.  Often, not always.I don't, and no economist worth listening to does either.  Inflation and deflation are best defined as the two most likely consequences of expansion and contraction of the monetary base, relative to the size of the economy that it represents, repectively.  Thus, Bitcoin is only deflationary in the contest that the rate of growth among the market exceeds the growth of the monetary base.Again, worse for whom?  There are alwasy two parties to every trade, buck.The voltility, relative to the exchange rate, will mute significantly as the economy grows.  The exchange rates of small nations' fiat currencies are (almost) always more volitile than the exchange rate between major nations such as teh US and the Euro.  And if the exchange rate of bitcoins continue to rise, it's a sign of economic growth; so if the volitility and deflationary nature does result in some breaking of that growth, so what?  That too will self-correct as the economy matures.  There is no such tihing as a deflationary spiral.  It's only an economic theory that has no real world examples. Better for whom?  It's not better for everyone.  The owner of the currency should be able to choose the best method of saving.  If your method really is better, others will follow. This is not a problem inherent to deflationary currencies.  It's also true within inflationary currency systems when the inflation rate is too high.  That's the real issue; not that Bitcoin is deflationary (it's not really, and won't be until at least 2100), the problem is that the rate of change of the exchange value is too high for such long term contracts to be sensible.  The current and past instablility is a consequence of Bitcoin's adoption rate, not any particular flaw in the system, and certainly not Bitcoin's "deflationary" nature.  It's simply not a mature economic system, yet. There was also the germanic culture prior to the formation of a German state.  For hundreds of years a loosely cooperative culture existed that spread across nearly all of the northern half of the European landmass, that never formed anything remotely like a government or a state.  However, it's hard to use that one as an example of success, since they were also largely illiterate, so we don't really have any documation concerning their culture other than the records of encounters with other cultures; primarily the Roman Empire.  The Romans considered them to be barbarians, but the opinions of third parties (particularly those in a state of low level warfare) are not trustworthy.  We know that their economy was largely resource based, and mining was a major part of their trade and livelyhood.  What little trade that they did was usually in mined salt (as noted in the history book about the topic, simply called Salt) and they were also noted to have very colorful clothing.  The old germanic tales about dwarves were likely based upon their culture.And then there was the long history of the Swiss culture, which was stable without a central government authority or structure for a thousand years.  But, of course, that's just one little example of a bunch of mountain hillbillies, right? That is a nonsense comment.  First off, feudal lordships were functionally mini-governments, and thus the quality of life varied significantly; and the only practical difference today is that your lord is an elected political class and your lands are much larger.  The government still takes a portion of your earnings regardless of whether or not they let you think that you own the means of production or not.  The perception of practical differences are a matter of technicalogical progress and educational propaganda. Second, the currency unit has little to do with this.  The rise of nation states (as opposed to fuedal lordships) occurred during a time period that there was literally no alternative to gold, silver, copper and barter. Krugman knows exactly what he is doing.  It's in his own interest to make the arguments that he does, in the forums that he does so.  At least, he believes that it's in his own interest.  To some degree, he may have even convinced himself that he's generally correct.  It's very difficult to convince anyone to understand the truth when their income requires that they don't understand.That said, Krugman is no fool.  Krugman is a con-artist performing a long con on half of America. selling naked is extremely dangerous. While this is generally true, land values do tend to rise over time simply because the population increases and thus there are more people competing for a finite resource.  It's a value change that can only be measured accurately over decades, however. For my next question, how do I force Bitcoin-QT to rescan the blockchain without downloading it on an iMAC? Multi-bit is not bitcoin. How much for the Demoman's new cannon? What has happened to my country?!  That over the course of my own lifetime the British, who remain loyal and avowed subjects to a monarch, are more free than I am!I need to move, but I can't (legally) take my firearms with me. Ain't that the truth.  I read it four or five times over the course of two weeks before it clicked for me.  The first three times I read it, I would have sworn that it's some kind of complicated scam, but something about it nagged at me. I'd be selling if all of my bitcoins weren't already tied up into loans...Crap.  I'll never be able to make this kind of profit from a short term loan. I'd actually tried that, but apparently symlinks aren't acceptable to bitcoin-qt.Thanks for pointing me in the best direction. My problem with that theory is that much of the recent gains are due to a recent rash of good news.  What happens when there is bad news? Granted, the good news is real news, but it's been decidedly pro-Bitcoin for weeks.  We are due some bad news, like a major exchange hack.  We are, IMHO, beyond a price point that is justifiable with the current size of the actual bitcoin economic activity alone.  Hype leads to speculative bubbles.  We all know this.  What we don't know is how long we can ride it before sentiment turns sour.  What happens to the European banking panic when the asinine deposit tax proposal in Cyprus goes down in flames?  Or there is a compromise that doesn't spell the worst?  The sudden influx of Euro denominated wealth cannot be maintained.  Once the pool of risk adverse Europeans (an irony, I know) has all moved the greater part of their deposits into Bitcoin (or gold/silver/whatever) who is going to be left to support the bid wall?  Can that bid wall be supported by Argentines and Iranians evading capital controls?  I doubt it.  That's what Bitcoin is good for, but it doesn't really matter so much what the exchange price actually is if Bitcoin is only being used as a workaround for a bottleneck in the fiat currency system. MtGox will never permit naked shorts, as that puts them as the naked long.  That's a real quick way to go bankrupt in this market. Oh, that one. Sure.Want to see something disturbing?enter "Depends upon how much money that they were willing to lose" into the google search box. Care to share? Cuz I wasn't quoting anyone on purpose. Depends upon how much money that they were willing to lose.
Yes, Ben Bernanke, be our guest. I want to import an old wallet.dat into a full client.  How do I do this? There is more to it than that, as there have been many other names for the same basic idea.  None of them seem to ever be well received regardless of the common preception of the terms used. Technically, Eli Whitney had it figured out well before that... I've never even heard of Novacoin, and a search for that term yielded only this very post.  What is it?EDIT: Nevermind, I found it.  A PoW and PoS hybrid that uses Scrypt in the PoW part, presumedly to made GPU/ASIC mining impossible.  I've seen no method of PoS that I personally couldn't really monkey with, so I'm biased against any such thing from the start.  I don't think it has legs. http://mises.org/daily/1121There are.  Here is one that lasted for longer than the United States has been an independent country, before they had their first civil war. Sure, but it wasn't first to market, VHS was.  VHS won.  Betamax wasn't better enough for the early adopters to switch, due to the network effect.  Bitcoin has the first to market advantage, and the potential ability to annex any real improvements that an alt-chain can produce anyway.  If the 2 minute interval that LTC uses really offers a market advantage, Bitcoin can steal that advantage.  There are only a few things about the way the network actually works that can't be messed with, including the 21 M BTC limit. Well, that's probably true.  The lunies could still use Bitcoin without trouble, but Mars pretty much would have to start their own blockchain. So did BetaMax.  Reality didn't care what their opinion was either. Thank goodness! This bubble was getting out of hand. No. I stopped reading right here.  This assumption makes any comparison to bitcoin invalid.  Bitcoin was not invented either within such an enviornment nor in order to create such an environment.  Your argument is invalid. Yes, the BS bank deposit tax in Cyprus has put a black cloud over the deposits across all of the non-German banking industry in Europe.  So the number of searches and app downloads related to Bitcoin in Spanish has spiked over the weekend.  How long does it take for a Spainish citizen to transfer funds into an exchange? It's not necessary, but both chains can't coexist unless one changes certain network parameters, such as port number.I concede that the possibility exists.  That's different than claiming that it's a non-trivial risk. Thanks, I think?http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1L45SxxxNnINot like this, I hope. How was I "not quite true"?  Because I didn't bother to specify details?  Was I wrong about the reasons for the change?  The comment wasn't deliberately misleading, either.  There was a change to prevent direct to IP connections, as that had become viewed as a potential security risk.  If the comment was wrong, that was likely accidental. Selective censoring of  posts is my primary job here.  Would you have preferred indiscriminate censoring of posts?  Would that work out better?  There are only a few reasons that posts are deleted here.  One being off-topic, or otherwise just making contentless noise outside of the newbie section.  Another is constant bad language or poor manners.  Another is posting NSFW materials without such warnings in your thread titles.  Another is hotlinking off forum, particularly without identifying what the hotlink is supposed to be; because we are going to assume that it's either a link to malware or rick-rolling, both of which are considered bad manners.You will not find that we censor you for your differences of opinion, but for how you present that opinion. I'll do it. I have seen many claims in this range, but the problem with such predictions is that they are based upon direct comparisons to the fiat currencies, and estimates about how much a bitcoin would be worth by taking over such-n-such percentage of those fiat currencies economic activity.  The issue that I see is that bitcoin is different on more than a superficial level.  For example, all fiat currencies can be compared quite well because they all suffer from the same types of 'friction'.  By friction, I mean the combined effects of transaction costs external to the currency unit and the combined delays of dealing in a fiat currency across distances & borders.  (the latter can be considered a type of the former, but is harder to quantify the costs of delays).  For example; the average fiat currency user labors for a weekly or bi-monthly paycheck, and then uses that paycheck to pay his bills in turn.  So a cashier at Wal-Mart gets paid (indirectly) from the payments that shoppers use to buy stuff, but there is a minimum delay of one week.  This practically means that, under ideal conditions, the max velocity for those fiat dollars is limited by the time it takes for the paycheck to be deposited.  Bitcoin is different, as the funds used to buy a knick-knack or two at a Wal-mart in New Mexico can be used to pay accumulated wages earned by a cashier in Calcutta an hour later.  Thus, the practical max velocity of Bitcoin is at least 168 times higher than fiat currencies, and that is just considering one common use case.  The use case regarding international trade in Bitcoin, as compared to letters of credit, is at least as significant.  The higher velocity has a similar effect on the trade value of a currency as does debasement, so long as the velocity of the currency remains high.  Therefore, I consider those kinds of massive value estimations to be unlikely. My view is that the association is silly.  The max_blocksize rule was added by Satoshi after the system was already running, in order to remove an attack vector via spamming of the transaction queue, until such time as a more elegant solution could be found.  It was never even intended to be a permanent rule.  The only reason that a "hard fork" might be required to raise or remove that rule is if some people don't agree that we should raise the limit.  Complete consensus is required to avoid a hard fork, and a hard fork is the last argument of otherwise independent bitcoin users.  Forcing a hard fork in order to alter some aspect of the network doesn't even mean that you'll succeed in altering your desired aspect, but the resources required to fight the good hard fork fight are quite high, and completely unrecoverable.  Yet, if a minority of users and miners decide to make that fight, there will be a blockchain fork, and the majority of the losses will fall upon the minority group until they can either muster up the resources to dominate the network or quit the fight and take their balls and go home.  So, theoretically, all that is needed to change the 21 M BTC limit is to get everyone to agree to that change; but that isn't something that is up for debate here.  No matter who or why, there is no way that a consensus to change that metric in Bitcoin is going to happen without a blockchain fork; and it would be a harsh fight.  That number isn't so arbitrary, unlike the max_blocksize rule.
Hi. From the part that you edited out...Store of value was part of the original design.Not relevant.  We are talking about Bitcoin as a transaction system and a store of value.  The blocksize limit is a different issue. We already have reached that goal.  No fork required, because that was part of the original design. Seriously, newbs; read a bit before talking.  Should we increase the newbie surfing term before letting you guys out of the newbie section?And aparerntly the post count into the thousands... Of course you can short bitcoins.  You simply borrow bitcoins from someone, and sell them on the exchange with the intent of buying back the number to pay back your loan at a later date.  It should be obvious how dangerous this actually is, both for yourself and your lender. Very few people beyond this forum would even have noticed the fork.  I know that I wouldn't have noticed otherwise, I didn't even notice any significant delay in transaction processing myself.  That's probably due to the fact that all of my coins were confirmed long before the blockchain fork, and thus I was able to put my transaction into either fork without delays.  Outside of the forum, the only people that would have noticed are miners and those trying to send/receive transactions based on recent transaction inputs.  I never noticed the last one back in 2010(?) either until it was already past. Chump change?  Is that so?The bitcoin network is currently running at 460.28 PetaFLOPS according to bitcoinwatch.com.  According to Wikipedia, the fastest supercomputer on Earth is Titan, A XK7 model by Cray and installed at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee.  It has a benchmarked sustainable rating of 17.59 PetaFLOPS and an as-installed cost of $97 million. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TOP500#Top_10_ranking) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Titan_(supercomputer)So to match wits with the Bitcoin network right now would cost at least $2.5 Billion.  And that presumes that the network doesn't grow before that monster is built!I don't doubt that this will be possible, but full clients won't be necessary for at-home reserve miners, they just need to join a mining pool.  Pool miners don't need full clients now.A similar argument was had about the Internet before it came to be.  One side believed that everyone would need to have a supercomputer to abstract the details of the network from the users, the other side thought that all users would have to educate themselves about computers and networkds to participate.  Turns out that they were both right, and the just right mix has been here all the time.  Bitcoin is so flexible as to permit that just right mix, but is rigid in the important aspects of the system.  You worry too much.I don't think you have any idea how often I am sucked into these kinds of re-occuring newbie conversations.  Most of the old salts have long ago chosen to ignore such repetitive "problems".  The long and short of it is, it's not a problem, you're not the first to think it is a problem, so if you insist on resolving said problem there are numerous alt-coins that should fit your sensabilities better than Bitcoin.And the miners don't have the final say on such things, but only miners get first access to those coins. Yes. You're still not getting it.  What I highlighted above is, quite literally, impossible with Bitcoin.  Bitcoin is perfectly frictionless. (So long as the Internet exists)  There is no external impediment to velocity, and it has a very high maximum possible velocity.  There can never be a systemwide liquidity problem for Bitcoiners in the absence of a concurrent solvency problem.It's also literally impossible for the bitcoin economy as a whole to have a solvency problem.You're not dealing with anything like what you're used to. Do you have any evidence for this statement, or do you just feel that you're correct? That's obvious, is it?Where do you people come from?  Langley? That's possible, but likely irrelevent.  MtGox doesn't mine, and if they refuse to forward an oversized block they alone are not significant enough to prevent the propagation of the block.  The only downside is to users of MtGox who might not be able to trade until they fix their stuff. Sad.Bitcoin does flow, and is being used for other things than speculation.  For myself, I buy stuff with it all of the time; from cell service airtime to handmade knick-knacks of Etsy to high end candies to hats for my characters on Team Fortress 2.  As of this moment, Bitcoinwatch reports that while there have been just over 20K BTC that have changed hands in the past 24 hours there have been nearly 5 and half million BTC sent across the network during that same period.  Even discounting double the volume on MtGox from the main network, in order to account for the maximum number of coins that could have been fed into and withdrawn from MtGox during that same time period to service the speculators still leaves us with over 5.4 M BTC in motion.  That's just about 270 times the nominal bitcoin volume of the single largest pool of speculators in the bitcoin economy.  During the last fast rise and crash in 2011, speculation formed the greater part of the Bitcoin economy; but this is no longer so. That was like watching two retards on a street corner scream at one another, "You're a retard!"It's funny, but you feel a bit ashamed that you're amused.EDIT: Furthermore, that's 20 minutes of my life I can never get back. What error?  That is an economicaly rational decision.  Bad money (fiat) chases good money (bitcoin) out of the market, but only sofar as the relative exchange values are artifically controlled. To some degree, the sheer difference in market sizes implies that US $ do, and will continue to, have an outsided influence on this.  People will favor saving in the sounder currency, so long as the less sound currency is still accepted without a risk premium.  But only favor.  Not all players will, or even can, continue to favor one over the other.  There will always be those cases wherein the conditions of the trade dictate the use of one or the other.  Bitcoins will continue to circulate regardless of the common price sentiment simply because it serves a niche function that US $ cannot evenly compete with bitcoins, namely distance renumeration for online transactions.  Sorry, but Paypal still has to pay their employees and shareholders from the transaction fees. The 'deflationary spiral' is a falsehood.  This theoretical strawman assumes that all economic actors across the entire market can indefinately choose to wait for lower consumer prices, but that is impossible.  If you are looking to buy a new refrigerator, you can shop around until your current one actually dies, but not much longer.   A deflationary environment encourages thrift, this is true; and that is exactly what has been lacking in our modern consumer driven economy for too long.  It is the thrift that accumulates the capital to make the wise investment decisions required to drive human progress.  And while money can often buy captial, money is not capital, and this distinction is important. Probably.  The last coins that I bought, I was whining that I had to pay $14 apiece for them.  Now I'd buy 20 or more for double that rate.  I have a nephew that I told about bitcoin years ago, and for a time he was mining on his laptop in the days before the rise of GPU's.  He succeeded in finding three blocks, but because this was also before the automatic encryption of wallet.dat files and he was running windows on an insecure machine, I convinced him to copy his wallet.dat file to a thumbdrive and reinstall over his current client.  He did this and eventually got tired of it all, and stopped mining.  The other day, I asked him if he wanted to sell any of his bitcoins, as I was running low (I actually buy things with them, and have not paid for my cell service in any other way in over a year).  He said, "oh, that.  I lost that drive."  YOU LOST IT?! Oh, let it be true!  I don't even care that this guy is ignorant about Bitcoin, just let this be a bubble!  If it pops, it would drop back into a price range that I could buy more! If you don't think Bitcoin is safe, don't invest anything into it.  That limit is unchangable, though, not because of the code, but because of the principle.  If there were to ever be a hard code fork on this issue, one would be the true Bitcoin, the other could not be.  It's also more than a bit rediculous to assume that future users would be running a full node, and could be tricked into supporting such a change simply by turning on an auto update feature.  First off, the vast majority of future bitcoin users, if bitcoin is ever truely succesful, will be running light clients or depending upon wallet service accounts; the full client will be the realtively rare animal.  Probably as many or more full nodes as presently exist, but still realtively rare overall.  Second, a group of end users, both stupid enough to trust their internal security with their money to a remotely controlled automated system AND wealthy enough to ignore the ongoing costs of running a full node would still amount to little, IMHO simply because there are now, and shall be, more than just the main reference client.  So whatever percentage is deceived into supporting the change will still be opposed (by default) by those nodes that do not authorize or otherwise cannot participate in an auto update.  Furthermore, the break wouldn't go unnoticed for very long, and a great many of the decieved users can and will revert.  The 21M limit is part of what makes Bitcoin what it is, if you don't like it or don't think it's going to work out, you can either support one of the alt-coins that suits your needs or start your own.  Just don't call it Bitcoin. It's theoretically possible, yes.  It's also theoretically possible for the quantum force we call gravity to reverse itself tommorrow, and we are all 'reborn' in the result, that some scientist calls "The big fart" in another 14 trillion years.I'd give those two about even odds. The whole team's here. You're not remotely the first to mention it.  The reason that there doesn't seem to be much data upon it is because it's not an issue.  Pretty much everyone figures this out on their own, but the initial ability to see the distribution of wealth so readily is often a shock.  Again, the distribution of wealth for the US $ is far worse than bitcoin, but even the claims about how uneven the distribution is for bitcoin wealth presented in these articles are just wrong.  If it's not outright FUD, it's akin to panic.  A pool of addresses that can be shown to have a close association does not mean that all of those addresses are controlled by the same entity, and even if it's a pool of some kind, it doesn't mean that all of the wealth contained belongs to a single controlling entity.  The 'bitcoin laundry' example is just one such example.  Of the list of largest groupable addresses that the article presents; I've already noted that A is a Silk Road internal mixer pool (and wallet service), but even the authors acknowledged that B was the user pool at MtGox, G is the user pool at Instawallet and L is the miners' pool at Deepbit.  They know those because those groups are open about it.  They didn't know about A being Silk Road because they are not open about it.  The point here is that, while even if they are correct the distribution isn't really that bad wehn compared to fiat currencies, it's not that bad anyway because their methodology of assuming that large pools of addresses are single entities is flawed.EDIT: P, however, is definately a single person in control of 400K+ bitcoins who made no effort whatsoever to obscure that fact; considering that it's all one single address that does not spend them.  And H, J, M, O & Q are almost certainly single users with standard pools of addresses using a single wallet.dat. While C,D,E,I, R & S are almost certainly groups of people using shared pool addresses.  With a little more research, I'd wager that half of them would turn out to be the user pools for the traders on the other major exchanges, such as Bitfloor or BTCE.  There are at least a dozen other exchanges shown on bitcoinwatch.com that could have user pools in the ranges of I, R & S.  Many of these lesser exchanges serve non-English speaking markets, and thuse their visablility to the English reading Internet is limited.
You're wrong, but I don't have the time to explain why.  Still, the wealth distribution of the US $ is actually worse, and for many practical reasons we can expect that the distribution of bitcoins will improve over time as the value increases an those early adopters choose to divest. This statement alone tells me that you have a poor understanding of Austrian economic theory.  It's also a false statement. I'm going to have to call BS on that last one, Grandma.So your working career is at least 60 years?  That would make you at least 76, so again, I'm calling BS.I have a great-grand aunt who was one of the few female professionally trained programmers in the United States prior to her retirement around 1978.  She never used this kind of language, in part, because fdisk didn't come out until 1983.  Again, I'm calling BS.  Either you're not old enough to be a grandma, or you've never had time to have children.Sorry, but I've got to call a spade as spade. It doesn't have to.  Before Silk Road, there was an early coin mixer on Tor, that I suspect was either morphed into or annexed by Silk Road.  I believe that it may have been the first to call itself The Bitcoin Laundry, iirc, but there have been other mixers that have taken that name since the one on Tor faded away.  I wouldn't be surprised if there are more on Tor that use that name, either.  I don't know this to be true, but when Silk Road first came out, I opened an account to poke around, and was struck by the similarity of the onboard bitcoin mixer to that of the previous mixer I had seen on Tor.  Those similarities may have just been a product of a common intent, or copied sourcecode, but maybe not.Beyond that, a lot of these businesses were founded by those same early adopters, so it's entirely logical that they would have invested large numbers of their coins into their creations back when those coins were still only worth a nickel apiece.  Many of those early creations have foundation stories that are a bit murky on details.   I don't disagree with this position at all, but...While economics isn't a particularly difficult subject when taken from the right tack, there is much more going on here.  Unless it's just a huge matter of luck, Satoshi wasn't just some armchair economist who has read Hayak.  He was a true Praxeologist, and that also implies some degree of understanding regarding common psychology.  Which is something that neither the common economist, nor the common cryptologist (with or without a talent for self-taught computer programming) is likely to be able to grasp.  The social & psychological aspects of Praxeology tend to require a completely different learning style/personality type/Myers-Briggs type than those of the analytical reasoning that computer programming & mathmatics demand.  There is exactly one Myers-Briggs type that can manage both perspectives in the same mind without significant cognative dissonance; and that type is both the least common (by far) of any type and the least likely to be a self-motivated individual.  Said another way, a polymath (as rare as they are) is unlikely to also be an innovator.  I concede in advance that it's possible that Satoshi was, in fact, a self-motivated polymath.  I'm just stating that Occum's Razor implies that such a possibility is not the most likely reality.  The need to have 1) the feeler (a psycologist), 2) the analyst (cryptographicly trained coder) and the 3) visionary (the innovator) still implies at least two people and still probably three; thus a triumvirate.Agreed.  Again, much of it could have been pure luck, and thus only one kind of mind would have been necessary (the visionary).  Still, I don't really believe in luck for the vast majority of human progress. Nope. The single largest bitcoin balance in an active address is (very probably, not offically confirmed) the internal mixer address for Silk Road.  Satoshi Dice has a long way to go to catch up to them.  Technically, however, no single person "owns" that address, and the value is possessed by a large number of users and dealers on Silk Road.EDIT: I meant to say pool of addresses, the mixer doesn't untilize a singe address, but a cascading set of addresses.  MtGox's internal wallet service works similarly, but the mixer does deliberately move balances out of and back into the pool in complex ways.  The paper this article refers to fails to consider the existance of this, and other, coin mixers that exist to hide the origin and destination of transactions.  The one at Silk Road is almost certainly still the undisputed king of mixers, but others also certainly exist.  R & S are more likely lesser used, and less well known, coin mixers. This is the same kind of speculation that the Good Wife episode engaged in.  It's not without merit, for a small & socially tight group can keep such a character secret.  And as for the argument that Satoshi's posting style doesn't really change (the earlier use of British terminology could have been intentional misdirection, but his/her writing style doesn't really change, imho) the trio could simply have appointed one of their own to be the point man for online communication via the character.  Truth be told, a small workgroup has been suspected from very early on, even before he vanished from the forum and the Internet, because of the breadth of professional grade knowledge necessary to make Bitcoin what it was from the early stages.  One player as the semi-trained programmer (perhaps a computer science college major or graduate with very little production experience?), another player with the economics background and a third with the mathmatics background.  It's both possible and probable that, under such a condition, all three (more?) characters remain on this forum in their less anonymous personnas.  There could be more than three major players, but only three distinct disciplines are required.  That's not to say that one person couldn't self-educate in one or all of these disciplines, but any such person would be a polymath.  Occum's Razor implies that there are three people involved, and only three people, in order to accomplish this feat and keep it quiet. We've reduced the minimum fee setting twice already since I've been here.  The transaction fee is a non-issue. I consider Gnutella versus Bitcoin to be an apples to oranges comparison.  And Bitcoin does have the above, anyway.  A single, short lived, event such as happened yesterday is not evidence of the contray; it's evidence towards it's effectiveness.  Imagine if microsoft had been in charge of fixing the running code! Not quite.  Excluding places in the world where dialup remains the most cost effective method of Internet access, there remain methods of access that are metered or otherwise bandwidth constrained that much of the population of the rest of the world depend upon for general Internet access.  In these cases, a full client is unwise and a light client is better suited.  For example, my android phone can handle a full client, but I pay overage charges for excess 3G bandwidth, so I use BitcoinSpinner instead of a full client. That is the most likely problem.  If this persists, restart your client with the -rescan flag to force the client to completely rescan the blockchain. I have a similar tech background, and I have to admit that it took me almost two weeks before I 'groked' Bitcoin.  After that, I drove my family crazy about it for months.  I agree that this guy shouldn't be faulted for a few correctable misconceptions, his intention is obviously favorable. the miner that includes your transaction into a block. This thread OP is based upon a false premise.  Namely that Gnutella failed because of it's technical difficulties.  This is not true.  Gnutella failed because it wasn't distributed well enough, and was replaced by similar p2p networks that were better suited to same.  This is well documented in the book, The Starfish and the Spider (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Starfish_and_the_Spider).  Bitcoin is, by design, as decentralized as is probably possible, as only cash transactions in meatspace are more decentralized.  When I read that book, I immediately thought that Satoshi must have already read it him/her self also.   I guess we can expect another move up in bitcoin exchange prices, then.  These guys are idiots.  Never do they seem to realize that every move they make has a counter-move.  They are unlikely to ever snag any real terrorists this way. This is only on the open books.  There are also dark books & trading bots that make those numbers mostly meaningless. Reputation matters, at least to me, and MysteryMiner has a good reputation.  When he asked for funds, my first thought was not whether or not MysteryMiner would be able to pay it back.  It's not really about post count. Oooo!  Pretty!I do like your use of pastel colors.  It's much easier to look at than most of the other charts on Blockchain, etc.  Looking at greyscale and dark themes makes me sad, particularly when it's cold and grey outside.I think that you're off to a fine start. I have an update.  I'm withdrawing any pledges that I have made here.  I no longer consider this project to be relevant or worthwhile. No banker in his right mind would invest in bitcoin, at least not officially.
It's not simple, and extreme deflation can also be detrimental.  However, just like inflation, the cause of the deflation matters.  In the case of Bitcoin, the vast majority of the deflation occurs because the economy is expanding at that rate.  While deflation can impede that growth, (which is not necessarily bad, btw) it cannot prevent it; for to whatever degree that deflationary effect impeded the growth of the economy also limits further deflation.  It's a self-limiting process. A satoshi can still be divided without significant changes to the running code, by the use of a digitial token in the big end of the 64 bit integer.  Even with all 21million BTC in a single transaction output, not all of the bits would be in use.  There would be several on the large end that could be used as a digital marker to identify the output as a 'sub-satoshi' value.  Alternately, a new kind of bitcoin address could be developed to specificly identify very small values with sub-satoshi amounts included. Yes, this too has long been considered.  This is a non-issue, and even if it was, it's not pressing.  If any of you newbies can come up with a "flaw" that has not already been discussed to death in this forum before you have 300 posts, I'll give you a bit-nickel myself. Yeah, you keep up that mature perspective for another four years of seeing this BS at least once each week.We shall see how agreeable to it you are in a couple years. Go for it.  There is notihing stopping you from doing it yourself. Buy a bigger screen! While I agre it's possible, I don't agree that parrallel blockchains are the ideal way to deal with scaling issues.  Merged mining might prove to be a viable method for securing those parrallel chains, but otherwise their very existance must reduce the security of the main blockchain or be too insecure in their own right.  Merged mining is promising, but not proven to not reduce security overall.The idea of simple bank-like insitutions with readily auditable bitcoin reserves is a much more scalable method, and they only need be trusted by those who choose to do so.Regardless, all of these methods are likely to see production if their technical issues can be resovled; and then the market will decide. Because it's no more trustworthy than a gold backed USD.  That didn't prevent the FedRes from creating more USD's than the government had in gold.  There was a reason that Nixon "closed" the "gold window" (which never really did exist, anyway) in 1971.  The French alone had enough USD's to take half of Fort Knox's offical stores, and probably all of what it really has. Yes.  Search for 'bitcoin spinner' and 'stratum' for two different, functioning, overlay networks that intergrate into the main network quite well.Perhaps, although that is not an easy technical hurdle.  A parrallel blockchain is likely unnecessary anyway, once enforcable contracts are working within the blockchain itself.Practically speaking, no.  Because there is no way to do truly 'instant' transactions with confirmations of any practical block interval.  Instant transactions will be handled in other ways.Yes, see Stratum.It's not possible to answer this question at this time. Yes.Yes.Any other easy questions? 5 posts and 4 hours total of forum surfing. I seriously doubt it.  You can sit back and wait for the collapse, though.  You'd have plenty of company that is already fat with crow. No, I trust my hardware, but only to a point.  I don't trust your hardware at all.  Trusted computing used for the exchange of bitcoins would require that the vendor trust the sender's machine, and probably more than he should rationally trust his own. I understood your argument better than you think, and right from the start.  It's one that I thought of myself, three years ago.  I was wrong then and you are wrong now.  At least that I can claim that I actually researched the topic before posting; for over two weeks.  The solution that you are reaching for, but don't know it, is called demurrage; (storage fees for very deep transactions, basicly) and it's a core element to freicoin.  It's also unnecessary.  And even if it wasn't, any successful method of implimenting demurrage that freicoin could come up with would just be taken into Bitcoin proper, should freicoin (or any other alternate cryptocoin) grow legs and offer a real challenge to Bitcoin's superior market position.  The only way that does not happen, is if the new cryptocurrency were to develop an obvious advantage for which Bitcoin could not replicate.  This is not impossible, but is rather unlikley in my view. All that is required, IMHO, is that the cost of a double spend attack to likely be higher than the potential ill-gotten gains.  So if you go and buy a car for $50K in BTC, it should be more expensive an attack than that.  However, you are already overlooking a feature of Bitcoin, the more 'confirmation' blocks that one waits for after the first one that accepts your transaction before you walk away, the more "expensive" (in several ways) that such a double spend attack becomes.  Also, it becomes more expensive at an exponential rate.  Thus, anyone who is selling you that car, considering the sums involved, is going to want to wait for 6 confirmations or so before letting you drive away.  At the current hashrate of about 400 PetaFLOPS equivalent, it would take at least 20 of these to overcome just one block confirmation...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Titan_(supercomputer)Therefore, the current level of security is several orders of magnitude beyond what is necessary to disincentivize a frausdster from even attempting a double spend attack.  We crossed that point around 2010.The security that is being paid for is to protect teh entire system from an institutional attack on the blockchain itself, and there is (likely) not a single nation-state with the spare resources to attempt it for even a few hours.  So I'm going to assume that the current profitablility for miners is more than sufficient to secure the blockchain.Thus the question then becomes, how do we make sure that the curernt level of profitablity continues after the block subsidy is reduced?  First off, that may not realy matter for decades, as teh growth in value has thus far outweighed the reduction in block subsidy.  What was the exchange value when the subisdy dropped from 50 BTC to 25?  I know that it was under $15, and I'm fairly sure that it was under $10.  So at the current price of $34, we are already well over double the profitablity for miners overall.  As long as the real spending value of a BTC continues to double within a four year period, the concern is moot.But, of course, eventually it wont.  Such growth is not sustainable, so at some point the value must stablize.  How, then, can we be certain that transaction fees will be enough for miners to continue to secure the network?In short, we can't really know this, but the economics of the system imply that we can expect that an equilibrium of fees will be reached in one fashion or another.  So long as the overall Bitcoin economy is large & mature enough by that time, a tiny fraction of the GDP would be required to incentivize miners into the foreseeable future.  Far less, in fact, than what is taken from you via inflaiton of fiat currencies; which are at least 2% of their entire monetary base every year.  The big key is that Bitcoin is much more economicly efficient than fiat currencies are. <sigh>No.  That would be me doing your research for you.  I'm normally not inclined towards hand holding.  The search function really does work.  Start by trying to think about it from an economics perspective.  What are the economic drivers for people to seek out off-network transactions, for example?  The short answer is that, in order for people to worry about avoiding the high costs of on-network transactions, the on-network transactions must be more expensive than the costs associated with the development of an off-network transaction method.  As already noted, cash isn't costless.  So what is the real costs of those off-network transactions?  You assume them to be free or near free, but that is provablely not the case.  And yet, free transactions exist, and we can reasonablely asume they will always exist so long as the blocksize is not near the maximum.  So if the blocksize is near the maximum, then the fee required to get included into a block would be forced (by the free market) to rise.  If the transactions are maxed out, and the fees are rising, under what conditions would an off-netowrk method of avoiding those fees actually lead to the collapse of that market price in on-netowrk transactions? You Sir, are he who are challenging the status quo; and thus are the one with the burden of evidence, not I.  So please explain how a rising market price in transaction costs, followed by the developmetn of a cheaper off-network method, fails to reach a price equilibrium in the average costs of transaction fees before crashing to zero?  If the price for on-network transactions is non-zero, how does the resources supplied by miners (who desire those transaction fees) also not reach an equilibrium? No to the sticky.  Read the forum, try to understand the topic.  Use the search function.If you fail, then ask questions. Addressing only the part I highlighted...While it's true that off-network or out-of-band transactions could be executed without fees, that does not mean that they are without cost.  Bitcoin transactions are, currently, free under certain conditions; and it's going to remain difficult to compete with that for some time.  That said, even if Bitcoin is so successful that on-network transactions are no longer free in practice; off-network transactions cannot ever be costless, you just might not understand the cost.For starters, it cost's real resources just to manufacture casascious coins.  Thus they will only be used in cases that their costs are perceived to be lower than their advantages.  Cacasicus coins are as anonymous as paper cash (advantage cash) but still require either an in person transaction or a physical shipping method (advantage bitcoin).  Other off-network methods will have different advantages and disadvantages, but will all have to deal with problems that bitcoin has already solved.  Certainly, there will be cases wherein off-network transactions do make sense.  That's a far cry from the assumption that off-network transactions will always make sense.  For example, your (theoretical) DRM model might have a real use, but it already sufferes from it's own flaw.  Namely that users would have to 1) have a computer capable of 'trusted computing' and 2) an owner that actuallly believes that it is true.  Furthermore, you'd have to be transacting with a vendor who has similar faith in your computer's trusted computing model.  It's still a central authority model, except you're then putting your faith in Microsoft's ability to deliver on their promises compared to the security model of the blockchain.  While, certainly, there will be a market for this kind of thing; it would likely be limited to small transaction values that a vendor would likely be willing to accept with zero confirmations anyway.  And the first time a computer virus breaks that trusted computing model, whether or not it's bitcoin related, and your theory falls apart.There is also the issue of vaporware, since the 'trusted computing' thing has been floating around the net as the next big thing for a decade now, and there is no example of it in the wild.  At least not an example anyone would be willing to trust with actual currency. Good God, another one. Correct, and this wouldn't even require a 'hard fork' of the code, like in the example of the max blocksize debate going on now.  And the current limit of divisablity is an artifact of the limitations of common computers today, as the value of any particular bitcoin address is stored as a 64 bit integer.  Once 128 bit CPU's and architectures are commonplace, the transition to 128 bit integers for bitcoin would be fairly straightforward. In sort, the divisablity of bitcoins are only presently limited to eight decimal places; due to the limitations of common computing hardware, not due to any particular limitations of the Bitcoin protocol itself. I think I've had enough of this BS.  I warned the OP early that there was much to be learned on this topic by simply reading the forum and using the search function.  Apparently no one bothered to attempt it, because I keep seeing tired arguments that have long been settled.  This thread shall be locked.Beeblebrox, learn to do some research before you start spouting crap about a complex subject for which you do not understand.  If, after some effort on your part, you still do not understand why you are wrong; ask again politely in the Bitcoin Discussion section, and I have no doubt you will get the clear answers you seek.  Too many of the old salts here are not going to bother to post in the newbie section, or even read your complaints, to expect that the best responses are going to be found here.
The board gets plenty of income from donations.  It's ran by those 'early adopters' and we aren't exactly hurting. Really?  We just crossed 400 Petaflops, roughly 20 times the tested max for the fastest (unclassified) supercomputer on Earth, and you consider Bitcoin not yet too big to shut down?  Who would be doing the shutting down? Negatively, sure.  But catastrophicly so?  Tell me this, why would anyone bother to develop and off-network method of transacting in Bitcoin unless the transaction fees for the main blockchain were high enough to justify that?  How does the fee get high enough to justify such an off-network transaction method, unless there are fee paying transactions?  The fee for inclusion into a block is market based, when the space is tight the fee to get included will increase.  When the blocks are regularlly full, an off network transaction method will be economicly justifiable.  Not until.This also, has been long considered. Not forever.  No rational vendor is going to continue to accumulate bitcoin private keys without flushing those values on occasion, because no matter what technology that is used, there is no way (outside of the blockchain) to be certain that those private keys have not been copied by some talented hacker somewhere along the way.  The blockchain is the very novel use of technology that makes digital currencies work without a centralized authority.  Any use of off network transactions (and I have no doubt that such transactions will become commonplace, but never universal) would require some degree of trust, most likely in the institution that created the off-blockchain processing network.  We call such institutions "banks", and sometimes they fail. It also presumes that, even with world changing success for Bitcoin, another greater cryptocurrency doesn't come along and eat Bitcoin's lunch before the block subsidy is gone.  Since that won't be until 2130 or so, I think that it's not a pressing problem.  I think that I'll continue to use it in the meantime. You could also create a paper note with a private key inside.  Like printing a QR code on the outside of a sealed envelope.  So how do you get someone else to trust it?  You would have to get the vendor to 1) trust you, which would likely require identifcation; 2) trust that the currency is legitimate, i.e. not counterfit; and 3) trust that the mint that created it was trustworthy.Casasius is a well trusted community member, but even his coins are not universally well regarded.  If he can make one, someone else can fake it.  Eventually this is going to happen.Furthermore, loading your wallet to exchange still requires on-network transactions.  It's impossible to always avoid that, no matter how many off-network trades you can do. No.  Do some more research on this topic first.  I assure you, that you are not some economic genius that has found the 'great Bitcoin flaw' (tm) and no one before you has had the same thoughts.Yes.Now use the search function and don't ask crazy questions before you are out of newbie hell, or the next time I'll nuke your little account out of spite. Well, so is the transaction traffic volume way above the norm.  Could be just sellers trying to get bitcoins into their MtGox accounts and buyers trying to get them out. I stopped bothering to read past this point.  How often have said "unwashed masses" ever rejected any value proposition on the basis that others before them had an "unfair" advantage?  Exactly zero. The simple answer is, of course, no.  You can't copy something that doesn't really exist.  But, I assume, what you mean to ask is, "could a hacker trick the network into believing that he has more bitcoins to spend than he actually does"?  The answer to that questions a "yes, sort-of".  However, the two known ways of doing so are; 1)already known and well considered and 2) extremely difficult to pull off.  Those two attack vectors are the Double Spend attack and a 51% hashrate attack.  Considering that Bitcoin now rings in at 300 Petaflops continuously dedicated to securing against a 51% attack, the only realistic vector is the Double Spend.  And that is effectively negated simply by waiting for multiple confirmations. I have no source.  Which is why I used the word "might".  I was speculating, like everyone else in this thread. Part of it might be that the early investors you speak of are all but cashed out.  I'm pretty close, and most of mine was gone around $1.  I never expected this level of adoption, not even back when it was 6 cents each; so I had been spending my stash the entire way.  Granted, there is no way that I could actually have *lost* value after a certain point, even if the coins I had left went to zero; but if I'm all but busted, who else is? Wouldn't be to test market depth.  That's a visable metric. Manipulation?Well, sure....http://bitcoinmagazine.com/coinlab-bringing-bitcoin-to-wall-street-with-mtgox-deal/That doesn't mean that the price is actually what (or who) is that which is being manipulated. Just you be certain that your loans aren't put too much at risk by a large rally, Ian.  I'm lookin' out for you brother. Good God!  Institutional investors flowing into Bitcoin could only mean another massive rally. Ah, yeah.  That's why I asked the question that way, because I didn't think that it could be done, and was highlighting the root problem with this method. Not true.  A double spend would occur at nearly the same time.  Due to propogation rules that apply to loose transactions, it's very unlikely that any single node (swarm or otherwise) will actually see both transactions.  And what if it did?  If it could sound an alarm about it, which one is the valid one?  The nodes cannot tell.  And even responding to an alarm impies some degree of trust in the sender, which open up an attack vecotr if an attacker can spoof nodes and flood the network with false alarms.Furthermore, a double spend can't eget into a block even if that miner doesn't bother to validatie it first, since that would imply that the miner is participating in an attack on the network himself, since he shouldn't be able to see both competing transactions.This would serve little purpose, since addresses are created and abandoned at such a rapid rate.Pruning would also put a cap on the running blockchain size, and doesn't require a hard code fork.  It's also the purpose of the myrkle tree from the beginning.  Satoshi thought about that, too. Who any why?  That's the vague part.  Are miner's not checking the blocks themselves, are they depending upon others to spot check sections?  How does that work, since it's the miners who will feel the losses should they mine a block with an invalid transaction?  Realisticly, it'd be at least as effective to permit non-mining full clients to 'spot check' blocks in full, but on a random scale.  Say, only 30% of the blocks that they see do they check before they forward.  All blocks should be fully checked before intergrated into the local blockchain, and I can't see a way around that process.But the miners would still need to check those blocks, and eventually so would everyone else.  This could introduce a new network attack vector. Searching the forum for "swarm client" begets nothing.  Link?EDIT: Nevermind, I found it.  And I think that the main reason no one ever cited fault was because no one who knew the details of how the bitcoin block is actually constructed bothered to read it, or take your proposal seriously enough to respond.  I read your proposal, and could find no details about how a swarm client could actually divide up the task of verification of blocks.  That or I simply didn't understand it.  For example, pool miners already don't have to verify blocks or transactions.  They never even see them, because that is unnecessary.  The mining is the hashing of the 80 byte header, nothing more.  Only if the primary nonce is exhausted is anything in the dataset of the block rearranged, and that is performed by the pool server.  We could have blocks a gig per, and that would have negligible effects on pool miners.  And we don't need swarm clients to "verify the blockchain", because all but the most recent has already been verified, unless you are starting up a fresh install of a full client.  With light clients we can skip even that part, to a degree.
The question is, how do we collect accurate data upon propagation time?  And then how do we utilize said data in a way that will result in a uniform computation for the entire network? That's awesome.  Perhaps someone should point this out to Gunbroker.com itself, and encourge them to make Bitcoin a standard payment method? No, no.  Bitcoin is already decentralized accounting.  What I'm proposing would basicly be a VPN for BCH's of many types, some decentralized, others dedicated servers that function like banks.  In reality, this is going to happen eventually should the transaction fees ever hit anything that these guys can consitantly undercut.  One way to do it now, would be for the ownership of a couple of major wallet services; say MtGox and SilkRoad, were to get together and form a direct relationship, wherein the membership of one institution could send funds to any member of the other institution, and rather than it creating a blockchain transaction, both servers recognize that they are trying to send money to the other, and each credits & debits the appropriate accounts based upon the two institutions' mutual credit.  This could be done simply with a set of code on each server that could identify the addresses of the other institution, or simply by clicking the 'use green address' button.  These two institutions would have to be willing to hold a balance with each other, up to some point which triggers a settling up.  Say, 100 BTC.  If buyers on SilkRoad were transfering funds from their accounts at MtGox, buying things from SilkRoad, and a portion of those vendors were transfering funds back towards MtGox on a continuing basis; a large enough mutual credit limit can result in many tranfers between those two institutions balancing out, and thus completely avoiding a blockchain transaction at all, but they are still using Bitcoin.  They may not even be aware of the cost saving agreements that their institutions employ.  However, in order to do this, these institutions must both be large (in both revenue and membership) and have access control over members' funds.  I can't see a way that milti-sig works here.My proposal is for a standard way of setting up these mutual credit agreements, as well as extending these aggrements in a similar way that Ripple works between individuals.  Ripple is actually more powerful between institutions than individuals, IMHO. They also have some creative people working there, it's not like Apple's business model is based up copying the best features of competitors.  They are not an ideal example of an upstanding corporation, but nor are they Micro$oft.  From 1994 till at least 2007, I've literally not ssen anything new out of M$ that wasn't available first, in some form, on GNU/Linux, or some other open source project.  I'm not convinced that M$ ever did anything particularly novel outside the scope of copyright legal theory. I still don't understand why this is even illegal.  Did the other parents not know that there would be an adult theme?  It was held in a private rented room.  I hope not.  Part of the benefit of bitcoin is the network effect, which is damaged, not improved, by the growth of alt-coins.  The idea that I just described still uses bitcoins as it's underlying asset. While I agree with the perspective of the OP, the greater gain would be to develop some kind of standard overlay network, across which many smaller BCH's, wallet services, exchanges, etc could interact off of the bitcoin network; and periodicly settle up upon the main blockchain.  I don't really know how to do this, but I imagine it would work something like how Ripple is intended to work, so that for any given BCH, the ownership only needs to prove identity and credit-worthiness to however many of it's peers as may be required, and not the entire p2p network at large.  This, unto itself, would limit centralization of the greater bitcoin economy by providing a standardized means that any one person, or group of people, with the right kinds of resources could set up such a BCH for their own membership.  For example, vendors on SilkRoad could buy something by providing their BCH crypto-ID, which could be something as simple as a copy of a specially chosen bitcoin address (probably one attached to their internal account at SilkRoad), which has also been digitially signed by SilkRoad's BCH crypto-ID.  IF the vendor could scan such a QR code, submit that data to their own BCH server, and then that server be able to determine 1) if both the ID's were real 2) the unnamed BCH (silkroad) has the ripple-credit to back up this transaction and 3) if there are any unresolved disputes between this address and any others on the BCH network.  If we can do this, then the rest will follow. Go talk to your family, because there is next to zero chance that a largely unknown person is going to be able to get 80 BTC in order to go on a vacation. Logicly, yes.  But bear in mind that modification of the local selection rules requires both the technical ability to do so, and belief that it's worth the effort.  IT's probably not yet worth the effort. I thought the minimum fee to be regarded as a fee paying transaction was .005 BTC.  That's what my client defaults to, anyway.   Yes, but only because the max blocksize is coded into the rules that define the validity of a block, and anyone that refuses to upgrade to the new set of rules (on purpose or simply by ignorance of the issues) would force the blockchain to split into two competing versions.  Thus, for a time, there will literally be two different versions of the truth, and that cannot persist.  Bitcoin is designed to manage relatively short splits that result from temporary conditions, such as bandwidth issues for entire sections of the Internet.  However, it's not really designed to be able to recover from a split that lasts more than a day.No one has tried to game the system, in part, because the presence of the max_blocksize rule would make any such attempt futile.  If we do remove that limit altogether, that kind of criminal calculation changes, and attempts might be made. An alternative that I also offered is to have a special case, wherein a miner could produce a particularly large block (probably not good to be unlimited) if all the transactions included were free; as evidence that the miner doing the processing is either doing so altruisticly, or is being compensated by an out-of-network agreement.However, I'd modify this proposal a bit that wouldn't require that all transactions be free, but that all of them were part of the transaction pool for at least a week.  That sounds like my proposal, to permit each re-target block to be unlimited.  The re-target block comes once every 2448 blocks (or so?), and is intended to be roughly every two weeks.  This would make the deliberate padding of blocks to force out small players ineffective, reward honest miners with an expecially profitable block if they are able to handle it, and preserve the market for rapidly confirming transactions for the remainder of the two week period.  Any small players who were overwelmed by a huge block would simply have to write off the next couple of blocks while they caught back up with the rest of the network.  It's also provide an outlet for free transactions and fee paying transactions that simply don't have enough to get included into a block, so the backlog of unconfirmable transactions (and thus the transaction queue) won't grow into infininty.However, there could be, and probably are, some unintended consequences that this could create if this were the only change here.  The first one that I can think of is that there still wouldn't be any way to compel miners to include old transactions, free or not, and then such free transactions might never clear out regardless. That's quite literally the intent of the send-to-many transaction type, although it's much more likely that they'll be used to send to pay many different vendors from one single payer than multiple payers to multiple payees.  The best example is that of weekly payroll, as anyone getting payed wages in bitcoin, working for the same company or entity, can be paid their weekly wages in the transaction as everyone else.  Regular users could do the same thing using bitcoin aware bill payment programs, than can gather up all the re-occuring and one time bills that a person has received, and pay their water bill, electric bill and cable bill, etc. in a single action; so long as they have the total value in inputs that would be required.So while a direct deposit payroll event for any significantly sized company would involved hundreds to thousands of electronic transactions per week, these same companies could do the entire event in a single send-to-many transaction that weighs in at a couple kilobytes, and currently should cost less than a quarter.  Even if the transaction cost rise that such a large transaction costs $10 at a time, that's chump change compared to the costs of simply printing cheques, much less mailing them.  In the event that small value transactions wherein the customer sends the vendor a set of low value keypairs (as opposed to transactions), the vendor would have a vested interest in flushing those keypairs in a timely manner, so as to limit the risk of a double spending fraud against them.  In this way, collecting those many inputs and pumping them back out to employees with the weekly payroll send-to-many transaction does double duty. The BTCt fiat exchange rates have no direct influence on the transaction rate.  Only the size of the economy has a real influence on the transaction rate, but severe limitations on the transaction rate might be a limitation on the size of the economy. That is truly awful news. Your example does not relate to the network.  It's not a binary tree, and doubling the size of the block does not simply double the verification times.  While it might actually be close enough to ignore in practice, the increase in the actual number of transactions in the myrkle tree makes the tree itself more complex, with more binary branches thus more layers to the myrkle tree.  This would imply a greater complexity to the verification process on it's own.  For example, a simple block with only four transactions will have the TxID hashes for those four transactions, plus two hashes for their paired myrkel tree branches, and a final hash that pairs those two together, and that is the myrkle root, which is then included into the block header.  Moving beyond four transactions, however, creates another layer in the binary tree; and then another after 8 transactions, and another after 16 transactions.  Once your into a block with several thousand transactions, your myrkel tree is going to have several layers, and only the bottom of the tree are actual transaction ID's; all the rest are artifacts of the myrkel tree, which every verification of a block must replicate.  The binary myrkel tree within a block is a very efficient way to verifiablely store the data in a way that it can be trimmed later, but it's most certainly not a linear progression.  More complex transaction types, such as contracts or send-to-many, has a similar effect; as the process for verifying transactions is not as simple as a single hash.  Portions of the entire transaction must be excluded from the signing hash that each input address must add to the end of each transaction, and then be re-included as the verification process marches down the list of inputs.  And that is just an example of what I, personally, know about the process.  Logically, the increase in clock cycles for larger, and more complex, blocks and transactions must increase the propagation times at least linearly; and it's very likely to be greater than linear.  Which is, by defintion, exponential.  It may or may not matter in practice, as that exponetial growth may be so small as to not really effect the outcomes, but it is very likely present; and if so, the larger and more complex that blocks are permitted to grow the more likely said growth will metasize to a noticable level. Hmm, more or less.  But my point is that, as the blocksize increases, the propagation delays increase due to more than one delay metric increasing.  We have the check times, we have the individual p2p transmission times, and we have the number of hops.One thing that I didn't make clear is that I also suspect, but cannot prove, the number of hops in the network will also tend to increase in average number.  Partly because of an increase in active nodes, which is an artifact of a growing economy, but also somewhat due to the increase in blocksize.  I suspect that as network resource demand increases, some full nodes will deliberately choose to limit their peers and their dedicated bandwidth, functionally moving themselves towards the edge of the network. If block verification were a distributable process, you'd be correct, but it isn't.  At least it's not now, and I don't know how it could be done.  One thing that could be altered to speed up propagation is for some nodes to have trusted peers, wherein if they receive a block from that peer, they re-broadcast that block first then do their checks.  But if this was the default behavior, the network could be DDOS'ed with false blocks. I would doubt it, since there is no economic dynamic on testnet.
It's definately exponential, even if you just consider network traffic.Let me paint a strawman to burn...The network topology, as it exists, is largely random.  A full client is expected to have at least 8 active connections, although three would suffice for the health of the network and only one works for the node itself.  Many can, and do, have more connections than 8.  Many of the 'fallback' nodes have hundreds, perhaps thousands, of connections.  So here is the problem; when a block is found, it's in every honest nodes' own interest that said block propagates to the edges of the network as quickly as possible.  A recently as last year, it wouldn't normally take more than 10 seconds to saturate the network, but Satoshi chose a 10 minute interval, in part, to reduce the number of network splits and orphaned blocks due to propagation times, because he presumed that the process that nodes go through (verify every transaction, verify the block, broadcast a copy to each peer that does not have it) would grow as blocks became larger.  The verification delays grow exponentially with the number of transactions simply because each node must perform it's own series of checks before forwarding said block.  Now we get to the traffic problem...Once the block has been found by a miner, that miner very much wants to send it to every peer he has as quickly as he can.  So he has to upload that block, whatever it's size, at least 8 times because it's impossible that any of his peers already has it.  Then, after each of those peers has performed the checks, he then proceeds to upload that block to all of his peers save one (the one it got it from) because at this point it is very unlikely that any of his other connected peers already has the block.  These nodes also have a vested interest in getting this block out quickly, once they have confirmed it's a valid block, if they are miners themselves because they don't want to end up mining on a minority block.  Thus, as you can see, the largest miners will always form the center of the network, because they all have a vested interest in being very well connected to each other.  So they also have a vested interest in peer connections with other miners of their same caliber, but not so much with the rest of the network, since sending to lesser miners or non-mining full clients will slow down their ability to transmit said block to those peers that increase the odds that said block will be the winner in a blockchain split.  This effect just gets worse as the size of the block increases, no matter how fast the connection that the mining nodes may have.Well, this process continues across the p2p network until half of the network already has the block, at which point each node, on average, only finds that half of his peers still need the block.  The problem is that, for small miners, the propagation of a block that is not their own offers them somewhat less advantage than it does for the big miners at the center of the network, because those big miners have already been mining against that new block for many milliseconds to several seconds before the marginal miner even received it.  To make matters worse, the marginal miner tends to have a slower connection than the majors.  So even though it's increasingly likely that his peers don't need the block at all; as the size of the block increases, the incentives for the marginal miner to fail to forward that block, or otherwise pretend it doesn't have it, increase at a rate that is greater than linear.  This is actually true for all of the mining nodes, regardless of their position in the network relative to the center, but those who are closest to the center are always those with the greatest incentives to propagate, so the disincentives increase at a rate closer to linear the closer one is in the network to the center.Now there is a catch, most of the nodes don't know where they are in the network.  It's not that they can't determine this, most owners simply don't bother to figure this out, nor do they deliberately establish peer connections with the centermost nodes.  However, those centermost nodes almost certainly do have favored connections directly to each other, and they were established deliberately by the ownership for these very reasons. The data storage is actually the easy part. While fees have a ceiling, they also have a floor, which I think is too high.  12.5% of the monetary base per year?  For a mature economy that would be way too high.  I would predict that out-of-band methods would undercut the main blockchain for just about everything, functionally reducing the blocksize to under 1MB while users of all size and class desparately attempt to avoid those fees.  On the flip side, this would also make institutional mining (like my example in another thread of Wal-Mart sponsoring mining at a loss for the purpose of processing their own free transactions from customers) the dominate form of security.  I'm not sure if that is good or bad, overall, but I would consider anything over 3% of the monetary base per year to be excessive for any mature economy. Anything else opens up an opprotunity for a cryptocurrency competitor to undercut Bitcoin outright and eat it's lunch.  Keep in mind that the cost overhead of the network functions like a tax, in nearly the same way that inflation of a fiat currency functions like a hidden tax upon the economic base that uses & save in it.  While that's not a perfect comparison in the long run for Bitcoins, it should be evident that our network costs should never exceed 3%, and that a better target would be 1.5% or 2%.  Of course, that is a metric that is relative to both the size of the economy (which we cannot know in advance) and the actual block subsidy (which we can know in advance).So to modify your proposal, I'd say that until the block subsidy drops down into that 2% range, the range for doubling or halving the blocksize limit should be between the actual subsidy plus 5% and double the subsidy. No, but because of the network effects of raising that limit.  While not a certainty, raising the limit theoreticly permits the overall resource consumption of bitcoin's p2p network to increase exponentually.  And it's this increase in resource consumption that would drive out, not just the hobbyist with a full client, but small mining operations that are otherwise profitable but marginal.  I'm not afraid of some degree of this if I'm convinced that raising that limit is a net benefit for Bitcoin, but I'm not convinced that this is the case.  Transaction times, delay time and average transaction fees are far from the only consideration.  This is a very complex system, and even a small increase in the hard limit could cause some unintended consequences; but a small increase does not justify the potential risk of a hard code fork fight. To make a point about this, I went onto BitcoinWatch and checked the transactions for the past 24 hours.61,689On a per second rate, that's about 0.714 transactions per second.  While it's true that we've hit some pretty high highs.  Has there ever been a case where we were maxing out the soft limit for a full day?  Or even for a full hour?I'd like to see what a transactions per day chart might look like over the past month or so.  I'd guess that it's not likely to be over one transaction per second.  While 7 tps sounds like it's slow, it's a continuous process, 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.  That comes out to be approximately 4,233,600 transactions per week.  Think about how often you use a credit card.  Do you use it everyday?  While this number isn't remotely what it would have to be to handle the kind of transactions normally done in cash, we don't really want to handle every single transaction.  What if we look at it like it's a bank account.  Normally, people get paid and deposit into their accounts once each week, and then they widthdraw spending cash and sometimes use debit cards, etc. to buy things or pay regular bills.  So if we were to grant the average user 5 transactions per week, we'd currently be able to manage this kind of rate to just under a million users.  So if our goal is to have as many direct users of the blockchain as there are citizen of the United States, we'd have to have a blocksize limit of about 75 megabytes.  However, a blocksize limit of merely 10 MB would manage roughly 40 million users who directly access the blockchain on a regular basis.  This is the practical equivilant of 40 million banks, if out-of-band transactions are both practical and encouraged.  That does not sound like centralization to me.Keep in mind that your full client functions like a bank for your single account, but an online wallet service does the same thing for an entire group of members.  We really want to encourage out-of-band transactions if we are ever to achieve the kind of success Bitcoin is actually capable of, not to mention that out-of-band transactions improve anonimity if done the right way. I don't ever want to see compulsory fees.  That would undermine a great deal of transactions in meatspace that we don't want to see.As the system is designed, there is no way for the receiver to pay for processing.  There are conditions wherein it's ideal that the burden of such be upon the merchant.  The Wal-Mart example is a general one.  If Wal-Mart starts accepting BTC in their brick & morter stores, most of the time they are not going to need confirmations for their funds.  However, when it comes time to pay their employees, they need to have those free transactions processed.  So it's in Wal-Mart own interest to support a mining operation, if only to garrantee themselves timely transaction processing.  The same logic applies to Target or McDonalds.  This is what we want.  We desire that the big players be willing to support the network, even at a loss, much like a bank must buy a quality safe.  The safe is a cost center for a bank, which mostly deals in electronic forms of transactions anyway; but no one wants a bank branch without a safe.  Such a form of off-network compensation for mining would establish a baseline network infrastructure, and thus result in more 'sticky' difficulty.  Would more marginal miners be pushed beyond profitablility?  Probably so, but the network ends up with more reliable infrastructure and a lower security cost overall; and Wal-Mart wont do it unless they figure that it would be cheaper for them to sponsor miners to include all of the free transactions that they receive than to expect their customers to pay the minimum fee per transaction. The exchange rate doesn't earn the network any money, what you are describing is an externality.  And it's a bad policy to get new users, normally accustomed to a three day wait for cheques or a 30 day wait for CC's, accustomed to an hour wait for free transactions.  Yes, we should have free transactions, for many reasons besides your's.  It is not necessary for those free transactions to finalize at a nominally equal rate to fee paying transactions.  If you are donating to a charity, you can wait for three hours or three days; after all, it's a gift.  If you are buying something from Wal-Mart, WM can suck it up and sponsor their own mining company if the wait times are problematic for them.  But if you want your transaction to be processed quickly, you should get used to paying for that.  Users should get used to paying for speed now, before we are all forced into it. IIRC, that 7 tpm metric is a calculated max rate based upon the current average transaction size and the 250KB soft limit.  The hard limit is currently one MB, so we can presume that 28 tps or so is the realistic limit.  This doesn't sound like much, and it's not really compared to payment processors such as Paypal.  However, as a payment processing backend network, comparable to ACH, it's not really bad and it's a couple orders of magnitude cheaper.The real question is, does the main bitcoin network really need to support such transaction rates?  I would argue that it does not, and that I'd give even odds that a one MB hard limit wouldn't result in catastrophy.  I would also argue that a 10 MB hard limit, which would put us up close to paypal, isn't a bad plan either.  Keep in mind though, as we raise the limits, the theoretical resource usage by the network goes up exponetially.  We need out-of-band networks in order to fulfil Bitcoin's original promises.  They have always been expected to develop around the main network as the economy grew, we just can't really predict how it's all going to play out.  Free markets are like that, efficient because they are unpredictable.And if you can run a full node on your wristwatch I'll eat my hat. Something just occured to me.Part of the problem here is that, while we want to keep free transactions available within the system, users are accustomed to sending free transactions and getting them processed as fast or nearly as fast as fee paying transactions.  On some level, this is a psycological problem, and one that we can address fairly easily.What needs to be done, is alter the transaction priority scores so that, not just spammy transactions, but any free transaction will not realisticly be included into any block for a time period.  If we were to alter said priority scores so that all simple transactions that were free (or with a fee lower than the minimum) had to wait two or three hours before they could be included into any block, then the bitcoin user base would be better conditioned to expect and adapt to such delays if the hard limit were ever to force the issue.  We might actually see some changes in behavior, and perhaps better fee paying compliance as opposed to simply complaints from the userbase accustomed to free transactions. After all, processing these transactions may be very low cost, but they are not free.  If there is no downside to sending mass numbers of free transactions, there is no rational reason for most people to ever start paying them.  However, if we were to tell everyone that this is going to start happening as a matter of course in, say, three months; Satoshi Dice and others will have the time to adapt their models and behaviors, and we might actually start seeing more people paying the minimum fee out of time preferences before we get to the point that we are bumping up against the hard limit.Free transactions, as they are currently performed, are charity.  The last thing we really want to do is get an entire economy accustomed to such a charity, no matter how nominal that cost might be. Actually, we do have such a system.  It's the priority score system.  Been there for some time, and the effects of Satoshi Dice would be far worse in it's absence.We have this rule, also.  Or rather one like it as part of the priority system.Actually, not hard, and being done.  The many-outputs-transaction type is one such example, as it permits anyone that desires to pay a lot of different people at once to do it in a single transaction, which does reduce netowrk resource usage on a per-payee metric.  This one does require a fee bsed upon it's total bytesize, but it's demontratablely lower than if one had to pay a minimum transaction fee for a set of transactions to pay to the same number of output addresses.  Obviously, we won't really see this kind of thing being used much until there is a real market to get into blocks; but once we do sttart seeing them, they could be useful for weekly payrolls or monthly bill payment clients (like paying for your rent, heat, water, etc in one motion rather than a different transaction for each payee) Yeah, and I've been wondering how come we're not seeing more alternative solutions from the people of Greece.  Do you think it's a language barrier?  Or a cultural one? And this is exactly why some of you guys shouldn't be so hostile towards out-of-band transaction systems, even if that results in some degree of localized centralization.  For that matter, member2member transactions on MtGox is localized centralization, but does not imply that MtGox suddenly has some special power over the Bitcoin community. Say that you have a client on your home computer, be it a full client or a Electrum style light client.And you have an app on your cell phone that both lets you transact over the Internet, as BitcoinSpinner does, but it would also be ideal if it could also transact over an ad-hoc wifi connection, whenever Internet is not reliable or available.Take this as an example...The cell phone client is neither a light client of any kind, nor is it independent.  It's dependent upon regular help from the home computer client.   The home computer client creates a special many-output transaction that sends a set of btc values to a set of newly created addresses.  The home computer client then sends a copy of this large transaction & all of the keypairs to those addresses to the phone client.  The phone client can then create transactions of any amount within a range of values several times before it needs to reconnect to the home computer.  While it can't utilize the change outputs in it's own transactions, it can continue to reference to that single many-outputs transaction until the outputs are consumed.  While this would not really change the risk model for the receiving merchant, it would remove the need for full time Internet access for the spending client.  The cell phone client would only be able to spend, and could not really verify any funds received, but the vast majority of the time we spend cash from our physical wallets, and reload them from our bank account when we see the teller or ATM.  In practice, however, the phone client would still be able to know the next receiving address that the home computer client is going to use, and potentially receive funds (that can't yet be respent) by accepting a transaction over an ad-hoc wifi connection itself.  While this would have a terrible risk model as compared to a full client with live Internet access, if you know the person in meatspace your risk model is already different than online.Thoughts?  What are the downsides?  Any improvements that can be thought of? No. Fairness is a subjective valuation.Justice is not, which why justice is often harsh.  Bitcoin is just, and it can't work any other way. While I do agree, this is also an argument for getting things settled sooner rather than later.   Some of you guys are really overthinking this. More guessing. Well, to some degree, this is true.  However, don't forget that the $10 transaction fee would only be for those who needed their confirmations now.  The majority of transactions would just be delayed until their fee made sense.  If they never made sense, that becomes the economic incentive for the out-of-band parrallel transaction networks and solutions, which in turn reduces the future demand upon the main chain, thus reducing the common transaction fees.  It's just another marketplace, and doesn't necessarily spell the end of bitcoin.  It certainly doesn't imply that a alternative cryptocurrency would take over in bitcoin's place, because the economics of bitcoin and it's desirability as a payment method isn't so easily separated from the clearinghouse service that the blockchain provides.  More likely, IMHO, several solutions that provide for out-of-band transfer networks as well as off network member2member wallet services would fill those gaps; both in the context of subdivisions of the economy (Silk Road and other specialized markets with an internal M2M exchange, already so and pretty much required anyway;  MtGox or Coinbase develops cryptographicly signed digital cheques; some unknown programmer develops an android app that lets users trade in the private keys in some semi-trustworthy manner for use in meatspace) and locales (The Bitcoin Bank of Hong Kong develops a member android app that is widely used in Hong Kong, but not often elsewhere; The Bitcoin Bank of London uses plastic casino chips; etc.).Most of these alternatives suffer from either a loss of anonimity or an increase in security risks, which are themselves a form of cost to the users; but most of them will have their own place within their own niches.  I wouldn't be surprised at all if wallet services can be developed with the two factor signing that prevents the newer wallet services from losing your deposit from root hacks as well as a business2buisness network similar to Ripple that permits Alice to buy a widget from Bob using their separate wallet services and a mutually trusted middle service, and still preserve anonimity of both Alice and Bob but also Wallet Service A from Wallet Service B using Wallet Intermediary C; and everyone settling  up accounts once each week on the main blockchain only if there is an unresolved balance from all the various B2BRipple transactions during the week.  (It's an idea, feel free to steal it) I don't know.  Neither do you.  That is my point.  We're just guessing! And yet, that is not what happened.  It didn't happen when GPU miners were first introduced, and it didn't happen with ASICs.  IT never will.  The advancing tech just changes the profitablity of mining, shifting it from group to group.  I don't need to buy an ASIC to mine, since I use the electric heat to keep my garage from freezing anyway.I can't even justify the cost of an ASIC yet.
You keep using those words.  I don't think they mean what you think they mean. So you're saying that we have at least 6 months?Or are you saying that past performance is not a reliable indicator of future returns?Or, perhaps, both?Again, we're just guessing.  Did that transaction volume increase because there are 5 times as many active users?  Or was the metoric rise of Satoshi Dice the greater factor?  If the latter, how many times is that going to happen?  Truth be told, I've suspected that Satoshi Dice was set up the way it was in order to function as a block transaction padding system. Outstanding! Once again, we're all really just guessing.  I suppose time will tell which one of us was the luckiest guesser. If I were to hazard a guess, I'd say that he doesn't have many of those either. Actually, he did.   But just like us, Satoshi didn't have any crystal ball, and thus no way to objectively determine what the block limit should actually be.  We can take an average of the transactions over the past four years, but that would not account for either protocol enforcible contracts nor transaction scripting that is likely to eventually increase the average size of transactions.  Nor would it account for many-in-many-out transactions that would only become common in the context of some large companies' weekly payroll.  The problem is that we don't know what the future holds, and can only make educated guesses as to how bitcoin will be used in the future.  There is no precedent for any of this guys, try to remember that we are all pioneers in this field and no one really has any applicable experience to guide us.Satoshi chose a hard limit of 1 meg as an arbitrary design decision, effectively putting off the issue till the future, wherein hopefully there would be more useful data to make a more informed decision.  Unfortunately, we really don't have better data; at least not data that we know how to use for this purpose.  And since Satoshi left, we really don't have a tiebreaker to make a final decision when we can't come to a consensus.  Thus, what we are left with is some measure of dissent no matter what we choose to do.  The soft limit really was a short term convention.  Can we come to a decision regarding that first?  That is actually more pressing.  Should we permit the miners to double that soft limit, comment out the soft limit altogether, or include passive/aggressive enforcement rules to the vanilla clients in order to punish violators, or nothing at all.  Bear in mind, nothing is the default condition and that is what we will get with gridlock. Amen, brother.  However, this is really a fairly distant issue.  Jgarzik is certainly correct that bitcoin can scale external to the main blockchain as well as it can via a hard fork for the main chain.  If we can't garner an overwelming majority in favor of changing the protocol, it's not likely to ever be changed.  That would not be the end of bitcoin, but would certainly alter how the average end user transacts with bitcoin.  I would be in favor of raising the hard limit to 10-20 MBs, so long as the soft limit remains, and perhaps a passive soft limit rule is included in future clients; but only after much consideration and time.  It has taken us four years to start bumping into the soft limit, we're not really at risk of hitting the hard limit any time soon.  Guys, cool down.  No one is going to be making any changes to anything soon. I can accept that. Honestly, Mark.  Do you not see the contradiction in the above statement?  What makes you believe that the rate of transactions are, in any way, related to the exchange rates? Not no cost.  There is always a cost to someone, although not necessarily to yourself.  Someone bears the cost.  Presently that is the miners. Silk Road can do this as well.  Track that, bitches! He doesn't have any, which is why he's advocating for change! I disagree with this assumption.  It is entirely within reason for 'bitcoin clearinghouses' to exist that process the majority of out-of-band transactions, while remaining functionally decentralized.  The most important part is that it remains forever possible for anyone with the resources to jump onto the network and compete.  It does not have to be a cheap endeavor.  That said, I would say that it would be wise endeavor that the main network is capable of processing enough transactions that it's unlikley that any single out-of-band processor can capture more than 50% of all transactions.  Practially, I don't think that this is a real worry unless Bitcoin never really becomes a global currency; for it's unlikely that users in China or Russia are going to favor a processing agency in the United States for their mostly local and mostly daily purchasing needs.  Thus, whichever processor grows up to be the Bitcoin version of Paypal in the United States is at a disadvantage towards capturing the Chinese or Russian markets due to cultural differences and simply mistrust of Americans.In this context, such distrust is both well founded and advantageous to limiting centralization.Furthermore, it's important that competition to any of the market dominators in the out-of-band transaction processing never be 'locked-out' from access to the main bitcoin chain nor (hopefully) co-opted by government policy.  The real problem is that we can't predict how these things are going to go with any real certainty.  What we can predict is how large of a block must be possible to sustain a particular transaction rate at the current average transaction size.  Personally, I consider the rate that Paypal can process transactions to be a practical minimum for consideration of a hard code fork, so nothing less than a 10MB hard limit is worth the trouble.  Fortunately, we are still years away from this problem, and have plenty of time to hash out the details.  In the meantime, we can just agree to raise the soft limit, or agree to simply let the rest of the miners to comment it out at their own desires.  Even the occasional full block isn't really a problem, so long as we don't have full blocks for hours on end. Oh, we'll get there soon enough. Satoshi genius was in his unique ability to see the big picture & predict the problems.  Programming was not likely a professional skill for him.  Ask Gavin about that.  Satoshi was more likely a professional in the field of economics, perhaps a professor but not likely, since Austrian economic theory doesn't tend to get much academic respect.  He also had a great understanding of cryptographic theories, so he likely had a strong mathmatics background, but he didn't use any novel crypto, he just used them in a novel way.  Satoshi deserves respect for what he started, but the current vanilla client is mostly not Satoshi's code.  And there were bugs, I was there. No. Stupidity is not a crime. Oh, I'm no god.  Merely an underling.  More like a demigod. No, as transactions are uniquely identifiable by their hash.  The block report need only contain the block header and the murkle tree of hashes. No, but mostly because it was much simplier and more reliable to treat the block as a single data object.  Using this reduced block report to save bandwidth & propagation time has been considered for a long time, but it's not an easy fix.  It requires professionals like Gavin to make it work on the testnet.  Satoshi was not an experienced programmer. To whom?  I'm talking about paw-paws. That base is enormous.  Have you ever heard of System D?
Thank you!  Finally, someone who understands! Indeed.  If the block propagation can remove the transaction data, and simply expect all mining clients to already have that data in their queue; then the actual block transmitted can be reduced to the 80 byte header and the myrkel hash tree.  That should make the 6 second baseline trivial for any common broadband connection well into the future. No, because it only addresses the effects of one variable resource, thus assuming that all other variables would remain either static or significantly independent from the effects of this variable so as to be ignored.  This might be a valid assumption, but I cannot accept that as a given.  The core purpose of economic analysis is to be able to predict the effects of changes to all the variables, not just those you assume are dominant.  The unseen is usually of greater net effect on the outcome than the seen. It's been a while, but IIRC, the soft limit only counts fee paying transactions.  I certainly could be wrong about that, but if not, a block with an actual size over 250KB is possible without violating the soft limit.  Any such propagation rule would have to consider the blocksize in the same manner, and perhaps also add a fudge factor. That's very similar to what I proposed earlier, except the relay delay would be infinity. <sigh>What if those big miners also had that same soft limit rule?  The mining pools of BTCGuild, 50BTC and Slush still collectively represent over 50% of the mining power of the bitcoin network, the rise of ASICs notwithstanding.  While it's true that small miners can leverage their bandwidth best by directly connecting to these three mining pools.  So, do these three mining pools have an economic incentive to disregard the community will and exceed the soft limit?  On the one hand, yes; for they stand to gain more transaction fees just as you guys presume.  On the other hand, no, for they depend upon their membership for that hashing power; and it's that hashing power that creates the other incentives to begin with.  All three pools depend upon their good reputations with their membership in order to dominate.  If even a minority of their membership disagreed with the owners of the pools exceeding the soft limits without the community's overall consent, the pools will suffer hashrate loss.  Thus, all three of these pools actually have a greater incentive to participate in the convention set by the community, and resist any players that would not abide.  They are, in fact, most likely among nodes to impose such a propagation rule upon their own systems; partly because of they control a large percentage of the mining power.In fact, I would here propose that, at the same time that we are raising the soft limit to 500KB, we also ask these major mining pools to include my soft limit propagation rule.  Just these three alone would make such a rule quite effective. Then comment upon it now, for you are working on an erroneous understanding of my proposal and it's implications.That is a static view, and not one that is supportable.  With each smaller increment, the percentage of marginal miners forced out would be smaller than otherwise, and thus the likelyhood that they would be able to return as both their own local infrastructure and the average infrastructure improves.  The limits exist for several reasons, not the least of which is artificial scarcity, but we still have to balance the future against the present.  Even without my proposed propagation rule, I'm pretty sure that the 250KB limit has never been broken to date.  Why is that?  Do you presume that it's only because there are not enough transactions to justify it to the miners?  I would think that part of it is that the soft limit is an agreed upon rule, to be exceeded once that has been agreed upon also.  My rule would only add a bit of risk to ignoring this rule that doesn't presently exist.  I don't doubt that, eventually, some miners are going to test the soft limit.  I want some of those tests to fail.That's conjecture.  Show me why you believe that this is so, not just your assumptions about what the future holds using overly simplified mental models.  Thus far you have failed to present an argument for this perspective.  I'm not even willing to claim that it's incorrect, only that it remains unsupported.  Can you really not imagine any other incentives that would contradict the "logical conclusion" you have come to?I can think of at least three.Only someone who assumes that only a hard limit is actually the only limiting factor.  Again, we've already bumped up against the 250KB soft limit on several occasions; and amazingly, none of the miners have chosen to comment out that line of code.  Obviously there is some kind of cost to the miners for doing so, or a presumption of a cost, that would exceed the benefits to the miner for doing so.  One such cost is simply the work involved in commenting out that line of code and recompiling their mining programs over a relatively few number of tiny transaction fees.  That condition is bound to change, certainly.  This does not mean that miners will start to ignore the soft limit.  It is a community convention that, while not presently enforceble by the running protocol, is still enforceable by the community.  If some miner actually did this prior to the community deciding to raise that soft limit, the offender would prompt some kind of response.  What kind of response, I won't hazard a guess; but those miners certainly don't desire to prompt the community to include rules more strict than what I'm proposing.  It's not in the interest of the miners to invoke a response. Don't be a dick.  I read your posts.  I believe that I understood them, but apparently you didn't understand my arguments.  The soft limit is a voluntary limit at present, but there are things that can be done to disincentive miners from attempting to break that limit when it suits them.  Did you not understand what I was trying to communicate concerning adding a 'soft limit' propagation rule to the clients?  Truly harmless to the network and the client, and only somewhat damaging to the miner, unless a significant enough of a minority of clients participate in this rule, and the miner with an overlarge block ends up with an orphaned block as a direct result.  It doesn't have to work every time, just enough for the miners to notice. Well then, the way that he is presenting it becomes a strawman argument.  Could you show me why this is inevitable?  Are there really no other factors?  Does an increase in resource demands not also incentivize the bandwidth starved mining operation to invest in better infrastructure?  This is over simple, and does not consider that the infrastructure itself is not static.  There are also other resource factors to be considered, which may or may not be of greater influence.  I have, for years, predicted that the city of Reykjavík, Iceland will one day become a center of the Bitcoin mining industry; for the simple reason that they have both relatively low electric rates (due to the blessings of geothermal power) and a very high domestic heating demand.  This has not yet come to pass, but it's not because Reykjavík has substandard international bandwidth connections, because that's not so. Granted.Upon further consideration, I think that this might be a great way to move the soft limit, but I still think we need to have a (much higher) hard limit.  For the reasons that I stated before, and others, a hard limit removes many of the incentives for big players to engage in anti-competitive activities; since it puts a very real limit to the long term effectiveness of such underhanded methods. No, not everyone is free to mine gold.  One must have physical access to the land, and the ability (legal and physical) to tear up the landscape.  This is not true for at least 80% of the population of the Earth. This is such a contrived situation that I have to reject it as a strawman argument. Interesting, an intergrated voting method.  I can't say which direction that I'd consider it more likely that most miners would prefer, which is a good sign that it's a viable solution.  However, I don't know that I'd agree that a 1% change per difficulty adjustment is going to be enough.  After all, there will only be roughly 26 such adjustments in one year.  Taking into account the compounding of prior adjustments, off of the top of my head I'd guess that it's not possible for the blocksize to increase by more than 35% in one calender year.  And only then if all the vote adjustments move in the same direction.  I'd say a better number would be 5% per adjustment if the vote was a supermajority (i.e. 80% of votes in one direction) or 2.5% (or so) for a simple majority.  This would, at least, make it possible for the blocksize to double in a calender year, even if it doesn't make such an outcome likely. And practically speaking, most people would like to be able to use their broadband connection for other things.  Offically, my cable service is a 10Mbit/sec connection, but practically I can't sustain more than 1.5Mbps to any single IP address.  If I let my bittorrent client full access, it peaks around 1.5Mbps but averages about half that.  Your bandwidth needs are further complicated by the fact that once you have downloaded and verified a block, you're expected to then upload that block to your connected peers.  Since most broadband connections are half as fast uphill, this limits your connected peer's download to half of what you're offically capable of.  In conclusion, anything beyond a 1MB limit is too resource intensive for the at-home full client to be able to keep up with at present, but with the advancements in Internet tech and infrastructure, we can assume that an at home connection would be able to manage a 10-20 MB block within a decade.  We would want to aim for the hard limit to be at least this high, while continuing to depend upon soft limits in the meantime.International bandwidth is much more complicated than this, with respect to a p2p network such as Bitcoin.  Much like bittorrent, the bandwidth for Singapore is functionally replicated for all of the Bitcoin clients in all of Singapore, so it's not true that the international connection is divided among the many peers all trying to download the same block, it's effectively shared data as if there were a locally available seed on Bittorrent.  Granted, it's not the same as saying that all of Singapore could be regarded as one node, and then the block replicates across the entire nation-state from one copy; but once one copy of the block has made it across the bottleneck, the local bandwidth effectively becomes the limiting factor to propagation. I remember the same complaint from some people when Craigslist was new.It's not about the pretties, it's about the content.  And these sites are very much targeted to a worldwide, but mostly English reading, customer base.  There are way too many websites these days that functionally require either a broadband connection or an image filtering system just so that they can be navigated.I have broadband, but I still miss the "load images" button that early Netscape browsers had.  I don't doubt that a great many end users, particularly those in nations werein broadband is still rare and bandwidth usage is metered, very much appreciate the low-bandwidth nature of many Bitcoin related sites. Simplicity.  The number of really old accounts with less than 5 posts would be really small. Pretty much.  Talk like a human, though.  The main goal is to catch spambots before they make it into the main forum, which makes their presence both more annoying and more difficult to clean out. Dude!  I've had that dream!  Air was thin at the corners. No, I'm not saying that I actually reject an otherwise valid block, because it's bigger than I like.  That would certainly force a hard fork.  I'm saying that, as a client, I have a rule that does not forward blocks over my chosen limit to my other peers.  If I'm alone, or otherwise in the minority on the issue, I've caused zero harm to anyone while managing to save myself some bandwidth.  However, if any significant minority of the total number of full clients that participate in the network, whether or not they mine themselves, also adopt this rule; the effective result is that this creates a delay in the propagation of overlarge blocks, effectively granting a bandwidth advantage to miners who choose to stay within the soft limit.  Thus, miners who create blocks over the limit effectively have their hashrate handicapped by delays in propagation.  As for myself, even if the block is overlarge, if it passes the standard "hard" block validity rules, it still does not get rejected from my own blockchain, as that would prevent myself from participating in the network in the event that said overlarge block is still the one that is built upon.  I'm doing nothing with my soft limit rule other than choosing not to forward the block.  My highlighted sentence above implies that as the bandwidth requirements increase for full nodes, someone is going to implement something functionally similar anyway, in order to save bandwidth.  Worse would be for some programmer to take the easy route, and simply modify the code so that a full client quietly never forwards a valid block to it's peers, and it's peers never notice. No, I haven't.  You don't even know that I dropped your block.  I can participate as a node just fine, just not as a miner.  It's a balance of forces.
I know what it means.I've done nothing of the sort.  If I add a rule to my client that it quietly drops blocks that are over 250Kb, what have I done to you?  Unless a majority of users also do so, I've done nothing.  Perhaps I dno't drpop it from my own chain, I just don't forward it.  It's something that I can do right now, and it's only effective if a significant number of others also do so.  However, if it does exist, it's presence becomes an enforcement mechanism upon the soft limit that miners presently abide by, that can be easily removed simply by a significant portion of the users agreeing that it should be done, and upgrading to the next versiuon of their client that has a higher soft limit.For all we know, there are already clients that quietly drop blocks based upon the block reward address not being in their whitelist, or any other such metric.  Or even randomly.  None of this would matter until half of users followed the same rule. Not a certainty; so don't depend entirely upon limits that can be commented out by miners.  Use block verfication rules as well, which could be commented out by the users, but why would they do this?  The propogation of the block is very much part of the system.  Include the soft limit into the verification rules of as many clients as possible, and miners who first comment out that rule for themselves will be punished by the network at least until a majority of users upgrade their clients to match.  The rest of the miners that didn't commetn out the rule would benefit from teh harm the first mover takes upon himself. Or it could be a hybrid of your two ideas.  The increase in difficulty triggers an increase in the blocksize, but not linerally.  For example, no matter how much the difficulty increases (beyond a minimum), the blocksize increases by 10%.  No matter how much the difficulty decreases (beyond a minimum) the blocksize decreases by 5%.  Or vise versa, depending upon which is more likely to result in a favorable sscarcity.Throw in my unlimited-if-all-free transactions rule. I don't agree that the hard limit is the only way to promote scarcity.  Bear in mind, no matter how we do this, the scarcity is still artificial.  If we don't do it right with a hard fork, we're stuck with it.  If we increase the hard limit to a high predicted future limit, and use soft limits and/or other block verification rules to impose scarcity on transaction processing, most of the miners & pools will abide by the soft rules even when commenting out those rules is provablely in their own economic interests.  Reputation matters here, even moreso than it does in the "real" business world. Another possible solution to the scarcity of transaction space versus an infinately growing transaction queue (with infinately growing free transaction confirmation delays) is to permit an unlimited (or massively huge limit) block to legally occur under specific conditions that would not incentivise miners towards anti-competitive activities.For example, there could be an exception rule for the blocksize limit if zero fee paying transactions were included into the block.  This rule would permit a miner to queue dump for his own reasons, be it that his queue is too large, it's owned by a major bitcoin holder that simply wishes to help the network at his own expense, or a major retailer (think WalMart) that has a huge amount of free transactions from customers to process, and mining isn't directly their business model.Another method would be to permit an un-limited block based upon an interval that miners could not depend upon.  For example, the difficulty is adjusted every two weeks or so, but the difficulty adjustment block could also be an unlimited block, also permitting (perhaps expecting) the miner that finds that block to not only include every single fee paying transaction in the block, but also every single transaction still in his queue.  This would limit the delay for free transactions to a two week maximum, and only burden the bandwidth challenged clients and miners once every two weeks and on a predictable schedule.Occasionally flushing the transaction queues would benefit all players, without significantly impacting the scarcity of transaction space for the remainder of the time period.  However, the second method is likely to encourage free transactions leading up to the unlimited block's expected arrival; whereas the prior method of permitting unlimited blocks based upon a fee-less transaction queue would not encourge same, but nor could users be certain that their free transactions be processed in any reasonable time frame, as there is not way to be certain that any miner would be willing to do this. No we are not.  At least I'm not.  I'm talking about off-network Bitcoin transactions, of any type, but that are still denominated in bitcoins.  This could be people who trade in sets of private keys (unsafe, yes; but possible), it could be people who trade in a paper currency denominated and/or backed by a bitcoin reserve, or this could be people trading within a single online wallet service (think Ebay, using something like MyBitcoin.com rather than Paypal as the default transaction method) or a potential parrallel network of wallet services that function like banks, taking the Bitcoin equivilant of bankchecks and settling up with one another on much longer intervals.All of these methods, at least all that I can think of, require more trust between parties and involve greater risk than using the main Bitcoin network; but that is also why they would be a cheaper alternative most of the time.  If you're going to be buying/selling a car with bitcoins, you're going to want to use the Bitcoin network; but if you're buying a snickers bar at the store, a standardized method of trading private keys might be a viable alternative to a blockchain transaction fee.  Microtransactions were never Bitcoin's strong point; distance & high security with low trust were.  Not all transactions require that kind of certainty.I get this, and I agree from an economic incentives perspective.  This is the very same problem of scarcity that prompted a minimum fee rule, in order for a transaction to be considered a fee paying transaction according to the priority score algo that Gavin put in a couple of years ago.  The limits prompt delays in free transactions, and that is a cost to consumers.  Wise consumers will pay a fee for speed, but not more than they must.  If the transaction fees can ever be expected to replace the decending block reward, there must be some kind of scarcity there.  If we remove the limits altogether, the supply of transaction space will (functionally) be as close to infinate as the supply of bandwidth availabe to email spammers.  There will be no incentive for the majority of users to contribute a fee, even after the block rewards decrease to nominally zero, unless they are running up against some kind of limiting resource.  I believe that free transactions should always be possible, but if speed of confirmation is the concern you're going to have to contribute.  We can suffer a lot more 'freeloading' than can VISA or Mastercard, but the network is not costless, so the service to users cannot be costless either. While I can see your point, I still think that there should be a hard limit, however high that might be.  In this way, there is always an absolute for which large miners 'cheating' by trying to force out smaller players (via padding of the transaction queue or similar) will run into that limit.  Hopefully this absolute limit will discourage those unscrupulous players from turning to the dark side, simply based on the idea that there are going to be a percentage of players that they could not force out of the mining business, no matter how much larger they could grow on a relative basis.However, upon further thought, I think that said hard limit should be pretty freaking high, in order to allow the soft limit to be our control method for many more years without further need of hard forks.  And if we are going to do this hard fork against the desires of some miners (which is probably a certainty) it's better that we get to it sooner rather than later.  If we start bumping up against the hard limit, some miners might just manage to profit from that artificial scarcity in ways that would turn a good portion of the miners aginst the idea of a hard fork, whereas they might otherwise not oppose one before we get there.How high would such a hard limit be?  Can we estimate how many transactions per second that, say, a one Gb hard limit could process?  As already pointed out by many, we don't need to accommodate all of the transactions that occur in the world; but we need to be able to do much better than 7 per second.  What is a good target?  VISA's transaction volume?  Paypal's? Or VISA + Mastercard?  Once we decide, then we need to set it and let it go, and be willing to let the market in transaction fees and off-network transfers simply run.  We are going to get way too big to do this kind of thing twice. Not only do you not understand Bitcoin, you don't even understand what money generally is.  What you want to do is literally impossible.  Yet, you are free to try it on your own.  We wouldn't try to stop you, although a great many of us are going to be quite amused at your attempts.  If you're right, you'd be a hero. But you're not right.  Currencies are an amoral tool.  Nothing more, nothing less.  The fact that you disagree with how this one was designed makes no difference at all.  Are you going to claim that you do not use fiat currencies to live?  The nature of those currencies are far worse than anything that you imagine that Bitcoin may be.  That is what the alternative actually is.  What you would wish for is immaterial unless and until you, personally, make it happen.  Right now, what you want is not a choice, and no matter what you say on this forum, Bitcoin isn't going to change to suit your illusions. They already are.  Bitcoin is not intended to, nor is it likely to, replace national currencies.  It's going to be a long time coming before Bitcoins displace paper cash in small daily transactions.  That said, it's not unreasonable to assume, should the central banking model not be able to adjust to the reality of Bitcoin (and presumedly not be able to destroy it), that new paper cash currencies that claim a reserve backing of bitcoins that displace national fiat currencies.  So yes, in many cases simple paper cash would function as an "alt-chain" just fine; although I'd predict that should a bitcoin backed banknote ever come into existance, it's more likely to be a plastic token with a digtial artifact imbedded into it, probably using many of the very advanced security features that casino tokens use today.  And just like the gold in a vault never actually moves under a (auditable) gold standard, the bitcoins that presume to back those banknotes would rarely, if ever, need to move across the blockchain.  The important part to all this is that, in the end, any peer forever has the ability to move transactions across the blockchain.  That is the part that makes it 'decentralized', not the number of network nodes (although that is an important minimum) or the common size of a mining operation.  The important part is that there are no 'super-nodes' with special abilities to ignore or exclude other nodes from the network.  If the block-max-size issue ever started to trend toward nodes that were so much larger than the entry level node as to functionally have the ability/incentive to ignore the small nodes, and have that actually work, then I'd be concerned.  I do not claim to know what is the best method for increasing the blocksize limit, but I do not believe that increasing it to 10mb, 20mb or even 50mb as a hard limit would be a dramatic burden on most full nodes.  Perhaps a combo solution; a higher than currently reasonable hard limit combined with an adjustment algo for a soft limitation.  For example, the hard limit could be set to something like 250Mb, and an algo that can adjust the soft limitations within that hard limit withn a range based upon, perhaps, the average number of blocks delayed that a minimum fee transaction experiences during the prior two week period.  Although I havn't a clue how that could be actually implimented. Of course it's possible.  You're trusting that the exchange sites are honest.  These trades are onsite, not on the blockchain, so there is no way to be certain that they are not, in practice, manipulating the exchange prices to their own benefit.I've pretty much assumed that they do this as a matter of course for three years, but whatever they might actually be doing, doesn't shift the official price by much or for long.  Any bot making trades over a one cent move still makes money. It's not. None of the above.  If there are 10K full nodes, then there are 10K copies of the blockchain.  That is all that this implies.  There is no data to tell us; 1) how many are single user nodes versus how many are multi-user nodes or Stratum servers, 2) how many users on any of these light client servers exist nor 3) how often these users need to "settle up".  The actual number of the full clients in the network is mostly a product of the "many-copies-keeps-data-safe" security model.  But the cost of this redundency is not zero (even though it's still cheaper than fiat currencies).  This cost would be spread out greater as the market grows, but the resources that miners consume are not the only costs of running the network, as a great many of those resources are contributed in-kind by users with both the resources and the determination to run full nodes.  As the resources required to participate in the network as a full node increase (at a rate faster than those same resources grow, as available to the average power user) some of those back-up nodes with marginal/non-existent pay-back will stop participating.  Hopefully, the services of running a parrallel payment network, for example BitcoinSpinner's business model, will be able to turn a profit, since they will (out of necessity) also run a full node. This reminds me of another point.  Lactose intolerance in adulthood is a relatively uncommon occurance in humans, which is why it's considered a medical condition.  Whereas, every other mammal loses the ability to properly digest milk of their own species shortly following infancy, including actual dairy cows.  Lactose intolerance in human infants is far more rare than in adulthood, also.This also implies; both from a scientific/evolutionary model and from a religious/creationist model; that humans are generally evolved/designed to consume dairy products, for the inability to do so in adulthood is abnormal. You seem to fear the inevitable.  If Bitcoin is ever to become truly successful, a transaction throughput volume that is well beyond what the average end user is capable of, or willing to, committing the resources to maintain a full client must occur.  There is no point in crying about this, it has already begun.  I dont run a full client anymore, myself.  While it's important that the blockchain be replicated many places across the Internet, and into the deep web such as Tor, there comes a point of rapidly dimminishing returns.  I think that we have around 10K full nodes that can be identified (which should exclude any in the deep web), who here thinks that this isn't more than enough redundency for security purposes?  There must be some degree of centralization, as the bitcoin network as it presently exists is too costly relative to it's current market size.  We don't want the network to get smaller, really, but nor do we need it to grow more; we simply need the market to outgrow the network until the relative costs of running the netowrk are much lower than now, and we need this to happen well before the block reward cuts in half once again.Light clients and their supporting overlay networks are the future of Bitcoin, if it is to ever have one.  Eventually, a live transaction on the main netowrk should become an uncommon event, relative to the number of off-network transactions that occur.  This futture has been known to those of us that are versed in economic theory, for as the economy grows the growth must outpace the ability of the main bitcoin netowrk to scale.  As this happens, there will be incentives for off-network transactions to dominate; and a balance between the costs of the main network with it's high security model versus the costs with overlay and parrallel netowrks with their lower transaction costs and associated less seucre models will develop.  If Bitcoin is to ever become as large an economy as, for example, the SystemD (for which it is so well suited) the vast majority of small value and daily transactions are gointg to be handled by overlay networks and the online wallet-like servies that develop them; while higher value transactions (for example, your weekly paycheck) might still be handled by the main netowrk. Funny you should mention that, for I have a story in this regard.  My wife is particularly well suited to breastfeed multiples, and as my first born was starting to age out of breastmilk, my wife joined a breastmilk donation network for a time.  It was a religious calling for her, and for the next month or so, she laborously pumped, sorted, froze and shipped several gallons of breastmilk in single baby-bottles.  That was the first time that I had ever heard that there was a federal law against deliberately profitting from human sourced tissue or bio-products.  Yet, blood plasma companies work around this limitation by paying the donator labor time, because the donation process is time consuming.It's also surreal how effective of a weight loss program that a high yield breastmilk extraction activity can be.  Presumedly, it's also pretty effective at sucking the nutrients out of the donator as well.But I digress... How do you feel about those of us with the luck to discover Bitcoin early, and the education to understand it's implications, but not the balls to invest all I *cough* <<we had?I made a small investment in late 2010, and since then my bitcoin holdings increased in value by about 41,500%  If I had the balls to withdraw from my 401K and buy bitcoins then, I'd be that guy with a fortune close to 1% of all bitcoins.  BTW, that is probably Satoshi himself.  If he is still alive, he deserves it. No.  The ignore button is to your left. Feel free to fork the code and attempt your view.  It's already been done, though, and it never made it out of the planning stages.  The design of Bitcoin is not arbitrary. There are many reasons that bitcoin is the way it is, and being different from central banking/fractional researve/national fiat currencies is definately one of those reasons.The Bank of Canada is developing an electronic version of their currency, so it won't be very long before you get exactly what you want without the effort.  It remains to be seen if it will offer any real alternative to Bitcoin, though.  I have my own doubts. Care to explain? There are other forums with a focus on Bitcoin? Where?
Humans are, in many respects, unique among the animal kingdom.  We can actually metabolize a great many toxins, and are likely the most diverse animal in this respect.  A great example of this is chocolate, which can kill most predators if consumed in any quantity considered normal to above normal for an adult human.  Basicly the quantity required to give a child a stomach ache is likely to kill a dog without a vet's intervention.  Some things that we sometimes put into a salad are also toxic to carnivores, such as some mushrooms.  Coffee beans are mildly toxic, also.  Other less dramatic examples of commonly consumed foods that are toxic to other animals (and to some degree, humans also) include, but are not limited to, avocados, many nuts and partcularly macadamia nuts, peanuts (which, technically, are not nuts), raisins, onions, garlic, several common spices such as chives, and artifical sweeteners such as xylitol; although it's also arguable that all artifical sweeteners are also toxic to humans, by their very nature.So the argument that humans shouldn't be drinking milk because it's not natural to drink another species' milk or beyond the age of four is, at best, lacking in scientific support. Food safety is relative.  For example, nearly all salt for human consumption in the industrilized world contains iodine, because lack of iodine goitre in adults, and some types of mental retardation in infants.  Is the sale of tablesalt without added iodine illegal in the US?  No, it's not.  It simply has to be marked so that it cannot be confused with "regular" tablesalt.  I can buy it at Kroger or Wal-Mart under the names "Sea Salt", "Kosher Salt" or "Pickling Salt"; but it just never says just "Salt"unless it contains iodine.  Which is more dangerous, consuming raw milk (quickly enough to be reasonable) or consuming Kosher Salt?  Almost certainly the latter, but that point is moot.  Unpasterized milk should not be illegal in the United States, the idea is as Un-American as the table salt ban in NY city.EDIT:  Additionally, consuming raw milk is as safe as pasturized, if the milk is consumed within a 24 hour period.  This was the economic motivation of the daily "milk man" deliveries of yesteryear.  They didn't even bother to refigerate it even after refrigerators were common.  To additionally reduce risk and impede bacterial growth, the milk man would usually add a silver dime to each bottle.  The silver in the dime would give off silver ions into the milk, which would not harm people but was toxic to bacteria. This is generally not true in the United States.  Since the consumption of raw milk isn't actually something that can be banned under US law, for a variety of historical reasons, it's actually the act of engaging in commerce that is prohibited with raw milk.  It's actually a law that exists to favor major dairy producers & grocery stores, since raw milk wouldn't safely survive the lengthy trip from factory farm to the grocery store to the average home refrigerator reliablely enough to compete with the small farmer who simply offers the day's raw milk for purchase.  Raw milk, kept refrigerated and consumed quickly, isn't dangerous.  It's the delay that the modern food industry adds to the mix that is risky.  Bear in mind, milk was designed to be consumed immediately; yet well before the age of refrigeration, the early production of cheese was a process that took days. First of all, bathing in milk is very uncommon in the US, and usually only happens in spas.  But the answer to your question is no, not legally. Fine, you guys all suck, and you all seem to have more experience with modern CC transaction than I do.  I'm too old, etc.I still stand by my opinion that 7% isn't unrealistic.  Good luck disproving my opinion, which is what it always was, and it still is.High?  Yes.  Excessively high?  No, it's not.  Who gets to decide?  I do, because it's my opinion.So bite me, children. I've had positive experiences with Coinbase, but I have to admit that I've never trusted anyone with so much bitcoin value at once.  If this is a hack or a white turned black node fraud, I'm truly sorry for your loss.   Go right ahead, but I can't see the value myself.  Most of the bitcoin related apps I've seen are both free to download as well as host on most of the app sites for android, and you're all around screwed if you depend upon Iphones, since the Apple App Store doesn't permit anything related to bitcoins on iOS and 'failbreaking' is required to run any app not permitted by Apple.  Thus, only Android apps are likely to survive and all of them can be found on the Google Play Store. Well, technically you are correct on this point.  I just checked the TOS.  No, they wouldn't prevent you from setting up Square in a normal storefront as your primary POS system.  Instead, the CC companies can compell Square to require you to engage into a pass-through agreement with the CC companies directly, which acheives the same end goal....And there is an enforcement clause that you agreed to that could be used towards this end...So while you can set up anything that you like, if your business starts processing enough transactions that the CC companies feel that you should be paying them directly, I'm sure that they will let you know when it's time to "upgrade" your contracts.https://squareup.com/legal/cea Dude, you've had some seriously poor luck.  Of the set, I've only experienced #2, for a personal cost of about $7 due to one of the early online wallet websites being hacked.  Of course, since most of my coins I bought for under a dime, the trade value of bitcoin would have to lose half it value over night, every night for a week straight before I actually lost anything at all! Economicly speaking, they are exactly the same.Note the highlighted parts of your post.  It would be trivial for those fixed fees to add up for a small vendor, and through the total for the merchant to about 7%, and you aren't even metioning all the fees that are common.  Also, does your business do enough volume to justify a storefront?  Square was never intended for POS processing with regard to fixed sale points.  If you are using your Iphone as a cash register inside of an actual store, you're likely violating the TOS that Square had to agree to in order to get the CC compaines to sign on. Whether or not it's actually legal or proper for the kayak company to charge 7% was never my point, or my concern.  I was simply pointing out that, IMHO, it's not an unrealistic number.  You have failed to contradict that claim; in fact, you have managed to provide supporting evidence for my point.I'm fine with you paying up in just doughnuts, since it was such an easy win. The biggest legal hurdle is the idea that you have to be a business legally in order to do legitimate & honest business.  Divest yourself of this modern corporate fiction & mind your manners and you should do fine. Coinbase uses the exact same bank account funding methods that Paypal does, and it's about as annoying to "verify".  Mt. Gox can't do it the same way because they're out of country.  Once set up, however, Coinbase seems easier to me. Why on Earth would you do that?  There are other ways to get bitcoins, they might just take more effort. That's as good a reason as any, so long as you're not operating under any 'get rich quick' fantasy. It matters not at all what you need, but only what you can offer.  If paypal is all that you can offer, then don't expect much. If you believe that it's a bubble, and you still buy more in the hopes that you can sell to the next sucker for more, you deserve whatever outcome that you get. The Samsung Intercept was one of the first android phones to include an On-the-go USB chip, even though the official specs don't mention that it exists.  With 4.0, I can use it, but have never really done anything with it, other than to verify that it's possible.  It never seemed to be accessible with 2.3, even rooted.  However, the Samsung Intercept does not support power supply from the phone, so you'd need a power injector in order to use OTG-USB for anything that I can imagine that you'd likely use it for, otherwise all I'd need to connect my phone to a huge USB drive is a male-micro-usb to female-standard-usb cable.EDIT:  Keep in mind, that on any android cell phone, even making normal phone calls is an 'app' that has little in the way of hardware acceleration.  My wife's cell phone, which is just a regular cell phone that can also text, makes a much better phone; but smartphones are pocket computers that can also make cell calls.  The act of actually making a phone call is relatively demanding for the Samsung Intercept, but many other things that my wife's phone can't do are trivial for it (mp3's, youtube videos, photos, capturing video, etc.)  The Samsung Intercept also isn't up to the demand of a lot of android games, as the original Angry Birds was barely playable, and Fruit Ninja had a perceptable touch lag.  This is one reason that I'm still looking for one for my daughter, as she can use it with wifi as a combo mp3 player, camera, ICQ text device, etc. without costing a great deal, and there are some games that it can play without much lag. Amen to that.  If the algos used in bitcoin are ever broken, it's highly likely that just about every algo in common use on the Internet is at risk, including those that secure your connection to your bank's secure website. You would would be contractually prohibited from actually advertising the cash discount, but everyone does it.  You could go into any major electronics store right now, pick out some high dollar widescreen tv, and even if it's on sale, you could ask for the 2.x% that the company pays the CC company as an additional discount if you paid in cash, and you can expect to get it.  I've done this a dozen times over the past decade alone.  It's just not worth the effort for low value items, although I have done it at Wal-mart for a microwave that was listed for only $80 on sale at the time.  The only time that I can't expect to get it, is when the manager is busy and would consider the discount to not be worth *his* time.You also can't expect to do this with anything in groceries.  Their margins are so tight, that the 'grocery side' of department stores don't make *anything* from there unless the customer is paying cash anyway.BTW, this is a great way to get a new refrigerator if you've got the cash, but you would literally have to have the cash in your hands.  The managers are usually empowered to offer this cash discount, but are trained to deny the request unless they can see the cash; because so many people have been known to only have half the cash and then offer the rest as a personal check.  The big chains have been stung many times, and regard this as a kind of 'bait and switch' game. Is advertising something as $107 and then offering a $7 discount to cash customers any different?  Because that's basiclyhow it's been done for the past 30 years.  Yes, 7% is on the high end, but not unrealistic for a small vendor that does not frequently need to use the CC network.  7% would be very high for a volume user, such as a brick & morter retail chain of any size; in such a case the 2.x% charged by Square (due to the volume that Square can accumulate) is much more realistic.  WAl-mart can negotiate for better terms from Visa, but a small kayacking store probably can't.  I'd bet dollars to doughnuts that any business with a building of their own can't use Square due to the TOS, or Visa would have a fit.
While advertising for your new bitcoin related online business isn't verboten, it's generally bad form.  Be wary & responsible, and you can continue.  However, this does not belong in the newbies forum.  This thread will be locked, and if you cannot suffer the human cost of getting out of newbie hell first, then you really don't have a business worth advertising here.I will also note that every single business that has attempted to do what you are trying to do using Paypal has either been run into bankruptcy by Paypal's own legal team and policies, or turned out to be con artists attempting to prey on those among the forum who have not yet learned not to deal with Paypal merchants.  Every.  Single.  One. Nonsense, that is not all of the charges.  Square doesn't charge for the 'interchange' fees, because they don't have too, the contracts that the CC companies had with the vendors and each other negates most of that.And nothing in this conversation includes the interest and fees that the cardholder eats due to his own contract. Wait, What?There is already a cash card loadable with bitcoins?  Where can I get one? And in a way that ASICs likely couldn't compete with anyway, since they can't be altered to take advantage of any shortcuts found; whereas GPU miners most certainly could.  I'd say it's almost a certainty that if any portion of SHA-256 appears to be at risk, there will be little resistance from the mining community. Are you saying that I ended up with the only apple, or that your entire family ended up with the lemons?  After three years, you can't expect that the cell phone is going to be a superstar, but if it's just now being sold as used, it's probably not a lemon either.Mine runs 4.0 just fine, as long as I don't try to listen to a podcast and answer a call over a bluetooth earpiece at the same time.  It can't handle the pause, switch, connect, answer and unmute in a fast enough time period to actually accept an incoming phone call; but they all have their limitations.  It really depends upon what it's being used for.  It'd be a great microcontroller for a DIY drone, for example. We'd be on the 3rd or 4th generation of ASICs by the time SHA-256 needs to be replaced under any realistic conditions, but even then the transitional process wouldn't likely make the ASIC's completely worthless.  For example, the crypto setup for the blockchain (wherein SHA-256 is used) has "hooks" for using two different algo's in series.  Currently, SHA-256 is simply used twice, but if things start looking like SHA-256 is at risk of being undermined; the developers could switch one of those methods to some other algo, so that both SHA-256 and the new algo must be employed.  This would still give those professional miners with SHA-256 ASICs an advantage over GPUs for a time, as well as a future set of algos in order to develop the next set of ASICs for.  If SHA-256 is ever broken, it won't matter much what the ASIC miners had planned. The first ascii character in the bitcoin address is what tells the bitcoin network what type of bitcoin address it is, and thus what method of cryptography is employed.  Currently, all regular bitcoin addresses begin with a "1", and the network cannot recognize any other kind within the main network.  (there is also a 'testnet' for development, which can use addresses that begin with "a" as well, IIRC)The point is that you can use the current algo for as long as you like, and the network will not care; but if the algo is ever 'broken' there will be a push into another address algo that will be able to coexist with the running network.  As long as you transition to the new algo within a reasonable period of time, you won't risk losing your coins and a "Bitcoin v.2.x" will not be necessary.  This has been pre-planned from the start, by Satoshi himself.  There is a different modular algo system in place for transitioning the blockchain crypto (which is different, BTW) should that ever prove necessary, also without so much as skipping a block/beat.The next address algo will likely produce addresses that start with a "2", so as you can guess, we've got till at least "9" before things get visually confusing. You're screwed, brother.  And mining on a macbook anything is a waste of effort and energy. I agree, 7% is on the high end of normal, but isn't out of reason.  4% is about average just for the interchange fees, not counting any other fees. I recommend that you go onto Ebay and buy a used Samsung Intercept for Virgin Mobile or Sprint.  They will be cheaper than any other Android because they are fairly old and cannot be switched to a GSM carrier due to hardware issues.  Not the fastest phone anymore, never was really; but it does work and can be upgraded to 4.0 after rooting, and it's easy to root.  I have one and am considering buying a spare to give to myt daughter as a wifi only device.  Great machines for the price. Theu used to do the same thing in the US in the 1980's and before.  That ended with the vendor contracts I mentioned.  We're likely to see it again soon, though.  This is on reason that CC's are more popular with US citizens than in other countries, as much of the cost of useing a CC has been hidden from the consumer in the form of unnaturally higher prices. I wish.  I'm now kicking myself for deciding not to buy more at $14. Yes, a group of retail businesses just won an anti-trust lawsuit against the CC companies, on the basis that the common practice that vendors must hide the 'interchange' costs from costumers amounted to market collusion.  The court finally agreed.  You'll see more of that going forward. Whether or not that happens antime soon, or ever, might have much to do with the details concerning Amazon's announcement concerning their own internal "coins".If they are real coins, with an exchange rate to bitcoins, bitcoins are headed for new highs.  If they can undermine bitcoin's rising popularity in practice, bitcoin might just crash soon.  Time will tell. And it's by an avowed liberal.  Warning, it's pretty long.http://www.thepolemicist.net/2013/01/the-rifle-on-wall-left-argument-for-gun.html Not impossible. That's not security, that's insurance.  The security model for CC's is awful. This was done years ago.  The most likely time zone is Eastern US. Taken alone, this is false. Do you wish to clarify? I know not of any such problems.  I don't deal with any exchanges, personally.
Someone (or company) always has to be the first.  Even if their suppliers don't want bitcoins, if they accept online orders for international shipment they would stand to gain from accepting bitcoin as a payment option even if they immediately sell on some currency exchange.  I'm pretty sure that there is a British exchange that you could get more solid data from, but I can't recall their name.Oh, I found it...https://intersango.com/about-us.phpYou could also call these guys...https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_Consultancy That's not completely accurate, there are several levels of trust.  I use Electrum because it combines the small local footprint of a light client, without the need to trust a third party with my private keys.  Electrum basicly uses a specially designed p2p network overlay to offload the blockchain database to a remote server (stratum server) but it keeps the wallet.dat local, and all transactions are created and signed locally.  While it's true that certain blockchain based deceptions can theoretically be performed against a particular Electrum client, this is far from an easy fraud method, and there is no case of this happening in the wild that we know of. It can be assumed that at least the first 100 or so block reward addresses belong to Satoshi.  It's been a while since I bothered to check, but last I checked (IIRC) none of those coins had moved.  Ever. How do you see yourself using it?  Personally, I have BitcoinSpinner on my android smartphone and Electrum on my desktop.  I can't really recommend a full client anymore, the bootstrapping is a huge burden; and we don't really need more full clients anymore.  10K copies distributed across the Internet is enough. Dude, just keep reading. I intended "crime" in the malum in se sense.  That it's always wrong to knowingly buy stolen property, and it's illegal (or should be) as a reflection of that fact.http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Malum+in+se Just because they write it off, does not mean it's not a criminal activity.  This is exactly the reason why businesses that accept CC's have to increase their prices buy about 3%, in order to cover the chargeback theft & fraud.  It's just like how shoplifting increases the costs that everyone else pays.Granted, that's one more reason for Bitcoin uptake, but it's still wrong no matter how you spin it. Whether or not the victim is actually better off in the long run or not has nothing to do with the buyer's lack of moral convictions.Of course, we are talking about a teenager in high school.  My own mores were not very solid at that age either.  But knowingly buying stolen property is still a crime.  Perhaps you should educate your schoolmate, if possible?As for all this ;;voteban crap.  This is not a democracy.  No one gets kicked because they express an opinion, even if it's obviously bullsh*t. Use Coinbase, they lock the price you pay, you just can't withdraw the bitcoins until your ACH deposit is complete.  They also take a commision, but if you're concerned about price fluctuation risk, the commision is relatively low.  The last time I bought some coins there, the market value of bitcoins went up more during the delay than the commision. Gavin is not Satoshi. They speak the truth.  There is not much anyone can do for you, whether or not your story is true. I actually emailed both Eric Raymond and Bruce Schneider about bitcoin.  IIRC, Eric Raymond denied being Satoshi, yet thought the concept of bitcoin was interesting.  Bruce Schneider merely responded to note that he was aware of bitcoin, but offered no opinion on the system.  This was about two years ago.BTW, Bruce Schneier did not deny being Satoshi in his response; and as far as I know, has not really commented publicly on Bitcoin except for a couple of minor posts last year to imply that he didn't understand it, which I don't believe.If Satoshi is any one person, and is already even moderately famous for his existing skillset (and a man, which is also quite an assumption) then Bruce Schneier is still high on my list. There are several contributing factors here.  First off, Satoshi is almost certainly not a Japanese national.  He might be ethnicly Japanese, but I would question even that.  He originally used British spelling and grammer, and did not suffer from the gramatical quirks of a native Japanese speaker.  Add to that the fact that there were zero translations of the White Paper into Japanese for at least 18 months after it's release, and it's easy to assume that Satoshi isn't a native Japanese speaker.Furthermore, Bitcoin doesn't really offer much new to the trade culture in Japan.  As a society, they tend to be very cash & local trade biased, and even online shopping isn't (demographicly) as big in Japan as it is in the (much more geographicly diverse) United States.  Sure, they use the Internet to decide what to get, but oftentimes they can order the item online and pick it up at a store within a local travel distance for cash.  Walmart.com uses a similar model.  Even when they do trade electronicly, they actually have more advanced forms of electronic commerce than is presently available in the US or Europe, already having NFC enabled smartphones and such.  In the US, the credit card industry has been secretly resisting moving away from the plastic card model and towards the smartphone app model because they have a huge vested interest in the prior model, while companies like Google have a head start in the latter model. Whenever you go to a poker game, the first thing you do is try to identify the fish.  If you can't figure that out, you're the fish.Guys, I've got some bad news for you.You're the fish. http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2013/02/argentina-announces-price-freeze-to.html...for the SystemD markets in foodstuff.  Walmart is going to have real trouble keeping these products on the official shelves while product keeps falling off the back of the shipping truck. It's #1.  The block's coinbase award transaction is different.  Each block must contain one, and only one, coinbase award; and that award must match the coinbase algorithem or that block is rejected as invalid.  There really isn't anything more to understand about it, other than knowing that is both how the currency is created as well as how it's distributed; and that it creates an economic incentive for people to contribute to the cryptographic security of the blockchain.  If a valid address is not provided by the miner for which the coinbase can be assigned, the block is invalid, and thus would be ignored by the network. I think the part that you are having trouble understanding is that the bitcoins don't actually exist, in the sense that there is no object (digital or otherwise) that we can point to and say, "that's a bitcoin".  The bitcoins are entirely abstract concepts that are represented by the chain of custody that the blockchain records.  Said another way, there are only transaction records, like a massive ledger.  And the coins are defined by a 64 bit integer variable.  If you were to spend half of your coinbase (or any other amount from a single address and single input transaction) then you are simply creating a new transaction that first proves to the entire network that you have the right to spend these coins by cryptographicly referring back to the coinbase award (or other transaction that granted your address these coins) and then referring to more than one address to send those coins to, and for what amount to each.  So while you are sending a specific amount of bitcoins to your seller's address, your client is automaticly creating a new address for yourself, in order to send itself the balance of change. http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=WaPni5O2YyIPlease, God; let it be true. Not myself, but I know that you can sell them.  There are several guys that I work with that have complained that 30 round 5.56 magazines are sold out for a 50 mile radius. Yes, but you need a light type client.  Try this one....https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Electrum
His problem was that the PTB were able to convince a jury that he made it look too much like US currency, not that it actually did.  They were able to convince 12 ignorant people that the term "dollar" wasn't generic, and that alone would then imply that it was an attempt to 'counterfit'.  I just think it's sad that, in our modern world, it was so easy to randomly find 12 people that ignorant.  That wouldn't have been true even 100 years ago.  The average illiterate farmer from Kansas knew that the term "dollar" referred to a silver coin of particular weight.  For that matter, there was an ongoing public debate about the virtues (and vices) of the bi-metallic standard, and the book The Wizard of OZ was written as a farce to make fun of it. (Originally, Dorthy wore silver shoes to walk on a gold brick road) Dude, that's already the case.  For that matter, that's by design. It's already too late for that to matter.  Certainly some governments will eventually declare Bitcoin illegal within their own borders, but a few in Europe have already acknowledged that it's a legal commodity.  Even in the United States, an outright ban isn't practically possible for complex legal reasons.  The Liberty Dollar isn't illegal, only it's production is, and only because of it's similarities to the US Dollar (which is a rediculous concept, but bitcoins don't, by their nature, use paper at all.)  Regular citizens cannot be prosecuted for the mere possession of bitcoins, although transactions within the US will eventually be illegal; probably by a court precedent that finds that US to US transactions in bitcoins amount to evidence of tax evasion.No matter how it all goes down, governments are notoriously slow to respond to such things as Bitcoin, and it's already too late to kill it.  That point passed two years ago. I'm as happy that my holdings are rising as the next guy, but I admit that I cannot see the cause of it.  This kind of advance is not unprecedented within the Bitcoin economy, but the last time we were in this kind of multiple week advance it turned out to be a hype induced bubble, not the result of fundamental increases in the size of the BTC economy.  Anyone know what I'm missing? Well, I'll try; but to be honest I don't think that is possible without my ow biases entering into my language.  And an objective answer cannot have bias...I don't believe that Karl Marx intended the term to misrepresent the idea, it's just that humans have a tendency to group abstract concepts into classes that make them easier to compare to each other.  Karl Marx's experiences, and most peoples', is with systems; i.e. hiarchial organizations, logical machines, governments, etc.  By By defining an -ism, he's implying that there is a structure to it, and thus an authority in control.  Further implying that the results of the kind of capitalism that he sees around himself (also in London during the Industrial Revolution) is a product of intentional design.  That is the kind of capitalsim that people hate, the idea of some faceless elite is controlling the economy.  The reality is that there is an elite that controls our economy, but they aren't faceless, they're elected to Congress; and they are all a far cry from "capitalists". dude, most already are using tor.  Someone that I've been very close to for all my life uses tor for just about anything remotely controversial.  My *cough* his bitcoind runs entirely across tor, completely quietly, and does not accept connections from previously unknown servers; and this is for something that I'm willing to admit that I do. Never mind, I just pointed this thread out to him, and he said.  "No thanks, I'm keeping what I got." I don't, but might know someone who would.  However, getting him to part with any of his stash is going to be rather expensive.  Give me an offer, and I'll pass it on. Thank you for that.  I've read many books on this topic, and can offer many suggestions.  Currently, I'm reading a history book simply called Salt.  I'd wager that you can guess the focus of the kind of history it discusses.  That one is full of those little "interesting tidbits of history".If you desire to improve your argumental position, I can suggest both Whatever Happened to Penny Candy? and Whatever Happened to Justice? by Rich Maybury, which are geared towards teenagers; and Economics in One Lesson by (IIRC) Henry Hazlitt, which is geared toward adults that are not formally educated in the dismal science.  Also, the videos by Praxgirl (just google it) are insightful and entertaining, but they are packed full of information.  Praxgirl doesn't wait for those who tend to fall of the back of the bus. I do not contest this point.  It still is an ongoing process, puncutated by fits.I do contest this point.  The rise of free markets are intertwined with the breakdown of class privilages, even though that does take generations.  Furthermore, the development of technology is provablely not possible without a concurrent increase in many freedoms, and particularly economic freedoms.  The freedoms of markets cannot be seperated from the freedoms of the public, because not only are they co-dependent, the markets are the public.  Every market is simply the sum total of the individuals who participate in the trade within that market.There is no evidence that state expropriations were a pre-requisite, and much evidence that it is not.  Despite British contributions to the Industrial Revolution, a great many advancements during the Industrial Revolution were developed in places that did not engage in the suppression of the lowest classes to achieve these ends.  London begot so many advancements because it was the Silicon Valley of the age, attracting the self-selecting inovators to the same locale in order to learn from each other, like the world's first makerspace.  Britons did not have any particular quality of people or state that granted them the advantages, it's just that if your dream was to be the next great scientist or inventor, London was where you went if you could manage it, or New York if you could not.  Just like Seattle was the place to go if you wanted to be the next big alternative music artist during the 1990's.  It wasn't the place that held the attraction, it was the people who were already there already doing those kinds of things.The fact that London was (and remains) a major investment finance center certainly didn't hurt matters, either; but was not the major contributing factor. I have already defined capitalism earlier in this thread, and don't feel the need to repeat myself.  But the short version is that "capitalism" is not an "-ism" at all.  That term was popularized by Karl Marx, and was meant to be derogatory and to equate the economic model that it represents to a religion.  It was an effective smear that many people buy into even today.  Words matter.Capitalism, in an economic sense, is nothing but the sum total effects of the many 'natural' laws of economics that express themselves whenever a society is predominately left alone to exchange naturally; therefore it's not an "economic system" or even an ideology in any sense.  This almost never happens in reality, but instead we have varying degrees of freedom in markets.  There is no exception to this rule though; that in every market, the freer that it is, the more beneficial for the consumer.   Free markets are not always beneficial for the producers, nor for governments that need to restrict freedom in order to extract tax revenue; but freedom is always and everywhere a net benefit for consumers. That's not capitalism, that's fascism.  Even so, you may well argue that most people became poorer due to the injustices that occured during the Industrial Revolution in Britian, but you'd be factually wrong to argue that.  The facts are that the entire nation experienced great advancements in quality of life, at the cost of a relative few.  The overall average being that most Britons experienced an increase in their quality of life (i.e. greater wealth) even considering the many ways that Britons experienced harsher working conditions at the same time.I'm not saying that the ends justify the means.  The most certainly did not; however, the ends were a net positive for Britons of every class, although particularly favoring the already wealthy class.This is how free(er) markets always work in the long run, and that is the basic premise of Austrian Economic Theory & Praxeology. I see that you are talking about traditional banking, and not the modern fractional reserve version.  As an "Investement Banker" you're likely closer to the older model than the current fiat & central banking model.  While "destroy" might not be the correct word, the current model of national fiat currencies backed by fractional reserve central banking models (price control of the cost of money, by their nature) cannot coexist with a rising dominance of Bitcoin or any related cryptocurrency.  That which is not sustainable, by definition, cannot continue; thus the current model of "banking" (as most people understand it, not as you understand it) must cease to exist. I seriously question this claim...Hindsight is always 20/20, and the kind of political policies that you refer to above are all reactionary, and more often than not, counterproductive to the very ends that they propose to address and you presume that they "dampen".  I could go into great detail, using the Great Depression versus the Panic of 1920 within the US.Except there is exactly zero examples of a too "capitalistic" society destroying itself, while we now have several mostly socialistic societies that have done so.I don't actually disagree with your perspectives here, but I do question whether or not your idea of capitalism could resemble my own, considering that no modern banker could possiblely love capitalism considering what true capitalism would do to his job.  You do realize that Bitcoin is going to destroy your employer's economic model, right? Now you tell me.Are you sure that USPS ground isn't okay? And that is exactly what I've been trying to say.  The very word "capitalism" did not exist before it's use by Karl Marx, and it entered common use only in contrast to the economic system he also defined as "communism".  Capitalism, even just as a contrast to communism, is simply the macro appearance of the many laws of economics when individuals are (generally) left to make their voluntary arrangements without third party (governments & other criminal organizations) interference.  The degree to which the people are left alone is also the degree to which a society is "capitalist".  And unlike just about every -ism that I'm aware of, capitalism doesn't require widespread agreement with and/or compliance with it's edicts.  In short, capitalism (from an economic perspective, not a political one) is the default condition of any society, while undisturbed by war or politics.   I have to say, that's just brilliant. LOL!  I live in tornado alley! Excepting a brick or stone facade, I can do that with a copper jacketed roundnose 22lr.  It wouldn't be moving very fast on the other side, which is good, but it'd go through.  Anything supersonic and a solid leading edge would not likely have trouble breaking through plastic siding, a sheet of 1/2 inch thick plywood and a sheet of 1/2 inch thick drywall board. Wow, you don't ask for much, do you.  This is a huge topic.  Please start by reading the whitepaper...http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdfAnd come back with more specific questions....No.No.
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.miracleas.bitcoin_spinner&hl=en Yes, it's too broad.  You need to read a bit further in to see the problem...And then things get more detailed here...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capitalism#Types_of_capitalismWhile I do agree that capitalism describes an "economic system" the very use of that term implies a structured plan, presumedly by human planners, as opposed to a natural & emergent order that develops on it's own if not interfered with by governments or other third parties. I read it, I question it's accuracy.  I did a google search for other articles on this event, and among those that I could find, no others actually said that she fired 6 shots.  All of them said that she hit him in the face and neck 5 times, and a few mentioned that she had emptied the revolver but still buffaloed the guy by telling him that if he got up she'd shoot again, before running to a neighbor's house with her kids.  I find it very likely that it was a 38 special, but not likely that it was a six shooter.  I have zero evidence, mind you, but experience regarding how often early reporting gets details wrong makes me believe that the writer of this article interpreted "hit five times, empty revolver" to mean that she missed once.  How many reporters do you think have experience with a revolver, and how many only think of wild west movies?  A 38 special in six shots is rare, because they have to be the frame size of a service revolver.  While reducing the capacity by one reduces both weight and frame size significantly, making the 38 special a crediblely compact & concealable weapon.  Which is pretty much how they are used, and thus how manufactures make them.  While I wouldn't doubt that full size frame revolvers are still manufactured, perhaps for "cowboy shooting" competitions, the majority that exist are old handguns from the days that such revolvers were the standard police issue sidearm.  Their numbers are significantly outweighed by the number of 5 shot compact revolvers.  I don't even know if I'd trust such an old handgun to not blow up in my hand, considering the significant advancements in +P powder tech.  The 38 special was originally a black powder round, and has gone through a number of 'revisions' over the past 100+ years of it's existence.Could she have used a 6 shot 38?  Yes.  I just don't consider that combination likely. While true, taken alone, that statement does not prove his premise; that monopolies are an equilibrium state of capitalism.  While you provide one reason why, another is the issue of corporations themselves.  Corporations, as they currently exist, are not natural organizations within the context of capitalism ( economic definition) while they probably are within the context of Capitalism (political ideology).  Corporations are, by their very definitions, legal fictions of a nation-state; and thus cannot begin to exist in the absence of a government.  Although the disappearance of the national government may not be fatal to a corporation, due to the probability that any large and well funded corporation could reasonablely function in the place of government within it's own sphere of influence.  Corporations are, in effect, the children of the state that begot them, and may not require the care of the state after a certain maturity and development.Yet, corporations that operate within the same industry cannot peacefully coexist in the absence of the parental state, so in the case of the fall of that parental state, corporations can be expected to behave badly towards each other and their peers' resources.  Much like the brothers of a recently departed king.  Companies that are wholly owned, however, function as an extention of that owner's own will; representing him both in business and reputation.  While a CEO can shrug off accusations of criminal activity under his charge, because of the distribution of responsibility that the corporate structure cultivates; the whole owner is truly responsible for the wrongdoing of his employees while operating in his employ.  This is not a small difference. Certainly, but nor is a government a pre-requisite.  It's not inevitable either.  I think that we need to stop and agree on a definition for what capitalism is, for the purposes of this discussion.  As far as I can tell, I am the only person in this tread to point out that more than one popular definition exists.  Also, almost everyone's own understanding of the term varies, even if it generally agrees with one or the other common definition.  Are we talking about the ideological or economic definition of capitalism? you're going to have to post this one in the electrum thread. Property rights are encourged by capitalism because efficiencies in markets favor strong property rights within those markets.  It's no secret that governments across human history are practially influenced by the wealthiest among them, and whenever capitalism has been allowed to dominate, the wealthy include those who became wealthy using capitalist principles, whether they understood them as such or not.  While the individial capitalist might favor a monopoly power, his peers resist that for their own ends.  This balance of forces favors the legal establishment and enforcement of property rights.Scarcity is not a result of property rights.  Scarcity is a result of reality.  I really don't have a method of getting you there from where you are here.  Again, it's provablely true that capitalism exists even in societies that forbid it, and actively work to suppress it.  Thus property rights cannot be a pre-requisite.Well, I can't prove a negative; but since there is no such thing as a natural and stable monopoly across the recorded history of mankind, I'd wager it's safe to say that she is incorrect on this point.  Not without a government granted advantage.  Copyright is, by definition, a tempoary monopoly on the reproduction of artworks enforced by government statutes.  Absent the use, or threat of use, of government force; no artist could command a monopoly on similar works, nor on modern machine copies.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IeTybKL1pM4 That's a hard one to answer, because as a political ideology, capitalism is fairly young, even though elements of it have been rising and falling from favor for thousands of years.  The same can be said of socialism as a coherent ideology.We would have to be able to type each nation that has ever "collapsed" and be able to determine if they were, practically speaking, more capitalist or more socialist at the point of breakdown.  I doubt that there is an objective method of doing this. Wow, you really missed the point. And this one is useful as well, as the main characters are engaging in capitalism at the smallest scale.http://www.desertislandgame.com/ This is a wonderful resource for anyone trying to improve themselves in this topic.  As a sidenote, she takes donations for support via bitcoin.http://praxgirl.com/2011/06/10/episode-1-the-introduction/Be warned though, she and her crew have been doing this for a couple of years now, and have quite a few episodes in the can.  Not only can catching up take some serious time, she doesn't wait for the slow kids if they fall off the back of the bus. I would contend that formalized property rights are a result of capitalism at work, not a pre-requisite.  It's provablely true that capitalism exists even in places for which it is, directly or indirectly, forbidden.  If the society at large does not recognize the property rights of a capitalist, then he will find a workaround to that limitation.  Thus, strong property rights could not be a requirement. Considering that there are a number of competing economic theories even today, and in many ways they contradict each other, I don't consider the above statement to be a given.  If you wish to keep it, you're going to have to make that case based upon whatever version of Economics you speak of.And what is this premise based upon?  There is no evidence to suggest this is true, even temporarily. I aslo qualified that by limiting that effect to those over 35.  Are you over 35?  If so, I may have to push up my model. It wouldn't matter.  We aren't even speaking the same language.  To prove that point, just try and define capitalism in one sentence.   Remember my post the other day, in another thread, wherein I laid bare the reality that most people who argue on obscure Internet forums are actually not capable of changing their minds, regardless of what evidence is presented?Based on both your most recent conversations here, and your experience in general, would you say my assessment is generally correct or generally incorrect? Oh, the irony!  The cognative dissonance must be bewildering. That's not at all what happened.  Microsoft effectively won that fight, and the anti-trust portion of the case was completely dropped.And then GNU/Linux and MacOSX proceeded to eat their lunch.And by any objective definition of the term, MS was never a real monopoly, only a temporary market dominator. I've got a former soviet weapon as well.   Guys, stop misquoting each other.  Both the article, and I, have pointed out that she used five shots.  The article implies, probably incorrectly, that the revolver was a six shooter.  Odds are high that it was either a 5 shot revolver, or another caliber.  The six round 38 special is a rare animal for a variety of technical reasons, and as far as I am aware, none have been mass produced in over 50 years.  You can get a 22lr revovler in 5, 6 & 8 round versions; and larger caliber revolvers (45?) in rather heavy & large 6 round versions, but a 6 round 38 special cannot be a compact weapon, and as such is uncommon.  
Very well, I withdraw my objections. I realize that this is not particularly critical to your point, but I'm calling bullshit on this claim.  Perhaps you wrote the ratio backwards?  References please. There are no requirements.  The common understanding of what capitalism actually is, is false.  Capitalism is both a political ideology and a description of a set of natural laws, that together, give rise to an economic order that is emergent among any human population.  The ideological version of Capitalism is more of a religion than an economic system, and I won't address that here beyond saying that it's not really capitalism at all.Capitalism doesn't require that the laws of a given society honor the natural laws that produced capitalism, and this really has never fully happened at any point, nor in any nation, since at least the Age of Judges in old testament Israel.  That is not required.  If the natural order is supressed, by law or otherwise, capitalism will still express itself in onther ways; usually in black markets & contraband trade.  There were capitalists in the former USSR and communist China the entire time. If you are talking about using a QC to simply brute force key 'collisions' in order to take the coins from random accounts, then  QC is almost certainly not going to be the best way to do this.  Moore's Law, assuming it holds up, would create a greater threat to the current algo first; IMHO. There are several ways, actually.  Upon first boot, the client will depend upon an internal list of 'persistant' nodes that accept all  connections, and then it can receive the addresses of new nodes across the p2p connection itself that the first node is aware of.  On later boots, it remembers who it's been connected to in the past an randomly attempts to reconnect.  You can also specify particular nodes to connect to, if you know their address. 99.9999% of the time, they are bullshit.  I was rounding off for expediency.On another note, the laws of physics don't exclude the possibility that the force of gravity could suddenly reverse itself and destroy the entire universe in another 'big bang'; but I find that possibility rather not worth considering. Well, even that isn't entirely true with how Bitcoin uses public key encryption.  Simply publishing a single bitcoin address doesn't actually publish the private key, it publishes a structured hash of the public key.  The actual public key isn't published until the first time funds are spent from that address.  If SHA-256 is subject to being brute forced into collisions by a quantum computer, a different hashing algo may not be, and that could be used instead.  If you use a new address for each transaction, which is how bitcoin does it by default and really is a best practice, it would be very difficult for a quantum breaker to steal your coins. He's also a professional entertainer who practices hours every day to be able to do those trick shots.  He's amazing because the ability to do such things with a revolver is beyond 99.9999% of gun owners.  He's an aberation, not a example. No mate, you disqualified yourself with your first post.  There is no debate to be had.  No one on this side of the pond really gives a fat flying fuck what "arguments" against our human rights some Eurotrash might be able to present in an obscure Internet forum.  I get so tired of this bullshit.  If you want to have this debate, come to my house and we can have a little chat over tea and crumpets.  I bet you have no idea how many of your countrymen have moved to this country just to get away from asshats like yourself.  I've met several, particularly down at the BBC (http://www.bbcbrew.com/) and all of them would have preferred to stay in their homeland.And make no mistake, myself and many others really do consider it to be a human right.http://www.a-human-right.com/Bugger off, wanker.   We aren't talking about you, some self-rightous statist who has been programmed by the German educational system all his life.  If you had the time to shoot 5 bullets (38 special revolvers only hold 5 rounds, this ain't no Dirty Harry movie) at an attacker, it's because they were willing to keep their face in your sights instead of retreating, or even falling down and surrendering.  This guy did neither.  In order to even take more than one shot to the face without giving up, considering he didn't appear to have a gun himself, he had to be hyped up on PCP or some other major drug.And even in the best hands, such as this obviously well practiced mother, firing all five rounds in a 38 special revolver (particularly with this kind of accuracy) takes several seconds.  This article doesn't give many details, but I'd wager that he got all five because the first four didn't stop him; and not because she just kept firing as fast as she could.  Those old west movies that show gunslingers shooting by slapping the hammer while shooting from the hip are total bullshit.  And even the fact that this mother was willing to run upstairs and call the cops first shows her consideration for the intruder; because it proves that she was willing to let him take anything and leave.  She lives in Georgia, which is a 'castle doctrine' state.  Said simply, this means that anyone who uses force to enter into your home is already presumed to have violent intent, and she could have waited at the door for him to break it down and shot him in the atrium, and she wouldn't even have been arrested. I don't agree with that in all cases.  If some drunk guy breaks into your house, and you flee up the steps with your kids; the deciding factor is wether or not he follows you.  If he just passes out on the couch, he probably thought he was home and was confused as to why his keys didn't work.  If he chases you up the steps, it's prudent to assume he has real ill intent on his addled mind, and he brought upon himself whatever happens next.  This guy was no burgler, he wanted something from the wife and kids.  If I was to hazard a guess, he was a serial rapist, and shooting him dead on the steps would have only improved the violent crime rate going forward as well as saved the taxpayers the money in prosecution and incarceration.An armed society is a polite society.  What is rarely mentioned with that old saying, is the reason is that the 'criminallly impolite' have relatively short expectancies in an armed society. She doesn't need a bigger gun.  She obviously knows how to use that one quite well.  To be able to put all five rounds loaded in a 38 special and hit a target the size of a melon from across a room, particularly while hyped up on adrenaline, is the halmark of a sharpshooter.  Furthermore, the most effective (not most deadly) handgun calibers, statisticly speaking, are the .380 automatic followed by the 22LR.  In every defensive case, your goal is to get the attacker to stop, not necessarily to kill them.  With that in mind, the above small calibers are well known for accuracy as well as their ability for follow-up shots.  The most important factor in a defensive handgun caliber is your personal ability to hit what you are shooting at, everything else is a secondary consideration.  Also, statisicly, the 45 is a terrible choice for a defensive handgun, because the recoil is so harsh that nearly everyone under 6' 2" and 240 lbs has trouble bringing the sights back onto target for a follow-up shot in any speedy fashion.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdr14xVetXM Or maybe just not enough functioning brain matter in order to make the critical kill area large enough that even 5 head shots were fatal. Those are funny when edited for a modern context.  Originally, they were intended to be as horrorific as that Navy bath salts video.  To conservative women of the age, the idea that MJ might cause them to lose their sense of reason and inhibitiions would (more often than not) cause them to regard the date who offered them some to be a whoremonger simply out to get into their pants.  This, in turn, would make conservative young men less likely to get involved in MJ for fear of their image.  Safer to stick with the 'acceptable' drugs such as alcohol and tobacco.  To a point, it worked.  Note also, that they played on racial prejudices of the age, by referring to MJ as "Mexican MJ".   Restarting your bitcoin client with a new wallet.dat will require that you start the client with the -rescan command line switch, in order to force the client to destroy the database and rebuild it from the beginning of the blockchain. Most definately, yes.  Unless you happen to have a faraday cage to keep it in.There would be a temporary disruption, probably delays; but the outright destruction of bitcoin or the blockchain might actually require a Death Star attack or Giant Yellow Construction Spaceships making way for an interstellar bypass.  Even the destruction of the Internet wouldn't likely destroy the blockchain, although it probably might not be of much value after that.  Bitcoin uses the many-copies-keeps-data-safe method to an extreme, but only one complete copy of the blockchain is required to rebuild the network.Probably, but then how would you read it?  CD's have a limited data lifespan, unless you spend the cash to get archive grade disks and keep them in the refrigerator.  'Bit rot' has a literal meaning with regard to most commercial quality CD-R's The format is the same, excepting the fact that many Windoze files have an end-of-file discriptor that Mac files generally do not.  Still, this is an expert level activity that should not be attempted without full backups.  You can't do this without understanding the command-line in both systems, and knowing where the wallet.dat file should be found in both cases. Strangely reminds me of the anti-pot propaganda put out by the government some decades ago.  I'd wager dollars to doughnuts that the vast majority of the 'bath salts' dope craze will prove to be as much hype over extreme reactions and psycotic triggers than anything statistically relevent.  That's not based upon direct experience, mind you, but only the history of the practical accuracy of government produced anti-drug propaganda. I was actually listening to last night's podcast from Free Talk Live. Maybe, but Bitcoin's code provides 'hooks' for two secure hashing algos to be used together.  At the moment, we just use SHA-256 twice in a row, but simply changing one of them to a quantum hardened algo would solve the problem fine.Long story short, quantum computing is not a near term threat to bitcoin, and may never be a significant threat.  Even if, for a time, someone with a very expensive quantum computer (and willing to comit it to hashing bitcoins) can effectively hash at several orders of magnitude faster than everyone else combined; that isn't going to break Bitcoin.
That too.  It's not an either/or dictonomy. Dude, we are not talking about a little bit of ice.  While the ice-in-a-glass analogy has obvious flaws, the effect would certainly have a dampening effect upon the global averages, for no other reason than the area that is 'local' to the polar ice does make up a significant portion of the globe, and cannot much exceed 32 degrees F lest the melting of the ice absorb that heat. Yes, I do.  I know several contributions, in fact.  If the polar ice actually disappears, it's a certain sign that much more energy is making to the poles, mostly due to greenhouse gas IR refraction.  It would strongly imply that AGW is generally correct.  It wouldn't actually prove anything, but it would be strong evidence alone.  However, it's actually impossible for co2 alone to be a strong enough greenhouse gas to cause an irreversable cascade as some alarmists imply, for the simple fact that the Earth has been provably warmer with much more co2 in the atmostphere than is present today.  Think about it, the Earth is a closed system; so before plantlife evolved to cover the Earth, where was all that carbon? Can I be on "the list" too? I agree with his statement, and am no ashamed to say so.  It's this very principle that climate alarmists are depending upon while pointing to the min/max ice extent over the years.  Presumedly, once the ice is completely gone, the rate of warming would rapidly increase. You assume that I am uninformed on these topics, despite my own words.  You are unchangable, as am I.  As I have said, I actually believe that AGW is more likely true than not, but it still doesn't change reality.  The predictive models have repeatedly proven flawed.  There has been zero aggregate warming in a decade or so, and more recently much data to imply that co2 isn't a significant greenhouse gas anyway, or at least there are some mitigating factors we have yet to include into the predictive models.  Furthermore, even if the models are correct in the long term, most of the warming is expected to occur towards the poles, due to how the greenhouse effect actually works.  As far as land mass and growing seasons go, that's a net positive.  And don't hand me any crap about possible changes in the water cycle, that bs has been going on for millinia.  The Salt Flats were an inland sea only about 500 years ago, with the surrounding areas, now desert, as lush and wet as the American Midwest is today.  (Which is to say, not very, but not a desert either)  We have the technology to turn the Salt Flats back into an inland sea again, with the resulting benefits of dramaticly improving the surrounding states' annual rainfall, but we won't do it.  We have the technology to 'seed' the Pacific Ocean with iron fillings, inducing alge blooms at will to sequester co2 at the bottom of the ocean for hundreds of years at least, but we won't do it.  We have the ability to construct safe fission plants capable of nearly replacing oil as an energy source, but we won't do it.  It's not about mitigating climate change, it's about political ideology. In the interests of impartiality, I have considered that, because I always consider the possibility that intelligent people I encounter might be the first unbiased and educated person that I meet.  Unfortunately, you didn't pass that test, either.  The only unbiased people that I have ever meet are those who are too ignorant or too stupid to form a coherent opinion about a topic.  Anyone who has made any attempt to self-educate invariablely chooses a side long before they are fully informed; which, in turn, colors their further assimilation of information.  Also, the side that they choose is, in my own experience, pre-determined by their pre-existing ideologies.I am no exception.  Sorry, but neither are you.  I'm an INTP, and part of that personality type is that I'm more able, and inclined, to re-examine my own perspectives and conclusions on any given topic than any other personality type in the Myers-Briggs metric spectrum.  Therefore, no one is less biased, by nature, than one such as myself.  That said, I've found that, even as often I as do it; it has proven to be a very rare event that I would change my own mind concerning any topic.  I generally believe that most people can't alter their perspectives past a certain age, somewhere around 35 or so; even when presented with quite a bit of evidence.  The cognative dissonance might be significant, even stressful, but old people cannot change.  They can only pretend to change.This is why these kinds of theological debates are not really conducted in public in order to convince the other party that they are incorrect, but to present the arguments to the yet unbiased reader in a manner that does not trigger the natural bullsh*t filters that raise red flags whenever we are directly preached to.  And this, FirstAscent, is why libertarianism is so very common among the young & internet savvy; for this has been utilized as a deliberate tactic by libertarians for over a decade now.  It's already too late to stop it, so whether you choose to participate personally in the destruction of your own worldview or not is already irrelevant.  Everyday libertarian 'trolls' like us have been presenting these arguments across all of the Internet for so long, and for so often, that young people (who can still be convinced) have been gravitating to the libertarian worldview year by year; simply because they are the very people that can look at these arguments objectively and decide which set they find to be more credible, more likely, and therefore more trustworthy.And there it is, I've just exposed the entire goal of both of the Ron Paul campaigns (and pretty much his entire congressional career) as well as the reason for all of these libertarian leaning websites and think tanks dedicated to all of these various topics, such as Watts Up With That and Reason.com.  They exist to give the seeker some place to go to branch out and learn more, once they have already decided that we are correct, and further arm them to do what then comes naturally, and spread the memes in the same manner that they received them.Your ideology has already lost, and I believe that I will live to see the rise and dominion of libertarianism in the public sphere within my own lifetime. Only? <sigh>  I will not attempt to intervene, if you continue to play right into his hands. Do you have any knowledge that is not spoon fed to you from your most trusted sources?  Everyone has a bias, there is simply too much information for us to individually sort through the raw data to come to our own conclusions, so we all locate sources that we believe that we can trust; and we favor information that is filtered by those same sources.  It's also entirely logical that we gravitate towards sources that seem to confirm our early presumptions.  You do it, I do it, and Myrkul does it.  Thus, it's entirely consistent that Myrkul would rank the information and conclusions of an esteemed peer (Stefan Molyneux) as well as another ideological peer with another concentration (Watts) above the common noise.  It still does not address the conclusions of the paper, which can be completely off base even using correct data.  Personally, I'm inclined to believe that AGW is true, but not to the degree that it deserves a concerted & global response.  While you are not obligated to play his game, at least be honest about why you don't desire to play.  Trying to deflect fault upon libertarians because you believe us to be incorrect simply appears childish; which, I believe, was really Myrkul's goal in the start. I doubt he ever had any real belief that you would bother to read the article at all.EDIT:  BTW, Myrkul.  It appears obvious to me that you posted this primarily to elicit an emotional response from FirstAscent, simply because he holds a different worldview than yourself.  By my own definition, that's 'trolling'. <sigh> My apologies if I was incorrect. I don't care, really.  It does clarify some things, though.Look up the term, "Literary license"; because it's a useful thing to know.  I'm not really interested in what you know, however.That was not a premise, that was an expression of my own opinions and experience.  I offered no argument and no premise.I'm pretty sure that might be physically impossible within context.It wasn't an ad hominem, it was an honest question; and it is now pretty apparent that there has been many misunderstandings, which persist.That was not an attempt to justify my firearms ownership.  I wouldn't consider recreational shooting to be a rational justification to possess a (presumed by others) dangerous tool.  I wouldn't consider personal entertainment an acceptable cause for a untrained and unlicensed person to make and store fireworks in an old wood shed next to a city park.  Even professionally sometimes blow themselves up.  There would have to be a different, overriding reason to posses a firearm than simply "it's fun to shoot".  Fortunately, there is, and I've presented data to support that concept.  A neighbor would require my consent to start packing dynamite next to where my kids play, he would not require my consent to own a firearm.  If he started using my fence as a target support, however, we'd have words over that.There are many debates going on around this forum, but not in this thread.Once again, I presented no arguments, and offered no premises.  Whatever observations you believe yourself to have made were based upon erroneous assumptions.  We are not having a debate.  There is nothing here to debate.  I'm not the one who was mocking you.  You are not in a debate with anyone in this thread.  No one really cares what your position is.  And the sheepdog metaphor was not a joke, it was a metaphor.  If I did, you wouldn't be speaking.  Notice the 'global moderator' tag to the left.  I just find it sad that, even after pointing out to you that you are not actually engaging in a debate with anyone, you assume that I'm making an argument.Go ahead.  I might even read it, but probably not.Why do you think that is?No, I'm not.  Neither are you, nor anyone else.  That's an irony that is not lost on myself, but I'm fairly certain you have no idea what I just said.Wait, do you actually know what it means to "make an argument"?There is nothing voluntary about submitting to coercion.  And the first eight words and the rest of that sentence are a logical contradiction.Something lost in translation?You don't have a basic knowledge on the subject.Both, but not at the same time. http://cogitansiuvenis.blogspot.com/2012/07/is-america-really-more-violent-than.htmlHere's the last paragraph...What I find most ironic about that last sentence, is that the home that I own is "hardened"; including (but not limited to) the use of wrought iron grating on the ground level windows.  A further irony, is that I didn't do it.  It's a 'historical' home, built in 1905, and protected in it's current form by zoning laws that limit what I can do to alter the house itself.  Whoever built it, however, was very concerned about the physical security of the second & third floors.  I would not be surprised at all to eventually discover a well hidden safe in here someday.  Even the choice of construction materials favors a secure home, as the method of wall plaster is one that used an expanded steel meshing, but a mesh gauge that is thicker than was the norm, thus making a hammer hole access to circumvent a locked door very difficult when compared to modern construction techniques.  The stairwell is enclosed, offering zero access to the upper floors without passing through an internal security door with it's own deadbolt, that we use nightly.  The stairwell is straight, and there is a door immediately to one side at the top of the stairwell, offering a right handed shooter the ability to fire down the stairwell from the cover of the heavy wooden doorjam, and the ability to lock an intruder out of two of the second floor bedrooms and prevent ready access to the third floor stairwell with another lockable security door.  If the concept of a "panic room" had been invented by 1905, I have no doubt that this house would have had one.The house's inherently designed security features are one of the reasons that I bought it, and was apparently one of the reasons that the last owner bought it also; for I was told after buying it (both by an old neighbor and a veteran beat cop) that the last owner (who died in the house) was a notorious pimp, and the cops were aware of the difficulty in raiding the home fast enough to aquire any actionable evidence of prostitution, and would not bother most of the time.  I imagine the idea of a forced entry raid into that home, considering the nature of the stairwell, wasn't a particularly inviting idea either; should the crazy old pimp decide that suicide-by-cop was preferable to natural causes.  In the end, he died of smoke inhalation from a fire, which may have actually been suicide by arson.  Fortunately for the firemen, he was considerate enough to leave the doors unlocked. Check out his posters.  Notice, also, that many of them are sub-texted in Russian.  The owner & author of that website, and photographer of the many photos, was born in the former USSR.  He has, more or less, dedicated his adult life to highlighting the BS to his own former countrymen.I have never met anyone who was more passionate about their own individual rights than those who were not born in the United States.  Most seem to take their newly respected rights to heart, and any threats to those rights very personally. Yes, literally.  Do you know what the term 'literary license' means?  Is English your first language?The accusation is that, generally speaking, gun control advocates consider the tool to be the part of the equation to be controlled.  This implies, and for some is literally so by their own admission, that they consider the tool to be fundamentally evil/bad/harmful etc.  That is the anamorphasizing that your side of the debate is accused of, for which Myrkul was openly & plainly mocking you for.Again, is English your first languge? Perhaps this is simply a misunderstanding?No.  You made an observation for which you believe I were justifying my intent.  I have already explained your error of observation.  I have made zero attempt to justify my firearms ownership.  Again, I do not require your consent.The majority of them, yes.  And yet, the vast majority of them are never employed in that purpose.  At least not in this country.  Punching holes in paper is, by a wide margin, the most widely intended purpose of those who buy them.  This is particularly true with regard to rimfire caliber firearms, many of which are specifically designed to maximize their effectiveness for this particular purpose.  All you have to do to find those is google 'target pistol' or 'target rifle' and you will immediately notice that they have features that make them particularly poor choices for self-defense or hunting.This alone puts the lie to your line of thought.Once again, I didn't present a premise.  You are projecting.  You seem to believe that you are engaged in a debate.  You are not.  I do not require your approval.Not less than three of my firearms were specifically designed to sling projectiles at paper targets, and would have a limited usefulness in the role of self-defense.  I literally have other firearms that were bought to serve that role, and designed for that purpose.Once again, you presume that you are engaged in a debate.  You are not.  You are being mocked.  Accusing me of a falacy of logic has no mening if I'm not engaged in a debate.  I am not, and I don't believe that Myrkul is either.  There is no debate here; neither concerning this topic generally (with non-citizens of the United States) nor in this thread specificly.  You have no more say about how I live or act than Piers Morgan does.  And like him, you are welcome to your opinion; but you can keep it.  Your opinion on my rights is inmaterial.  You don't have an argument you even have the standing to compel me to respond to.There is no need that all sheepdogs are protecting socity at any given time.  The only requirement is that the sheepdogs exist, or the sheeps' civilization cannot continue to exist.  That is the premise of the analogy.  Again, did you bother to read ithe link I provided?  Or did you simply not understand it?]You really are trying to stretch the analogy beyond it's limits, but what if a sheepdog society would lead to warfare?  What difference would it make to the sheep?  They are no longer around.  BTW, you're a sheep, in this analogy.  Don't take that as an insult, but you wouldn't be around to complain about the vilent nature of society if only the sheepdogs remained.  I think that it's an irony that you are falling right in line with the predictions of the author of that analogy.  Maybe you would see it if you bothered to read the link.http://a-human-right.com/You have the right, but not the ability.  What you don't understand that your government does not grant you rights; it can either respect them and provide a legal structure that standardizes the social rules, or refuse to honor your rights and deny any practical utilization of your rights.  I live in the former, you live in the latter.You are comfortable with it because you have been conditioned to believe that you are safe and protected by the uniformed sheepdogs.  This is understandable.  But on some level, even you understand that weapons cannot be removed from your society and expect that it will continue to remain "civil".  You may not be wiling to admit it to yourself, and the presence of weapons my be hidden from view most of the time, but they are there and you know it."Baaaa"Sometimes, othertimes it was not.   You speak of a topic for which you have already admitted you have no first hand knowledge.That varies significantly. The majority of my own firearms are rimfires, so they would be particulary ineffective if self-defense was their primary design consideration.  Excellent at small game hunting, though.  A rabbit doesn't leave much meat if you use a caliber actually intended for self-defense levels of energy.If you are trying to ask if I have considered "less lethal" weaponry for self-defense, then the answer is yes.  I actually have such weapons, including but not limited to, a 12 gauge shotgun that is designed to fire a shorter than normal shotgun shell, packed with rock salt and pepper powder.   The explicit design goal is to inflict pain without great risk of lethal tissue damage, and without the risk of a projectile with enough kinetic energy to be able to pass through standard gysum board home walls and (potentially) harm my neighbors.  This is an escalation of force method, since (should my invader not get the idea) later shells in the line up do include harder and heaver projectiles.  A 12 gauge shotgun is very versitile. It certainly does.  Try reading the link. Perhaps you should consider reading the link I provided that explains that analogy, before you go and make a fool of yourself?Just a thought. That was literary license, since I'm not the only one who utilizes my firearms to sling lead and copper at paper.  I was not anamorphasizing, get past it.No, seriously.  You are really reaching here.  You are actually accusing me of what Myrkul was calling you guys out for, that you seem to have entirely misunderstood.  The weapon is a tool.  It is only a tool.  It has no moral capacity of it's own, cannot decide it's own intent.  Even it's designer can only assume it's intended use.  Myrkul was mocking you, and he still is.  You guys really aren't up for this, and are entirely unprepared for any real debate.It's not at all untrue.  It's provablely so, both today and across history.  No matter where you live, sheepdogs surround you, protect you, watch your borders & city streets while you sleep.  There is not now, and there never has been, an exception to this at any point across human history.  None.  Perhaps someday the wolves can be purged from human nature forever, and the sheepdogs will no longer be necessary, but I doubt it.  It's more likely, as Murkul pointed out, that a society dominated by sheepdogs develops that doesn't require a coordinating force (governments) to direct and monitor the sheepdogs; and doesn't suffer wolves to live.I did not even attempt to justify my right.  I do not require your approval or your concent to excersize any of my rights.  That's what makes them rights.No, it's not.  It's reasonable because I have the right.  Period.  So do you, BTW; even though you are prevented from your rights by threat of force.Again, that is not why I have the right.  I have the right because I have the right to self-defense; and the right to the most effective means of same.  Whether or not society at large benefits or not from that is entirely irrelevant. I know where you want to go with this, and ancap is off-topic in this thread.  Still, I don't disagree with your conclusions, I just don't see a way to get there from where we are.And I think that there would always be a percentage of the population that would simply prefer to be sheep.  Ignorance is truely bliss. In support of my prior claims....http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9875875Looking into the methods, misdemeanor traffic violations were generally excluded from the study, as some states consider moving violations to be misdemeanors and others do not.http://www.guncite.com/gun_control_gcgvmurd.htmlThis last one...http://bjs.ojp.usdoj.gov/content/homicide/race.cfm...focuses mostly upon the race of the victim and the assailant, but is also useful for pointing out a related stat.  That certain subcultures (I don't believe that the actual concentration of melatonin has anything to do with this) are more prone to produce violently inclined adults than others.  While race is a general indicator of sub-cultural background, it's certainly not absolute.Still, if you exclude all minorities from these statistics, a white adult is less likely to be murdered, per capita, in the United States than in Europe.  That is not to say that either is at all likely, nor that either is actually more safe generally; but the argument that the gun culture in the US contributes to an increased risk for any particular person (of European decent or cultural background) is without any statistically significant merit.As an aside, white people are much more likely to be murdered by poisoning in the United States than by firearm.EDIT: I might be reading that last stat incorrectly, but it's certainly a lot more likely than I would have assumed, myself.
I don't believe that is generally true.  It's certainly not true for myself.  I've never felt unsafe, before or after owning firearms.  That's simply statisticly untrue in general.  I'm much more likely to die in a auto accident, and I know it.  All my firearms spend the vast majority of their time locked in a rather large safe, because they are valuable.  The rest of the time, they are shooting at paper.  I don't hunt, myself.  I do have a concealed carry license, but rarely carry at all.  I have the weapons, and the license, in the event that I ever do feel that I should need to carry.  I've never seen civil unrest in this city, but my father has, and I strongly suspect that he participated.  My father is actually fairly anti-gun, being a product of the 60's peace/love culture.  I'm not anti-gun because I joined the USMC at 17, partialy out of rebellion to my childhood.  The military culture was not for me either, but I do enjoy shooting, and also understand that the judicious use of force is a cornerstone of civilization; and the rifle is the king of personal weapons.  I'm a sheepdog among a flock of sheep, and I'm fully aware of that.  Many of those here that defend the personal ownership of weaponry are also sheepdogs.  You might not like the idea that we are around, but we are necessary for your peaceful society to continue to exist; whether or not we may be wearing a uniform.That said, you are no more "safe" in a society that prohibits you, as a common civilian, from owning or carrying personal weaponry than I am in a society with a long and deep gun culture.  However you might feel about that is actually quite irrelevant.http://www.gleamingedge.com/mirrors/onsheepwolvesandsheepdogs.html http://cogitansiuvenis.blogspot.com/2012/07/is-america-really-more-violent-than.htmlTaken as a whole, the United States is safer than Europe.  Although this article doesn't touch it, this is also true for murder unless you are someone who has first hand contact with criminal elements, as roughly 80% of murders in this country can still be connected to people with a prior criminal history; and that stat is actually much lower in Europe.  (I admit, I do not have access to those stats right now)  This is not to say this is acceptable, since many of those people are simply drug addicts or family members and not otherwise inclined toward criminal activity themselves, but it does put the murder rate into perspective.  Furthermore, as is true in Europe, some individual states (and particular cities) are safer than others.  Generally speaking, those US states with lower crime rates also have lower legal barriers for a citizen to obtain a firearms license.  This may not be cause & effect, admittedly, as states with higher crime rates might be more inclined to pass weapons restrictions as a result.  However, in every case wherein gun laws were relaxed for the law abiding, crime rates have decreased.  There is one city in Georgia that famously passed a law compelling all households to buy and keep a weapon, due to a very high local crime rate in 1982.  That law is still in effect, and that city has the lowest crime rate in Georgia today. Maybe it didn't actually backfire, but you were definately shooting blanks.  It's not like Myrkul and I see things level, so I wish some of you guys would try harder.  I might be entertained if some of you were on his level, but so far I think that most of you guys are engaging in a battle of wits unarmed. Very little?  The confirmed market for bitcoins are not less than $10 Trillion in value worldwide.http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2011/10/28/black_market_global_economyAnd this is just the part that the central bankers can't actually prevent, because it's all already beyond their legal system's reach.Dude, really.  You should try to educate yourself a bit more before walking in to our house and trying to piss on the dinner table.  I'm gentle compared to what you're about to experience if you continue to expose an unsupportable position.  Most of these guys would throttle you by experience alone. One thing is certain, neither the gun dealers nor the government are worse off because of the stupidity of the debate.  The gun sales have never been higher than they have been over the past couple of weeks.  The taxes alone would be a perverse incentive for certain persons in government to stoke the anti-gun elements into saying stupid things, just to light a fire under the fear-of-a-ban sales.  It's working in that respect, as many people that I've talked to say that the gun shops are literally sold out of everything. He makes a fair point. First, he did not legally obtain them.  He succeded in defrauding the dealers into believing that he was not prohibited by law, which is itself an illegal act.  Point in case that laws do not compel moral behavior, and therefore cannot be depended upon to have the effects intended by their proponents.Second, even if that were not so and he actually did purchase his weapons within the legal framework of the state he lived within, that would still not an argument make.  Such people are aberations, for there are at least 10K other law abiding gun owners for every nutter.  Such high profile cases do not make for sound laws.The second amendment does not effect the government's ability to possess arms in any fashion.  There is no need for the 2nd if that were it's purpose.  Even the hardest anti-gun historian will not claim this.  If you are going to enter into a debate on a topic for which you do not understand, you would be well behoved to read up on the topic. http://www.olegvolk.net/gallery/technology/arms/fetish_flogger_vz58_9804web.jpg.html?g2_imageViewsIndex=1Hey Lethn, is this the kind of intelligent debate that you intended that a UK subject could interject? The unknown section is largely the solo miners, which is why they are unknown.  Regardless, small scale mining does not have to be profitable.  If you live in a cold climate, perhaps in a small flat wherein your method of heating is not under your own control, running a couple hundred watts of mining simply exchanges your heat bill via baseboard electric heaters for heat produced by the mining rig; in which case the cost of electricity is a net zero burden, and any coins that might be aquired are simply a bonus.  This would not be true for a major mining operation, since the heat would far exceed the demand for same; but this is as good a reason to mine in your own home as any other, and could undercut the professional miners even if they use ASICs.  This is the only kind of mining that I've personally done, since I don't mine in the summer, when I would have to pay for additional air conditioning in order to remove that waste heat.  In the winter, the additional heat isn't wasted, it simply offsets a portion of the heat demand upon my central heating unit (although, for me, gas heat is a bit cheaper overall). Well, there are some things that can be done that shouldn't cost too much.  For example, I have a modern security system for my home that can detect the sound of glass breaking.  Sound sensors placed in most rooms and halls in a public school could be tuned to detect the sound of gunfire.  If you've ever heard real gunfire, it's more distinct than is shown in the movies.  It's got a sharp tone, and an abruptness that firecrackers cannot really approximate; so sound sensors should be able to identify most common firearm reports from 22's up to high powered rifles, although shotguns might be more difficult.  If a security system can rapidly identify gunfire, (or air sniffers can identify the presence of gunpowder, but that would trigger anytime a police officer entered the building) electronic fire doors could be closed and potentially locked in one direction.  I.E. fire doors can let you out of a building on fire, but not let you come back in.  Also, the ability of the automatic security system to call the police computers and inform the dispacter that a firearm has been discharged in the school would shave minutes off of the response time of the police.The reality is that every gun rampage ends early only one way, with the use of a gun in another person's hands.  The debate really isn't whether or not such guns are necessary in as diverse a society as the United States, the debate is on who should be trusted with said firearms.  If you believe that only agents of the state should be trusted with firearms, then let me ask another question.  Do you also believe that a badge makes a man act morally, or is the badge a recognition (by the state) that the man acts in the state's own interests? http://spot.colorado.edu/~huemer/guncontrol.htm 1) I do not support the Selective Service, but I understand the need for it.  I am too old to register, and never needed too because I was enlisted at 17.  No, I was not drafted.You didn't bother to look up the legal meanings of those terms, did you?  Let me help you.  "Well regulated" means well trained or well practiced.  There is no doubt that the framers believed that marksmanship training should begin in early childhood and be performed by the family.  Anyone who tells you differently is uninformed.  The term does not refer to the "regular" army as we understand it today, as even the "regulars" during and after the revolutionary war were local and state militia, trained by whomever was willing and none were 'issued' arms by any government at any level.  A militiaman owns his own weapon.  This remained true up until the civil war.The term "milita" did have a military context to it, but legally refered to, and still does in most states (including Kentucky and Texas) to any able bodied male citizen of the state between the ages of 16 and 55.  Any of them.  If they didn't own a weapon, or know how to use them, they were simply not "well regulated", it did not mean that they were not part of the militia.And this is the legal justification of the Selective Service.  Not that the federal government actually has a right to draft citizens into combat against their own will, but that it has the obligation to know who the milita actually consists of. Based upon the common understanding of the terms "well regulated" and "militia" as they existed at the time of the 2nd's writing, we are both members of such, whether or not you believe that or not.  That is the legal justification for the Selective Service registration system. I believe that the right to defend myself and my family is a basic human right, and that the possession of the most effective tools to that end (by my own perspectives) are an extension of that right.  The 2nd does not grant such a right, it only recognizes that one exists.  Therefore, the truth of the statistical risks or advantages of private gun ownership are irrelevant.  Human rights are not dependent upon the practical argument.http://www.a-human-right.com/Furthermore, there really is no debate in this country on gun ownership.  If the attempt to repeal the 2nd were ever to gain traction politically, Texas would secede and several plains states would follow.  Texas still has the right of secession written into their state constitution, and is one of the largest economies on Earth independently of the US at large. The US gun culture is very real, and would not settle for public debate as failed to work in Britain and Australia.  The final argument against repeal of the 2nd is a civil war, and we've still got the weapons.  And don't tell me that US citizens wouldn't stand a chance against the US military, for there are more former US trained military in America just on the pro-gun side than there are active military everywhere in the service of the US government; and we know their capabilities and tactics because we taught them.  A modern civil war in the US would be as bloody as if the Taliban in Afganistan had been trained & equipt by the United States Marine Corps. The local Bitcoin network could transfer between local users just fine with intermittent and spotty Internet access, but mining locally would not only be futile, it could even be counterproductive if the locally 'mined' block rewards were to start circulating and intermixing with the existing coins.  This would literally take months at the hashrate locals would be able to maintain, and likely be reset every time that the Internet connection was reestablished for any significant period of time, but mining should not be attempted in this scenario, even if it made economic sense.  A regular modem call, even an international one lasting hours, would be cheaper and less resource intensive than mining locally; and be much more productive towards the goal of facilitating local transactions.  The bandwidth requirements to maintain an isolated section of the network, so long as it is not trying to mine, does not scale with the number of local nodes or transactions.  Also, bitcoin doesn't really need a live connection, if the goal is simply to keep the local network's blockchain as up to date as possible.  The occasional snail-mailed USB drive has more than enough bandwidth, and bitcoin doesn't mind the high latency. Nope.  This is a known threat, and not a particularly high risk, either.  Even if it turns out that a quantum computer can rapidly outpace traditional hardware with regards to SHA-256; the bitcoin reference code includes 'hooks' to permit an orderly transition to another, more quantum resistant, algorithem. While 5 gigs isn't really a big issue, bootstrapping is a serious issue already and I expect that the trend towards growing block sizes will continue.  Light clients are destined to be the most common method for an end user to interact with the bitcoin network regardless, but blockchain pruning will permit more people to run full clients for a longer period of time.  This has all been expected, I just didn't expect it so quickly. Wow, that;s a lot of growth since I switched to Electrum a couple months ago.  Sounds like pruning is becoming more pressing I see. Half a motorcycle?
Technically, not keynesian.  I'd say it's arguablely a variety of a monetarist theory, although not of the dominate set. just instal a copy of electrum in another folder, and transfer your coins to that address.  Once done, you can delete your overly large files.  Why did it get so large? I'm not knocking your position, I just don't agree, and believe that I stand to profit if I'm correct.  Conversely, you stand to profit if I'm incorrect; as you'd sell higher than zeroI knew years ago that Ron Paul would not be president.  That has zero bearing on who I vote for, however. MPOE-PR, if you reall believe that this is a true threat, then you should also believe that the exchange value of your bitcoins is going to tank soon.  I, however, don't believe that is a near term risk.  So I willing to offer you $5 per bitcoin, for each and every bitcoin your have.  I'd be willing to take out a bank loan just to be able to do so.  Let me know when you're ready. I'm really surprised that no one else has challenged this statement, because it's false.  The United States made it from 1776 to 1913 before any form of "required" tax was imposed.  I say this, because an excise fee isn't an involuntary tax; nor is an import license.  When libs & ancaps talk about taxes, we are talking about taxes upon income.  Tax upon wages.  If you don't own all of the fruits of your labor, then you don't own yourself.  Thus, you are a slave to the state.  Taxes upon the production & distribution of alcohol, although bad in their own way, can be avoided by simply not byuying alcohol, or making it yourself.  Property taxes are pretty bad, also, for similar reasons.  If you own your home, then the city has no claim upon it whether or not you pay your property taxes. I'm not even an anarchist, but this line of reasoning is faulty on your part.  The early American colonists established ownership via homesteadong. The marked off a plot of and that no one seemed to have yet, and began to work it.  There was even a term for it at the time, 'corn rights'.  Only later did a state arise and recognize those existing claims.  A community is required, but a community does not a government make.  An ancap society is as likely to be communal as any other. Can a transaction be included into the same block that some of it's input transactions are included?  Doesn't the protocol require that an txin dependency reference back to a prior block? Okay, I've been trying out Electrum as a portable solution, but find I seem to be inhibited in many public places.  I presume due to firewalls that prohibit high number/non-standard ports.  Is there a public server that can fake being a standard webserver using port 80?  Can this even ben done? Honestly, I didn't check the suspected scammer list first, but he did thank me.Ah, well.  These things are going to happen every now and again. Well, I'm not that motivated at the moment, so I'm fine with it not happening. That would be a black & white fallacy, whether or not it's a vaild question or not. And then you are forever subscribed to the newbie threads, as well.That is, until you have enough posts that you can delete these first newbie posts. I wish that I, as a mod, could employ that ignore button.  Unfortunately, my responsibilities require that I actually see what you post. From my perspective, you seem to have way too much time to "yell at clouds"Madness is tolerated, while verbal abuse is not.  I do have a problem with your methods, Rudd-O, but you remain here because it's not my opinion that matters.  You seem to have a distorted view as to whom is the victim and who is the bully in these events, Rudd-O.Sadly, that's almost certainly not going to happen.  While I have, personally, pointed out that you are a sophisticated troll in many threads; (and others have done the same) the consensus is that you are not a consistant enough of a troll to demand action from the admins.  (Mods do not have the power to ban unilaterally, excepting newbie accounts)  So if you don't mind, feel free to step it up a notch so I can toss you out, okay? Proof enough that a true Ancap society is practically impossible, simply because the bootstrapping process from where we are to get there would require something very close to a worldwide destruction event to be plausible.  And assuming that the NAP is actually in application, the ancaps who would repopulate and educate this planet would be prohibited from effecting such an outcome.  If the event is natural, it is just as likely, perhaps more likely, that ancap social theories would simply die out with those who advocate them in the near term event.So if you wish to take over the world, you're simply going to have to out-breed the rest; and ancaps aren't known for this skill. Sadly, not close enough for myself. Would you consider a local, cash-in-person exchange?  What city do you live in? Thanks Preparing in the event that an alternative to PoW were to be required, is both wise and rational.  If your methods work out in the alt-chains, and none of the concerns that I have materialize, I'll be one of the first to advocate altering the mainline protocol. While I can't verify my own statements, I was not ignoring your question.  It's just not one that can be easily answered by the vast majority of the forum membership.  Only the developers can respond to my claims, for or against, with any certainty; and most of them don't much participate in the forums.But let me qualify that, while it's a bit more complicated than even I implied, that is basicly the solution posed by others in the past when this kind of issue has come up.  I'm fairly certain that it's all but decided that such an address type is to be developed, but it's just so far down the priority list (being decades away from need) that it's pretty much ignored.  For additional detail, let me describe how a transaction stores coin value into an address.  Technnically, bitcoins don't actually exist, even as a digital construct.  This is a concept that tripped me up early on, but there is no text file, digital object, or portion of any transaction that we could point to and say "that's a bitcoin"; like we could open up a filesystem and highlight a file and say "that's an email" or "that's an MP3 song".  The concept of the coins themselves is entirely an abstract idea.  How it works is; the blockchain works like a huge, massively replicated, distributed LETS ledger containing only details of transactions from one or more addresses to another set of one or more addresses.  The varialbes that are used to contain the values that are transfered in these transactions are 64 bit integer values, which contain no decimal points.  As a matter of convention, Satoshi established that the clients should display those totaled values with a decimal point in the middle of those 64 bits (32 bits form the value shown to the left of the decimal point, 32 bits show the value to the right of the decimal point).  Said another way, the protocol has no concept of BTC's, but only deals in satoshis; but humans have a problem with dealing with numbers quite so huge, and this is why teh clients display the totaled values the way that they do, resulting in the (technically false) meme that there will only 21 million currency units.  However you choose to look at it, the bits of those interger variables with the greatest values will never be used, because the entire monetary base can be stored into a single 64 bit integer using only 48 bits, as the actuall 21 M BTC in binary would look like this...(111,011,101,011,111,000,001,011,010,000,001,110,100,000,000,000,000)So there are 16 bits (or so) to the big end available to place a binary token, that would tell the clients & miners that this address value isn't in the standard "whole" satoshis, but instead expressed as a more fine value, say with a decimal point in the middle (of the 48 bits in use) thus permitting the protocol to advance the coinbase division to another 24 bits of fractional satoshi units.
Indeed, this 'Walmart' scenario was one of those that I brought up in many previous threads.  If Wal-Mart wanted to provide their customers with a fee-less payment option, while still granting themselves relatively quick access to those funds, they are going to have to sponsor a mining operation that favors transactions into and out of their own address set.  Any major retailer that competes with Walmart would have the exact same motivations, while also desiring to exclude the fee-less transactions of their competitors.  While this is a form of competition for those retailers, each of those mining operations still contribute to the security of the blockchain as a whole, and their support for their chosen mining operations would not (primarily) be connected to the amount of fees that could be collected by the act of mining itself.  This is not a tragedy-of-the-commons scenario.  However, time will tell whether or not this kind of external competition is a significant portion of mining or not.  I imagine that bank-like institutions would also form mining cartels in order to offer fee-less transaction processing to their members; as well as international trade institutions would sponsor mining contracts to protect the value of their 'letters-of-credit' operations using bitcoins, much like a bank invests & maintains a physical bank vault at a loss.The long point is, PoW is working and we can see that it does work.  There is no evidence, at the present, that it would not continue to work well.  Whereas there is a lack of evidence that PoX methods offered can actually live up to their promises.  Don't fix what ain't broke. Wait, there is a pre-order signup?  Where is this? I understand these things, but you're still overlooking much.  First, that the issues that block rewards & fees pay for are inseperable.  Second, that the fees that are included in the actual blocks are simply one motivation among several for certain miners to mine.  There are a number of external motivations, that would (in a successful bitcoin future) motivate various economic players to continue to mine even at a loss.  I've covered this issue in depth in many past threads.  Feel free to engage the search function, or simply review all of my past posts.  I'm sure that would save you some time. Mockery is a valid form of criticism, and the original point of this thread.  If your idea cannot suffer a little good mockery, it's probably not a good idea anyway.http://www.dilbert.com/blog/entry/mockability_test/ No we don't.  Your view of the reality is false.  You have an obligation to prove otherwise, and you cannot, because you don't understand it as well as you believe you do.  I'm not motivated to educate you, either.Nope.  I'm not the one who is confused.Also not the issue.  You don't even understand the system as well as I thought you did.  You entirely missed the point, and are so far off the path I don't even see the point in trying to lead you back.Very well, still doesn't likely change my point.  Even minimum fees (unlikley under competition for blockspace) would pay as much in bitcoin towards a block as the current block reward.Go do your valid research, then.  But do it elsewhere.  I say that I don't need such research to predict the outcome, if you say otherwise make it happen.  If you're right, you'll at least be famous, and likely wealthy enough have justified the efforts.  Don't ask us to contribute, though, and move your intentions to alt-chains section.  This does not belong in bitcoin>development & tech discussions. Yes, I've seen it. The architect of the garden and grounds is the same guy that designed several public parks in my city, and the similarities are notable.  Again, his bedroom was wallpapered in gold.  Actual gold, not gold colored paper; but actually gilded paper.  The gold in that room was worth about  a million dollars alone.  To attempt to build something like Biltmore today would destroy America's most richest men today, even considering that many of the construction techniques used in Biltmore were invented there, and that he literally founded an air conditioning company that still exists. (the name of which escapes me at the moment). That's more than enough, Rudd-O. It always has, and that is the primary reason that nations that surged during and after the industrial revolution and information age are rich societies today.  It matters very little that the lowest paying job in America is poverty level, if your poverty level is still (in many ways) better than middle class for the bottom third of the world.  The greatest wealth disparity that this country has ever faced, however, was during the Industrial Revolution, and we managed to do just fine throughout that.  The largest single family home in the US was built during this time period, by a child of one of the greatest industrial minds in history; for himself, his wife, his only daughter and roughly 50 of his house help.  His bedroom was literally wallpapered in gold.  Only a few generations later and most of that wealth had dispersed across many decendents, pushing most of them back into the middle class.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biltmore_Estate The Block reward is simply a special transaction with no inputs, using an address supplied by the miner.  The variable that is bitshifted is the actual 64 bit integer of that address.  The block reward would drop to zero in 2130 only because it would bitshift off of the 64 bit integer of the provided addresses.  If a bit-sifted address is developed and recognized by the protocol, the block reward would be able to continue to bit-shift the block reward for another 24+ bits. For all intents a purposes, energy and money are the same thing with regard to PoW.  This does not change my argument.We don't need a technical way to collect this money, we only need a technical way to require the expenditure of resources in exchange for security of the blockchain. This is exactly what we have.Mining is not a tragedy of the commons scenerio.  It's not even a commons, it's a competition.  As for users (I presume you mean transaction fees), it's arguablely a commons, but not necessarily a tragedy of the commons scenerio.  There are very real limits upon bitcoin transaction volumes, and these limts will create a market rate fee for timely transaction confirmations.  I've mentioned this many times in many threads in the past, but it's not reasonable to assume that in the future all or most bitcoin transactions will continue to utilize the blockchain.  This is almost certainly not going to be the case, any more than most fiat finacial transactions use the ACH or Swift banking networks.  Real & practical limits upon the transaction volumes will put upward pressure on the transaction fees, whileusers and groups of users will devise alternative networks to limit the number of their daily transactions that must use the blockchain.  Whole markets will spring up that share a Paypal-like wallet service.  Silk Road already does this to some degree.  Other markets will use networks more like MPesa, or Google Wallet.  Yet these alternativeswill olly occur if the fees grow too high.  Even teh current cost of a paid transaction, being roughly five cents, would total to well over the current block reward at any transaction volume approaching Paypal's transaction rate.I've seen numbers to back them up, but I'm not going to go looking for them. Why should I?  I've never seen any credible logic to say that PoS is necessary.You believe it should work, and I believe that you believe that.  However, I don't believe that, and furthermore I don't believe it's necessary in any case.  You guys are making recommendations for changes that could undermine or destroy bitcoin.  If you really want to try it, do it on an alt-coin.  I want to see evidence that it's superior to bitcoin before I would even consider joining your efforts to alter bitcoin itself.Well, thank you for that, but I don't believe that you can iron them out, because your intentions to reduce resource consumption is what introduces the need for persistant forms of trust/authority that can be used by attackers to harm the system.  Sure, in most cases you would have the security of a PoW system at a fraction of the cost, but there are cases that will always exist that permit an attacker a much privilaged attack position, simply by identifying and compromising the right node with a 'trusted' status.  There is no way around this issue that PoW doesn't also do just as well for the same cost. Yeah, we are starting to see the beginning of all that with devices such as the Makerbot Repicator and the RepRap.  The company that I work for is a major, international manufacturer, and they own a highly advanced 3D printer that the engineers use.  I'd love to have access to it, myself, but they won't even tell me where it is.  One thing is certain though, they are honestly scared about the quality of the self-replicating hobby 3D printers.  Some have estimated that, at the current rate, most of the products that we make on assembly lines these days will have comparable competition from a printable design.  The old guys are shooting for retirement, and the young guys are simply worried.  Studying to become a manufacturing process engineer, and then discover that a robot is about to make your job obsolete, is certainly disturbing.I've told more than one that he might want to consider designing some of those competing devices for themselves, and sell the designs for a dollar or two apiece per costumer when the time comes.  Sometimes progress is harsh.  The buggy whip manufactures never did recover. It's not a great answer because you don't really know what the right answer is.  So say it.  That won't occur till about 2130, and only if the bitcoin protocol isn't updated to use a coin variable greater than 64 bits.  And it could happen even if 64 bits is all that is ever used.  Some of the bits are not used to store teh coin value at all, and it has been proposed years ago that greater division can be achieved with the 64 bit interger variable by using those unsued bits as a 'flag' to tell the clients that this value is "bit shifted" into an extremely small range.  For example, bit shifted addresses might not be able to hold more than .99_ BTC, but then would be able to divide down to the 16th decimal place or more.  So while a normal address would be able to hold up to the whole volume of the Bitcoin monetary base (21 M BTC) without risk of a buffer overflow, a bit shifted address would max out at just shy of 1 full bitcoin.  One of each type might be required for some transactions in the future, but the vast majority of addresses would be of the bit-shifted type anyway.Thisis just one simple solution that fits within the current protocol, and wouldn't break anythin, and it doesn't even have to be decided for another 100+ years.   Let our grandchildren worry about this, should the need arise. Time to break out the sledgehammers and bust up some looms? Do you have a photo gallery of the work? It's not so much about the spammers as it is about the spam-bots. It doesn't have a remote chance of ever being adopted, either. Somewhat resilient, in theory.  You make the assumption that compromising a majority of stakeholders would be difficult, but you cannot know if that is true.  I know exactly how difficult it is to defeat PoW, at any given point in time.  Knowledge of the issue is, in it's own way, a form of security.Harder, perhaps.  Impossible, no.  Impossible for a third party cryptocurrency user to audit that difficulty, yes.  What if Bitcoin were to use PoS?  How would, say, the US federal government go about attacking or undermining the system?  I can think of several methods that a well helled and well organized group, such as a soverign government who doesn't like Bitcoin, or a group like Anonymous, might be able to employ to take over the blockchain that could not be employed against PoW, period.  PoW is a simple & elegant solution, your pet issue with it is that it requires energy to work.  The current financial system uses an order of magnitude more energy, but so what?  It's that very resource cost that makes a 51% attack not worth the effort.  If there is leverage employed int hte proof system, that same leverage can be used against the ssytem.  There is no way to avoid this possibility except to not employ leverage.This isn't relevant.  Compromising a pool does not imply that said pool can do more than it already could, and is very likley to signal to the pool users to move to another pool.  While a PoS 'pool' retains the advantage simply by possession of the correct keypairs.  If I were to compromise your PoS miner, and take your keypairs, I might simply choose to wait to attack. i can wait for as long as you remain unaware that your keys have been compromised, and attack at will using your keys as well as those stolen from other major miners.  When the attack comes, it would be swift and without warning.  Another reason that the PoW system is not related to the account system.Nonsense, because Trust in this context is persistant.  PoW has no persistant condition.  PoS most certainly does.  The leverage that such persistant trust modes present the trusted users with also presents an attack vector. You can't.  And in a future wherein Bitcoin is hugely successful, and forms the 'backing' for more local currencies or other cryptocurrencies, it can be expected that there will be entire sets of bitcoins that don't move for decades or longer in exactly the same way that the gold in major reserve vaults have changed ownership without changing their physical location for decades. There is no need to be certain, either.  Lost coins do not pose a threat, even if they are never recovered.  However, introducing a method that permits the re-introduction of lost coins does potentially introduce a flaw; that may or may not be exploited to counterfit or steal bitcoins via the blockchain itself.  The very possibility that this could happen is reason enough to not pursue this path, since the problem that you are trying to fix certainly won't be a problem within the next 100 years, and may not be a problem at all.  Bitcoin is not broken.  It's an elegant and highly interconnected system.  No one is going to consider tampering with it because you and a few others see the potential for a systemic problem decades in the future.  You are not the first to bring this up.  Hell, even I brought up demurage some years ago, but there is no way to fix these minor issues without possibly introducing much bigger problems.  Even if lost coins are never recovered, an unlikley scenario in the long term, the market will adjust.  It's simply not a critical issue. Well, I took your sarcasm as an argument, and you ignored my prior point that re-introduction of lost coin sets was unnecessary.  As with gold lost to the sea, future advancements in crypto and hardware will once again make those lost coin sets accessible as salvage.  Bitcoin already has the code set up so that crypto algos are modular, and new ones can be introduced without harming the function of the running system.  This is expected, and was expected by Satoshi.  No cryptologist expects any algo to remain secure indefinately.
I've read your's and Cunicula's work on Proof of Stake.  It's not a solution to anything.  It's a security hazard.  As I've mentioned in those threads many times, and which tends to be ignored, is that PoS creates nodes with special 'trusted' status based on a prior proof of stake.  This moves the greatest of security risks from that of a 51% brute force attack in the case of PoW, to whatever security models are being used by the most trusted nodes.  Thus, the security of the blockchain is dependent upon the security of several different groups, any one of which could have a security flaw in their own systems that permits an attacker to gain access to their node, and thus turn a trusted node (with much PoS to be had) into a malicious node in an instant.  Furthermore, such trusted nodes cannot be audited for their own security by others.  PoW does not have such a problem, as it never elevates particular nodes into any form of trusted status, regardless of their past history.While PoS has a long history in meatspace, it has nearly zero useful application in cyberspace.  Bitcoin's security model does not depend upon the security models of others. You cannot hope to do this, for that is what Bitcoin already is.  Bitcoin's current exchange instability has zero to do with it's deflationary nature, because that won't occur until about 2130.  Bitcoin is still hugely inflationary, and will be more inflationary than the US $ and the Euro for another four years or more; unless something dramatic happens to one of those other currencies.  Bitcoin's current instability is most related to the very tiny size of the market for which it serves.  Even in 2130, Bitcoin will not be particularly deflationary.  The monetary base will simply be very stable, which is not the same as deflationary.  Those who assume that Bitcoin will prove to be deflationary because of lost addresses taking bitcoins out of circulation are still assuming that to be so.  Bitcoin is based upon Austrian Economic Theory, and there is no more 'sound' basis for a currency.  If you want to start a perpetually inflating version, go right ahead, but it's already been done several times, and every time it has faded away in mere months.  Bitcoin was designed to mimic gold, and it does this very well. I've got a novel one, that I think I'll call 'Proof of Work'.  Of course, it's not really new, and happens to be the only one that has any kind of track record.  It's also the only one that has a theoretical history that extends back to the 1990's.  But I'm sure all these other 'Proof of Whatever' methods will work just as well! I was wondering how long it would take before someone decided to mock all this 'Proof of X" bs. It would work, but it's unnecessary.  It's extremely improbable that the crypto algo currently in use for creating address keypairs will remain secure for that entire time period.  Bitcoin includes an upgrade path to a more secure algo, without exposing any security issues in the meantime, should it start to look like the algo is at risk.  The leading 1 at the beginning of current bitcoin addresses is what denotes the version of bitcoin address.  Bitcoin doesn't presently recognize any other, but it eventually shall.  At some point, it's going to become apparent that the current algo is at risk of breakdown, for whatever reason, and the community is going to transition to another algo.  Any unclaimed transactions that have not been moved to addresses using this new algo will ultimately become salvage to whomever can brute force a collision first.  Thus, lost bitcoins are not really lost permanently, just not likely to be recovered within the lifetime of anyone here.EDIT: Actually, Bitcoin does recognize a special address version for the "testnet", but those are not usable addresses in the live bitcoin network. I have a few problems with this proposal1)  I'm not convinced that producing a script that is always false, that hashes out to a previously used address, qualifies as proof that said address doesn't also have an honest private key.  What is to prevent any miner who has successfully mined a block in the past, to brute force a false script that produces the same hash address?  This would certainly be easier than trying to force a key-pair collision, as the script doesn't have to fit into a pre-determined key length, and just about any false script should qualify, would it not?  Brute forcing all the txout's in the block that you have already found, and finding even one match, gives that miner unearned advantages while not preventing said txout from being respent anyway.2)  Assuming this does work as well as intended, the net result is that the block reward is simply lower, so isn't it just an auction for the cheapest miner willing to do the work?3)  The precise number of coins in present circulation cannot be determined, but this might also be true with PoW if we consider the unknown number of lost private keys.4)  The very real expenditure of resources prohibits the attacker who is otherwise willing to deliberately accumulate coins in order to destroy the currency.  Basicly, methods such as PoS and PoB create a potential attack vector that PoW doesn't suffer from; the case of a long trustworthy node turning to the dark side, for whatever reason.  A 51% brute force attack is just as costly for any attacker, no matter who, when or why they choose to attack.  The other methods elevate certain players into a 'trusted node' status, by different methods, and could provide an attacker leverage by only compromising the security model of a major trusted node first. Yes.  What other purpose do you own your concealable guns? I wonder if having a choice in the automatic selection methods would be beneficial as well.  Consider this scenario.Say I have a full desktop client, as well as a thin hardware client (think bitcoincard) that syncs with the desktop client on a regular basis.  So I want my desktop client to automaticly create simple transactions that the thin hardware client can use easily, and preferablely in combinations that don't have a change address at all.  (Thin hardware clients most likely would have only one, or only a few, addresses to work with, change addresses would be trivial to identify if they go back to the sending address)So what I would want my desktop client to do is to regularly produce transactions wherein I have two change transactions; one for the thin client, in the useful denominations, and one with the true change back to the desktop client.  One time, the thin client might get a .01 transaction, another time it might get .02, and another .05; up through .1|.2|.5|1|2|5 so that it would have a selction of transactions that would permit it to combine a spending transaction to any exact amount, or almost any exact amount.  A full client could also use this same technique to, occasionally, produce a changeless transaction as well.  I'm not sure if this would be useful or not, but I would guess that it might complicate 'taint' tracking systems. You really are incapable of recognizing your own faults, aren't you Myrkul? Better yet, how about I actually highlight your errors, rather than respond to your attempt to pretend that you actually interpreted the discourse correctly the first time....Please note, if you will, that you highlighted the correct part of the original post that I was responding to.  However, you then completely misinterpreted it to mean something entirely differnet....You appear to conclude that he, and presumedly I, were talking about replacing 100% of CO2 with oxygen in the atmostphere.  That wouldn't be dangerous at all. Duh. No one was talking about replacing less than  a percentage point of anything with anything else.  And then you folow up with this...Which was almost exactly my argument.  So what do you do?The reason that you "don't see it" is because that link was just a reference for oxygen toxicity syndrome, but it even does have a loose reference in there that you filtered out with your cognative disonance...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxygen_toxicity#Pulmonary_toxicityhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxygen_toxicity#MechanismAs noted elsewhere, CO2 is used as a method to detect when the body needs to breath, but the system has delays; thus a pure oxygen environment leads to slower breathing cycles than even a 99.6% oxygen to 0.4% CO2 ratio would, permitting more time for oxygen to proceed through the reduction process before being expleled and replaced with fresh oxygen.  This doesn't prevent toxicity, but does delay it as more of the oxygen ions are expelled with the rest of the breath.http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/tu-quoque Nonsense.  I wasn't making any comment about whatever topic he was referring to, other than to point out that he was factually incorrect in his use of it.  I do not, and have not, made an judgement about the topic at hand.You didn't actually read either his post, nor all of my response, did you?  Read what you quoted, from him above, and all of what you didn't quote from my response, and you'll discover that your not even arguing in the same room. I should point out, that since this thread has started, someone edited that page to revert to June 10th, 2012, and Bitcoin is not represented at all. This is factually inaccurate.  Pure oxygen, particularly at the partial pressures that would occur anywhere near Earth atmostpheric (~14.5 pounds per square inch) is poisonous, very dangerous, and potentially fatal.  Particularly for someone who might pass out.  We humans (not all animals can do this, BTW, most actually cannot) have a great deal of mental control over out own breathing, but only while awake.  CO2 is used by the body to determine when to actually cycle breath, but the presence of pure oxygen in the lungs, and the lack of CO2 of some small percentage, tricks the system into waiting to breath until the CO2 that is coming back from the bloodstream is high enough to trigger a breath.  The problem is that the detection of CO2 is delayed for many reasons, so while the lungs aren't really running low on oxygen, the stagnation of the oxygen in the lungs, combined with it's elevated concentration in the bloodstream, contributes to oxygen toxicity syndrome.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxygen_toxicityWhile I know that this is off-topic, I can't stand to see falsehoods go unchallenged.  Please return to your regularly scheduled topic thread. We're not discussing logic, and you should know that.  We're discussing human relationships.  Logic is a minor factor for some, and not a factor at all for most.  Never is logic a major factor in human relations, or your worldview might have more resemblance to the real world.  You guys really are deeply indoctrinated.  I suppose that it's good that it's just into a philosophy that does not encourage conflict, or you might be the fourth reich.   It most certainly does not.  Reality looks much more like what we have than what you imagine we should have. You keep using those words as if you know what they mean.  Perhaps your should step back from yourself for a bit and consider the possibility that you do not know what they mean. Oh, no.  The first version was actually attached to bitcoin.org, and couldn't handle the kind of volume that it was getting eventually.  Now it sits on a separate server, and I was just wondering if not all of the archives made the transition. Huh, the search function produces nothing.  Maybe that whole incident predates this version of the forum? OR perhaps I'm jsut thinking of the wrong website.  Could there be another internet forum with a name similar to 4chan? Wow, after all the crap we got from 4chan a couple of years ago?  This is quite a change in position. I honestly hate to agree with you, Cunicula; but that is a plausible analysis.
More than that. Only because they brought him up as support, but even then condeming their admiration of this man because of his other flaws would be...http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/genetic Project much? You make presumptions that you cannot support.  You have no evidence at all that I have ever done anything to any of my children out of anger. Getting close to the deadline.  Any updates here? And we've come back to this one rather quickly...http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/begging-the-questionThat article is about abuse and neglect, and you use it to attempt to show that my parenting methods are harmful, but the very use of an article that starts with an example of a child entering an emergency room due to cigerette burns under the eye implys that your are already, and again, presuming your conclusion.  i'm sure that you're confident that you have already shown this, but you have failed to do so. http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/false-causeI told you I can do this all day. We shall yet see about that, but even if so, one data point does not qualify as evidence.http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/anecdotalI really have to thank Myrkul for pointing out that website to me, I can do this all day. Again, equating catagories without providing a basis for the association.  A child's mind isn't broken.  A stroke victim's mind is provabley damaged.  Without evidence that the stroke victim is capable of relearning, the tow catagories are not even related.  Using behavior modification, whether or not pain conditioning is employed, presumes the the person is capable of learning, and therefore contributing to the odds of success.  With a stroke victim, such capacity is not a given.That said, behavior conditioning is occasionaly prescribed for stroke victims, regardless of how I might feel about it.  It's more commonly used with elderly patients with dementia, however. That's interesting.  These things have a way of working themselves out.  If he has kids of his own, odds are pretty good that at least a portion of them are going to take their parents advice. I literally cannot see the entire thing, and I don't understand why. Of course not.  I wouldn't beat a child to get a point across, either.  As already mentioned, I'm not trying to make a point, but condition a child to associate pain with dangerous activities.  To even attempt to do the same to a stroke victim, would serve no purpose.  Either the stroke victim has enough mental capacity to remember how to act, or they don't; such behavior conditioning of someone with a broken mind is futile.  I'm presuming that a small child's mind isn't broken, it's incomplete.  You try to oversimplyfy things by creating these catagories, and associating activities in one catagory with another; when you don't even make a real attempt to establish the catagories should even exist, much less do you show that equating activities among those catagories is reasonable.The reality is much more complex.  Children are not a uniform group anymore than adults are uniformly capable of self-governance, or even critical thinking.  Your worldview is impossible; not because it's internally illogical, but because human beings are internally illogical.  All of us are; to varying degrees, creatures of habit, of instinct, of self-interest and of our own past experiences.  What we are not, as a rule, is rational.  That's a learned quality, and thus must be taught.  Yet, it cannot be taught to a child who has not, yet, developed the physical greymatter required to reason.  It is, thus, important that such a child live long enough to make it, and preferablely with all his body parts in good working order.  Behavior modification techniques exist to improve the odds of this success, not to make a point with a person who is not yet capable of getting the point.  If he could get the point, I could just warn him of the risks, for he would have already developed the capacity to reason!  I'm sure that when your daughters annoy you to no end with the series of "Why?" related questions, you're going to try to explain the world to them.  But eventually you will grow weary of all that, and simply say, "Because I said so!".  We all do it, and isn't an admission of defeat.  It is, however, an acceptance of the fact that they don't, presently, have the capacity to actually understand, no matter how wwell you explain it.On an unrelated note, if my words come out jumbled, please just know that this form based posting method on this forum aggravates my mild case of dyxlexia, and the spellchecker doesn't seem to dive into these forum forms for some unknown reason.  So when I start getting my letters out of order, it's mostly a sign that I'm getting tired, not partaking in libations. Are you talking about Stefan Molyneux?  I know nothing concerning his views on family, but I've read some of his articles about libertarianism.  Most of them are well reasoned, a few lean toward zealotry.  If he does actually advocate the idea that people who listen to him should sever all familiar ties, that certainly is a classic cult tactic.  However, even Jesus has been quoted as saying that, to follow him one must hate his father and mother.Personally, I take no one's words as an absolute on anything.  Not even the writings of John claiming to be direct quotes of the living God.  I'm not that kind of Christian.  To the best of my knowledge, Jesus didn't write an autobiography. I would presume, but they are not alwasys people that can act or decide on their own behalf.i'm not making a point.  I'm training a child.  Such as the example of the toddler that is too curious about the blue flame on the cooktop.  The intent is not to cause pain, but to associate pain with the activity.  Because a smack on the back of the hand is less painfull and less harmful than a burn.And yet, you still cann't see it.  Your cognative dissonace is significant. So, by your view, it's the intent of the offender that makes torture what it is? Is this generally correct?So I could, by your view, consent to my son to have (painful) elective surgery; but I cannot consent for the same child to coercive (perhaps painful, but with no lasting (demonstratable) harm) behavior conditioning?  Why, if my intent is in the interests of my child?  Does  that not qualify as a contradiciton?Yes, but I chose my example deliberately; as a real world example of a religious activity that 1) does cause much temporary pain while 2) does not cause in real lasting harm but 3) is irreversable and of 4) questionable benefits.  Female cicumsisions most certainly do some lasting harm, and we can debate them later because that is an interesting contradiction as well.  Traditional male circumsision is an activity that many in our own society would very much hlike to prohibit, for many of the same reasons that you would very much like to prohibit corporeal punishment.  It's this realm of inquery that you display your own statist contradictions.  While you might be willing and able to foresee a society that has competing security agencies that could peacably coexist lacking any real geographic monopoly on force, you trip voer your own principles once confronted with a situation for whihc you consider morally abhorant.  I'm no different in this regard, I'll admit, but it is for this very reason that I can't regard a true ancap society as sustainable; for there are many cultures in our society that are inclined towards conflicts by this very nature.  http://edphilosopher.wordpress.com/2010/02/01/murray-rothbard-libertarianism-and-why-children-are-not-simply-houseguests/Here is another article about the libertarian/anarchist conundrum concerning children. I've been avoiding this thread, because I believe we may have come to an impasse. but I would like to shift the focus a bit, just to see.Consider this Myrkul...In a theoretical future ancap society, people would be able to choose to adhere to a religious set of mores, or not, by their own choosing, correct?Would they also be able to raise their children within that same religious culture, or is that kind of cultural indoctriination coercion?Would a rabbi be permitted to circumcise an infant born to Jewish parents?  Would this be torture?  It would certainly fit your model, being very painful, having zero proven medical benefits, and without the concent of the child.  However, the infant never remembers this, due to his age.  While waiting till the child is an adult (traditionally 13) so that he can decide for himself is actually permissable under most interpretations, the downside is that he will most cerainly remember the suffering involved, and choosing not to do so at this point is to reject the commandments of his chosen God.Are the parents of the infant child, when they decide to circumsize their son very young, trying to look out for (what they may consider) in their child's own best interests, violating his rights, or actually doing both at the same time?In your view, would traditional forms of circumcision be worthy of an intervention?  Or simply none of your business unless you were a parent? Not to the same extreme.  At what point does a time out become torture? Once again, your framing of the disagreement presumes the outcome, by assuming that corporeal punishment is necessarily torture.  http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/begging-the-question This discusion about the logic of morality is off topic.  I either of you really wish to have such a debate, start another thread.
I'm not afraid of being proven wrong, because I don't consider faith something that can be proven or falsified.  I just don't have that debate, and I have zero interest in spinning my wheels while listening to you attempt the impossible.It's nothing personal, I've learned long ago that this is a topic best left unsaid. That book is not my only consideration.  We literally don't have the time, nor the bandwidth, to explore this topic.  I don't have the will to discuss my faith path with anyone on an Internet forum, either. More likely he just ignores them and his wife has to deal with it. Woah! Little babies, and twins too!  You've got larger problems coming.  Let me know how that is all working out for you in about two or three more years.I nver said that I was the kind of Christian that took it all as doctrine, Myrkul. I don't know that answer.  Perhaps you could remind me?There are lots of reasons that is so; not the least of which is that my moral code is based upon Judeo-Christian values.  Sorry to break it to you, but pimping out children is verboten, while spanking of errant children is specificly encouraged by the old documents on those topics. I find this unlikely.  When this happened last in the US, gold was how most people saved for old age.  These days, that is done via 401k's and IRA retirement accounts.  There is much more value for a failing government to steal in those accounts than all of the privately owned gold in our modern world.  And since those accounts were created as tax-defered savings vehicles by acts of Congress, it's hard to argue that Congress can't just change it's mind on that issue, for the "greater good" and all that.  For that matter, there has been talk of 'nationalizing' private retirement accounts by certain persons on the far left of the political spectrum in Congress since the big health care law was passed.  It's simply the next box to get a checkmark in their social agenda. For you, as well.  Are you ever going to tell me how old your daughters are, and if they have ever fought with each other? Strangely related to this topic....http://www.strike-the-root.com/evicting-statist-within-us Consider me encouraged.  Again, spanking is a very rarely used method in my household.  Particularly these days, since the only three children in the household that are still younger than the age of reason are foster kids, two of whom are in the foster care system because of severe physical abuse (which, at a minimum, renders spanking ineffective) and the third is an infant who is physically incapable of getting into any trouble, since she can't even crawl yet.  My two blood children are 10 and 12, and neither has been spanked in many years; although they still occasionally end up in the corner for fighting with one another.  When the older of the two abused brothers first came to our house, at about 2 years old, he only had two emotional states, indifference and abject rage.  My son, 8 at the time; was entirely unprepared for a little boy half his body weight to attack him like a pit bull.  Yet, that is exactly what happened!  In the first week, this two year old had bloodied and bruised an 8 year old boy who didn't believe that fighting back was kosher, because the boy was (less than, really) half his size.  The two year old had finally bit my 8 year old son so hard, through a pair of jeans, there was a pretty fine image of his teeth in a blood blister.  We had to explain to my son that we could not spank him, because we had made that agreement to the state, but that he had made no such agreement; and that he needed to defend himself.  It took a few more good brawls before the 2 year old caught on to how things would go for him, but he got the message.  Don't attack his new brother, because he would get hurt doing it.  This ended the reign of terror for my 8 year old, but things remain more difficult regarding that same kid and his own little brother.  He is starting to toughen up, now days, and can give his older brother tis for tat, so I don't expect that to persist much longer; but at the time the little brother was barely one year old, and still crawling, and we were literally prohibited from excersising justice on his little brother's behalf by contract. I'm still not sure that it would have made much difference, considering that the 2 year old had experienced so much pain for no cause whatsoever, that he might not have been able to associate a spanking to his own behavior at all.  (He actually has physical scars, some on his face.  I'm talking about real abuse here)  After all, that would imply an ability to reason at a very young age; too much to expect. I take those very same classes, as they are required annually of "resource parents" under contract with the state's Department of Child Protective Services, which I am.  Very few of the actual courses have much to say about alternatives to corporeal punishment per se, but the ones that do are incrediblely useful.  I do use those techniques, in as far as they work, but they have limits.  I'd suspect that Myrkul would consider some of those techniques to be corporeal punishment anyway, as they do involve the use of force and the deliberate use of pshycological stressors, if not actual physical pain as a deterent.  Myrkul's viewpoint simply isn't practical for a majority of children, assuming he would not consider caging them during the times for which he could not be actively holding them.  There simply is too many dangerous tools, appliances and household products to fully protect small children; and that is not even considering the hazards beyond the front door.It makes sense to limit spanking as a deterrent anyway.  I never questioned that.  What I'm saying is that the use of corporeal punishment as a parenting tool is not criminal, not automaticly abuse, not a violation of their human rights, and between myself & my wife (and the state, in the case of foster care children).  Neither Myrkul, nor anyone else, has any say in that, no matter what he might think of it. Corolation is not causation.  Those observations are just as likely to be associated to criminal behaviors to be learned by observation of both their parents & peers.  I would say that it is even more likely, criminality is often associated by neighborhood far better that whether or not the parents used corporeal punishment or not. Damn Christians, keep interfering into a perfectly disfunctional social habits. The irony of that is the above historical note was a practical observation by the Pope.  Think about that for a minute.Then you are not an ancap!  That's a representative democracy!  And some people are not capable of doing even that, as our own past 20 years or more should be evidence enough.Between the two of us, I'm not the one advocating for everyone to march to the same drum, forced or not.  You're the one who insists that I comply with your moral interpretations, under final threat of force.  You have already stated as much, and argued to length.  Why can't you accept that you don't get to decide mores for me?  You seem to think that you can win this argument.  You can't, and neither can I.  Because it's unwinnable.  It's not an argument that can be settled by logic or reasoned debate.  It's entirely a matter of personal perspectives.  We both look at the same basic principles and come to different conclusions.  And this is despite the fact that, on so many other things, we agree.  How on Earth can you rationally expect that a real ancap society wouldn't continually be in a state of low level civil war?  And don't forget that followers of this kind will cling to any assertive authority.  The Third Reich depended upon it. I didn't claim that it's black and white.  I am more than aware that all of life can be found in many shades of grey.  What matters is working towards the light as far as that is reasonable. Different people are going to do different things.  Adjust.  The end is still the same, is it not?  Let them spin their wheels, and you just do your best to roll with the punches that they attract.  And let them do the same when your actions attract the wrong kind of attention.  You are not their keeper, nor are they yours.  This argument is futile. "Used to"? And yet, this is a contradiction as well.  The benevolent state apparatus that wields a monopoly on the use of force and is funded by involuntary taxation (no matter how 'fair') cannot maintain it's benevolence over time.  It may start there, but it will not end there.  It took less than a generation for that one to screw up the best intentions of the framers of the US constitution.  And they still claim that taxation is voluntary, because so is work, and the food that work buys. Is it a contradiction for a Catholic to intervene in an abortion?AnCap is a flawed premise as well, as I have already stated.  The premise being that all people are capable of governing themselves, which is demonstratablely false, and the only reason that some kind of government will continue exist.  The real reason that so many people have a real problem with imagining an ancap society is because it cannot exist, and that is the real contradiction.Oh,I have.  You should try it yourself.  Step outside of your little box, and try to consider yourself from the perspectives of others.  It's incrediblely enlightening. Of course, since I'm an INTP, it's literally impossible for me to not continually question myself, as that is part of what I am.  I am also of the opinion that ancap is impossible for another, more subtle, reason; that being, if Myers & Briggs were even close to correct, there is a minority of the population that is fundamentally incapable of self-government on any practical level, and not because they have criminal tendencies.  Simply because they depend upon a perceived, external moral authority in order to form a personal code of behavior.  These are the kind of people that would condone the violation of minority rights, simply because that was the law where they grew up.  I know it's hard for you to imagine, because you believe that since you think a certain way, that most people think in the same way.  This is not the case.  These same people would be lost and easily swayed in an ancap society, lacking any dominant moral authority, and in just a few generations your stable ancap society would self-destruct.If I were to guess, Cunicula probably falls into this catagory.  And no, that is not necessarily a bad thing. All three lead to regimes with two or more classes of citizens, eventually.  There is no solution to that. You forgot the part about the parents holding those same rights 'in escrow' and excersing them on his behalf.  That is the part for which we disagree.You can look at it however you wish to look at it.  But no matter how you look at it, you have no say in it.  Until you accept this basic truth, you will continue to spin.No, you're missing the point.  Let me offer a slightly different analogy for you to ponder.  As a Christian, I'm also not okay with a much worse violation of the rights of children, namely abortion.  I find it morally abhorrent, and quite literally murder of a human life.  To take your perspective, I'd be within my right to shoot abortion doctors as serial murderers.  After all, if I'm morally obligated to defend the victims, what other option do I have?  There can be no peaceful disagreement, in your worldview.  Every perceived violation of human rights must be met with force if reason is not sufficient, after all.  But I can't do that, now can I?  Certainly some have done exactly this, and they have gone to prison as murderers.  The problem is that some aspects of Juris Naturalis have a consensus.  I.E., Thous Shalt Not Murder, Thou Shalt Not Steal, Thou Shalt Bear False Witness, etc.  What does not have a consensus is "what, exactly, is 'murder'?  Is fighting in a war, even one that would qualify under the 'just war' doctrine, murder?  For some, the answer there is yes; but for most, the answer is most certainly no.  So the same rationale applies to yourself, and your desires to interfere in how I raise my children.  If you were to actually see me spank a child on the street, your moral code compels you to intervene.  Yet, if you harm me in doing so, the law will not respect your moral obligations any more than it would respect mine, or those of the 'honor killing' types.  I respect that you really do believe that what I am doing is wrong, and do believe that you are sincere in your good intentions.  However, we both know how the path to hell is paved.  Furthermore, you can't seem to wrap your head around the fact that you are bound by your absolutist ancap philosophy.  While I could change the legal definition of the beginning of life to conception by lobbying congress and convincing a significant majority of the current population that my views are correct, and then proceed to engage the government's monopoly on force to suppress the crime of abortion; you would have to lobby the whole of your society and achieve a consensus, and even then you would be powerless to react should someone come along later who disagreed.  It is not a contradiction for me, as a libertarian and not an anarchist, to expect the government to use it's regulatory powers or monopoly on force to protect the rights of children (as I interpret them).  It is, however, a contradiction for you, as an ancap, to attempt to impose your interpretations of same upon myself, in any fashion whatsoever. The requirement that a population surrender a subset of their sovereign rights in order to grant those powers to governments, with the intention of securing the remainder isn't an illusion.  It's the very premise on which our version of a republic was originally built upon.On more point to be made.  While I do find pedofilia to be morally abhorrent and a violation of the rights of children, it's noteworthy to point out that there are still cultures in this world for which marrying off an eight year old daughter to one of her male uncles is normal.  I do not feel that I'm obligated, or even 'called', to remedy this problem.  If you should feel that you are, I would be more than willing to contribute to the costs of your plane ticket, as well as the costs of your funeral, but not to the fund for your daughters who would grow up without a father.
If your version of statism exists only to protect the rights of the individual, and society from external threats, then yes.However I strongly doubt that is what you mean. I see that we need to return to first principles, Myrkul.Correct me it I'm wrong, as I'm sure you will, but isn't one of the core principles of an AnCap society that every adult is soverign over their own affairs?If that is true, is it not also true that my views about how I raise my children are a matter between myself, my wife and my children?Just as you are soverign over your own affairs, and can raise your children as you see fit, as I have no say in your affairs; correct?Do you not see the contradiction in your own philosophy?  One the one hand, you profess that men should be able to govern themselves (for which I agree) and see no problem with taking that to it's absolute (for which I don't agree); but on the other hand, you also profess that there is a "right" way and a "wrong" way to raise children.  Sure, you have the right to believe that, even to profess that; but you don't have the right to impose your beliefs upon others.  Should you choose to do so, and cannot get compliance with words alone, you have professed a moral obligation to use force.  Granted, violence is the last argument of the sovereign, but it is also about as likely to be his last argument ever.  I do see the contradiction of anarchism, for it fundementally assumes that every adult has, not just the right, but also the willingness and ability to self-govern.  (This ability also presumes self-censorship, as in the skinhead in the barfight example; while none of us has the right to not be offended, offending others still has natural consequences) The root problem with this theory is that there will always be a subset of people for which this assumption does not apply.  Some will grow into it, others never will, but never can all the people be able to self-govern at the same time.  So what is the pensive ancap to do?  If you really believe that corporeal punishment is child abuse, are you not obligated to intervene?  But how, if every adult is presumed capable of self-government, and is sovereign over his own affairs?  If you step in personally, and things go sour, do you imagine that my children will be thankful that you have relieved them of a tyranical parent?  Or is it more likely that you would have started a blood feud between my surviving family members and your own?  This is not a trivial question, since we can't assume that everyone who lives in an ancap society would agree with your own belief system.Granted, our real world has many contradictions.  Yet one sign of maturity is the ability to incorporate such contradictions into one's worldview.And to the "point" about my not being a good Christain because I don't see the "Golden Rule" in the same context that you do, the best understanding in English for the Golden Rule is not "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you" (otherwise you have this very event.. http://www.dilbert.com/strips/2012-12-09/ ) it's more correct to say "Do not do unto others for which you would not have done to you".  The distinction is not trivial. If that is how you wish to look at it, go ahead, but it does not change the reality that your perspectives have zero bearing on my children.  Once again, I must point out that, (under this reality one such as an ancap) it's not your opinion that matters with regard to my children; it's mine.  Your opinion is inmaterial.How exactly?  Are you of the opinion that the skinhead doesn't hold any responsibility for the outcome?  Or that the interloper was obligated to defend someone he doesn't know from the Praetorian Guards?FTFY Hmm, are you afraid to answer this question because I might use it against you?Assuming that you have ever encountered one sibling attacking the other, what did you do?  Did you try to reason with the attacker?  Did you put her in a 'time out'?  While my methods certainly don't teach my children that hitting is wrong, what do your methods teach the victimized sibling about justice?  From my perspectives, it would teach them that the only way that they will get justice for being wronged by their sibling is to exact that justice themselves.  This is very much a problem with pre-K daycare centers, as all the children learn early on that the consequences of their actions that are likely to be imposed upon misbehavior by the caretakers are almost always less troublesome than the actions themselves.  Some children learn this, and take advantage of it while dominating their peers.  Others children learn this, and come to understand that the caretakers can't always watch over them, can't see all of them, and don't impose consequences evenly, nor in a fashion that is equatable to the crime; and those children learn to defend themselves in kind and exact their own form of justice, or they simply curl up and suffer. I noticed that you never did mention how old your daughters were.  Have you ever had your daughters get into a fight? You do realize that your ongoing rape strawman situation has next to zero to do with this topic right? So sayaith Judge Dred himself, eh?It doesn't, it merely conditions an irrational child to associate certain behaviors with certain consquences.  In the case of hitting his siblings, the natural consequences may not be enough of an incentive to deter him.  After all, if my son were to hit his big sister, what more could I have done that his sister would not have already?  Is the defense of the younger child also not the responsibility of the parent?  Or are the rules different simply because the aggressor also happens to be a child?  What if the neighborhood bully were to enter your own front yard to smack around your daughter?  Are you just going to try to reason with him, or are you going to intervene?  What difference does the age of the attacker, or the relative size of the defender, matter in tis context?  None at all, but you make special cases within your own mind to justify to yourself your own perspectives.  The truth is that there exists no consistant method of how to treat pre-age-of-reason children in any version of ancap or libertarian theories.  Usually the matter is left entirely unaddressed.  As such, my own interpretation is a valid as your own, you just refuse to accept that.I didn't say it justified their actions, I just pointed out that the potential of misinterpreting a situation is high, and carries it's own consquences.  I live in this world, your's remains theoretical.  Even so, there is a old principle known as "fighting words" that can be considered aggression in it's own right.  There is a very good reason that, historically speaking, armed societies were polite socities.  There is no reason to assume that an ancap society would be different in this regard.  This one certainly isn't.  If this same skinhead were doing the same thing to a group of young black men, would you have expected their reactions to have been differnet?  If not, why not?  And if it were these young black men who that guy with the 38 special had encountered, how would that have affected the accuracy of his interpretations?  Sure, he had the power to intervene, but should he have excersized that power?  Would he have done so, if he had boune witness to the confrontations that led upto the part he did see?  Hard to say, and therein lies the rub.  If it's hard to say, you shouldn't be inclined to jump into other people's businesses.I feel the same about you, I must say.  I think having someone so cocksure of himself and so ready to default towards the use of force against others would be unwise to invite into my own sphere of relations under any conditions.  Most likley, however, you're not really a hypocrite; just young and inexperienced.  I'm sure that you will grow out of it. Do you realize that your detractors have been achieving their core goals, right?  No matter what you do, it will not directly affect them (or me), yet each moment you spend responding to them delays your progress.  They are winning, whether or not they are correct.  While I, personally, don't agree that one bitcoin based business making agreements with establishment institutions in Europe has any great effect upon Bitcoin as a whole; I also don't view such a developement as automaticly a positive one.  Furthermore, I don't believe that you will actually be permitted to succeed.  If such a development actually is a net positive for Bitcoin, you will be undermined to your final bankruptcy at least.  If such a development survives six months, I will take that to mean that it's a net negative for Bitcoin, and avoid you like the plague. That is, probably, the most rational thing you have said in this thread.  You are welcome to do exactly what you profess above.  You will, most definately, be shocked at just how unlikely it is that my children will take you up on your advice. My logic assume no such thing.  This is why it's best to call the cops, even if you are an ancap, and let the agents of the state hash things out.  Under no conditions am I obligated to intervene at all. Perhaps.  I'm pretty sure that he wanted to continue to beat on his little brother unhindered as well, before your strawman character walked around the corner.And don't had me some bullshit about how peaceful and loving my children would have been to each other had I only tried to reason with them as toddlers.  If you actually believe that boys aren't naturally inclined to dominate each other (particularly their slightly younger peers) then you have no experience with children at all.  Girls will do the same thing, BTW; although they may not do so quite as readily.  One of the only things that will get my wife to go directly to corporal punishment with our children has always been one hitting the other.  My oldest child is female, and her little brother two years younger.  When he was still an infant, she treated him like a precious doll.  But once he was old enough to move around and play with "her" toys, she would regularly strike him (quite hard, mind you) in order to take the toy away, while screaming "MINE!" How old are your daughters, BTW?  Now I'm curious. And yet, you cannot see the error in your logic, even now.  And you would not apologize and leave.  You would, at a minimum, have to face restitution for whatever harm you caused; even in your ideal ancap world.  And that's the best case scenario.  If your intentions were misinterpreted by the lovers, you'd as likely be shot; and under such case their interpretations of your intent would be the material one.You insist on using a biased strawman argument, but whatever.  Again, defense is use of force.  Whether or not it is defensive in nature, in third party defensive situtations, is not dependent upon your interpretaion of the situation, but your presumed victim's.  Again, if you are wrong, you are the aggressor.  Everyting flows from the interpretaion after the fact, but in the heat of the moment there can be many interpretions.Depends on too many factors that you have left unmentioned.  As I have already pointed out; would be good samaritains have gone to prison for miss-interpreting a situation.  One in particular that comes to mind, some years ago a man entered a bar that he regularly frequents, and immediately encounters a group of men beating upon a single man.  He assumes that the group of men were the aggressors, and pulls out a 38 special revolver.  He finds out, much later, that the group of men were off-duty policemen out having a good time, and that the man on the ground was a neo-nazi skinhead who, after discovering that a group of cops were in the bar, proceeds to sling slurs at the cops, calling them "pigs", and throwing small objects from the bar at them in a drunken state.   Granted, that guy went to prison for pulling a weapon on police, not for missinterpreting an encounter or harming anyone, and he shouldn't be there; but there he is.  I would ceratinly take much more care to understand such a situation, if for no other reason than the protection of people that I don't know is less of an obligation upon myself than protecting myself from the aggressions of any party to a conflict.  I am not obligated, by the NAP or otherwise, to intervene at all. Furthermore, your interpretation of this strawman situation is critical.  If I were, as a matter of fact, some nutcase ruthlessly beating a child (mine or someone else's), then your interference; whether of the passive aggressive type you claim, or of the more normally aggressive variety, is entirely justifiable.However, if instead, you were to see me simply spanking my miss-behaving child (already a very unlikey event, in my case) in a public place, and you chose to intervene (by whatever method) you would still be an aggressor.  You would have to be able to justify your actions (assuming you survived the encounter), and you cannot do that without my child agreeing with your perspectives.  In most places in these United States, corporel punishment is legal (whether you like that or not) and the law treats the parents as 'guardian ad litem', or guardians under the law, and thus the child's rights are exercised by the parents until of legal age. (18 unless the parents chose to 'emancipate' as noted earlier)  So, unless you can convince a judge to appoint another 'guardian ad litem', you would have to ask the parents to agree with your perspectives.  Do you not see your problem?  There is nothing in ancap theories, nor in the non-agression principle, that solves the root disagreement here.  We disagree on this very core issue, and your problem is that you can't seem to fall back upon your own ancap principles and accept that, as the parent, I have the greater claim to my own children and their interests. Wow, you are thick.I did not say that stopping a rapist wasn't an aggressive act, I said that no one does it like you are trying to imply.  Stopping a rape certainly is an aggressive act, which is one reason that you had best be certain that you have interpreted the situation correctly.  If you happen upon a screamer and her boyfriend having wild, consentual, sex in some seedy area's backally; and you interfere, you are the aggressor no matter how it is you believed the situation.  If it's a true rape, use of force to protect the victim is justifiable (if you are correct) but it is still force.  This is a case in point about outcomes, it's not your perceptions that matter, but the woman's.  If you are wrong, and her boyfriend is harmed, you are liable for that harm.Yet, that is still beside the point, because this is not the situation that your original strawman implied, and by now you know it.  I interpreted your statement "I will intervene just as if I see a mugging on the street" cannot be interpreted in the way (passive aggressive) that you claim that you intended it.  It can only, rationally, be interpreted that you inplied tht you would intervene with deliberate and immediate force.  That is why I responded in the way that I did, and you continue to claim that I am wrong.  I, quite literally, can't be wrong in this situation; because I'm the character in this strawman play that is interpreting your intent.  What you may have wanted to imply, or say, or convey; is entirely irrelevant. Of course not.  no one does this to stop a rapist...Although I do have to admire your persistance, even if your rationality is is question. Well, for starters, simply making the deliberate act of seperating a child from their parent in a public space is an act of aggression.  But as I have already noted, that's not the same strawman that Myrkul started with, although that's the one that he would have prefered once I hit him with reality.  Even still, his odds of making through such a confrontation without harm are higher in my presence than most, and still not very high even if he didn't intend to cause harm.  His actions would not have been interpreted that way, even by someone who was rational.  Anyone less than rational is unlikely to have interpreted his actions in any way more favorable than I anyway. Don't bother.  It's a specialized occupation that requires much geekiness to become profitable.  You're much better off offering some service to the community in exchange for bitcoins.  Most people are the same.  I have personally never mined anything.That's no longer possible.  This forum has been messed up for years. Best for what purpose? Not one to pick an easy task, are you?I can't really help you here, but I can locate potential problems pretty fast.  Assuming that you can develop such a distributed reputation database, that can't be undermined or hacked, what prevents people from developing multiple online identities to game the rep systems? This is the point that Myrkul has become the aggressor against myself, and thus the point at which everything that happens later is beyond his control.FTFYPotentially shoots Myrkul.  Wheterh or not I actually did, and whether or not I was prosecuted in my own state, depends entirely upon the details.And yet, this strawman is entirely beside the point.  As noted, Myrkul orriginally stated that he would treat me as if I were a (presumedly violent) street mugger.  To later state that he intended that we would  simply step between us(even if theat were possible) is irrational.  One does not deal with a mugger by stepping between a violent person and his current target, and then try to talk to them.  Therefore, it would have been irrational for me to have assumed that he intended anything other than the deliberate use of force against myself, or my child, inorder to affect change.  That makes him the aggressor, from my perspective, and the results predictable.  To argue that my perspectives are not correct is irrelevant, for those would be the first impressions of anyone who were in such a situation that Myrkul describes.  I simply turned his strawman situtation around upon him, and told him how the real end result of such an unlikely encounter.  To later backpedal and state that he didn't intend it the way I interpreted it is, again, beside the point.  To interprete his original statements how he, later, professes them would have been irrational.
And what do you think might happen next? http://www.mcx.com/WalMart seems to have thrown in with this digital wallet group.  I can't find much info on how it's really supposed to work, but I'm willing to wager that it's just another example of credit cards on a smartphone. Try Flinc This is your exact quote...Emphasis is mine.  So you state that you would intervene as if I was a mugger attacking someone.  First off, this is  a dangerous position to take anyway, because not only do you really now know what is going on, whether or not you were correct you would be risking yourself for another. Perhaps a nobal goal, but you had better be damn sure that you're correct in your initial assumptions.  There are cases of people going to jail for intervening in conflicts for which their assumptions were incorrect.But back to my point.  You state that you would intervene as if I were a mugger on the street.  Am I to assume that you would intervene by trying to reason with me?  Of course not.  The implication here is that you would do one of two things; either you would intervene using force of your own, or call the police to do it for you.  It should be obvious enough that you didn't mean the latter, sicne you are so opposed to government monopolies, I should rationally be able to assume you ment the former.  If you really believed that what I was doing was criminal, and that you had some obligation to stop it, by what logic would you depend upon retoric?And this is the quote wherein you deny the obvious interpretation...Again, emphasis is mine.  Again, you you state that you are "damn sure" going to step in and stop me from "beating" my child in front of me.  Again, you had better be certain of your interpretation of the situtation.  But how would be certain to do such a thing?  You follow up with the bullshit that we would have such a discussion on the street.  No we would not, because in order for you to stop me, you would have had to come between us.  Do you really imagine that you would be negotiating with anyone at this point.  I pride myself on my level-headed-ness, but I know that I'd be in condition 2 before you had the chance to speak.  Anyone more jumpy and armed and you'd be a gurgling mass.EDIT:  More precisely, I'd be in Condition Orange.  I'm generally in Condition 2 when I carry, so the immediate shift would be mental, from Yellow to Orange.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jeff_Cooper#Combat_Mindset.E2.80.94The_Cooper_Color_CodeYou'll get neither from me, as I still contend that I interpreted the situation correctly.  You may, once again, try backpedaling from your original statements, and pretend that you didn't ever intend it the way you said it; or you could man up and admit that you were implying that you would really have 'intervened' exactly as I interpreted it. We are talking about two different things, I think.  FRB with gold was different than modern FRB.  With gold, the bank would usually be lending by offering a promisary note or a warehouse receipt based upon gold that was kept in the bank.  It was really just faith in that bank that they could actually perform should the deal go sour, not really that there was that much gold available.  While it's possible for a bitcoin bank to do something similar, the network (which the bitcoin economy is dependent upon) will not accept promises or warehouse receipts, only actual bitcoins.  If a bitcoin bank were to sell CD based upon the idea that those bitcoins would be lent back out, yes FRB would work, but that would be more like the free banking era after the Civil War, not the modern version of FRB.  Yet, such a bank would have to be open and honest about such a thing, and keep whatever on-demand accounts that it maintained completely seperate from those lending funds, or a run would eventually destroy them.  Such things happened on a regular basis during the free banking era, as bank owners got to greedy and too confident that customers wouldn't ever lose faith.  If a bank were to offer bitcoin bonds, and then lend those funds out in loans, the honesty of the pattern might just permit things to work.  Practically, however, modern banks don't work this way.  A modern verison of a bank actually gets it's 10% reserve requirement from savings accounts of all kinds, and then lends out funds that have never existed to 9 times that original deposit amount.  It's the implicit backing of the central banking (and thus taxpayers) that permit such an activity. No one, not even the miners, can generate new bitcoins beyond the limits of the protocol.  FRB is not possible using actual bitcoins. I'll review this at a later date. My home is a foster home.  I agreed, by contract and in advance, to monthly visits by social workers.  My methods are not considered abuse by the state social structure.  Even so, I additionally agreed to not use corporal punishment of any form on the two foster boys, because they were removed from a physically abusive home.  The father avoided prison by surrendering his parental rights.  I abide by my agreements. Ha!  That one almost works, except I wasn't using that anecdote as an argument, I was using as an example.  Your readiness to jump to that site to discredit your detractors is arguablely...http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/the-fallacy-fallacyYou fail to see many things, young man, than you are likely to revisit many times.  One likely failure is your assumption that your daughters are likely to respect you back, or even agree with your political & moral  perspectives.  Then again, they might, and you are just as likely to forever view your parentals styles as the root cause, and it's just as likely as not to be so.  You aslo presume that conditioning a toddler to associate dangerous activities with pain is necessarily "disrespect".Perhaps, perhaps not.  You rally don't know the details of my parenting strategy, beyond the fact that I'm unwilling to exclude corporeal punishment from consideration.  You have no idea how rear or common my use of same may be.  You also don't care; again, the black and white fallacy.You keep switching from this argument to a "practical" argument "corporeal punishment is harmful" and back.  It's the practical argument for which you are false that such things are black and white.  Such risks of harm run along a continuum, for which I am aware.Your "corporal punishment is abuse" argument is invalid simply because you don't get to decide that question.  Again I do, not you.  Period.Nonsene.  I don't put any words into your mouth.  I din't claim that you would do something that you didn't state.  You said it, should I quote you?Okay, we're going to have to dive back into the thread history.  But not today.  Time for bed. First off, I have already stated that I don't accept your definitions, because they also presume the conclusions that you seek.  Shall I get out your "yourfallacyis" links out next?Second, there are many forms of pain that do not require violence; so no, those are not equatible statements.Furthermore, not all forms of corporal punishment actually involve pain.Your argument is invalid.http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/appeal-to-authorityNo, our disagreement is more basic than that.  I do contest the validity of your perceptions, but that is actually beside the point.  My poin is 'who gets to decide'?  The answer is, I do and you do not.  I do, singularly; and you do not, even collectively.  Could I be wrong and end up screwing up my kids' lives?  That remains a possibility for which I am ever aware.  The same rings true for you, however; which does ot seem to be something for which you are aware.  You will be.  I have met many young parents (and childless couples) who advocate for such a "zero corporeal punishment" style of parenting.  However, I have met very few older parents who stuck to that method.  Among those who did; one has two boys in prison, one has one child who is a drug addict, one has a daughter who was pregnent at 15, and one has an adult son that never moved out.  Obviously, these same parents also had many other children who were not so screwed up, but I'd wager that some non-neglible percentagle of their grandchildren will either 1) end up screwed up or 2) be raised without such a zero-corporel punishment theories.Granted, my children can end up screwed up in different ways.  However, each of my children are treated as individuals, so their bad habits are addressesed individually.  You do not have any means to address certain behaviors (should your daughters express such bad habits) because you have already excluded such options.And yet your are failing....http://yourlogicalfallacyis.com/black-or-white..because I can actually justify my own actions, therefore I'm not the hypocrite here.  You are trying to apply your own interpretations of the NAP, and your own (cherrypicked) definitions of certain magic words in a futile attempt to convince myself that your interpretation is the correct one.  I have my own interpretations, and there is nothing that you can do about that without using force against me.  Something that you have already stated you would be willing to do.  All that arguing with statists that ancap societies would be tolerant of subcultures that disagree with the NAP, such as hippie communes, and may or may not use force internally; and you rush right to the use of force (individually or collectively) when confronted with a contrived situation for which you find beyond your own capacity to tolerate.  No matter how you spin it, or how it would work out in the real world; if you were to touch a child that was not your's in a public space, with the obvious intent of removing said child from their parents (regardless of what cause you may have) you have just initiated the cycle of violence.  Your interpretations in this context become irrelevent. Were you not paying attention for the past five years?  Or did you swear off bad news? That was Hong Kong prior to WWII, not the Chinese in general; but yes, that would keep things honest. Taken alone, this is true enough.  In practice, however, fractional reserve banking has too many flaws that can be manipulated by certain people with particular positions.  Experience tells us that any advantage that such flaws may create will be taken advantage of by someone eventually, and will continue to be taken advantage of even to the detriment of the entire system.So while not actually evil, fractional reserve banking is certainly amoral, offering no net benefits to the populace in the long run.  The gold standard functioned as a limiting factor upon those who would have taken advantage, and thus delayed the breakdown of the system for much longer, but ultimately the breakdown still had to occur by some method or another.  Likewise, central banking delayed the greater of those flaws for some time, but at the cost of permitting such flaws to spread to the whole of the system before they are catastropic; so rather than simply a regional problem that destroys a few local banks, they become problems that grow to the point that they threaten the entire economy at once. Once again, you are presuming that corporal punishment is necessarily violent by it's nature; and you are always presuming that, violent or not, said punishment isn't justifiable or authorized.  I contest both those unstated premises, and you willfully avoid the topic because we cannot agree upon first principles. I do see your point here, and I actually do agree.  However, I must point out that our resident Krugman fan is correct; it's still better to not feed the troll, even if you have the right to respond in kind.  Trolls are often only after the joy of causing an emotional response, and ignoring them simply removes the reward for this activity. By itself, no.   Depends upon the conditions, of course, since the very word "murder" implys an unjust killing. http://cafehayek.com/2012/12/the-very-talented-mr-papola.htmlNew bit from EconoStories You are proving my point.  And no, responding to slanderous fabrications with more of the same isn't helping. The answer is in the question.
That's been my experience, yes.Nowhere.  While I have done this kind of thing (not recently and not at this kind of price level), when I put in a bid that is over that of the best ask, I'm charged for the best ask for as many bitcoins as were available at that price.  My account balance doesn't change based upon how much I bid, but how much that actual sale was for, plus fee. While correct, that's still trolling; you know that, right?Rudd-O, I often cring when you jump into a conversation, because I both tend to find your participation to be both provocative & content-lite, as well as often arguing on my own side.  As a moderator, I find this to be an aggravation.  For while I often find your comments funny, they usually lack any particular merit.  This very comment is more civil than your norm, but otherwise typical. No one, but it's fun to watch you guys flop around. MtGox openly takes a small percentage of the transfer as a fee.  It's been a while since I messed with MtGox at all, but last I checked, they state that orders should execute at the actual price plus fee even if the bid amount is higher than the ask. Hmm, yeah I guess faith in democracy would be a special case of this.  I wonder if simply referencing opinion polls would qualify, since I've done this one myself. I know that polls don't actually count as an argument, but I wonder if there is a finely definable limit as to what their usefulness as supporting evidence actually is. Bitinstant.com or Coinbase.com are two good ones. Are you making an accusation?  Or just speculating? Yeah, that's the first time I've ever seen a popularty/bandwagon argument used on an Internet forum, although it's a pretty common one to be used by my wife's family. Well, I guess I was the one confused. One of us is confused.  The public and private keypairs are just really big numbers, and are not compressible.  The leading 5 on a bitcoin address denotes a private key expressed in bitcoin's own format, with a built in checksum.  I know not what the others represent, but could represent keys expressed raw, or keys expressed in the format for the testnet. Looks like it was included in a block. There is currently a hard data size limit for a block at one MB, and a soft data size limit for all transactions that do not pay the minimum fee of roughly 10% of that, or about 100KB.  Since the average transaction is about 1.5 KB, it'd only take about 70 free and low fee transactions to hit that soft limit.  Eventually, though, such transactions do make it in.Blockchain.info can't really know if your transaction is part of a double spend attempt or not, because such conflicts are sovled by a race of sorts.  When a transaction is broadcast to the network, it is received, checked for validity, and forwarded to all that node's peers.  If any node has already seen a transaction that spends particular inputs, any other transaction that it sees afterwards that attempt to spend those same inputs will be invalid, and will not be forwarded.  So what happens is the two competing transactions will move across the p2p network trying to capture as much of the network as possible before they meet at a front.  Once a block is solved, whichever of the two transactions that particular node saw first will be included, and the other becomes forever invalid.  Once that block is accepted by the part of the network that saw the losing transaction first, the losing transaction is droped from their transaction queues altogether.  So under such conditions, the transaction that hits the p2p network first has the advantage.  Right now, the edge to edge propogatin time for the entire network is only about 10 seconds, so it's a very small window of opprotunity. Sorry about that.I'd love to be proven wrong.I believe that you have done your homework, and I believe that it's perfectly legal.  However, I also am aware that there are vested interests for which any advancement for Bitcoin is a threat.  I am also aware that some of these vested interests really don't care whether or not Bitcoin is or should be legal.  Pressure will be imposed upon your trading partners to abandon you, for whatever excuse that they can conjure up.  Ultimately they will all conclude that the business that they stand to gain from working with you is far outweighed by the business that they stand to lose from other sectors.  Paypal is much larger than the whole Bitcoin economy, but they were strong armed to not permit users from places in the world for which the US federal government lacks influence.  There is no gain for Paypal to exclude potential markets, either; but that is what has happened.  You have just become a single point of failure for the Bitcoin economy in Europe, and aspects of your life are about to turn crazy and beyond your own control.  I will add you and your family to our prayer list, because that is the extent for which I can do anything.  I would caution you to retain a good lawyer, if you have not already, and set up a bitcoin address for legal donations, should things really start to spiral. I give it two months before there are real problems between Paysius and their fiat banking partners.  It won't be their fault, of course, but this will not last. Time will not tell.  That is the very point.  We can't have two versions of society running side by side, with a government control and an anarchist experiment.  Well, we can sort of.  That was the original idea behind the seperate soverignty of the individual states of the US, but we don't really have that experiment anymore.  Some people simply aren't willing to let the experiment be long enough to have a conclusive outcome.  It's simply against their nature. This is one of those analogies where one aspect is deliberately vague, so that different people can see differnet answeres and not be wrong.  I look at the 'fluorine' as representing something about governments that most people can't imagine can arise without government.  That could be "order" or "charity", or it could represent the regulatory nature of governments, and thus fluorine represents such dictates.  Or it could simply be the monopoly on force that is government itself.  I'm inclined to assume that it's likely the latter, because I also believe that the character Grover is a not very veiled reference to Grover Norquist, who has spent a career fighting the size of government in the pursuit of greater liberty (as he see's it, mind you), without really questioning the role of government in society, or it's importance to the end result. Oh, I don't doubt that we will see them in time, because they certainly do serve a role.  I think that we will see light clients like this that are tied to a trusted full client, whose job it is to load spendable transactions upon the light hardware client that are deliberately spendable in ways that do not require (or often do not require) a change output.  Thus allowing the light device to forget about the spent transactions, because it no longer has a vested interest in them at all. Also the identity of Grover. It hasn't been shown to me.  And it hasn't been shown to you, either.  You just take it on faith, really.  In our modern world, it's literally impossible for us to actually understand all of the science, so we have to take some things on faith.  That was exactly the point of the story.And who said anything about corporations?  There are other ways to fund research than taxes or potential profits. That's an interesting map, but it suggests to me that the  size of the geographic area that a particular border incloses might have more to do with the diversity of the cross-border Internet connections than government interference.  If one were to do the same thing examining individual US states, would the diversity be as high?  Also, this map almost cannot include all the pathways, since many of the smaller ones are privately owned by corporations.  This is pretty much how tor can puncture the great Internet wall of china, and exactly how we can reasonablely expect that bitcoin might be unstoppable.  It's not that those slower connections have to be discovered, it's that someone still knows about them, and deliberately moves to take advantage of them when necessary.EDIT: It's probably got more to do with population than even geographic size.  Otherwise Iceland would be much better.
That's pretty much what a bitcoincard is supposed to do, but it doesn't have the memory for a full client.  An android app could do it using ad-hoc wireless or regular wifi and a piratebox as a hotspot. http://www.strike-the-root.com/grover-and-annieWith regard to government research. Compression is not likely to be worth it, and can violate ham rules against encryption. "Automaticly" isn't really what ARRL is into promoting. Yes, but keep in mind that your talking about transmitters in the 10's of kilowatts using commercial quality gear and very tall, low angle biased tower antennas.  In order to travel farther than 300 miles, the signal must be able to bounce off the F level of the ionosphere repeatedly without losing too much signal to be picked up by common receiver gear.  IMHO, start with a NVIS setup in order to get a good single bounce.  Keep in mind, a 300 mile radius is a lot of area.  If I did that in my home city near Louisville, Kentucky; using commonly available ham gear and a max PEP of 1500 watts, my signal should be clear from Chicago to Atlanta.  The same setup in Frankfort, Germany should be able to cover from Paris to Prague and Amsterdam, Munich, Berlin, Hamburg and maybe Milan.  It's not necessarily more cost effective to set up a full power shortwave station intended to wrap the planet compared to several well placed NVIS transmitters using gear at ham power levels. Power consumption varies considerablely due to a number of variables, but about 300 watts is your top end limit, practically speaking.  Range with that kind of digital gear is more limited by line of sight issues than anything else at greater than 50 watts peak-envelope power, and is somewhere in the range of 10-15 miles radius with a high mounted mobile antenna of decent quality, or up to about 30 miles on a roof mounted stationary antenna.Again, shortwave bands make those ranges look like crap, but are bandwidth limited, crowded and noisy.  A shortwave setup using a near-vertical incidental skywave antenna (NVIS) has a range radius of about 300 miles in all directions, and PSK-31 can do this with a peak-envelope power rating of under 10 watts.  Slow as hell, though; but it scales up bandwidth almost linerally, so 50 watts PEP is about right for PSK-250 to that same range for a clear enough signal to be picked up with common quality shortwave listening gear. They consider strong encryption to be 'ammunition' under export law.  Rediculous, really, but it has zero effect upon bitcoin, because bitcoin doesn't actually encrypt transactions or any other broadcast data object.  The network is, generally, broadcast in the clear.  Secure hashing algos are not encryption algos. Well, yes.  To licensed hams.  But the D-STAR off-the-shelf transcievers are usually cheaper anyway. Packet radio is a crude form of wide area, time-division type mesh network.  Might be useful for relatively small areas, such as a medium sized city, but if the POTS system still works, regular phone modems would be better.  Hams don't really use packet much anymore.  Better systems are phase-shift keyed modes, such as PSK-31 and up.  PSK-125/250/500 are more robust, and generally has better range and practical throughput, than a 300 baud shortwave packet modem.  There are many other types of (software defined) soundcard modes to choose from, PSK was just the first in widespread use, and one of the simpliest to impliment.  Packet radio requires specially modifed modems, and specialized hardware is expensive.  Sound cards are not expensive anymore.  Hell, I can do PSK-31/63/125 audio conversions on my android cell phone.Modern hams willing to invest that kind of money into specialized mode gear just tend to skip the packet modem and go for a full blown digital transciever with built-in software defined capabilities.  Much better capabilities and costs about the same.EDIT:  Really, some of this gear is truely impressive.  If you've ever seen some of the modern digital transcievers that cops use in their cars these days, hams have had that kind of gear for over a decade now.  A commercially available digital radio with 'meshable' computer capablities, called D-STAR, makes anything that you've heard of so far look about as advanced as morse code.  A 50 mile, two hop, mesh connection while in a moving vehicle isn't even pushing the margins anymore. A torrent of the blockchain would do well, to a point.  The torrent file would have to be updated on a regular basis though.  Perhaps the magnet file is what you would broadcast occasionally on your transmitter.Not even close.Not multiple connections.  There really wouldn't be 'connections' per se.  There is the transmitting station and the listening stations, data flows one way, in a one-to-many format.  A computer using much wider bandwidth sound cards (64, 128 bit) can listen to a muc wider band of the radio specturm at once, and could receive data from two ajacent stations, but it can't tune to tow distinctly different channels at the same time; that would require two sondcards at least, likley two different shortwave recievers as well, unless you've got the skills to bypass the tuner an access the internal frequency of the reciever.  The bandwidth of the signal is limited by the transmitter gear, power requirements, and clear frequency bandwidth on a shortwave band.  Shortwave is a worldwide set of bands that most americans have no experience with, and they are crowded. Prevent it, no.  Interfere with it, yes.  The problem with a moonbounce is that it requires not just some high quality transmitters with highly directional dish antennas with accurate moon tracking gear, but due to the distance & scatter issues with a moonbounce, the receiving gear has to be pretty high end as well.  So it takes a relatively low power jammer to screw with that, or a high quality one also pointed at and tracking the moon.  If you turned up your transmission power high enough to overcome a moonbounced jammer signal, they would be able to identify your transmitter from orbital sats due to the signal leakage of your dish.Normal shortwave is much simpler, and much more effective, IMHO.  The receiving gear is much cheaper, more widespread (outside of the United States) and the decoding gear is just a regular computer with a 16 bit soundcard.  Sure, it'd be difficult to transmit the full blockchain, or maybe even full blocks once they start really filling up, but both block headers and loose transaction data could be transmitted continuously up to a certain point.  The real beauty of the p2p network system is that not all the data must come from the same source.  If your broadcast only transmitted the last block header and the myrkle tree, smarter clients than are currently available could piece together full blocks by collecting the loose transaction data from other sources, and there will be other sources, evenif it's only the occasionally smuggled blockchain on a usb drive two days out of date. Probably so.  We assume anyway.  We have no more evidence that ancap can't work than they have that it can.  What you argue for is the status quo; because you have no evidence that things could be better, you'd rather stick with the devil that you know.  I can understand that position, actually; because I'm of the same vein.  I'm as vested in this broken system as much as anyone, and would have much to lose if the US government were to collapse within the next decade.  And that is something that I need to change rather quickly because it will collapse, in some catastrophic manner or another.  I'm wise enough to have long understood that Social Security is a generational scam, and old enough to hope that I might make it so that I might be able to get some of my money back.  But now there are talks to avoid (not going to happen) this "fiscal cliff" that involve raising the standard eligibility age to 67.  Even if that doesn't happen now, it has to happen before I turn 65 if there is going to be any chance at all at there still being a meaningful amount of spending power in that monthly check.  If these government social services are not reformed soon, the Millinials will take over the electorate (probably before the next presidential election, maybe before the mid-terms, but soon) from the Boomers, and they are as likely to destroy those programs as reform them.  Many of the ancap people that you are arguing with are those very Millinials, who have little, if any, vested interests of their own into the status quo.And yes, I am fully aware that SS is screwing the younger generations, but I'm also aware that I got screwed too.  Two wrongs dom't make a right, and I'd not cry in my soup if the SS system were to implode efore I made it, but I am not shy about taking the spoils that I can get if the system is still there whtn I arrive. No doubt some will try.  I question their practical effectiveness. Yeah, that's the part that seems fishy.  There is more likely more to this story than he's sharing, IMHO. There are many examples of social movements that had no precedent.  The end of slavery was one such movement.  No one could say who would pick the cotton, but the cotton still gets picked.  We don't need an example of such an existing society (although we actually do have a couple of examples that were pretty close) in order to point out the flaws in the current system.  I'm not an ancap either, in part because I am concerned about it's weaknesses & stability, but using the fact that no such societies exist is not an argument that they cannot. I'd like you to explain how the non aggression principle could lead to a monopoly on force, because I can't see it.Really, no matter how you look at it, the NAP is expressed as a social more in every major religion on Earth.  In judeo-christian history, it's the golden rule.  In the book Whatever Happened to Justice? Rich Maybury did a wonderful job showing that it's not possible to find a moral code that does not have a similar principle expressed for members of the tribe, it's in the exceptions that these moral codes differ.  The NAP has no exceptions, not for those who would portend to serve God, nor those who serve government. An example of what? BitcoinSpinner Well, that is already happened, and I have such an android phone capable of doing exactly that.  However, I still want a bitcoin card.  Maybe several.  Give one to each of my kids, and buy a base station for my house, and I could track them within a couple of blocks.  The ability to use it as a bitcoin client as well might be entirely secondary. Not only that, your cell phone can track you globally, and report that data to anyone over your data service.  The bitcoin card can only track you relative to it's base stations within a store, and can only report those movements to those base stations until it's beyond the reach of that store.  This makes tracking a particular individual rather difficult, unless your goal is to actually tail a particular person who has a bitcoin card number that 1) you know and 2) you have a mobile base station to track them with.  The bitcoincard doesn't have the capacity to track using GPS, nor the ability to transmit that data beyond a couple of blocks.  The street cameras in London can track your movements better than a bitcoin card could.
As Intrade just found out, there is no such thing. Wait, why is it not legal to lease a license?  What says that you aren't an employee?  You're just an employee on a contract, instead of a hourly wage.  The contract says that you are expected to submit the first whatever amount of fares that you collect per week into the company, and that you are entitled to whatever the remainder of fares may be for the rest of the week.  Easy peasy.  For that matter, you could set up such a contract agreement with the old guy who wants to sell, that after so many years of doing this, you have just bought the license from him by payments made.  Kind of a work-to-own arrangment. Then negotiate with the guy who is selling his license for a final price, conditional on your abliity to secure a business loan, write up a business plan (there are simple examples online that you could adapt in an hour) and take it to the business branch of your bank.  Show them your conditional agreement, your business plan (no need to mention bitcoin, that would just muddle the waters) and your history as a cab driver.  Be quick about it. If the core reason that you were dismissed is that the cab owner can't trust you to be honest with him, but you were a good driver; if you have the moxy you could return to him and offer him a weekly lease to rent his cab and then you keep everything over and above that rate.  Otherwise he still has to hire someone new, or his equipment is under-utilized.  I know it sounds a bit rediculous to make an offer to someone who just fired you, but I done it, and after a few days cooling off period I was able to reason with the old man, and explain that he was just viewing the situation wrong.  Maybe that's just me, but I've found that business owners have historical reasons to distrust their employees, and you just have to be the guy to offer him an alternative that doesn't require that he trust you so much. How much would it cost you to "lease" or buy a cab license?  In my city, most cab drivers actually rent the cab from the cab company on a daily or weekly rate, and keep all the fares for themselves.  If you can get this kind of deal, you could hang a bitcoin sign from the rear view, or some other little sign that doesn't stick to the the vehicle.  Then you could compete with your former employer and accept bitcoin however you like, but it would be in your interests to let the dispatcher know that you are the one who accepts bitcoin for fares, if anyone else should call. The problem is that he likely admitted to putting stickers on his boss's property, the window of the cab.  I doubt that any judge is going to show him much sympathy for "defacement" of company property, regardless of just how rediculous a window sticker might be. I believe the default is the last sale price, but in order to sell immediatly, set your ask to where the current highest bid price is.  That is literally a current standing offer someone has made, waiting for someone else to come along who needs the cash quickly.  The sale would happen before you could pull your index finger away from the mouse. Depends upon how quickly you desire to sell.  If you're in a hurry, sell at the current offer.  If you can stand to wait a bit, put up an ask around the last price.  If you have the time to wait, set your ask to a bit higher, and see if someone will come up to you.  Or you could split up your bitcoins into some combination. Shortwave DRM can do that, no problem.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Radio_MondialeSo could a bit of rented digital satillite downlink once each day, such as is used to deliver daily educational shows to distant elementary schools.  Of course, then someone needs the sat dish and receiver/decoder; while DRM just needs a quality shortwave receiver that can be plugged into the sound port of a computer. I own a Sig Sauer Mosquito that I need a concealable holster for, do you have anything that would work well for this? Maybe they concluded you just weren't going to take no for an answer.  Are you sure that it was a conversation? Nothing is getting ripped apart in here.  And this entire thread wasn't worthy of reading weeks ago.  I honestly don't care what you opinion of my political persuasion actually is, and don't really feel obligated to defend myself to you. His complaint is that the devs aren't listening to what he considers to be important.  And it wouldn't matter if they listened to no one, the source is open, anyone with the skils can do anything with it. Try asking Linus Torvolus to include (insert your pet project) into Linux mainline and see how far that line of thinking gets you.  Fork the project, that is the root freedom of open source, not the idea that you get to tell the developers your next great idea. It's not difficult to create a point-to-point wifi link using beam antennas this way, if there is a line of sight.  Non-line-of-sight systems would need to be slower, require special infrastructure, require a ham license or some combination of these.  Dash7 is good to a klick, and meshes by design, but is significantly slower than wifi.  I'm still waiting for an android phone to become available with a built-in Dash7 transceiver, and then I'm upgrading.  Samsung has given me some lip service on this one, but the rest of the phone manufacters just ignore me. The source is open.  If you have teh skillset, you can contribute or fork the project.  Many have.  Almost all have failed to create an independent ecosystem like bitcoin, but that is a social question not relevant to Bitcoin's source access.  Whether or not you feel that Bitcoin's development team is nice enough is entirely beside the point. But giving the US government an excuse to mess with developers of the bitcoin software is also anti-ethical to that same goal for everyone else that isn't Iranian. Define higher speeds and shorter distances.  Generally speaking, the shorter distance, the higher the bandwidth that can be practially maintained. Yeah, that's it.In addition, if a link were to exclude whole blocks, the transaction traffic that bitcoin produces isn't particularly burdensome.  A classic POTS link using old modems, or simply just a pair of wires, could keep the bitcoin network from splitting.  Most of the time, even 6 blocks and hour wouldn't be much of a burden for a modem connection right now.  And many people would be surprised what modern hams can do with shortwave transcievers connected to sound cards.In the end, a relatively small usb drive that crosses the divide every now and then would keep things from getting to far out of synch.  We tend to forget that there are other ways to move data than the Internet. PM are not really a solution in the near term, as the vast majority of people have zero practical experience with silver or gold coins, in order to recognize them when they need to.  It's relatively easy to create credible fakes of gold plated tungsten while the lights still work that would fool 98%+ of the population after the lights go out.  This condition would last for months, until people began to figure out how to recognize the fakes; and until then most people simply aren't going to trust some guy with gold coins.  Silver has less of a problem here, and is useful in other ways for disinfection, etc, but most people aren't going to have need for silver anyway.  Barter items, such as common firearm caliber ammo, are better for the near term.  Bullets are already money anyway.  They are made of several commodities, are themselves useful, come in common units, are readily recognizeable to those who might wish to trade them, and any one is pretty much interchangeable with any other, and they don't rot.
There are ways to determine if you are on the small side of a network split, but none have been implimeted in any client yet, as far as I know. Yes, and there is an org that is doing testing of a wireless mesh WAN, although I can't think of the name just now.  I believe they are working in Arizona right now, but they already have a nationally allocated frequency band license from the FCC, so this is no fly by night operation. Yes, you would automaticly lose your ranking if you, or a mod, were to delete enough of your posts. It's also pretty much the simpliest example of the economies of scale that make modern manufacturing so efficient. What you are suggesting has been discussed at length before, and no one has been able to do these in a mathmatically consistant manner without also breaking anomininity.  Something else the community values. I think that there might be something lost in translation here. Maybe, but only because it attracted a completely different type of early adopter,willing to put his own money and work to great risk for an idea that he believed in.  I think that would have been much less likely with "less inflation than most fiat currencies, forever!" than "never more than 21 million!".  But I suppose we will never know, will we? Dude, that never was a good idea.  Just because you think it was a bit too clever, doesn't make it so.  I said clear advantage, to the consumer.  If it's not a clear advantage to the consumer, they aren't going to prefer it enough to overcome Bitcoin's network effect & first to market advantages; no matter how technically superior that you might believe it is. Furthermore, Bitcoin's own inflation rate is currently about 12.5% annually and falling very slowly.  In another year the inflation rate will only be down to about 11% annually.  So the argument in favor of a perpetually inflating crypto-currency, even if it has merit, still shouldn't matter at least until Bitcoin's own inflation rate is below the rate that most fiat currencies target, of around 2% annually.  Even at the next halving in four more years we'd still be at about a 4% annual inflation rate.  We won't cross below the 2% mark for at least another seven years, as the inflation rate at the third halving will be about 1.7%.Bitcoin won't actually be truely deflationary within my expected lifetime. okay, that's just depressing. Are you talking about this?Because if you are, I wouldn't call those features.  I'd call those unsupported assumptions.Now that is plausible, but I believe that if your innovations have a clear advantage, the Bitcoin developers would make a point of stealing the idea.Of course, to a point.  But it does that through an inflation tax upon the entire currency base.  Thus it's not usage based, and thus you can't expect that overlay networks would develop to avoid such transactions.  If your idea succeeded, it would bear the brunt of the entire marketplace forever.  That is not expected for Bitcoin.Your idea doesn't offer stability.  The voltility in the exchange rate has much less to do with it's generation rate and much more to do with it's relative demand.  There are also the floating values of the many other national currencies that your currency would have to exchange with.  If you could peg your coin to some baseline, such as a national currency, you would have much less voltility due to the inertia that the backing brought with it, but then you couldn't have a predictable inflation rate.  And I can't even imagine how such a peg could safely work. Such as?Features that Bitcoin can't replicate?Depends upon your intended meaning of "work".  Yes, Devcoin still functions and they can be aquired; but that is only half the problem.  If there are no vendors willing to accept them, what good does it do?  I was here when the same argument applied to Bitcoin, but at that time there was no crypto-currency market at all.  Bitcoin carved out it's own niche, and it was a big one.  Now bitcoin has the first to market advantage in a market it created.  The only way another currency can overcome that, and the network effect that Bitcoin already has, is to offer a clear and distinct consumer advantage over Bitcoin that cannot be replicated easily by Bitcoin proper, or it needs to find another unfilled niche; such as Namecoin.  Limitless inflation, even that controlled by a predictable pattern, is not clearly in the advantage of consumers; but Bitcoin's deflationary nature (assuming that it works) clearly is. Really, why do you presume this?  What advantage would your unlimited version of Bitcoin improve upon the usability of day-to-day transactions over Bitcoin itself?  And what would prevent Bitcoin from incorporating that improvement?  The storage of value factor is an important feature for an exchange system, without it Bitcoin would just be another dollar substitute. It's also much more attractive to the Austrian/libertarian types who can do the math, which is most of us.  As others have mentioned, you're free to fork the code and do your best with it; and no one will care if you take some actions to prevent your alternate currency from interfering with the Bitcoin network, and you call it something different.  Yet, this has already been tried many times, and every time has failed.  That's not because everyone but you is short sighted, either. That's enough of this crap, guys.  Keep it civil, even when you don't desrve it. I can see one, if they mine with those produts before they sell them, then they will drive up the difficulty in the meantime, and reduce their market value.  I don't know which path is more profitable, but if you are in the business of manufacturing pickaxes it's generally counterproductive to stake the gold claims yourslef. In this case, I'd say that BFL can do it as long as they can maintain it.  Good luck with that. This is true enough, if the attacker is okay with using conventional forces.  Not really true if he is okay with a few well placed neutron bombs.The only way that I can see that an ancap society is sustainable is if the whole world becomes ancap within three generations, anything beyond that and there is the possiblity of an external risk. This particular strawman also makes an unstated usumption with regard to the powerful & wealthy sociopath, that an existing ancap society was both incapable of identifying and negating the rise in power of a domesticly grown sociopath, and that such a sociopath could actually aquire said power.  This is not a given, as this is not probable even if possible.  As an example, every ancap society that can be imagined, and every example of a similar society that has existed (Apaches included), provided for an alternative outlet to those sociopathic tendencies as well as greater suppression of those tendicies when used beyond the socially acceptable outlets.  Using the apaches as a case study, it was the external threat of the Spanish that provided for those sociopathic outlets for hundreds of years, since the attacking of the external eney was not socially unacceptable, since the Spanish attacked first.  And if such tendecies were turned against their own people, the consequences for such a 'crime' were swift and harsh, since any apache wimply would kill his attacker in self defense.  This is as much true with a modern ideal ancap society as it would be for the apaches because organizations don't grow from nothing without first starting at the individual level, and members are never bound to continue in an organization that violates their mores.  A sociopath that builds a fortune building cars is going to have a hard time shifting the goals of that organization into an army without destroying the structure of the group. Unfortunately, I can't agree with you on this one, Myrkul.  And this is where I can't make that last step into ancap political theories.  This above statement is true only if the assumption is that the end goal of the threat is to conquer and subjegate a population.  Which is true for most of human history, since that is how value is extracted from subjects.  But it does not deal with the possibility that the survivablity of the incumbent population is unnecessary.  What if the goal is simply to aquire the landmass and natural resources of the incumbent society, and the attacking society has enough of it's own population as to not care whether the incumbent population survives at all.  This is the kind of event we might see with resource wars, should the world's population actually discover a physical limit to the Earth's total sustainablity; or for that matter simply believe they have discovered same.
You can, it's just much more difficult than doing the same thing with plutonium, for several technical reasons.  Not the least of which is that U233 has a quantum "delay" from the time it absorbs an energetic free neutron to the time it actually splits, and that delay can vary within a known time period.  It's very short, but it adds a variable that 'traditional' nuclear fuels do not.  This delay is not an issue in a reactor, because the goal is to not produce a cascading reaction that expands at a logarithimic rate, power reactors just need to keep the reaction between the navigational beacons.  The difficulty in making a weapon, combined with it's relative ease of making it into fuel components, plus it's relative abundance all make it an ideal nuclear fuel for peaceful power.  Add to that, the gamma signature of U233 can be detected & triangulated from orbit, and a U233 weapon is extremely impractical. Correct.  In the US, it mostly just sits in piles of yellow ore near where the mining has occured, and never moves unless the EPA makes them.  Thorium has a near zero market value, due to the fact that it's 1) a heavy metal so it's chemically toxic to humans in the same way lead is and 2) it's mildly radioactive, and thus is banned from being used as an input for any manufacturing that doesn't specificly require it. Beyond that; only Uranium 235 is usable as fuel without first transmutating it into plutonium.  U235 is only about 2% of all uranium by weight, or less.  Which is why uranium must be 'refined' in a complex and hazardous process.  Conversely, none of natural thorium is fissile, but 99.9% of it is readily transmutable into uranium 233, which is fissile.  So while natural uranium must be refined in order to extract that 2% of U235, pretty much every ounce of thorium can be treated and used in the same manner, without worrying about it's isotope concentrations. Again, I don't contest this.  I stated from the beginning that my authority dies once my children reach the age of reason.  Neither my 10 year old son, nor my 12 year old daughter, have experienced any form of corporal punishment in several years.  It's simply not necessary, as they can be reasoned with.  My tots don't get any corporal punishment (as defined by the state, they do get time-outs and corner time) because they are surviors of real abuse and are now officially adopted; but that is a decision based on their particular background, not related to any argument that you can present.  And the last child doesn't get punished because she is 1) another foster child and therefore exempt due to contract and 2) she's only 6 months old and quite incapable of any activity that would call for such intervention anyway.  So, in practice, my children are not spanked; but not because I don't consider it a useful parental tool, and not because you claim a say in how I raise my kids.Well, DUH!  Of course I'm going to use this part, after you asked me to "bring it on".  Again, your opinion as to what is retalitory force is irrelevant.  It's my opinion that matters for my own children.Perhaps, but only I have such authority of my kids.  You don't.And reasoning, such as safety training and self-preservation.  Once they can reason well enough, they don't need my help here anymore.I'm not, but I think that you have a shock coming.That is your opinion, and you have a right to it.  In your own home.You do not have the right to impose your own interpretation of the NAP on my household, nor any other moral code.You be strong, and remember you said this once rebellion touches your household.  You really have no idea what you are in for.Again, be strong.  I can respect your determination, if not your conclusion, and a sudden change in parental styles would do far more lasting harm than either of our perspectives.  But I think that you will come to regret taking such a moral stand.Again, be careful what you wish for, Myrkul.  If there is a God, you will be judged not only on what you have done, but also on what you did not do; and what you believed about those actions yourself. Don't worry, he's got two very young daughters.  He'll get his due in another 12 years or so. There is no telling with the BSoD, anything can go wrong there.  I don't use M$ products on principle, so I can't help you there. Could be a bug, but Bitcoin-Qt is supposed to hide empty addresses unless there is some other reason that it should be showing it, such as it considers one to be your current receive address.  Are you seeing some disappear that should have funds? It could go either way. <sigh>Yes, and I posted the link only a few posts earlier than this in this same thread.  Dude, just take a moment and read what others have provided. A child must see that temporary parental authority is natural and useful  and very different from all other forms of non-parental authority. A child never sits down and signs papers acknowledging that she grants authority to her parentsit just happens. And if the parents delegate their authority to other adults, that also just happens and is beyond the power of the child to control. So it seems quite natural for the child to view authority as something that exists outside of her immediate control, and when someone tells her they have it, and are backed by the parents, then they have it. That's just how it is.When a parent has authority over a child, what does this mean from the childs point of view? Well, it can mean that the authority is there to help and to guide and to teach and also at times to restrict, even if force may be required to maintain the child's safety. Ideally, the authority figures that are parents also have love and respect attached to them. So to the child, the parental authority is a package of love, strength, wisdom, protection, and boundaries. This becomes their first authority archetype.<snip>My house, my rules. Parents have power and power corrupts, so be mindful of that fact. Parents are not magically exempt from this old chestnut. Of course there are rules, but ideally they should be consistent and well understood so as to clearly contrast with all the other false authority archetypes and their arbitrary mandates.Im not saying that every facet of domination can be eliminated. The bottom line is the parent does indeed have authority, and many times imperfect children try the patience of imperfect adults and anger can overtake calm reasoning. But these instances can also provide good teaching moments for both parent and child, as an examination as to how we humans are built and the unfortunate consequences that can arise when a person tests the patience of another. But exceptions are by no means rules, and thats the crucial distinction that needs to be drawn in the childs mind.<snip>Human vs. Object: Does the parent view and treat the child as another human being, one who needs help and guidance but in every other way is an individual worthy of respect and dignity? Or is the child an object, a piece of property that needs to perform certain tasks in a certain manner and her feelings and opinions are not a factor? A strict command and obey structure utilizing rewards and punishments works for training pets when considered from the trainers point of view, but this may not be an optimal method for instilling independence into a developing human being. (I've already acknowledged that corporeal punishment isn't ideal, and may not even be most effective; I only argue that I, not you, are the final arbitor of such)<snip>Parents naturally have the responsibility to care for a child and should assume authority out of love for the child. No other external authority has this motivation, although they will all claim to possess it. The primary goal of taking on this mantle of parental authority is to assist the child to develop into an independent adult. The child must be armed with knowledge and confidence before she ventures out on her own so she won't be an easy target for predators.<snip>I dont pretend to be an expert in this field, and I am not here to criticize how anyones parents raised them or how anyone is raising their kids. I am encouraging everyone to do a little introspecting and see how perhaps some of the behaviors that fall outside the scope of government have been influenced by the pervasive and coercive external authority mindset. One does not necessarily need to violate the NAP in order to cause harm, especially to kids. (This one applies equally well to you, Myrkul, as it does I) I had a feeling that you would gravitate to certain portions of that article.  I won't bother doing the same to you, although I easily could.  In many ways, you are too predictable Myrkel. It was more of an international business issue that resulted in banks crying uncle.  The government really didn't care.  And the goals of the government in shutting down the Internet proved to only delay, not really prevent, the dissimination of information, so their goals weren't really being met anyway.  The government only started to care once they realized that the international banks wouldn't be paying as much in taxes without the Internet facilitaing business.With regard to non-real-time data (such as email, texting  etc) it's kind of a hybrid between an ad-hoc meshnet and a store&forward network like fido.  As for the telephony part, that pretty much requires a full meshnet to work, with one node with an uplink in order to call outside of the local mesh.  Within the mesh, it can hop twice to ring the phone of a connected meshnet user.  It doesn't really require special hardware, but beneifts greatly from dedicated mesh wireless hardware. No, probably not.  At least not unless you have some other reason to be paranoid.  Tor is free, though. One reason is to defend yourself against a 'honeypot' website, offering services in bitcoins in order to capture your IP data for some future government crackdown on users.  My main client runs completely over TOR, to the same end, and doesn't respond to connection requests from unknown clients.  It's competely "quiet", and wouldn't even be counted in those network connection maps.  This is a bit paranoid, I admit, particularly since I can be identified by this very website forum's logs; but it's astronomically unlikely that anyone is going to be able to use any kind of network analysis techniques to figure out my IP or bitcoin addresses, no matter how many compromised nodes that they are willing to pay for.Another would be to insulate your client's machine from a direct attack, in the event that some future hacker figures out an automated or simple way to identify bitcoin nodes by IP, and then attempt to crack in and straight up steal your wallet.dat file and/or install a keylogger to figure out your wallet's passkey.  Security through obscurity is untrustworthy, but it can still be very effective in practice. And this argument also applies to any other attacker.  There is not scenario that ASICs could be bad for Bitcoin at large.  The door is closing for a serious 51% attack even for an attacker with nation-state resources. That's not really what happened, but this is a field test of this tech...http://www.servalproject.org/Of course, it's important for a minimum number of users to have serval's batphone app running on rooted phones before the internet went dark for this to work. Those things are terriblely inefficient, couldn't make enough to justify their cost in this scenario.  Better to just use the waste heat to offset building heat needs in winter. Likely not.  The rebels are likely more dependent upon the Internet for command and control communicaitons, while the government forces don't depend upon the Internet, as they have their own networks. Yes, this is a commecial arbitration court, but the concept of private arbitration has long been shown viable.  It was used extensively during the middle ages in Europe, after the fall of the Roman Empire (and the legitimacy of the justice system went with it).  Contrary to popular belief (is this popular?) the serfs didn't go marching to the lord of the manor when they had a dispute amonst themselves, nor was it anything like a Thunder Dome.  Each village had a respected elder who was known for considering each side of a dispute, and rendering a ruling that both sides could live with.  Most of the time, minor disputes between individuals are the result of misundertandings and prejudices of perspectives, and an unbiased third party can see the errors of each claimant's perspective and manage them.  Sometimes they could not, and the result was a ruling that one party couldn't abide, and a feud was the only recourse.  Sometimes.This kind of history is detailed pretty well in the book Whatever Happened to Justice? by Rich Maybury.  It's an excellent primer on the topic of natural law and private justice systems. That's the wrong question, because if BFL can make ASICs, others can too.  And BFL isn't really making anything, third party manufactuers in China are.  Their ASIC design isn't safe, and they know it, even if it was unique, which it isn't.  The ASIC market is really a race to get the first batch to market, each new offering is going to limit the profitablility of all previous offerings, and thus the value of it's own offering.  That's what real competition is supposed to do, it's just in an extra fast cycle in Bitcoin.
An android smartphone and a sat uplink, problem solved.  Not cheaply, mind you, but solved. Loosely related to the topic....http://www.strike-the-root.com/teach-your-children-well-part-iiI think that this author is close enough to the middle of the road that both sides here can see his point. Bitcoin transactions are not reversable, but they can be delayed by use of the 'time-lock' feature.  Basicly, this prevents the transaction from being included into a block prior to a certain block number, so that the sender can first prove that he has the bitcoin to make the deal in such a way that the seller is willing to give him the product.There are also the possibility of transaction versions, but this feature requires transaction scripting, which is presently not honored or enabled by any miners due to the possiblity that it's dangerous. Corn hash wiskey is easy to make as well, that fact hasn't prevented an entire industry from being built around alcohol.  And one that, prior to 1913, was the US federal government's primary tax base. This seems like such a silly point to argue about to me.  If there is anything that is well established about ancap theories, it's the viability of private arbitration as a justice system.  It happens all the time.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/London_Court_of_International_ArbitrationThis one developed specificly because there was no such thing as a government established court for international disputes, because there was no such thing as an international government.   Don't worry about helping this community grow.  Just use bitcoin to help your business grow, and the rest will come.Trust me on this, every real vendor and business that starts accepting Bitcoin makes my nest egg more valuable, I've watched it happen. I don't understand what that chart is trying to tell me.  What is the "network deficit"? Since we have been on the topic of examples of 'anarchist' societies and their longevity, I'm going to post this link here to an excerpt from a book that I've just recently learned about called The Starfish and the Spider.http://www.starfishandspider.com/preview/16.htmlIt's not copy&pastable, so just start at the line, "By 1521..." and read about the structure of the Apaches and why the Spanish lost. Well, we've cut back on the extra-domicile activities this year.  They only have co-op on Thursdays, Swim lessons a the YMCA on Tuesdays & Thursdays, Church on Wednesdays & Sundays, and middle schoolers' events one Friday night each month.  Before it was much worse, dance lessons twice a week, singing & art lessons, Spanish, book club, etc.  Yeah, they don't get out much.  Otherwise, they might *talk*; they might even talk to an *adult*, and then I might have a social worker come *visit*.  Oh, wait; I already do.  I have two visits a month, because I'm a foster parent.  Huh, I wonder what those kids might be saying about me during their interviews!  It's a wonder I havn't been locked up! This is not happening.  There is no evidence to the contrary.  Even if there were, it still wouldn't invalidate my core argument, that it's not your place to decide for my children, it's mine. One of us is really confused.  I'm not trying to justify anything, I'm just a realist.  And that last sentence didn't even parse. this has already been done.  Is hell cold? Good luck with that.  Teenagers always have other reasons to revolt, particularly daughters.  You've a major shock coming yet. Since we have hit the side topic of education, I thought I might post this link here.http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2012/11/a-royal-pain-in-ass.htmlI was literally laughing out loud.  It's even a fairly accurate description of written English, even if the revolutionary generation of Americans nearly acheived universal literacy at the time, even though that wasn't a goal of any government, and using a broader vocabulary than is acheivable by most high schools in modern times. Granted, but we weren't talking about how government interference affects things, were we?  I wasn't.  I was talking about the role of parents this entire thread.  What if this kind of government interference didn't exist, what then?  Would compelling their daughter to hold a sign with details of her personal life at a street corner be a viable punishment, assuming that she had the choice to leave?  If not, why not?  If your 15 year old daughter chooses to repeatedly violate household rules, but no actual laws, what recourse do you have as a parent if they refuse to listen to a voice of wisdom? Wait, what?  Did you just agree that your use of a statistical metric or it's results didn't actually support your own argument?Genetics are important in this equation for any particular individual. (I don't agree that they are profoundly important, outside of the context of identifiable genetic disorders that are known to affect cognative development)  However, genetics play almost no role whatever upon the averages, because there is no society or race that exists with any meaningful genetic advantage in this context.  Many studies have been done on this topic, and at most the greatest advantage that any race might have here are ethnic Jews at about 3 IQ above the overall mean, on average.  Again, a measurable yet meaningless difference as applied to an individual.  If your IQ testing rang in at 103, you would have nominally zero cognative advantages over your 100 IQ point peers.  I know from personal experience that even a very high score isn't, alone, an indication of future success.  I rang in the lower 140's during high school, and earn just about $100K per year; while my little brother range the bell on every IQ test he ever took, meaning that he was at least 160 IQ but the standardized tests that were provided were incapable of any accurate measurement.  Yet, despite two different BS degrees from two different universities, my brother has never earned more than $30K in a single year.  You see, my brother also has Asberger's Syndrome, and can't quite fake a "social IQ" well enough to keep any job, which tends to be important for success in adulthood. Simply stated, no.  However, the state is the only 'justice' system available, so I can understand that the shop owners didn't see as they had much choice.  To simply let every shoplifter with a sob story go without any consequences, no matter how many times they have been caught, makes you a mark and that will get around to those who might seek out your store just to steal from it with reduced risk.I think that it depends upon the case, and this is where the lack of case law makes private security/justice systems hard to argue for.  The official state system has history of actually working in living memory, while non-governmental justice systems really haven't existed for hundreds of years outside the realm of international trade litigations. Wow, talk about a shot in the dark.  Go by a lottery ticket before it wears off! First, I'm not an anarchist, so I'm not the person to really argue this point.Still, the answer is in the data.  The reason that the do not dominate our world despite their effectiveness is that they are not sustainable.  The Penn State example is perfect for this.  It was very anarchist and it was effective, it just didn't provide any resistance to other ideas, and thus ultimately, to the rise of governments.  There are other examples, but my point isn't that AnCap theories (or libertarian theories) on government should be discounted simply because they aren't perfect.  Nothing is.  Do you disagree with the root premises of AnCap?  I don't, I think that they are obviously correct, just not (as examples highlight) likely to result in a society with a vested interest in it's own long term viability.  Any force, foreign or domestic, capable of developing to a certain level is able to overtake it.  If the US was still under the Articles of Confederation, I think that we would have lost the war of 1812 and lost our independence.  We almost lost anyway, despite the advanced level of federal order that the US Constitution provided.  AnCap theories of government do not provide well for the collective defense of the founding ideas, be that a physical defense from foreign powers or the defense of ideas.  Hell, neither does libertarianism for that matter.  It's a contradiction that we all want to live in a free society, but also wish to be protected from risk for ourselves and our children.  What matters, really, is what kind of government can provide the maximum freedom for the socity with the minumum of interference from government, while also being able to protiect that society from existential threats. Congrats, Brother.  Welcome to the forums.  I hereby submit to the forum for consideration, that the 210Kth block shall be called the "laughingbear" block.  "Halving block" sucks. Then it will prove impossible to present you with a viable example, probably ever.  Hell, I can think of no form of government that realisticly could.
Yes, that's another thing.  There is massive amounts of reserve capacity for this network as well, most of which would be a net loss for the operators; but with the right motives can be brought to bear under such need. I'd be really surprised if the hashrate didn't change either, but keep things in perspective.  Even if the hashrate were to cut right in half, it was running at over 300 Teraflops at the flip.  Even half that is way more than is reachable by the top 10 fastest supercomputers on Earth combined.  It was never really intended that mining would be particularly profitable.  It was expected, very early, that the major miners would slowly gravitate to the colder climates and areas that electric service was particularly cheap.  The city that I expect that most mining will occur is in basements across Reykjavik, Iceland; once this whole Bitcoin project achieves international mainstream acceptance. I don't contest that, in practice, that what Myrkul said was true.  Yet, even he should admit, that if own of his own daughters didn't want to live with him or his wife anymore at 16; she should have the right to leave regardless of what the state wanted.  In most states in the US, she could file for "emancipation" (a not un-ironic name for early legal self-ownership) that should be approved without issue if her parents were in agreement.  It actually happens quite often for ambitious homeschoolers who 'graduate' early and leave home for college.  It's not often done for teens who simply wish to move out of their home and get job, because it's not practially necessary.  If a teenager wishes to move out and start adulthood early, they just need their parents to not interfere. The state isnt going to return a runaway unless 1) that runaway's parents filed for their disappearance or 2) that runaway is homeless. How long do they have to last before you'd consider them a viable example?  Democracies don't last either, none have survived more than 200 years without significant internal strife, including the US (which isn't a democracy anyway).  Monarchies have better records than that, if sustainablity is the high mark of a society.  The longest lasting democratic republic, and the closest thing to an civilization without a central governmental authority, was The 'Old' Swiss Confederacy (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Swiss_Confederacy) which lasted from 1307 to 1789.  Of course, even they had a period of civil conflict, so it's not a perfect example either.What makes you think that the US will last longer?  Hell, I don't even expect the EU to finish the decade. Not at the time, the exchange rate has gone up since this deal.  I was, and am, quite happy with the outcome. First, I find this event to be morally abhorent on so many levels.Second, while she was wrong to steal the powder, that does not justify the use of force enough to even detain her, much less harm her.  There is also the question of appropriate use of force; for even initiation of force does not justify returning of force in (significantly) greater degree than was even threatened.  I had to take courses in the legal use of force to get my CCL, and the classic example is the shooting of an armed mugger.  If a mugger were to corner you, and threaten yourself (or another person with or near you) with a weapon, and you shot him once, that's legally justifiable self-defense whether he dies from that single wound or not.  However, if you shoot him after you gave up your wallet and he had turned around to leave, it's not justifiable or self-defense because he was no longer an immediate threat, because he was leaving.  Or, if you shot him twice standing, and then three more times after he had fallen down; it may self-defense but not justifiable, because you greatly exceeded the appropriate level of force that is justifiable.  An appropriate use of force with this woman amounts to whatever is required to remove the stolen products from her possession, and no more.Of course, all this automaticly assumes that this is the first time this woman was caught stealing from this particular vendor, which is something I find unlikely. Heh.  IQ is a particularly useless metric with regard to measuring intelligence, moreso when trying to apply such a metric to entire populations.  IQ is a relative rate of learning, and was never intended to measure actual intellectual ability.  It was intended to measure the memory retention of applicable data; in mentally defective persons.  By definition, 100 is the average score of a 'normal' person; and is similar in usefulness to the 20/20 vision measurement.  Numbers close to or better than average have no practical meaning, and everything is measured relative to a given population.  Put another way, if your society is, on average, increasing their IQ; that means that your society is improving relative to prior generations not relative to other societies at the same time.  Standardized IQ testing cannot measure people from significantly different educational backgrounds, nor people with different first languages.  This is one reason that homeschoolers in the US consistantly crush these kinds of tests even though they come from across the class & racial spectrum in the US; the tests are designed to measure students from an 'average' educational background, and have no practical way to account for the differences in the quality of educational backgrounds.  While this would imply that the deviation of IQ scores could indicate relative improvements in education (something that I would admit is intuitively likely for Singapore in particular), it's more than the evidence can support to use such metrics as evidence that US poor children are uneducated relative to other countries.  The truth is much more complex.And the definitions of what is "poor" in the US should give anyone else pause, since only 2% of the official poverty level American household is actually homeless by any standard; and the average poverty level household is likely to have at least one adult with a cell phone, one car 7 years old or less, one flat screen television, one computer, either broadband internet service or cable tv, and more square footage of living space than the average middle class household in 90%+ of the rest of the nations on Earth, including every nation in Europe be they wealthy or not. I have to admit, you have a point here.  Yet, we live in a world where states force this issue; not one that conforms to anyone's ideal.  This fact doesn't really change the questions posed, since she is (literally speaking) not a prisoner and her parents are not her wardens. By my own perspectives, this girl is not a child.  What would the consequences be if she refused to particicapate in her humiliation?  Since she can manage to sneak boys into her house for sex after hours, I imagine that she isn't exactly a prisoner in her family home.  Is it not reasonable to assume that she wishes to continue to live under her parents' roof of her own free will?  Furthermore, is it not reasonable to assume that the ultimate consequeces of refusing to obey her parents is that she is evicted?  Does "My house, my rules" not apply to teens in your view?  If not, I think that either you are going to change your mind, Myrkul, or your girls are going to put you through hell. Silly boy.... http://www.theblaze.com/stories/should-parents-be-allowed-to-humiliate-kids-in-public/I wonder what you guys think of this tactic, perticularly you myrkul.  I foresee similar problems with your two girls, particularly if you don't homeschool them. It's your own perception of a particular situation that requires judgment, and that is the problem.Hey Myrkel, when did you stop hitting your wife?Both of those statements are context dependent, and your are trying to imply that a particular situation, and your own perspective on that situtation, is correct.  It also happens to be a strawman argument, but that's not really important. I don't think you have any idea how many times I've personally seen this weak argument used. Your are producing co2, stop it. All of them are centrally managed fractional reserve benking schemes, though.  No contrary example persists since the Europeans strongarmed the Swiss into dropping their gold standard. If you can justify intervening with force on behalf of my child, based solely upon your own judgement as to what constitutes initiation of force, then you can justify any singular or collective action at all; and morality truly becomes relative. You have, therefore, proven that ancap is as unstable ( and thus just as impossible) as communism.  There still must be some kind of standard, and you know that your position is contrary to 4K years of Judeo-Christian 'standards'.  Not to mention terriblely impractical. Actually, there are examples of both methods in practice.  Communism always fails. Several early American colonies, including the Pilgrams of Plymouth Rock, Mass., and in evry case roughly half died of starvation the first winter.  The indian tribes of the East coast didn't have a developed theory of real estate property, but they certainly did understand that the corn planted, cultivated and grown by one family was to be consumed by that family, and that it was rude to harm that plot or take the corn without permission.  In many cases, the local land was never really 'owned' in the traditional sense by those colonists, but in every case they came to acknowledge that on family functionally possessed the amount of land that they lived and worked for as long as they did so, and that the products of same certainly was that family's property.Ergo, private property is the net result of natural human habits and forces within a community, and the larger that community grows, the more defined that property must become in order for that community to continue to prosper.  Loosely defined property rules are fine for small or temporary communities, and even communism works at the scale of the family (or even up to the small church), the problem is that neither scales well to a greater society.   I can't answer that, but my point is that you don't get to decide.  Not all cultures are equal, but that kind of attitude, metasized to an entire population, leads to colonialism for their own good.  It's not a ancap position to take to compel others to do anything, whenever there is a doubt.  And, honestly, there should be doubt on your part concerning other peoples' children. Well, that's on theory.  The other is that I'm much less concerned that they master math than enjoy their adulthood.  What is the suicide rate there, btw? Considering that I do homeschool, I have heard of the Singaporean method. I wasn't impressed, myself.
How does that data point fit into your worldview, guys? Also, the space is relatively small, and heat pumps are large machines.  Heat pumps don't really do to well around here, too many really cold nights in winter. I always have been, but I think it's mostly a reference to Bruce Wagner and his, now infamous, BS as the self-appointed representative of all things Bitcoin. It's progress, to be sure. That is interesting, but still not the target I'm shooting for here.  that's mostly for moving larger objects.  I'm talking about parcel post sized objects, wherein only combining several such packages is cost effective. That is correct. There is no such country, and I don't expect that there ever will be.  If you are concerned about the legality of bitcoin in your country, assume that it is illegal.  If that bothers you, you should not use it. It works fine, it's just not supported, per se.  I use a iMac.  All of the necessary posix commands should be within reach, once you get to a command line, which is the part Apple doesn't really make easy.  I'm not going to offer to tell you the process, because I don't remember, but my client is set to maintain a buffer of about 2K future addresses via config file arguments, so I know that it's possible.EDIT: I do remember that the important parts of bitcoind are in strange places on the iMac filesystem, it took me a while to locate them and thus alter the appropriate commands to make it work the way that I wanted. Maybe Amazon could.  Not Kim Dotcom. Delays would dis-favor the attacker in a block race, with the practical effect of reducing his hashrate by a few percent, depending upon how widespread this method is used in practice.That's true, but also adds unnecessary volume to the block, think about how many miners are going to want to be on as many trust lists as possible if this workds, and they would have to produce a trasaction for every block.  Granted, tehy could only produce the transaction lcaly for when they capture a block, but then how do they get onto a trusted list to begin with?I question that premise.  A watchdog proces is a good idea for other reasons, and is likely to be implimented eventually anyway.Well, for example there is a list of hard coded checksums in teh regular client, with a new checksum added to the list with each minor release.   When the client is bootstrapping, it will check it's progress against each of these checksums as it encounters them, and then considers that section of blockchain unalterable.  This has the effect that any attempts to alter that part of a blockchain (globally or locally) would have to match that checksum, even if a full rescan is forced.  This puts a limit to how far back an ongoing 51% attack could go as well as prevents an isolation attack.  Other cleints use different checksum lists as well, so even knowing the checksum list for the vanilla client and managing to brute force another matching solution of altered blocks (already astronomically unlikely) becomes more complicated by the introduction of the fact that different clients have different lsits of checksummed block numbers.  This one serves many purposes, and doesn't really prevent a 51% attack as much as limit it's scope (and thus it's practial viability as well).  This one is not un-documented, per se, as it's documented on this very forum in many places, but it's not part of the core prtocol, thus it's not part of the whitepaper or any other such document, as far as I know.  Methods of favoritism, but different than you proposal & with different goals, have been sugested in the past.  I wouldn't be surprised to discover that something similar already exists in one or more alternate clients. 'BTM' isn't really used, and I've never seen an alternative for 'uBTC' other simply expanding it.  A uBTC has also been refered to as a "Gavin" in the same manner that a "Satoshi" is equal to 0.00000001 BTC, but this is confusing for several reasons not worht mentioing. While this is an interesting idea for another form of secondary security, it's not really a necessary event.  You could literally do this already, simply by altering your client to only forward valid blocks that have a known & trusted block award address.  You don't even need to include a special transaction here.  Or, for a softer form of this as a defense against a 51% attack, simply delay the forwarding of an untrusted, but otherwise valid, block for a very short time.  If any significant minority of miners/users adopt your non-breaking-protocol change, the cumulative effect of forwarding delays would give any trusted miner enought of an advantage that even a 51% attack from an unknown entity would be severely limited in scope or effect.  However, you'd also have to be aware of the possiblity that this method of favoritism can be an attack vector itself; if the attacker were willing to simply forgo the block reward and use the addresses of trusted entities.  The new clients would have to have some way of detecting a significant jump in the hashrate of a trusted address, and decomissioning that trust level automaticly.  This could be done with a watchdog process, monitoring the last couple hundred blocks for significant changes in the running hashrates, to make sure it's not seeing significant changes in the hashrates of any trusted entities, or that any trusted entities have garnered over 40% or so of the total hashrate, just to make sure that, should a mining pool come by a simple hashrate majority honestly, the new protocol wouldn't be helping them do it anymore.BTW, there are other, largely undisclosed, secondary security measures in effect that with similar goals aleady in use by some clients, that are also 'soft' & non-breaking changes that do not require that all clients participate to have a real effect.  So it's not unrealistic that such a new, secondary security method could be adopted by some of the non-standard client developers; but don't expect it to enter into the standard client in any near-term.  It'd have to prove it's worth a great deal in other ways before that would be considered seriously. I'm still considering your proposal, but your price point is still beyond the total amount of bitcoins I presently possess.  I'm also looking into the possibility that gas prices have gone down enough that it would actually be more economical to pay for a direct vent gas heater and a new gas line, and use the cost difference to buy some more bitcoins. I'm torn really.  It's looking like the gamer market is going to have to come down pretty far for a GPU rig to be within reach, even if the cost of the power isn't a concern of mine. Again, I expect that to happen as GPU miners switch to ASICs or close shop, but that might not be for weeks.  It's not in my own interest to get into any hurry here, so I won't be down that.  I'm not buying a shiny toy, I'm buying an investment.  I might not be doing it at all, if I need the funds for something else.  I live in an old house built over 100 years ago, with 3200 square feet of (heated) living space; plus a bonus room over the detached garage.  It's the bonus room that I'm looking to heat here.  However, another opprotunity has dropped into my lap.  I have a big family, and even 3200 feet is getting to be a bit tight.  A really large house (6 bedrooms, 4.5 bathrooms, a claimed 7K square feet) has appeared very close to where I live within my means, but only barely.  It's even older than mine, and likely needs much work done, including being converted back into a single family home from a stint as a multi-family.  It's in a section of Old Louisville (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Louisville) known as "Millionaires' Row", and it's basicly the result of the real estate crash.  The landlord who rented it out as three, two bedroom apartments aparently gave it up to the bank.  If I end up moving, I might buy a rig or two later, but more likely I'd give out rackspace in the cold sections of the house (beyond the reach of the toddlers) in exchange for the waste heat paid for by the actual owners of said units.  But only under the condition that they only run during the local heating season. I'd bet dollars to doughnuts that WordPress has been getting more secret heat over this move than is known.  I wouldn't be surprised if they reverse themselves in a couple months, and then the detractors will use that as evidence that bitcoin doesn't really work for companies like WordPress. George Soros? If I'm losing money at half price, it's not a good deal.  I can't make it up on volume.  If the components are worth that much more to the gamers, sell to the gamers, but eventually that market is going to be saturated as well. Why would I want to mine for Betamax when VHS already has the market locked up?  IMHO, litecoins are never going to amount to anything, simply because there is no niche market for them that bitcoin itself couldn't compete in. While that is true, pipelines are even cheaper, if the volume is there.  It all has to end up at a refinery first anyway.  This is actually one of the problems with oil in the Dakotas, there are no existing pipelines and no plans for new ones.  If the claims for the volume of oil were believable to the oil companies themselves, they'd be investing in pipelines that could move that volume.  The fact that the only planned pipeline through the area isn't going to have a intake in the Dakotas should be evidence enought that the claims might not be credible. I personally know a freelance writer that has done screenplays for The Big Bang Theory in the past, and I just called him and told him about this thread.  He wouldn't give me any contact info for the show's internal personell, but he said that he liked the idea, and would write a screenplay with bitcoin in it, and submitt it to see if they will buy it.  Such a process takes a great deal of time, though, so you can't expect to see it this season, if at all. 1QEVHM3WndDpsxvyF9hfdgtyhSPUaaWuTy should do nicely.
Not at all.  While Friedman wasn't a libertarian in any absolute sense, very few absolutists exist.  I'm not one, either.  While I'd lobby for a complete libertarian state if that were within the realm of possibilities, it's not.  So I'd still favor softer chains if that choice were offered.  It's like the MJ legalization issue; medical MJ or reduction of penalties is not the ideal, but it's still a set of softer chains. My calcs imply that I couldn't expect to make one block at the current difficulty with that setup before the heating season was over.  It would take four winters to pay for itself, assuming difficulty doesn't rise during that time, not counting any electric costs.  That is never going to happen. Even the fans ultimately produce heat.  And one of my heaters already has a fan anyway. Up until a few years ago, online payment systems were improved by centralization too.  I don't know how it could be done, but I don't believe that it can't be done. Dude, that's was a quote deriding trade guilds, the precursers to unions.  Still, big businesses really didn't exist in Adam Smith era, except for those with official state monopolies such as the East India Company.  He wasn't a fan, but I've yet to meet a libertarian who believes that big business is somehow worthy of special government favors.  I've yet to meet a lib that limited liability for corporations is a good idea, either. Obviously, I've run the numbers; but no matter how you look at it, I'm already heating with electricity.  Whether or not I use a electro-resistive heater or a mining rig, 1 KWH is still going to produce the same amount of heat. One BTC sent. I can loan out a bitcoin.  What is the address? Well, the initial premise is a bit odd, but what about property taxes confuses you? There were entire threads upon that episode before it even aired last year.  It is the only episode of that show I've ever watched.  It was pretty good. I have an outbuilding that is electrically heated, and desire to repace one of the two electric baseboard heaters with a GPU based mining rig.  Since my primary goal is to heat my space, the rise of ASICs and the halving of the block reward are not concerns of mine.  However, the cost of the rig certainly is.  I'm looking for a real deal.  If you're thinking of getting out of the mining business, selling your entire rig to me at a discount is less work than disassembling it to sell the GPU's to gamers.  Anyone who is interested, please post in this thread or PM me.  I need to know details of the rig, shipping concerns, etc.  As well as some evidence that I'm not buying a pig in a poke. I received the code and it checked out fine.  3.5 BTC sent, as agreed.  Pleasure doing business with you. Then I'm willing to offer 3.5 BTC for your Amazon code. You have zero repuation here.  Are you willing to send the code first, and receive the bitcoins after I have confirmed that the code is legitimate?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Letter_Mail_CompanyI wonder if a decentralized 'matternet' could be developed using bitcoin as it's method.  Physically, that should be easy enough.  A single 'postmaster' in each city large enough to have a Greyhound bus depot, preferablely one who lives close enough to the depot to make a daily visit.  Letters and smaller packages intended for differnent cities could be gathered up and shipped together as a larger package via Greyhound's own intercity package shipping service.  Delivery to individual homes would be costly (which is why the USPS is always losing taxpayer money) but delivery to private businesses should be competitive, particularly if many packages are delivered to the same point, like what might occur at the FedEx offices.  Although FedEx might not like others delivering to their rented boxes any more than the USPS.What I can't fathom is how to decentralize the payments.  If someone (or more than one someone) is going to become the defacto postmaster for a city, and make a job out of it, there has to be some method of sharing the fees that the sender pays for the service; and there must be some way consequence to the many postmasters should some piece of mail not make it to it's intended destination.  I'd also be helpful if there were some way to calculate the cost of sending mail this way so that there isn't some single fee for any destination, otherwise there will always be some very profitable areas that postmasters prefer to serve and others that are net losers for delivering to them.I'm just thinking out loud here.  From a theoretical perspective, how could this work?  Any ideas? Some more...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lysander_Spoonerhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_GallatinAnd of course....http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_jeffersonhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Smith No, all property is fundamentally an agreement in nature.  If I do not agree that your authorship gives you claim to the series of bytes that may render your authored work on my computer, then you do not have ownership of them, I do.  I can agree that you produced the work all day long and still not agree that you have ownership of it.  If you had kept the work on your own systems in such a way that I had to have broken it in order to aquire such information, you might have a point, but if you published the work in any manner you can't claim tresspass.  You wrote the work, but the copy is mine regardless of whether or not I aquired it in a manner that you might approve of. Much older. Not really, I havn't used the standard client in months.  But I've done it before, I just can't remember how.  Also, it's unlikely that your system would act like mine, assuming you use M$ Windoze. You can force a rescan of the blockchain, which will als build a new database.  It's likely that your database is synced to your fresh wallet or that your old wallet's database was corrupted in some other fashion.  Basicly, just back up your wallet.dat files and then choose the rescan option in the menu.
Any place one might desire to reside is a paradise, if you are wealthy enough.  That includes Somalia.  Singapore is far from a libertarian paradise by any metric beyond lax enforcement of child prostitution laws; and for myself, I'd consider the protection of orphans from sex-starved foreigners one of the very few legitimate functions of a state apparatus.  A loose business regulatory environment is not the only condition of a libertarian "paradise". I do.  I have never (personally) met anyone willing to call himself a libertarian that did not.  And, by definition, any flavor of 'anarchist' (Myrkul is an AnarcoCapitalist,IIRC) no form of 'intellectual property' is enforcible in the absence of a state. Dubai? Cute.  Use an object designed to be utilized by two people at once as your example.  Fair enough, it's not impossible, if that is part of the design.  But do both people possess a car, if only one can drive it while the other rides?  Even in your photo, the woman in the back is not in control of the bike, so does she possess it?  That's arguable.  Can two people own a book?  Sure, if they have agreed to share it; but they can't both use it (read it) at the same time, so they can't both possess it at the same time.  My daughter uses my kindle, but I own it and do (sometimes) use it.  Even if she isn't reading it, if it's in her backpack she is in possession of it, and thus I cannot use it.However unique any person's take upon that data, he cannot own that data. He can only own the container, be it a book or his own mind.  I have a right to destroy a book I bought, and my own person if I choose.  You do not have any such right, and couldn't destroy my data otherwise.  There are many definitions of ownership, but the legitimate authority to destroy that property is a simple and necessary component.  If I don't have the right to destroy my book, then I don't own it.I don't recognize any such thing, and neither does US copyright law.  Such ownership was specificly rejected by the framers of the US Consittution, which only provides for a limited term monopoly on copying of such information.  If it were actual property, then those rights would not just be transferable & inheritable, but eternal.  They are, fortunately, limited in time and scope.And fair use by libraires & schools would be theft.It does in English.Certainly not. Ask Dr. Zhivago. I'm more than willing to sell you some bitcoins at that price point, BTW. This was the report email I got.  It proved to be accurate, entire thread was a profanity filled rant.  Zero redeeming content. Welcome to our world.  I think that you will fit in fine here.EDIT: I should say, welcome back.   He's not talking about a house.  You can't both, at the same time, possess a singular object.  That's physically impossible; regardless of the legal shorthand that claims that you both might own the house together.  He's talking about data.  You can each possess a copy, but then neither of you owns the data, only the copy that you possess.you reall shouldn't attempt to argue semantics with Myrkul.  Not only are you not understanding his point, even if you were correct he would beat you down with experience.  If nothing else, the man does understand the nuances of the words that he chooses to employ.No, it's not.  Once again, you can own a copy of the data, but no one can own the data itself.  Like this, you buy a book.  You own the object that is the book, but it is just a container for data; otherwise you would have bought a different book.  But you do not own the infromation that the book contains, and no one else can either, because no one can "own" information, the government enforce IP laws notwithstanding.  You literally don't have the right to destroy that data in the possession of others, only your own copy.Please, take a step back and let these ideas sink in for a bit. He needs to put a bit more content into his posts, then. Hi.  Now prove you're not a bot, before I decide to destroy your account. That depends on many other issues than possession.  Possession might imply ownership, but possession is not evidence of ownership.  I would wager, if you are anything like the average middle class couple, that the bank owns the house.That definition is incomplete.   Ownership can be described as the right to possession, but not possession itself.  Therein lies the risk of depending upon a single source for the definitions of English words.  English, moreso than most any other Latin derived language, is "squishy" and imprecise.  Which is great for fostering the thought processes that lead to innovation and ideas, as well as other forms of "outside of the box" thinking, but not so great for things that require precise communications of understanding, like engineering. This, in a nutshell, explains why Americans came up with ideas like the mass production line and the Interent; but the Japanese nearly conquored the US car market with the mass production line.It's also further evidence that Satoshi Nakamoto was not actually Japanese. I did not imply that his language problems negates the legitimacy of his perspectives.  You most certainly did.  At least in the opinion of the moderator.  I was implying that his language issues, and my use of language, were not permitting myself to be understood.  The distinction is not trivial. Then, I suspect, that we are arguing semantics across a language divide.  That said, ownership is, at core, the right to possess property, or do dispose of it at one's own discression.  For example; in the former Soviet Union the state 'owned' everything, but could not actually possess it.  If a truck driver under the state's employ were to take the truck the state owned and use it to move contraband, it does not mean that he ever owned the truck.  In this sense, it's actually impossible to "own" information, because there is never a single person or group who has a right to destroy that information.  You can destroy the private keys on your hard drive, but that simply destroys your own access to the value on the blockchain; others could still come along in a couple decades and brute force another private key and claim salvage, whether or not you are still alive and could otherwise prove your prior possession.  Within the network itself, it's entirely unnecessary for any particular entity to even submit a claim of salvage, because the production of another private key would be all the claim that is required.In short, if you don't have a right (or ability) to destroy something, then you don't own it.  If I were to write a poem and keep it on my hard drive, I own that data.  If I were to post it anywhere on the Internet, I've reliquished the ability to destroy that data, and thus do not own it anymore; I only own my own copy.No, the protocol does not.  The people who use it do.  The protocol does not presume anything, it only functions as the developers desire it to, and they must make such presumptions.I don't dispute that copying your private keys implies the intent to spend your coins as if they were mine. I don't understand what point you were trying to make here.You misunderstand.   The transactions that reside on the blockchain are digital, but the actual coins do not exist. They are entirely an abstract concept.Linier, actually. Just because you do not understand it, does not make my logic circular.  Every claim of ownership, within bitcoin or otherwise, has a chain of transfers that can be traced back to a start.  In bitcoin, we can trace that start all the way back to one or more block rewards, each originally owned by the miner who created the block.You own them because we both agree that the chain of events depicted by the blockchain is correct, and that they represent an honest title, which is enforced by the protocol and your private keys being kept secret.  If you do not agree you cannot function within the bitcoin economy, because the blockchain (and thus the whole of the bitcoin 'society') would not recognize any claims that do not conform to the perspectives that the protocol reflects.  Otherwise, the entire bitcoin network is just numbers in motion; it is the users who grant them meaning. Yes, and they can be pretty effective at that for long periods of time.  Still, the overall trend across recorded human history appears to have civilizations moving in the agorist direction; regardless of what governments may want or how 'mature' society in general may or may not be. I'm not confused about that, no.BTW, Rudd-O is already famous for his attitude beyond my own interactions with him, both on this forum and in Wikipedia's forum.  So perhaps more like the kettle calling the pot racist. But then it wouldn't be bitcoin, it'd be something else. Wow.  That's definately the pot calling the kettle black. [/quote]Myrkul didn't really state that well.  The private possesion of the private keys does, indeed, indicate ownership of the value that those coins represent.  However, this is only assumed to be legitimate because there is no way to determine who minght be the legitimate owner of those coins from within the system itself.  Thus, possession of the private keys must be presumed to have been aquired honestly.  Either way, the coping of the private keys, which are simply numbers, isn't theft of property; it's theft of the access to that property.  In this particular case, that property isn't tangible, but nor is it digital; it's simply a concept that, by using this system, we have implicitly agreed to.  That the transaction entries in the blockchain represent the (presumed legtimate) transfer of value.  This is no different than the tranfer of value that occurs within banking computers daily.  It's entirely abstract.  IT comes down to agreements.  You own what you own because you have a honest claim to it that I do not, and I can coose to honor that claim or not, but society at large develops a consensus upon ownership.  While I do agree with Cunicula that what is property is a social convention, I don't agree that those social conventions would not occur in the absence of governments, nor that governments are the natural body to define them.  We have many examples of primitive societies that didn't ever develop anything like what we would consider a government, and yet there are consistent patterns to how these societies view personal property.  Generally speaking, if you killed it and cooked it, it's yours to give away or not; and since most such societes are based upon gift economies, this is usually what happens.  Not because it was community property, but because it's in the interest of one hunter/gatherer to share his surplus with others like himself for the times that he fails to bag the game and another skilled hunter did not fail.  Now real estate is something more complicated, and a very modern & western idea.  But that does not mean that it belongs to everyone via the state, or to the state/king; while that has often been a convient fiction to the peaceful allocation of real estate property.  What libertarain societies would or should do when a significant minority of people within it's own realm should decide that they don't agree with the dominant consensus about property has never really been settled.  Even modern attempts at creating a real libertarian state all but depend upon land that is 'owned' in the tranditional sense by the city-state, and leased for lifetime long periods per agreements.
http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CC4QtwIwAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DIeTybKL1pM4&ei=i0uqUPOPLIeO8wStqoDADA&usg=AFQjCNEDg7_ap8otqvRJxjUWZn4Bw2kP7gThat's what copies can do... That's probably true.  He does have his pride. They have earned some very gilded cages; but, dammit, they are slaves without the liberating childhood or taxpayer funded public education! Maybe he's deliberately changing his MO so he isn't caught so quick. Yeah, I almost choked on my morning coffee on that one.  Copyright is, by it's very root definition, a limited term monopoly on the "right" to copy an intellectual work.  It's not even a monopoly arising from market forces (if such a think could really exist) without the intervention of governments that grant and support said monopoly.  Ayn Rand was not a libertarian.  Neither is Glenn Beck. My condolences upon your losses. Atlas? Not even that high an intellectual mark. Honey Badger don't care... I bothered to read this thread.  I can never get that lifespan back.  Not only do I not have anything constructive to add to the topic, apparently neither does anyone else.  Since this entire thread seems to be the trolling version of a circular firing squad, I'll just leave it all be.  And yes, I'm now counting myself amongst the trolls here.  I guess I'm now slumming. Four years?  I give it less than two. My wife and I constantly get compliments about how well behaved our children are.  This has less to do with what we may consider to be a legitimate correction method and more to do with the fact that they are homeschooled, and thus are not exposed to the bad habits of other peoples' children (in a mostly uncontrolled environment).  Corrolation is not causation. That's not a risk that is inherent to Bitcoin transactions, or even to Silk Road.  So that isn't a Bitcoin issue to solve.  If drugs is what you want, you are taking the risks.  Using bitcoin does reduce those risks in some ways, but wise consumers should be aware that Bitcoin isn't some magic pill. LOL!  While that goal actually shouldn't be a very hard target to hit, the mere luck of being in office when domestic oil production experiences a resurgence isn't likely to come close to that goal.  And the reports that fraking can make the US energy independent, before or after 2025, is silly cheerleading.  All the assumptions are to the unrealisticly-favorable end of the spectrum, including growth patterns in domestic demand itself.Also, this new tech doesn't actually grant us more oil than we had, it just means that more of it is extractable.  That does not mean that all that is extractable is economicly viable, much less a net-positive energy gain.  Much like how corn based ethanol takes about as much energy to create as is extractable, there is a point at which it becomes counterproductive energy-wise to continue to extract more oil from the ground & refine it to a point that it's usable in current engine technology.  There is no doubt that more oil is extractable with fraking, but not all of that is of a quality to make that worthwhile.  The Tar sands oil is one example, it's of a particularly low quality that requires much more effort in refinement than what is commonly available from OPEC.Furthermore, the ills that way upon the current economy have little to do with the availablity of energy, and much to do with the final stages of faulty economic theories used at national levels.  Europe will break apart again, and the cost of oil isn't going to matter a great deal on that front.  When this happens, the US will also be stressed to great levels.  The global economy is far to intergrated these days in order for the US to 'decouple' from Europe in the way that we did following WWII.  This one's going to hurt no matter what the price of oil is. If the reds don't git'cha...http://activelydisengaged.com/actively-disengaged-7-keep-looking-over-there/ Interesting prediction.  I doubt it, really.  Again, my own parents were adherents to the no-spanking theories; but reality intervened enough that they ended up compromising the spirit of the idea, although not the letter.   I would be quite surprised to discover that I was comparable to a KKK in another 20 years, for no other fact than one of the greatest proponets of no-contact parenting was Dr. Spock (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Spock) whose first book on parenting was published in 1946.  Dr. Spock didn't, at first, openly challenge the use of corporal punishment; although all of his books were certainly in that vein.  However, Dr. Spock's views on corporal punishment had no relation to the liberty arguments presented herein, because he openly admitted that he was a pacifist and a liberal, and his views on how society at large operated colored his views on this matter. (http://nospank.net/spock2.htm)  Said another way, his views on corporal punishment were not ideological, but pragmatic; and to some degree he certainly had many points.  However, his concerns about how corporal punishment affected the child long term doesn't seem to hold water, and some studies done on the matter since imply that, at worst, being spanked as children had no effect at all whether the grown child had social or psycological issue, or whether or not s/he was successful or criminal.  Some studies show quite the opposite on a lot of those metrics, such as success and general happiness as an adult. (http://www.newsmax.com/US/spanking-studies-children-spock/2010/01/07/id/345669)  I'm inclined to wager that it's as likely that such absolutist parental theories are going to die out around the same time as the idea that global warming is predominately caused by human activities, and for the same reasons.  The scientific 'consensus' can ignore it's own detractors from within it's own ranks for decades, but eventually the truth of the matter prevails. My reason for up is both because of the high potential of relatively rapid US FRN price inflation this winter, and also because of activites like Bitinstant's Bitcoin debit card that would make real time currency exchanges (even if only in one direction) much easier for Joe Sixpack to understand.The imminent halving of the block reward, I think, is likely an non-issue; but it certainly isn't going to make the existing stock of bitcoins worth less considering that the effective inflation rate for bitcoin is cutting in half as well.BTW, I have never before answer "up" to one of these quizes.  I always answered "down" or "I don't know".  One cannot be wrong with "I don't know". There is also the trust issue.  One just can't hire anyone to work on a cladestine website, now can one?  I didn't think that a DDOS attack was possible against a hidden service, or is all of Tor under assault? Do it in a public venue; preferably one with free wifi & many distractions, such as a bowling ally at league night.  BTW, a bowling ally locker rental is an excellent place (besides a bank safe deposit box) to store important things small enough to put into a bowling bag.  It's a good idea to keep some of your backups in a place that would still be accessible in the event of a bank holiday.  Even better if you happen to like to bowl. While that may be your experience, I've literally never bought bitcoins on an exchange of any kind.  I actually predate MtGox, but only by a little, and as of yet have not been forced to use a bank transfer of any kind to aquire bitcoins, so I know for a fact that it is possible to buy bitcoins entirely outside of the current financial structure if you are both patient & determined.
It's a cleaning tool, to allow you to capture once used cleaning solvent. Ah, yeah.  That's one of those 'invalid' conditions I was talking about.  What were you doing, coding the transaction by hand? That depends upon how paranoid you are.  How paranoid you should be depends upon what you might plan on doing with these funds.  If you have the skills and inclination to use Tor for your bitcoin activities, you're instincts are probably right. If it was a valid transaction, then it will be relayed regardless of how much of a transaction fee you provided for it.  If it's invalid, you would have had to use some low level command tools to create it, because your client wouldn't do it.Even if you sent it without any fee whatever, it will eventually make it into a block.Time-locked (and thus retractable) transactions are part of the scripted transaction set, but are not presently honored by the network.  Those will come someday. It's an encrypted text message, encrypted by the Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) algorithim. Are you asking us to decrypt this for you, or do you not understand what you are looking at? Distorting my words in order to fit your preconception of what I do doesn't alter the reality.I'm fairly certain that last statement is correct, but irrelvent.Best of luck with that theory.  I give you about even odds that your dauthers will hate you and your wife for reasons that you will never comprehend. I have yes, but not in the manner proscribed by that link.  I've put vinegar onto my elder son's fingertips while he is asleep, to discourge him from bitting his nails.  Nothing that would cause pain, like hot sauce, just taste bad.A timeout is always preferable to a spanking.  Again, pain as behavior conditioning should be the last resort for any behavior problem.  I've never had a child spend more than 10 minutes standing in a corner or more than 20 in a time out chair; and only that long because I got distracted while making lunch.  My rule of thumb is two minutes corner time per year of age, per infraction.  This gives them time to think about why it is that s/he is in trouble, and always ends with a quiz of why the child believes they are in timeout.  Unlike my own parents, I'm hyper-vigilant about leaving them in time-out for long periods, and I never go to bed, myself, without checking that each of my children is in bed and comfortable, so it would be practially impossible to do to my kids what my mother did to me.  I'd never be upset that my kid left time out if I forgot them anyway.  I'd feel really guilty about that.If I use pain reinforcment for behavior modification, it's only after repeated events that strongly imply that my child in inclined towards that particular behavior, and other corrective measure have proven ineffective.  Children as at least as likely to gravitate towards self-destructive behaviors as adults are.  Even though you have girls, you are going to encounter this yourself.  Be strong, young man; for you will be put to the test.I'm fine.  My accusation was correct, I stated it so that you would re-examine your core motives and convict yourself.  I'm fairly sure that I was successful.  The meme has been planted, it will take time to grow. I have no doubts that his IQ is at least 80.  IQ isn't a measure of intelectual capacity, it's a (poor) metric intended to measure average learning comprehension rates.  For the developmentally delayed.  Any IQ number over 120 or so has no practical meaning.  From what I can see of SudoGhost he is more than capable of quickly learning to rationalize away his critics. I would if you tried to restate them independently and coherently.  As they are up above they are confused and comingled.  Which is why I suspect that you're upset, that's a common effect on prose. Myrkul, you should really take some time and examine yourself and your logic.  As well as your goals in this conversation.  Do you really desire to argue the semantics of my use of the term "defense"?  Is that conducive to your true goals?  I suspect that it is, but that your true goal is not to convince me of the error of my ways, but to convince yourself of the veracity of your position.I'm not upset, and never have been while we are on this topic.  If you are getting upset by some words written by some guy on the Interent you have never met, perhaps you should examine why this makes yo so emotional. Now who is cherry picking definitions to suit their argument?  Very well, I have used the term "corporal punishment" when I should have stuck with "behavior conditioning".  I used the term only because that is the common term, but I should have expected that, once cornered, you would use that poor use of precision against me.  I don't regard the judicious & immediate use of small levels of pain to be punishment, I consider to be behavior modification.  Try again.And yes, it's in defense.  Defense against my own child's hazardous behavior in the future.  It's planning in the same way you plan to defend yourself by buying a weapon, it's concious pre-planning. I though he was doing quite well, myself, considering English is a second language for him.  His understanding of the term "inititation" is apparently better tuned than your own. I'm not the one blurring anything.  Force is required.  The onlydifference between you grabbing your child's hand and the cop grabbingyour hand is intent. I find it depressing to see you continue to deny thatwhich you already know.Nonsense, violence is simply the qualifier.  An escalation of the forceused, along a continueum.  Again it's the degree of force that youare arguing is criminal; not it's employment.You initiated the force you used when you grabbed her hand.  You can notclaim defensive use of force against your child, because your child wasnot threatening yourself, nor did you use force against the traffic thatthreatened your daughter.  You might be able to claim defensive useof force on the idea that your daughter was threatening herself, but thenso can I, so that point is moot.Of course not. Are you saying that the cop's use of a taser against youfor 'resisting' is acceptable?  You still don't seem to understand that weare not really arguing whether or not the use of force is justifyable, butsimply how much force is prudent.  Therefore every strawman argument youpresent applies to your position as well.  That's cognative dissonance.There it is, your intellectual admission that "limited" force is justifiable.  The distinction between our perspectives is just a question of intent.  You claim that attempting to condition my child to associate negative events to running into traffic must be retribution due to the delayed timing involved.  This is not a rational mindset.  You certaily know that you cannot, as a third party observer, determine my motives via one encounter.  You're projecting, and that is what is upsetting you.  You are afraid that, if you agreed with me and ever decided to utilise corporel punishment that you might take it too far. Wait.  The receiving addresses may have changed. And two-factor authentication. http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2012/11/sv-hogfish-is-for-sale.htmlThis boat is no mere plaything.  It's designed & equip as a sailing survivalist cabin.  I think it would be awesome if someone offered him bitcoins, but I don't need a boat that only sleeps 2 and don't have enough bitcoins to make such an offer.Edit: Dimitry has weathered 4 hurricanes on this boat, according to his blogpost about Sandy. Then you have already qualified some use of force, even initiation of force, against your own child for her own good.  This is exactly the same as the classic story of the professor asking a female student if she'd sleep with him for $1 million, then half a milllion, then $200K, and when she says, "what kind of girl do you think that I am?!"  "Miss, we have already established that, now we are just haggling on a price."We have already established that you are willing to accept the initiation of some degree of force against your own child, in the interests of protecting her from harm.  Now we are just haggling just how much force you would consider justifiable before we cross your threshhold of acceptability.  And that is the point; your's is not only different than mine, it's different than everyone else's as well.  There are certainly people in this world that could justify to themselves that forcing their children to go outside and choose their own switch is acceptable, while I would not; the difference between us is that I recognize that I'm not the one who gets to decide for them, no matter how uncomfortable I might be with it. Because his intervention doesn't imply a polite conversation, but him grabbing my child in public.  That makes him the aggressor, from my perspectives.  Hence, my potential response.  He knows why and so do you, this bs argument is a distraction. I thought your concession was more than a little creepy as well, but I didn't desire to drag it out longer than necessary since it was still a concession.  Great going, there.If your daughter should try to run into traffic, would you attempt to reason with her, or grab her hand to stop her and reason with her later?  Obviously you would grab her hand and forcibly prevent her from harming herself, but you have just initiated force against her in order to do so.  By your logic, you would then be an abuser yourself.  The idea that I may be more proactive, and employ behavior conditioning (instead of attempting to reason with a two year old) in order to prevent a future repeat of this scene does not make me any more of a initiator of force than yourself.  Your going to have to recognize that, no matter how opposed to the use of force against your own children you stand philosophically; you will employ force against your children at times.  Now, your self-justifiable limit of acceptable force may be much lower than my own, but that certainly does not excuse your own use of force.  The reality is that you will rationalize your level of force in exactly the same manner that I rationalize mine; that you don't agree that your level of force constitutes violence (as you define it) and that other adults who have another opinion have no say in your situation.  The slave comment was your's, and I do have the right to defend my child with deadly force whether or not you perceive my actions as abuse or not.  Your perspectives could justify your actions against me, but my perspectives would also justify my actions against you.  If you are honestly starting to feel disgust, that's progress, because that's projection.
I'm curious.  Why do you care? While that is true, bear in mind that there is no such thing as a free lunch.  You are paying for that kind of support already, and with Bitcoin you can choose not to do so.  There are plenty of people responsible enough to look after their own affairs to build a very large bitcoin economy, $10 trillion at a minumum; which is why it appears to you that the costs of such support is very inexpensive, it is currently bourne by the responsible and irresponsible alike.  You should not assume that it will always remain this way, now that the responsible have a cheaper alternative. That is the position that I'm arguing under the 'rights of the child' perspective.  Again, I can argue this from many directions, but doing so at the same time is confusing to certain minds.When he is capable of expressing that he knows that he has them.  The same way that I know you have rights, because you know that you have them.  If you don't know that you have them, you don't have any.By opening is mouth and forming coherent sentences, demonstrating that he is capable of reasoned thought.  It's a progression, though, so it's not so simple as him memorizing what I have to say and repeating same.Some of them, yes.  Again, it's a progression, and doesn't happen suddenly.  The age of reason isn't a particular age or easily defined event, but once it's past it is easy enough to recognize; like art.  Still, most children are well past it by a certain age, and we can assume that once a child is old enough for high school they are past that point unless particular circumstances imply otherwise.I do know where you're trying to lead with this, and it's still not relevent to the question unless you're going to attempt to prove that every two year old is already past this point and I simply cannot see it.Ceratinly, but we have yet to establish a baseline on the topic first.  I intend to prove, via reason, that a parent does have teh right to consider corporal punishment in order to achieve his/her goal of parenthood. I also intend to show that your personal opinion on my parental choices are not relevant.  Once we're done there, I would be willing to debate the finer points about the blurry line between harsh corporal punishment and abuse, but not until I'm done proving that not any use of force against my children is criminal any more than any use of force against a tresspasser is not criminal.Very well.Again, not every use of force is either criminal or unjustifiable.  If you are trying to raise pascifists, you're on the easy path, but I'm not.  That might be cultural, but again, you don't have any say in what culture I raise my children, either. Not really having that moment because I had it decades ago.  These guys are far from the first to disagree with me on this topic, and I'd be shocked if the were to come up with a new argument. It's not relevent who you intended the remark for, it's still an appeal to authority.Ad hominem attack.Informing me of your opinion without support for that position other then the opinions of othersRepeated ad hominemAnd there it is, the final argument of the unrepentant and uneducated.  Departure.  I declare that by the rules of civil debate, Rudd-o was never actually involved, and probably never intended to be involved, in a rational, intellectual conversation.  All your arguments (if you had presented any) were never presented in good faith, and thus wholely without merit.Goodbye and good riddance.  I question whether you wil actually be able to stay away, however.  So when you see this response because you can't help yourself, let it be known that I very much would like to know how much this pissed you off.  Of course, since you have already declared myself someone to be ignored, you can't ever permit me the satisfaction of knowing that you read this, so now you will have to stay quiet forever.Shame. If you wish to debate this topic from the perspective of the rights of the child, I'm okay with that, so long as you're willing to refrain from confusing my statements from one perspective with this one, like Rudd-O did so ineffectively before.But before we run this line down, there is a necessary tangent here.  We must first establish the origins of human rights, just so we are working from the same page.  Do you prefer Jurius Naturalis, or some other proof?You could follow that tact, to be sure.  But you do realise I'd just undermine that position by bringing up the very real condition of the mentally incapcitated adult (by genetic retardation, or tramatic accident, does not matter) who still has his rights, but then must have someone else to demand them as well as excercise them on his behalf because his is physically incapable of doing so for himself; and then we will get where we are headed much quicker.  I'm okay withthat as well.We are both, actually.  I refer you back to the signing ape example I provided before.  But if you don't like that one, what about an alien encounter?  Does a spacefaring alien race not rate rights?  But of course they would.  What about if we were the spacefaring race encountering a sentient race on thier home turf?  They still have rights by reconning, you should tell me if you disagree.  Thus, rights are not rooted in our 'humanity', they are rooted in our capacity to reason those rights out, understand them, express them, demand them, and support them in others.  The pre-age-of-reason child cannot do these thing, yet.  But we assume that he will, so we recognise that he will have rights in the future, and thus he has them now.  But if he needs reson to use his rights, who represents him (and his rights) in the meantime.  By default, that would be his parents.  And just like an adult can choose to be "abused" by joining a fight club or joining the USMC, the child's representative can also choose training that the child might not, at the time, favor himself.  And just like August's example of mild pain training to not waste food, that child ratifies the parents' decisions in adulthood, or he does not, but it's not your place to decide for the child at the time, it's the parents'.Not a causeal link.  There is exactly zero emperical evidence (or any other kind) that corporeal punishment (or not) trends either for or against real criminal tendencies.  Now I'm sure that you are giong to try to show that abuse leasds to abuse or violence, but corporeal punishment is not abuse, whihc is the cause of theis thread, so you may not assume the conclusion in the premise, don't try that one.Since the intention is also not your perview, I assume that you are cheekily conceding this point?I do know that, yes.  That statement, albet true, doesn nothing to  alter my point.  Did you intend to counterpoint?Because I, the parent, am both His representative on Earth, and my child's representative in all matters, unless and until it can be proven that I actually do not have my child's own interests at heart (I.E. I'm actually a sadist, or some such) in front of a jury of my peers or until my child is old enough to demand his rights back.  At no point would you represent my child in any fashion, and if you did any such thing to me in a public place I'd be more than justified to respond to you with deadly force for attempting to remove my child from my custody.  Whether or not I'm spanking my child in public, if you attempt to remove him from my presence and I don't know who you are, I'd shoot you without question or remorse; for (again) there is a such thing as justifiable use of force, and defending my child from starngers is ceratinly one of them.  Do not tell me that you would intervene under such an event, because we both know that would be escalation from an uncomfortable situation to a potientially lethal enounter.  And calling the po-po because you are uncomfortable with how other parents use their rights is no more noble, and I know you know why. I'm not interested in another appeal to authority faliacy, no.And you can have any opinoin you wish, so long as you don't try to impose that opinion upn me and claim it's reason. Nagle has literally built a reputation around predicting Bitcoin's near term demise.  It's his ego at stake here. <sigh>  I had high hopews for you MyrkulI claim that any parent has a responsibility to attend to the well being of his/her offsspring due to Jurius Naturalis.  The natural laws.  If you are religious, (which I know that you are not, yet you adhear to an ethic/morality that you cannot completely define) then the source of this obligation is adherance to God's providence, because all chidlren belong to God and parents are entrusted with their upbringing.  Whether or not such an obligation is respected by the parents themselves is a different issue, but as you noted, to fail to do so is regarded as a "dick move" for more than social convention.  However, even if you are an atheist, then this still rings true because humanity (being an animal) is naturally encoded (or programmed) to not simply procreate, but also to care for it's offspring.Either path arrives at the same end.  The goal of parenthood is to raise adults, but how civilized they are is secondary to the simple fact that they are adults.  Therefore, the root goal of parenthood is to increase the odds of the child's survival to adulthood, by any and all methods possible.  It cannot be reasonablely argued that spanking a child does not work as a behavior modificaition method; thus if the goal is to keep the kid away from the traffic in the street, even at the potential cost of the relationship between parent and child, the end of survival literally justifies the means in some cases.  The key here is that I don't have to argue the relative effectiveness of corporal punishment as behavior modification compared to other options, I'm simply arguing that a parent has the right to choose that option if all others known have been exausted, and that you don't have teh right to interfere with that decision.Now your'e setting up to exit this debate, pretending that we aren't having one.  That's an exit stragedy that others of lessor minds have employed in the past, but I expect more from you Myrkul.  If you simply can't continue to argue your position, either find a position that you can, or admit that you refuse to conceed the point.  Anything else is dishonorable.Your side remark about responsibilites being delegatable was the irreelevent point.  IT remains so, as it is still not in contest.  IT's a distraction.  Let it go. YEah, I've long been in the same place.  It's impossible for me to have lost any spending power overall, even if BTC goes to zero. I think you are the sucker.  I have evidence that SR isn't down.  I have no intention of presenting said evidence, or even describing it's nature; but I suggest you check your Tor instance. Yes, but that isn't traded, at least not as gold.  It's traded only as an indistinguishable portion of a consumer product.  It's the trade of pure gold bullion that sets it's monetary price, and that occurs very little. True.  Gold is a fine store of value, but trades very little percentage wise. Fail.  That logic is circular.  The source of the responsibility cannot be the child itself, if the source of the child is the parent(and I have caused the child no harm by creating it).  The fact that I made it, whether or not I claim it, is irrelevent within your own ancap philosophies.  If I don't agree that I have such responsibilities, then I don't; except I do.  Why is that?  You know the truth, just pause, breath, and type.  All you have to do is admit it.This is an irrelevant point.  No one has contested that parental responsibilites can be delegated, nor have I contested that such responsibilites can be assumed by adults other then the parents.  This is a non issue.And why do you think this is so?  I assure you, my root premises do not rest upon as social convention.I contest that one.  By what logic do you make such a statement?  The fact that I don't leave is an acceptance of some undefined obligation?That the father has not. Didn't feel the need.  Wrong is wrong.  It's also a appeal to authority fallacy.  If you can't make the argument here, then the validity of the argument is dependent upon the credibility of the presenter, and is thus and invalid argument.We have.  Several, in fact.  I have already mentioned some.  The above argument assumes that barter must be the dominate means of value exchange in  a given society.  That is far from necessary.  All that is necessary for money to evolve is that the common man in the society has experience enough with barter in order to preform the act when the opprotunity arises, not that the common man need be dependent upon his bartering skills for his livelyhood.  Barter is always an opprotunistic event, the development of money in it's place increases those opprotunites, and that is why the evolution flows that way. This is not an argument, Myrkul; this is trolling.  While I don't mind a humorous jab every now and again, this doesn't qualify.  You have literally just attempted to undermine your opposition by accusing him of a psychological condition that would presume to affect his objectivity.  It's an ad hominem.Do not do this again. Progress, indeed.  So assuming that I have not harmed my child by fathering it, nor do I owe the mother any further compensation assuming that the contract was paid as negotiated, how would a father become 'responsible' for a child without declaring that responsibility for himself (in an ancap society, for consistancy)?  If he has caused no harm, nor accepts the responsibility upon himself, who/what can impose that responsibility upon him?  Here's a hint, there is no root difference between the terms "responsibility", "obligation", "duty" and "debt" except in how they are commonly used; their core meanings are interchangable.  If you doubt that, simply try to describe one of these in your own words, and then swap out any of the others in every place you use that term, and you will see that they are, in their meaning, interchangable.Now, to be clear, I do agree that any parent has a difficult to define responsibility to his/her children; regardless of the conditions that resulted in that child.  I'm just trying to guide you to the source of that responsibility.Actually, I do.  This is a contradictory position, but we will get into that later. Myrkul, I agree that he understands your argument as well as I do.  You don't seem to have one, because if fails a simple logical proof.  You claim to no understand where I'm trying to lead you, so the cognative dissonance is significant.Answer this simple question.If I were to hire a hooker while on vacation, knock her up, and go home.  What harm have I caused that child? Note the key modifier there.  Of course there is no such evidence.  There is much evidence that barter occurred, but none that any particular society relied upon it, for as soon as one did, some commodity became the dominant money.  Yet, nor is there any evidence that no society has not relied (primarily or otherwise) on barter.  You can't prove a negative, and neither can Graeber, but that doesn't mean that his assumptions about how money develops is correct.  If I can find a single instance in the historical record, his theory is busted; but the problem is that the historical record is vague, and no one really kept records of early economic development because even in cultures that kept records no one knew there was any value to recording this information. Ah, but why is a functional, self-sufficient human being the goal of parenthood?  Who gets to decide this?  You?  Society?  The State?  To whose ends does this goal contribute?  I know you have it in you, Myrkul; all you have to do is admit it.  You know you will not be satisfied with any other supporting logic without going there first.First of all, not all forms of corporal punishment involve striking a child.  Occasionally, there is a need to resort to a memorable level of pain in order to condition a child to act in a safe manner.  Is this statement in dispute, Myrkul?  Can you not imagine any child, or any situation, that the judicious use of low levels of pain can be justified by the reduction in risk?  If not, your imagination function is broken.  I can, in fact, think of dozens.  So can the established case law, BTW.Beyond that, whether or not you consider, or can reasonablely argue that corporal punishment is often or usually counter-productive is irrelevant.  The root question is, who gets to determine that?Is it you, Myrkul?
Well, hello Cunicula.  Am I out of the penalty box, or did you lift your ignore just for this special occasion?As for the children as property statement, I don't actually regard my children as property, I was presenting that argument because it's a common atheist/libertarion one with regard to the reality of children in the absence of any recognition of a God.  The religious argument being quite different, and as you pointed out, being a religious wacko I tend towards that one; yet I don't consider that one intelletually satisfying either.  Still, you don't even have a coherent philosophical perspective here to cling to.  What has Paul Krugman said about this topic?  You'd better go check. I considered that perspective, actually, but chose not to go there mostly because simply restating the position from the religious and libertarian/ownership perspectives created a lot of confusion.  I also don't consider the 'naturalness' of the use of force to be a particularly relevent point, one that I'm not willing to attempt to defend.  I'd lose anyway.  After all, the instinct to reproduce is a very natural drive, but that would not in any fashion excuse a rape. Not an argument, Myrkul.  I've come to expect much more from you than this.  You can argue the finer points of ancap theories and Austrian economic theories, but you can't present something here better than "I believe" or "I feel"?Perhaps I do have some cognitive dissonance here.  So show me, I'll listen.BTW, it's an irony that I, personally, grew up in a non-corporal-punishment home; but the harshness of "non-violent" forms of punishment are just as bad and more insidious.  I can, quite vividly, remember being put into the corner; and left there for hours.  Once they forgot that I was there, and I feel asleep in the corner.  I awoke in the early morning hours, and then went to bed.  My mother drug me out of my bed at 6:30 am and stood me back in the corner for the audacity of choosing to go to bed without permission.  My parents were also anti-gun and anti-military, but when I joined the USMC those drill instructors had nothing on my own parents concerning psychological methods of abuse.  I can, again vividly, remember my older sister begging to be spanked for some infraction, like her friends might have endured, because the suffering would end quicker.No, sorry.  But no stockholm sysndrome here.  Parental cruelty has little to do with the methods employed.Strange, an AnCap arguing that I have a responsibility to serve someone that I have not harmed nor agreed to serve.  If I have zero ownership, I have zero responsibility.  I don't owe them anything, do I?  If I do, how did I incure such a debt?  If you don't yet see where I'm going with this, it's you that has cognative dissonance.I commited an action that resulted in a new life.  I commited that act for my own reasons, the life that resulted was a secondary event.  What harm have I committed against that life?  None that I can think of.  So therefore, to whom do I owe this debt/obligation of responsibility?You dodged the point, and you know it.  You know, intuitively, that not every child will have the capacity at an early age, towards reason or towards recognizing hazards, even after all of your efforts.  Yet, you also know, intuitively, that as the parent I have an obligation to do all that I can to protect this child until he is old enough to reason.  To whom, then, do i owe this obligation (debt)?  You know that answer intutively also, you just can't bring yourself to say it.  Cognative dissonance, indeed.What is the difference?  What if a chimp taught sign language was able to communicate an understanding of individual rights, self-awareness and reason via said sign language.  Would that chimp still be a animal, owned by a zoo?  Not free to choose to return to the jungles?Then you should consider yourself lucky in this regard, and I'm sure that you will do fine.  Most of the time, a strict no-spanking parentling style would work well enough, and is actually unlikely to expose the child to a great many hazards in our modern & hyper-vigilant & safety consious society.  But I'm not taling about the rule, I'm talking about the exceptions.Girls are also easier to raise in this regard, until about 14.  It's usually the boys that are truely "fearless". Yes.It's not bad for the group, either. Yes, it is.  <- Notice that I used the present tense there.  I did so intentionally.Well, I've got some bad news for you then, because by my reconning, we are going to get a real free market within a decade whether we as a people are prepared for that or not. Why? I don't agree with this statement, and would like you to support it. I have five.Indeed, it's certainly preferable to talk it out with your child whenever that is a practical option.  I don't and haven't contested that.  As I mentioned before, I very rarely use corporal punishment and never do with my adopted children, but for different reasons that relate only to them.  But that doesn't mean that corporal punishment isn't a vaild method, when others fail.  And I assure you, they will fail sometimes.  No, the bigger question is who gets to determine what level of force is appropriate.  I say it's (almost) always the parent.  These other guys seem to think that they get to decide for me, and don't consider that statism.True enough, but again, corporal punsishment is a sliding scale; a matter of relative degree and not an absolute.  Is it corporal punishment for me to slap the hand of my child before he puts his hand into the blue flame?  Yes, and it does hurt; but it is both less harmful and far less lasting than a third degree burn.  Yet, what if, instead, I grab his hand to prevent the contact, and then smack his hand?  ave I just commited a crime against my child?  While it's possible that he might associate fear of parent with the stovetop, and that is undesireable, is that not still more desireable than a third degree burn next time? Oh, but wait!  Why are they only self-owned at birth?  If they own themselves at birth, dispite lacking the capacity to reason, converse or even eat without aid; why don't they own themselves the day before?  Why not the month before?  Why not nine months before?  Why not a month before conception?  If the potential to be a human being with self-ownership (by the logic of being able to reason, or any other logic) why don't they have such rights across time?  Wouldn't contraceptives be akin to murder? I'm glad to see a couple of thinking adults have joined the coversation.Okay, if they are their own property at birth, why is it my responsibility to do anything?  I know, rationally, that they exist as a result of my own actions, and that they will likely perish without my parenting.  But if they are my responsibility, how am I not the slave, then?  And what about my religious perspective argument "All children are God's children, and I'm his representative"?Again, I'm not pulling these arguments out of my rear.  All versions of the pro-corporal punishment argument that I have thus far presented have already been argued extensively by libertarian philosophers for decades.  Pre-age-of-reason children remain an unresovled issue.Why is behavior conditioning not morally acceptable?  You know, Myrkul, that stating your position, even repeatedly, doesn't an arguement make.  As for reasoning with a toddler, this is possible & desireable under ceratin conditions and with certain children; but it does not apply to all situations or all children.  I'm arguing that corporal punishment, used sparingly, is an effective method of behavior modification and that it's use (as a last resort) does not qualify as abuse.  Others are arguing that corporal punishiment is always and in every situation abuse.  That's an absolute position to take, and there are very few absolutes in the real world.But what if simply telling them does not drive that point home?  What then?  If you do exactly as you say, and never utilize corporal punishment as behavior modification despite the fact that your child repeatedly ignores your verbal warnings of the potential for great harm, and he finally runs out in front of traffic and is killed.  Have you, then, not failed as a parent?  How is that not neglect?Certainly as soon as that is possible.  But what if it's not? In addition, it's a established fact that many aboriginal cultures did barter, and others had developed money out of that.  The fact was that they bartered between tribes, but used a gift economy within a tribe.  The American Indian tribes that existed near the East coast during the early colonial days would do this with other tribes as well as the European settlers.  Many island cultures would do the same, ultimately developing to the use of money such as Rai stones (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rai_stones).  And despite the long standing use of carved stones as money, the Yapese people had no concept of credit.  It only takes one counter example to disprove the theory, and there it is. The true irony is that I don't agree with your analogy because of your second point; but the nature of government force is no longer the topic here. I have presented many other theories of parental rights, and every one of them has been expressed by libertarian thinkers as one point or another.  This isn't about how you feel about it, make a real argument.  Please!  Hell, I can do better than this arguing your side, but your side isn't mine.You are correct, from the state's perspective, the state owns them and you.  Are you guys just spouting off without reading what I've already wrote about this topic?  If so, you should go back and read the arguments presented, all of which are in support of the idea that children are owned, and all of them are libertarian arguments.  My opposition has yet to offer anything other than an emotional appeal. You'd have, at most 3 BTC. Another person who can't form an argument.There, I fixed that for you.Did you really just reference a George Carlin comedy routine?  Do you think that helps the case you haven't presented yet?You guys are continuing to prove my point. Why would I lock it?  I really don't mind them trolling me.  It's why I split the thread. Sure there is.  You could attempt to summerize the arguements you would like to make, instead of attempting to send your opposition off to read some tome you believe supports your case.  You have to present a case before you can reference outside sources.  Thus far, you have failed to actually present a case at all.  All that the lot of you have been doing is declare myself (and by extension, anyone who might even consider corporal punsishment a valid parental tool) to be violent abusers It already is. Nor are you willing to engage in an adult conversation, instead you desire to spew unsubstantiated claims about myself based upon little evidence.  I expect that you are attempting to provoke an over-reaction, but you overestimate my consideration of your opinion. Indeed, ethics are the opposite of subjective personal preferences.  So back up your statement and attempt to establish that my "actions violate an ethical standard which is provably universal".  That's going to be a trick, since it's pretty easy for me to show that your position is far from a universal standard, but I'd love to see you try.Perhaps, but I certainly don't have to prove that to you.Ethics, defined as defined as universally preferable behavior, is a valid concept.[/quote]I don't even have to look at that one before I can undermine your use of it.  It's called universally preferable behavior.  No matter how well argued it might be, it's ultimately and expression of the author's preferances.  Mine, or your's, could be different without violating any ethical principles.
I know full well that you don't respect my opinion, although you might respect my right to express same.  I question even that, but you don't have any power to prevent it, so there it is.That said, I can accept your concession. Do I really need to point out that it's the lot of you guys that have been trying to impose your opinions of my parenting methods upon me?Fine.  Come up with others, I'm willing to engage you on any front. I bet you consider this to be a rational perspective, perhaps even an argument.I consider it to be the seed of the tyrannical state.  What you are saying here is, "if I were king, you would be locked up or have your children removed from your home because I disagree with your parenting methods and consider you a bad parent."Care to grow a bit, and approach this topic from an adult viewpoint? I can't, that's the point.  Neither can you.  Believe it or not, we share a (general) philosophy; but it's an incomplete one.  Libertarianism (and all of it's variants) are based upon two central principles.1) Property rights are paramount, are necessary for the functioning of a free society, are the roots of economic success, as well as the roots of all human rights because....2) I own myself.But why do I own myself?  Because I'm a rational, thinking adult; and therefore capable of understanding my rights & property, I'm capable of expressing those rights and demanding them from others, and responsible enough to respect those same rights in other people.But children before a certain age cannot do these things.  So who owns them?  The question is not academic, and it's not one easily solved or ignored.  Literally speaking, it's easy enough to say that they own themselves even before they can assert that, but then who represents them until then?  This rabbit hole is deep.  If they own themselves as infants, and their parents hold their rights in escrow, who owns them before birth?  It's getting dark down here, isn't it? I wouldn't consider it subjective, but you are free to ignore me all you like.  Still, I've made a claim that I can actually argue, although I haven't really tried yet.  You're the kind of person who makes a statement like it's obvious and anyone who disagrees must be Holocaust Denier material, and then you scutter off with your moral certitude.If I am really wrong, wouldn't you have a moral obligation to, at a minimum, attempt to correct me? How 'bout this one, the religious argument....All children belong to God, and as the parent, I've been appointed by God to care for His property until they are of age.  So, while I cannot deliberately bring them (unjustifiable) harm, I must answer only to their true owner, God.  In His absence, I am the final arbitor of what is in the best interests of my own children.  Neither you guys, as individuals outside of my own family, nor society at large, has any authority over myself or my management of God's children in my care.  You literally have no 'standing' to interfere; not under your own philosophies or any other (except collectivism, but I hope that one is beyond consideration here, because I'd have a field day with anyone who is going to claim that my children belong to "the state" or "society").  This is because, while I don't own my children, I have a (supportable) claim to represent Him in this matter, while you do not.The end result is exactly the same as if I used the (partial/economic) ownership-of-children theory, as is expressed well enough in The Diamond Age; or if I used the individual-rights-in-escrow theory expressed by a great many Libertarian philosophers in many different ways.  I, not you, gets to decide what is in the best interests of my own children.  Nor would I get to decide what is in the best interests of your children, once you have some.  I've personally seen (quite literally) dozens of young people express these same kind of ideological sentiments, only to toss it all out the window once their first child enters the "terrible twos" (which is really the terrible threes)What you might consider emotionally terrifying or to be (unjustifiable) physical harm is entirely irrelevant. I wish they were as articulate as you seem to think that they are.  I've seen the documents that they are regurgitating, and they aren't even doing a partcularly good job of that. Maybe I am trolling a bit, maybe not.  Find the flaws in my reasoning, and debate or admit that you don't have a rebuttal. That's a good question, care to expound upon it, or are you going to accept my statements as gospel? Take it how you like, but I've not deleted anything.EDIT: Well, I have now. Well of course having many children does not give me license to choose corporal punishment as a disiplinary option.  It's the fact that they are mine that does so.  And yes, they are mine.  They literally belong to me, in every philsophical sense.  I created them, thus they are mine.  I nurtured them, thus I have "comigiled" my human labor time with developing them into what they are today, thus they are mine.  They are too young to express knowledge of, and therefore claim, human rights of self-ownership; thus they do not have self-ownership, and therefore my own cliams to ownership are superior to any others.Granted, I can't destroy my children, like I could for something that I really own, but there exists not one self-consistant philisophical definition of "human", "person" etc within any version of libertarian thought that deals with children younger than the age of reason.  For that matter, none even have a cosnsitant way to determine whin a child has arrived at the "age-of-reason".  A child that I can reason with is not a child anymore, but i remain responsible for their public failures until they are 18, so if I'm respnsible for them, in some fashion I still own them under the law.Let the bitching commence. Ah, now we are getting into some rarified philosophical air.  I'm going to have to split this thread. By what logic to you come to such a conclusion?  Are you basing this off of population growth, or something else? I concur.  Don't waste your time on that guy. I do realize this, actually, and I act accordingly.  I use corporal punishment rather sparingly, far less than most I imagine; but I take offense to the implication that I'm not morally correct in doing so as a parent.  You don't get to choose what is in the best interests of my children, I do.   I don't have to do either.  history is already on my side, just not in Graeber's mind.  You made this reference, it's up to you to argue that it's correct.  I don't personally care what you believe, but to just say "Graeber says this" is committing the 'appeal to authority' falacy using someone I do't even view as a an authority on the matter. Well, I watched about half of it, and that is about all that I'm willing to take.  While I respect Stefan for his philisophical positions, on this one he is just full of shit.  He's presenting it as a failure (of the parent) to prepare.  While this might be true enough in certain (strawman) situations; such as the particualr one that started the video (i.e. How do I get my kid to leave teh playground without resorting to violence), it's quite impossible to predict all of the situations that your toddler might find hismeslf in.  It's also an unfair statement to state taht behavior conditioning in advance of life threatening conditions isn't a mannor of preperation, particularly when your the parent, in public, with five children.  Getting a toddler to leave a public playground due to a time constraint certainly doesn't qualify as conditoning for a life threatining situtation, and ultimately alswasy involves some degree of the use of force by the parent.  Even Stefan will eventually pick up his toddler (agaisnt his own will) and force him to abide, even if there is no physical pain involved.  From Stefan's own philosphical viewpoint, this is violence if it's one adult doing it to another, so it thus must be violence when done to a toddler as well.  Stefan, himself, is a bit of a contradiction in this point.  In the end, the differences between stefan (as a "non-violent" parent) and myself is simply a matter of degree, as he prefers not to use pain as a method of behavior conditioning.  That's his preference, and he is welcome to it.  But give him 5 kids, three in diapers, put him in a public place and make him responsible for their well being, and he might jsut reconsider his options due to the practical non-availability of other options (mostly due to time and attention).  Keep in mind that even though there are two children over the age of reason there to help, he can't really compell them to aid in his parental duties either.  That was, (and largely remains) my world (only two still in diapers, and that only because I've got a 3 year old boy who doesn't care to learn to use the toilet).That said, we don't spank the two tots.  But this is because 1) they were adopted from an abusinve home (as in real abuse, arbitrary & severe violence) and 2) we have a contract witht he state to not employ corporal punishments; and we (obviously) don't spank the infant either, she can't get into anything anyway. (yet)  But make no mistake, chosing to remove corporal punishments from the toolbox is to deliberately remove an effective parenting tool for which parents do have the right to employ.  There is such a thing as justifiable use of force; and i will certainly use it, as a last resort, to condition my children to associate the memory of pain with dangerous endeavors.  Certainly, it would be preferable to be able to reason with them or otherwise keep them out of harms way without resorting to such conditioning, but that is not always possible <cough> No sorry.  Money is the most liquid good in a barter economy, and arises naturally.  And it does so, so quickly that there is no recorded example of a stable barter economy; at least not in the sense that some form of commodity didn't function as the monetary "change" in a barter transaction.  There are plenty of examples of societies that evolved money well before any need to raise or mobilize an army, even before the invention of writing in order to record same. Nonsense.  Should I permit a toddler to stick his hand into the blue light on the top of the stove, so that he remembers not to do it again, or would the much less permanent harm that a spanking causes him help his young (and not very rational) mind to remember to leave the blue light alone?  Sure, I can reason with an eight year old, and teach them a safe way to cross the street, but if a three year old is inclined to run away at any opprotunity, not using the non-permanent pain of a spanking in order to instill a healthy fear of vehicular traffic is the parental failure.I shouldn't even have to use the "don't pee on the electrical outlet" example.  A toddler can not be reasoned with, as they have no more capacity to understand the risks than a puppy does.  How do I train the puppy to stay in the yard (and thus away from traffic and other harm)?  By using a collection of positive and negative results to it's actions via treats for desirable behaviors and judicious use of pain for undesireable behaviors.  The goal with children is to instil a rudimentary concept of consquences so that the child might just live to the age of reason unmaimed by his own actions, but the methods are similar.  This is not abuse.  To fail to do so, or at least attempt to do so, is neglect.I really get tired of this kind of bs coming from people who obviously never had children. I can scan anything with the camera on my Android smartphone, and do it all the time.  Works great for hunting for resalable treasures at yard sales.  Amazon even offers a specialized app that lets you scan any object's code, and check the price on Amazon.  Every once in a while I'll hit a yard sale where some old biddy is selling off her collection of old books, and if her price is less than half of the "buy it used" price on Amazon, I'll buy it with the intent of offering on Amazon.There is no reason whatever to favor a $10 dedicated scanning device when it won't be much longer before a majority of cell phones can do this anyway.
And, to a certain extent, that's actually progress.  I'm sure that it doesn't seem like it, but governments exist at all because having a permanent criminal class that would keep the other mobs out really was progress to the early farmers who could be raided by any group at any time.  From this perspective an established annual 'taxation' cycle really was progress.Seriously; perfect is the enemy of the good.  MJ will be legalized only after a decade or two wherein the general public has experience with it and the drug prohibitionists' predictions do not occur.  What the feds do in the meantime is whatever the feds are going to do. That guy also makes a bit of circular argument; considering that many of those articles that he talks about accusing Bitcoin of being a ponzi scheme reference his Wikipedia article as their source. I'm a netflix member and don't even know how one would redeem such a code. Yes, it could; and the size limit on the bitcoin block is arbitrary and amendable.  It's generally assumed that the max-blocksize will be increased several orders of magnitude in the future; but never permitted to be unlimited.  This forces a premium on transactions that need to be processed quickly if there the network is close to the limit.  In prior threads on this very topic, a max-blocksize limit of 1 Gbyte is likely to be the high end in a distant future wherein Bitcoin is processing more transactions per second than Visa while remaining within the practial limits of bandwidth that a dedicated server can afford, assuming that the costs of bandwidth do not continue to drop, which is also unlikely. Not really, it's just flexible in another place.  Fiat currencies are 'flexible' in the sense that the absolute number of monetary units (the total monetary base) is not fixed, and therefore the issuing entity (in theory) can add or witdraw (ha, ha) currency as it sees fit to maintain "price stability".  This makes the assumtion that price stability is desirable, but there is no economic reason that this is so.  Hard currencies, like Bitcoin or gold, have a fixed monetary base so they are "flexible" at the price point; which is one reason that the market exchange rate of bitcoin moves so much relative to fiat currencies and can be expected to do so for some time.While parrallel clones of the bitcoin system could lead to expansion of the monetary base in theory, I don't think that's what is going to happen in practice.  A competing cryptocurrecy has to offer an advantage over bitcoin in some fashion or another in order to establish a market value at all.  This could be done by a niche need, such as with Namecoin; or it could be done by the promises of a trusted entity, such as WalMartCoin or AmazonCoin; or it could simply be that a clone fixes an as-yet-unknown bitcoin flaw (that is otherwise unfixable within bitcoin itself).  But without some obvious advantage in a particular market or function, bitcoin clones will never do well if they have to compete alongside bitcoin, because bitcoin has the first-to-market advantage and new vendors will desire to use the most widely known cryptocurrency first while most new digital consumers are going to desire the most widely accepted cryptocurrency as well.   Bonds are just a form of private loan, wherein some company (or other institution, such as a city government) needs to raise their cash position.  Normally, bonds are a one-for-one exchange, no fraction involved.  Investment banks will often issue bonds to be sold, so that they can raise their reserve fund high enough to grant a huge construction loan without breaking the reserve ratio required by law.  This is what is supposed to happen, but it doesn't always.  Bonds are unsecured revolving credit for huge institutions in a similar fashion that credit cards are for consumers.  Bonds function much like an old fashioned bank CD,  in the sense that bonds don't pay out on demand unless you're willing to sell them for a discount on the secondary bond markets.  Utility bonds are some of the safest places to store fiat currency in any of the first world economies, but really all they are is storage.  You're lucky to keep up with inflation under normal circumstances and you certain won't right now.  But even utility bonds sometimes go bad.  Municipal bonds, IMHO, are riskier than utility bonds mostly because you have a group of polititians trying to make a sound judgement on whether or not they can repay the costs of constructing that new sewer system with the tax base.  So you have a group of people who salary is not dependent upon their economic prowess, deciding upon a debt to be paid back by taxes, the amount of which is not often related to the success of the project it's funding.  Whereas a utility bond is pretty straight forward, you're loaning money to a company that (for example) builds power plants with the expectation selling the power from those plants to the city and it's people.   No we wouldn't need such an alternative currency, but one could exist.  No, you're getting confused.  We already have rudimentary banks, in the form of online wallet services.  Imagine if one particular service, let's call it BitcoinPal, were to grow large enough that it had thousands of consumers & retail websites with accounts.  Whenever a consumer used his web portal or smartphone app to import the address of a member's retail website, the computer doing the action could recognize that address to belong to a member, and simply credit that member's account.  This would require group storage of bitcoins, like a bank does with cash, and thus there would be some currently unmet need that the bank can provide that is costly to an individual consumer.  Most likely this would be transaction fee reduction, as thousands of members could operate in this way (so long as the banking institution was trusted) and only produce a blockchain bound transaction. Such transactions are cheap now, but they are subject to market forces too.  When Bitcoin is seving as many transactions per second as Visa, we can't expect a transaction fee to still be a nickel.Ah, I see the block. You belive that successful banks would eventually own all the bitcoins, correct?  Well the free market doesn't work that way, those bitcoins, including the interest, is always in motion.  Banks pay employees, employees buy services, businesses pay their loans; and when they don't, loans default and banks lose both the principal and interest on that loan, and the interest on a couple others to balance out the loss of reserves.  Interest rates would naturally trend down toward a point that is close to the default rate plus the dispersion rate.  Very unlike our current system of fixed rates. In our current system?  Banks are supposed to keep a 1:9 reserve to lending ratio, in other words banks are permitted to lend out nine times as much as they have on their books.  However, this includes not only the CD's and savings account balances, but also the marked-to-market value of all the collateral used in all of the loans.  I.E. the resale value of the cars and homes themselves that the bank would 'repossess' should the borrower fail to honor the terms of the loans.  So the ratio of cash on deposit to debt outstanding can be much higher, and when Lehman Brothers failed their real reserve ratio was pushing 1:50.  Reserves can be anything with an established market value; gold, foreign currencies, even raw land. A bit over simple, but yes. No, because the banker starting the run rumors would be first in line.  It's the depositors who heard of it late that end up screwed, and angry.  It's never the bankers you see in a mob. No, the banks of Hong Kong issued warehouse receipt notes for gold, and these traded on par with each other based up the claim of gold weight printed upon them.  All of the banks issued more such warehouse receipts than they had gold to cover at any one time, and all of the other bankers knew it as well.  If one was taking things too far, he would also be driving down the interest rates; thus the profits of the other banks.  so the others would accumulate the warehouse receipts of the offending bank until they had enough of them that it was unlikely that the bank would be able to honor them all at once, and start a run.  Thus running the offending banker out of business.  It was called "wildcat" banking when it was the norm in the US from 1860 or so to 1890.  It was also known as the "Free Banking Era".Deposit insurance is an illusion anyway, but yes, it does contribute to a circular justification. Yes, that is still valid, and it was exactly how the 'wild' banks in Hong Kong would keep each other honest right up until the start of WWII.  If one of the banks took things too far, the other bank owners would get wind of it, and start to amass their "notes" (if they printed any, which they did in Hong Kong, usually on recycled newspaper) and if they thought that they had enough, might start a rumor of a bank run, and actually send agents with mass numbers of notes to demand gold in person.  This is what maintained the honor among thieves in the past, and it could do so again under a free market version of bitcoin dominated fractional reserve banking. Danny did a fine job on that front.  The question then becomes, how strong of an institution would you consider Amazon to be?  How conservative their lending practices?  The root problem with central banking isn't fractional reserve lending practices per se, but the small amount of reserve the banks are obligated to maintain, since central banking isn't a free market and pretends to insure itself.  When the banking system is ultimately supported by taxpayers, in the form of cheap insurance, they tend to push the rational limits of the 'fractional' part, favoring profit over risk.  An independent banking system, subject to the forces of the free market, might still operate in a fractional manner but not nearly to the same degree due to the risks involved. Ah, ther is the rub.  You don't see it.  I most certainly do.  Investment banking is different than what you are used to.  That said, what if WalMart or Amazon started a bitcoin fractional bank?  Certaily some would distrust either of them, others would respect the honestly. It makes them higher than what you're used to, that does not make such risk "high".  A bitcoin bank that fractionally loans out twice as much as it keeps in reserves can crediblely do so, so long as it's open and up front abou it's methods and long term CD's are it's primary method of raising capital (or some other not-on-demand deposit system).Almost certainly.  There have always been interest in investment loans.You're guessing, and poorly.  Keep thinking and you might get there on your own. Only while trying to download the blockchain, like any other client.  Ongoing, not so much, no.If set up correctly, yes. Wait, seriously? An low-end hooker is only about $50?  Where do you live? This kind of thing has come up before, and in every case that I can recall, it turned out that the ISP wasn't really combating viri but trying to clamp down on Bittorrent or some other P2P tech that takes a lot of bandwidth.  They can't really say it that way, though.  Why would your miners be consuming a lot of bandwidth?  You should only have one that is 'net facing while the rest just connect to each other and that one.  If nothing else, you can port that one's connection over Tor, although that will slow things down.  A ssh tunnel to an off-isp-network shell account would work well. There is at least two other forum members that use that exact avatar photo. A statement that applies to every other elected official, everywhere.  How do you know a politian is lying, again?
While the net result of a truly free market must tend toward increasing the common welfare, the individual market players most certainly do not participate in the interests of the common good.  The net result is due to the fact that all free trades (truly in the absence of coersion) must be in the best interests of those involved.  Thus, in the aggregate, the results of those millions of free trades must be in the best interests of the society as a whole, even if the outcome may not be 'optimal' from a particular ideological viewpoint.  The "prisoner's delimma" argument does not exist outside of the context of a coercive theird party; be that the prison itself or coercive governments at large.In short, Bitcoin does not refute the above quoted statement, but still tends toward that result. Wow, you read a politician's website and actually assume it accurate?  What the hell for?  It's on the Internet, so it must be true!  Dude, those bs websites are written to throw the opposition off of the scent for as long as possible.  In this case, the opposition is as much the old guard of the Republican Party as much as it is the Democrats.The worst thing that I can say about Rand is that, despite his upbringing, he is a very good polititian. I have no idea.  What ways do feds use cash beyond manipulation of the economy?  Maybe the CIA will switch to bitcoins to pay for all that heroin, once the hillbilies in Afganastan catch on to their game. Dude, you're interfering with the 'ignore' function. I don't contest your predictions, but that doesn't change the likelyhood of some entity trying somehting alng these lines, nor does anything in Bitcoin actually inhibit such an action. I have to point out here, that there is nothing that we can do to prevent either agents of the state or it's subsidiaries from using bitcoin for their own ends anymore than they can prevent us from the same thing. I can't see that subsidizing ASICs is going to run enough miners out of business.  Many don't, and never did, need to be profitable in any practical sense.  Many of the early full time miners were just disiplacing the electric resistive heating for their flat with as much mining heat as they could manage; simply displacing one electric heat source for another, with the potential of gaining bitcoins in the process.  Even if pool miners could be run out of business (something that I question for reasons beyond the above situation) the long term reduction of difficulty simply makes mining more attractive for those who can still justify it. This is a fair question, but that does not make it impossible for fractional reserve lending to rise up among the Bitcoin economy, if the public or market demand it.  As has been already noted, a great many people are under the impression that fiat currencies are somehow superior to the gold standard, and by extention any other form of sound monetary system.  So in a bitcoin dominated world, there is nothing to prevent some minor nation from pegging their currency to a reserve of bitcoins, and then permitting their banks fractional lending supported by their taxpayers.  This would, in effect, amount to the same thing as a bitcoin bank going it alone.   I don't think that you know anyone that considers themselves a Tea PArtierI don't listen to talk radio, and the turnout was comparable to 2008; elevated overall for the exact same reason, the youth vote.  Which didn't show at all in 2010.  This is counter to what I said above, but since I was referring to the conservative voters (although failed to state that) I was not wrong.  Conservative democrats do exist, and they didn not really vote this Tuesday.  Milinials, however, showed up in droves.  Most politcally active generation alive, and larger overall than even the baby boomers.  It won't be much longer before they completely dominate the electorate, as more graduate high school and more boomers die off or move to expat retirement communities. Your OP says that denominations are available in fives and ones, but I also want twos'I.e.I want a set of .01 BTC, .02 BTC, .05 BTC, .1 BTC, .2 BTC, .5 BTC, 1 BTC, 2 BTC, 5 BTC and 10 BTCAll of the twos in double amounts compared to the ones & fives.  In this fashion, any amount of BTC can be tendered (without change due) between .01 BTC and 11.10 BTC using 12 bills or less.EDIT: Upon review, that would be "...21.10 BTC using 13 bills or less".  The point being that including 2's are more 'paper efficient' than quarters if the goal is presenting an exact amount due.  I do now, and I thank you for that info.  However, I'm curious what prompted you do determine this fact, and to what length did you go to find it out yourself?EDIT:  Is there some way I can produce said notes, without needing to design them myself?EDIT2:  This little fact would also be useful for memory restricted, off-network capable devices such as the bitcoincard; as it would permit a disconnected device to create, in advance, a series of input transactions that it could use to create a perfect payout transaction for any amount within that range, at least once during an Internet blackout. While that is certainly true so far, I've personally met Rand Paul, and he is has a deep libertarian streak.  Yet he is not his father.  Still, he might have learned his lesson, and has four years yet to convince us that he has seen the error of compromising with demons.He's also a genuinely nice guy, and tall.  He's an emposing figure in person, particularly while on a speech platform.I've never met his father. That's false.  The root reason that Romney was the least likely choice to defeat an encumbent Democrat is because he wasn't crediblely conservative enough for the (rather vast) conservative wing of the Democratic party (think "Regan Democrats", mostly middle class private sector union employees with traditional views on family, religion and policy) to choose a Republican challenger over a Democratic encumbent.  The result being is those "center-right" independents & Democrats simply don't see that voting is worth their time, and turnout is poor; thus leaving the outcome in the hands of the political junkies.  Simply put, there is simply many more registered Democrats in the US than Republicans, so it's not possible for a Republican challenger to defeat a Democratic encumbent without convincing at least a portion of Democrats to switch sides.  And what value is there in that when most non-political observers can't really see daylight between their positions on things that they care about? Wait, are you Satoshi?  Or are you saying that you're over 80? Plenty of people already worship at the alter of money the world over already, so at least this would be more honest in that context. Sounds good, but should I assume that the 10Gb of bandwidth being charged also includes the bandwidth required to get the data onto your server to seed?  Or is there some other method for providing the seed data for very large torrents, such as a usb drive mailer?  I'm just curious, because I have no intention of buying bandwidth to seed a torrent so large.   The last batch that I ordered, I intended for my kids.  I ended up eating the entire box before I ever thought to mention them to the kids.Oh, well. I take it you've been out of the country since 2001? Which is something that happens in teh investing world regularly.  It happened to a union controlled pension fund I belong to twice.  The problem is that con artists at this level are very good, and fund managers are terriblely inexperienced.  My union pension fund never got a dime back, and never will.  This has almost nothing to do with the questionable legal nature of the exchange, but you guys got f*cked and the best outcome that you can expect is to learn from this experience and not gamble with funds that you cannot afford to lose with amature fund managers beyond your ability to punish for wrongdoing. I see a fatal flaw in your plan.We know about the likes of you, and have a cache of weapons too.And if you have a map to the local Morman "bishop's store" I'll eat my hat. 
That's just propaganda, and is unnecessary.  Bitcoin doesn't need any promotion.  If it did, it would eventually fail.  Just let it take it's own course, and if others don't wish to hear it; just dust of your sandals and move on. He asked it to make you rethink your perspectives.  Your understanding of the role of credit is somewhat skewed.  Not really wrong, but disconnected.  It's not credit or liquidity that leads to the outcome that you seem to believe above, it's reallocation of real capital that can occur using credit as a tool.  This is not a certain outcome, as it's subject to the errors of investment and adds another; namely the possibility of mis-allocation of capital.  If you want to understand why bitcoin is the way it is, one must understand Austrian Economic theory.  If Austrian Economic theory is wrong, Bitcoin will fail.  If Austrian Economic theory is correct (or more accurate than other theories) Bitcoin will persist and likely continue to grow.  Even that isn't certain. It seems to me, more and more, that quick trades with trusted peers is the only reason I still end up using my old paypal account.Here's to the day that I can safely close that account altogether. 0.4 BTC has been sent to that address. you have a deal Yes, I was referring to the number of persistent bitcoin nodes on TOR versus the number of persistent number of nodes visable on the open Internet. If you have the skills, you could set up a bitcoin client to only connect to other nodes via TOR.  I wouldn't be surprised to discover that there is a .onion address for a major online wallet service, or a wallet service entirely within TOR.  Yes, Bitcoin can surf the dark web. There is credible evidence that there are about as many nodes in the dark as there are in the light. I suggest Tide. Bruce was a heratic.   Well, that's not entirely true.  Historicly speaking #1 didn't actually have to occur, one just had to convince enough people that it could occur. Yes, stolen.  That's what I said.Oh, wait.  Did you think that there was a difference? Pizza Day? Well, I'm not a programmer myself but understand computers and how they function to that level.  Particularly with regard to GNU/Linux from the kernal, posix commandline tools, to Xservers, to window managers up to the GUI suites.  I question whether either the cryptographic functions, nor the economic theories, that Bitcoin is based upon could be explained in a handful of pages.  Everything seems simple enough, once you're on this side of the enigma, but this is not a topic that many people can ever understand.  Satoshi was a polymath. I doubt it would matter in the least, but go ahead.  Crazier things have been done. Satoshi is a fairly common Japanese male name.  That doesn't preclude the possibility that it's an anagram.1) Satoshi isn't actually gone.2) He could definately prove himself, if he cared to, simply by openly signing documents with one of the first 10 bloack reward addresses; particlularly the genesis block address.3) Satoshi is still al*** and...4) he'll definately be aware of it the next time he does a search on this forum for his old nomDePlume, thanks to you. You mean that you need to understand why you're doing particular things rather than just following a recipie, and I can relate.  However, I actually some background in cryptology and economics; and it took me weeks to wrap my brain around Bitcoin's elegant protocol.  I think that he's right, you might not have the technical background to understand from "first principles". Well, you do have a point.  So once you know what you need to know, write that ebook. I said it's an argument, not that it's my last excuse. Well, not sainted, but in the thread a couple years back wherein many of us were discussing what the denominations of BTC shoudl be called; I (yes, I personally) suggested that we should name them after the most important people in the movement at that time, starting with the most important person lending his name to the smallest demonomation.  Like how the US bills have Geoprge WAshington on the $1, Thomas Jefferson on the $2 bill, etc.  I'm the first person (I think; but the recodrds of this forum would know) to suggest that the smallest BTC denom (0.00000001) be called a Satoshi and the next significant order of  magnitude (three decimal places, or 0.00001) be called a Gavin.  Satoshis stuck, and have been used by both membership of this forum an a number of articles; but it seems that Gavins didn't stick, as I've never seen the term used in print/text since. Already happening, as far as I can tell.
I'll note here, that in both those cases, those extreme circumstances were, in large part, due to their governments being captured by homicidal sociopaths.Every government is run by sociopaths, it's what they are good at.  Fortunately it's fairly rare that intelligent sociopaths are also homicidal.  This is, notablely, an argument for the abolution or severe limitations of governments; since it's impossible for a homicidal sociopath to take the reigns of power in a nation that doesn't have any reigns.  Seriously, when have you ever heard of some Swiss general attempting a coup with the Swiss Army? Pictures or it didn't happen.  I'm not sure I'd believe it with pictures. Yes, we had a great many hecklers on this forum in the first year at least.  Some are still around, I think. I've been tuned in for some time, as I intend to have one of the first 100 in the world.  Roughly eight weeks ago the timeline for release was late October, so can you at least let us know if things are on track, or are there more delays? Sad, but true.Ask people to explain how paper money works, and not one in 10 will give you a remotely accurate answer. Yup, at least five times what domestic cell service costs.  I pay $25 per month for 300 anytime minutes, unlimited text & data, and my smartphone cost me $75 two years ago.  The baseline satphone costs $599 and the service is comparable to an in-the-air airline phone call.BTW, I've been paying for my cell service entirely with bitcoins for going one a year now. Um, I'd like to see that service offer.  My experience with satphones is that they cost at least 5 times as much than a comparable domestic cell service.  Yes, I've looked. I was just referring to the abilities of bitcoin to deal with short term disruptions such as  a power or internet outage following a storm.  Longer term issues, such as living in the middle of Africa, can also be dealt with in it's own way.  Regular power or not, there are more people who have access to a cell phone than have access to a flush toilet; and if you have access to a cell phone, even with intermittent connectivity, then you can deal in bitcoins.  Search for the term "MPesa" if you doubt it.  There are a number of ways that those who live distant from high speed Internet can be served by bitcoin, but not the least of which is that bitcoin adoption potentially drives Internet solutions in those distant locals.  Yes, a satphone data link is expensive, but easier to take when you have 50 vendors in a marketplace pitching in to pay for the connection.  There are a number of other solutions as well, from shortwave DRM datacasting of recent blocks to sneakernet movement of thumbdrives with the blockchain.  If you can do it with email, you can do it with bitcoins.  I'd be willing to wager that I coudl do it over psk31 using pskmail, it would just take a while.And yes, I have a ham license, and it is possible to transact via HF via a 300 baud radio modem, but an ad-hoc mesh network, such as the kind proposed by the creators of the bitcoincard or by the design characteristics of Dash7 networking, would be much better at moving transactions even if there were only one decent internet connection within the entire disconnected town, which is something that isn't likely even in a distant city in Africa with at least 200K people living there. Maybe it was two years ago.  I'm old, so a year, give or take, isn't all that much anymore. Sugar I know not, but you can buy honey from Bees Bros. I wouldn't even know how to do that.I'm also not sure that I could do it anyway, considering I'd be buying stolen property.  That's another one that a bit high-end for a child.A punch knife?  I don't think that would be a good idea.Wow.  Just, wow.  Were's the valve for the kitchen sink?That thing has got to be huge, although My son would just love to have a Swiss army knife with more gagets on it than my leatherman tool. Yeah, it's kind of a rediculous statement, considering interest predates fractional-reserve lending and 'flexible' monetary systems by 4000 years. Yes, a sat-phone with a 12 volt car adapter would be enough to support an unknown number of bitcoincards within the two-hop mesh range of about 4 city blocks.  The limiting factor would be the number of transactions-per-minute, since the bitcoincards are really just hardware based, blockchain-less 'light' clients.  The connectivity is only required for quick checks with the main bitcoincard servers & for forwarding transactions to the network, but even the transaction forwarding can be delayed without breaking the system.  A 14.4Kbps link should be able to support 5-10 transactions per second, so it should be able to support an open-air marketplace the size of a Wal-Mart.Again, bitcoincard to bitcoincard transactions don't necessarily require a live connection anyway, so long as the sending card can prove that it has the inputs to such a transaction, but the smartcard is memory constrained, so it wouldn't be able to keep a great deal of inputs, and thus would still be limited in how many transactions that it could perform between interactions with it's supporting server. Actually, it can.  I've done it personally in a couple of different ways.  Cascious physical bitcoins is one obvious way, but I've done it by ad-hoc wireless.  The bitcoincard smartcard based hardware client works in much the same way, and limited transactions can occur in the absence of live connectivity.  The trick is that the sending client must have copies of the input transactions that it's using, must be able to send them to the receiving client, and the receiving client must have some method of checking those input transactions for credibility.  It's not as trustworthy as a pair of full clients with live internet and updated blockchains, but for most common interactions one might have in meatspace it's easily as trustworthy as paper cash, since cash can be counterfitted accurate enough to fool most inspections by the unaided human eye. That's a bit of a high-end knife for a kid.  But for argument's sake, what would you want for it? I'm looking for some pocketknives to give to my older kids this Xmas.  When I was a kid, my father would get used pocket knives for myself and my siblings because kids lose them often.  If you have a pocketknife that you no longer use, I'm interested in buying it.  Expecially if you have a pre-import-ban balisong or other one handed pre-import-ban pocketknife, but I'm interested in those for myself.  (I have a state license for carrying concealed deadly weapons, and that includes knives, so unlike some who live in The Peoples' Republic of California or NY I'm not risking jail time for owning these types of knives.) That's actually funny. He means that there is no way for anyone sniffing on Blockchain's side of the connection to capture the passkey, but I'm not sure that I agree with that statement.If you have malware on your computer, a local bitcoin client isn't safe either.
I invision a future that online wallet services will be bonded, insured and interconnected; and thus be able to provide for near-instant transfers to 98+% of the bitcoin users regardless of which wallet service that they use.  I don't regard this to be equal to wallet services becoming banks, even though this kind of interconnected distance transfer service is a large part of what we commonly think of what a bank does today.  That is not to say that wallet services cannot become true banks, or that a bank cannot offer a wallet service, but they are not equivilant.  I honestly don't have any idea if, or how much, a future user of wallet services would be willing to pay as a monthly service fee for this kind of service, which isn't much of an upgrade from what the client can already do.  The only way I can foresee such pay-to-play services becoming common among bitcoin users is if the transaction traffic were to increase to such a degree that a standard blockchain transaction were to become so expensive as to justify a parrallel/overlay network of major wallet service users that can save users' money by avoiding blockchain transactions altogether.  Such a parrallel/overlay netowrk is not simply likley, it's already occuring, as that is what Stratum does.  But again, Stratum is a free client that anyone can use, so I don't know how profitable such wallet services could ever realisticly become. While I agree that honesty in banking would go a long way to resolving this issue, it would not put an end to bank runs on poorly managed banks, nor should it.Yes, I'm still waiting form my bitcoincards.  I've got five kids, and I'd have at least one per kid in the first run. That would be an undesirable 'trick' indeed.  The free market requires failures to actually fail in order to progress.  That is part of why we are stuck in an economic rut these days, because TPTB are making mistakes similar to 1933 when they should be doing the things their predicessors did int 1920.  On-demand accounts are, for all practial purposes, entirely useless within the Bitcoin economy.  That's one of the functions that your bitcoin client provides for you at the cost of processor time.  No bank could compete with that, nor can any payment settlement system (think Western Union or SWIFT) compete with the Bitcoin network's cost effectiveness and speed in this catagory, either.  The only function that a traditional bank could offer the Bitcoin economy would be interest bearing accounts in return for investment lending.  The greatest impediment to widespread Bitcoin adoption is the idea that credit cards are faster.  They are not, and any online vendor would be able to tell you it can take up to 40 days for such transfer to "settle".  Bitcoin transfers are usually settled within an hour.  Transfers among users of the same online wallet, so long as both users were trading using their online wallet account to trade, occur as fast as Paypal and for the same reasons. This is a tired topic for me, but I will once again offer a quick response to the OP.1) Bitcoin does not provide for fractional reserve banking (what you really mean by 'credit' here), because it's designed to be a rigid monetary base, just like gold was prior to 1900.  This does not mean that fractional reserve banking is impossible.  If Google or Amazon decided to jump on the Bitcoin bandwagon, and offer deposit accounts in bitcoin, they could rationally loan out more than they actually had because there would be at least some people willing to accept the word of Amazon as being functionally as secure as if Amazon provided the actual bitcoin transfer.  However, this would also mean that the ratio would be more rationally limited.  Instead of a 9:1 lending ratio, as is the current limit for FedReserve member banks in the USA; Bitcoin banks would not be limited by law, but by the threat of competitors forcing a run.  This would likely result in a ratio closer to 2:1 for healthy banks, and unhealthy banks would go bankrupt when a competitor forced a run.  Such runs would also destroy the value of deposits.  This is how banks worked prior to 1913.2) Credit is not what you understand it to be.  Capital is not credit, that is mathmatically impossible.  Capital must always exist, so if credit is not sufficiently backed (i.e. not capitalized) then it will eventually collapse upon itself.  Capital isn't money.  Capital is productive goods and the knowledge to use them in order to produce.  For example, a tractor is capital to a farmer, and a tractor can be valued in monetary units, but that amount of money is not the captial.  To just create money to be used as credit for capital goods does not create more capital goods, it simply inflates the nominal unit price of such goods.  The tractor must exist.  Expansion of credit for the purpose of "stimulating" capital production is a useless endeavor.  It's akin to taking buckets of water from one end of the pool and pouring into the other end.  All you do is alter the flow of the water, not alter the amount or distribution of water in the pool.3) When and if investment banks are necessary for the growth or health of the bitcoin economy, the market will provide such. ...there was much discussion on this forum about how many bitcoin users there were, and many doubters questioned whether there were, or would ever be, more than 10K people who used or cared about bitcoin at all.At this time, this forum alone has over 68K registered members.  While that's certainly a far cry from a 'critical mass' of users, the number of people discovering Bitcoin each day is rising exponetially. http://phys.org/news/2012-01-people-socially.htmlI've got to grant this one. Guys you are just talking past each other.  Whether or not it can support full USB specs or not, 500mAmps per port is still only 4 amps for the entire hub.  I doubt 4 amps is enough to support 8 asic miners working full tilt, even if the power adapter was capable of putting out more than 1.6 amps. That may be true, but make certain.Not for Mt.Gox.  Whether they create a transaction to empty the address or not, the risk is with you, not them.  If you put funds into Mt.Gox via a compromised private key, and then that address gets raped, it's you who loses money, not MT.Gox.  Sure you can get funds in fast in order to make a quick trade, but you can't also get the dollars out within an hour.Perhaps you need the wisdom not to bite? Yeah, even I have to admit that the external security threat issue has long been hashed out, with historical examples to support it.  Even in the absence of defense companies, militias form readily when the society is under an external threat.  During and prior to the American Revolutionary War, militia companies formed by electing their captian from amongst their own membership, and had the right to withdraw from any militia company at any time before hostilities have already commenced.  They would agree in advance that once the shooting starts, anyone among the group who then turns 'yellow' under fire is endangering his peers due to lack of commitment.  This rarely happened during the Revolutionary War, but those that did this ever more rarely lived to see a trial of any sort.Internal security is a different issue, but is also well hashed out.  There are numerous examples today of private security companies with varying degrees of competancy able to take over the work of public police forces at any time.  Most likely, the private security companies would also be the defense companies, but since collective defense is a much rarer risk it's possible that one defense company could be sub-contracted by a large number of smaller private security agencies.  This is similar to how "constables" function in my own city.  The Louisville Police Department draws it's legal authority from the county sherriff's office, but there are also two constables' offices in the county that also have similar legal authorities, but are not paid by the government in any meaningful way.  The constables' offices are technically elected positions, but are (in practice) simply held by some joint-owner of a pair of private security firms that hire the city cops for off duty gigs, such as for major event security at the convention center or bank branch security with full police powers.  If those two companies can't keep one of their own in the constable's seat, then they can't honor their contracts because city cops cannot be hired directly (with their full police powers intact) without the government title because the constables themselves are usually not cops themselves, but businessmen, and the police union would get sideways with the private companies if they didn't have some kind of "official" government title to cling to.It should be obvious that, should the sherriff's office ever cease to exist, either one of these two companies woudl be both willing & able to step into the gap without skipping a beat.  There is already a smaller city (Jeffersontown) that "contracts out" their entire police force in a similar manner within the county itself, and there are numerous examples of smaller class cities doing similar things rather than directly hire a couple of their own for each of three shifts, seven days directly. What is an "after eight" anyway? Thanks for my Horseless Headless Horseman's Axe! That is entirely not necessary for bitcoin.  Certainly once a week is more than enough.  I use Time Machine and don't even have to think about it, but if you're doing manual backups of the wallet.dat file the standard client creates 100 private keys.  So if you backup right after starting up, setting up, and shutting down the client for the first time; the client can completely recover from a catastrophic event as long as you have not exceeded 100 transactions since last backup.  You can also force the client to create more, and have mine set to 2000; which makes for a huge wallet.dat file but my disk drive is fat. The issue is that (generally speaking) online wallets keep the private keys on the server.  Even if the operator of the site (and all his employees) are trustworthy, if the server is hacked you could stand to lose everything that you have in the online wallet.  Online wallets certainly have their place, think of them as mini-Paypals, but would you keep your life's savings in Paypal even if you trusted them?  There is a precident as well, two major online wallet services have been hacked, and also Mt.Gox has been compromised once.  The more money that they concentrate, the tastier the hack target that they become.  What sum that you may have in your personally operated client wallet generally isn't worth the efforts, if they know that you have anything at all.  Mind you, some of them have learned their lesson, and have become relatively hard targets, but that doesn't mean it's impossible.  It is impossible to steal your bitcoins from your not running, not online and encrypted wallet.dat file.That said, I don't entirely take my own advice here, as I have the majority of my funds in a BitcoinSpinner account attached to my android cell phone.  But the cavet there is that BitcoinSpinner uses a 'split wallet' design that keeps the actual private keys on my cell phone.  The risk for me, then, is the loss or destruction of my cell phone/memory card.Really, the matter comes down to risk versus convience.  If your only dealing with a couple hundred dollars worth of bitcoins, and can afford to risk it, then an online wallet service is very fast and convient; like modern banking.  Often easier than Paypal.  But if you start to accumulate a very large value in that online account, perhaps a more secure 'savings account' is justified.  Either way, if something bad happens to the online service and you lose your shirt, don't blame bitcoin. While it's true that Mt.Gox doesn't wait for confirms, the risk isn't with nor against Mt.Gox.  The risk of handling private keys is that the person you bought it from has retained a copy.  If you have the foresight to buy a private key in order to import it into Mt.Gox rapidly, then you have the foresight to simply send BTC to Mt.Gox at least an hour prior to a trade.  Mt.Gox imports private keys mostly so that people who have recieved a physical bitcoin can use it immediately with them, but that destroys the physical bitcoin.It's also not a security vulnerability for Mt.Gox, it's a security concern for you. Yeah, there is no legitimate reason to sell private keys online and a great many risks in trusting someone else to create your keys for you.  Those physical bitcoins are really just metal tokens with a hidden private key, so in person you have to trade private keys & you have to trust that the guys who makes those physical bitcoins is honest; but there is no reason to do something similar online.   Start offering bitcoins for cash in your city, for example, on Craigslist.  I've been trying to buy bitcoins for some time now, as I'm running out.  But I've never bought them on an exchange, wouldn't know how to do it, and don't care to involve myself in the whole international banking regulation thing.  If you live in my city, I'd be willing to pay cash for them in person if the exchange rate was reasonable. Without a doubt, the best way to get bitcoins is to start offering an online service or good for sale.  And don't tell me that you have nothing to sell, because that's bs.  That Iphone 1 that you replaced with that Iphone4S, that you would otherwise probably give to your niece to use as a mp3 player; literally anything that you might consider putting up on Ebay.  Anything that you might put up on Etsy.  Extra tradable items for popular video games such as Team Fortress 2, Portal 2, Assasin's Creed, etc.  Bitcoin is rooted in Austrian economic theory, and as such, bitcoins are just a medium of exchange.  Products are paid for with other products, in the grand scheme of the economy, and we want to encourage people to engage in trade directly as well as become producers as much as they are consumers.  Just yesterday, I bought a Horseless Headless Horseman's axe for TF2. I understand freedom very well, young man.  And insulting me does not constitute an argument.  Normally I'd just delete your bs for violating civility, but instead I'm going to leave it here so everyone can see your stupidity. Proof enough that this is not a simple or settled problem. No, it's a semi-auto Marlin.
I'm looking for recommendations.  This past weekend my two oldest kids & I went to Appleseed with my daughter's Savage 22 boltie, my son's Marlin 22, and a borrowed tube 22.  My son had a great deal of trouble with the length of the stock on his Marlin, but as far as I know it is the shortest stock available.  Any ideas on a youth 22 with a shorter stock? Like in the book Hitchicker's Guide to the Galaxy, the President of the Universe is simply aposition to create controvery and distract the public from the actions of the true seat of power, one insane king and his six regents. And that doesn't count taxpayer funded bodyguards for every member of his family till he dies. Because not all flavors prefer that term, since it has negative connotations in certain circles.  It's also not literally accurate, since it literally means "no government" and not "self government".  Any particular individual can either govern himself, or he cannot.  He may not have ever been taught to govern himself, as is the present case with way too many publicly educated Americans; or he may have simply never accepted basic mores with which to govern himself with; or he simply may be mentally incapable of reliablely governing himself.  I can certainly accept that 98+% of the adult population is capable of self-governance from the age of reason (roughly 12, depending upon the person) till either death or senility, but it cannot be argued that those people actually will.  In a truly anarchist/libertarian/minimalist/volunteerist society, most crimes today won't be crimes and the crimes that remain will have immediate and permanent effects upon the violator; so it's not hard to imagine a society with a vanishingly small incidence of violent crime simply due to Darwinistic 'survival-of-the-least-offensive' forces.  Still, there will always be that vanishingly small percentage of people who are actually incapable of reliable self-governance, which is why I consider a truly anarchist society (The Probability Broach) to be impossible.  A more likely outcome would be voluntary self-identification, such as the 'phyles' concept (The Diamond Age).  Either way, we can't get there from here, so at some point we are going to have to transition through a harsh period of hightened suffering and violence, (Alongside Night) which is exactly the condition that Karl Marx suggested would be the best opprotunity for socialists to change the nature of socity itself into his dream world.  Obviously, history shows us that socialism doesn't work, but that same history also shows us that such retoric does work, if the true goal is snatching of power by a core of like minded sociopaths.  If any minimalist society is to ever become real, it's only possible if by a deliberate plan involving years of education and development.  Periods of civil unrest are unlikely to result in a peaceful & anarchist society and are very likely to result in a dictator (in fact, although not likely in name). And this is, indeed, an excellent article.  However, while I can see the point that pivate business owners (restraunts, hotels, etc.) would be able to refuse entry to known carriers, this is still a far cry from preventing exposure, although likely a fairly effective one in most situations.  Also, I agree that those who know they are ill are going to want treatment and desire to not get others sick, so are inclined towards voluntary sequesteration anyway.  Still, this method of "protecting society" seems cruel to the ill, although practially no worse than the statist version.  I don't know, in a lot of ways it seems wrong to deny even an ill man a safe harbor in a winter storm or a drink of water in a summer heat wave, but then feelings don't make for good public policy anyway. Yes, indeed.  That is a good point. Yeah, with the quiet client mode & nodes running over tor & i2p, there is no practical way to do a node map.  Yes, that is intentional. You have a deal, Sir.  I'll send you a PM with my Steam account name. I'd offer half a BTC for one of these... http://www.businessinsider.com/how-iran-evades-oil-sanctions-with-gold-2012-10but I bet they could certainly stand to save a bit on the salaries of all those couriers. I wouldn't. That does make it un-verifiable.  Probably also the hand coded London Times headline in hexcode. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Genesis_blockYes, if you want to see the genesis block on your own client, you're probably going to have to dive into the code with a hex editor. It's not that it's actively blocked.  It's that the whole block is non-standard and thus would not pass integrity checks anyway. I'm just asking for some speculation.  Some reasoned arguments.  I'm not asking for the world, just a little guidance about how an ancap society could have managed this case (or a similar one) without violating it's own principles, without inaction (which would have been catastrophic in this particular case), and (hopefully) without the degree of violations of Mary Mallory's rights as happend to her in the real history.  Certainly not with the end result being that someone had to assassinate her.I'm really dissapointed in you guys. Your concerns have been duely noted, Atlas.  However, you have little knowledge of what is really going on here, so I consider your perspectives discounted.  Just don't upgrade yourself, and if others do and are harmed by it, you will be able to say "I told you so" because you have.But the personal attacks will end.  I don't know what problems you have with Gavin and some of the other developers, but if you want a soapbox to attack the developers you are going to have to find somewhere else to do it. Let's review a bit.  I'm a libertarian, not an anarchist.  I don't find my own argument above a convincing argument for the abolution of the state.  I'm looking for an actual anarchist to either improve my argument, or present a better one, that a government (i.e. an institution with a monopoly on the use of force) is not a requirement.  For example, in my own scenario above, how does the medical force get it's funding?  It's not a security company in it's own right.  In 1907 New York state, the health department was supported by taxation.  How would the medical institution in my scenerio above afford to exist much less be able to fund an investigation & arbitration agreement?   That action may have cause indirect harm.  At no point did (prior to her first arrest) had Mary done anything with either the knowledge of possible harm, nor the intent to do so.  She was simply trying to seek income in the occupation for which she was trained & most profitable for herself.  Her second arrest was most certainly a different matter, as she had been informed of (at a minimum) the possibility that she was a carrier, and had agreed to refrain from working in food service.  But I'm talking about how this all started, not how it ended.It might, but it might not.  The reality is that, at the time, a mid-level cook was a temp job, and Mary was accustomed to spending only a few weeks at a job before moving to another employer.  There was nothing particularly unusual about this pattern at the time.  Think about it from her perspectives.  It is assumed, at this late date, that Mary originally contracted typhoid after arriving in the US as a teenager.  There were no known outbreaks in the Irish hometown she was from while she lived there.  She arrives here around 15, and takes work as a cook's helper, and learns the trade well.  At some point she is working for some family that has a typhoid outbreak, she doesn't get sick like the others, but becomes a carrier.  For many years on, she encounters many American families that have typhoid outbreaks.  From her perspective, typhoid is simply a common illness in New York state, that was not common in Ireland.  There is no obvious reason for her to assume that she was the common link, as such an idea was still considered silly even by doctors.  Her working life would have been like the "Rain god" character in Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_minor_The_Hitchhiker's_Guide_to_the_Galaxy_characters#Rob_McKenna) for she would not have been able to discern any differences between her life as a cook and anyone else's because she was never known to talk about much with any other cooks she might have encountered.Maybe the first time.  Doubtful the second time.While I agree that the results would be the same, I don't agree that the context is the same, nor do I believe that the context here is irrelevent.  Mayberry's laws, being general laws, can actually be violated as a matter of course by a small minority of people.  And these people are the very government agents we have today that regularly violate principles & common decency, and yet the society as a whole persists despite them.  Maybery's laws can also violate each other, under specific circumstances, and then those involved must choose which one to abide in each case.  The NAP, as a personal moral code, can only be rationally suspended once another person has initiated violence, and as such must be practially dropped altogether in the event that a social breakdown (such as a civil war) were to present the individual with multiple, unidentifiable risks.  As Mayberry's Laws are laws of civilizations as a whole, they are only guidelines for the individual. Nonsense.  Really, I would have expected you guys to be able to think a bit more outside of the box.  I'm just asking you guys to speculate a little.  Hell, I can come up with better responses to my own query than you guys, I just don't like them very much.Here's one....Mary would have been arrested by the 'medical establishment', and her own security company would have immediately challenged the quarantine.  During negotiotiations, the doctors would have presented their evidence, and made the case that Mary was, against her own belief, a typhoid carrier.  A deal would have been struck that permitted Mary's release on the condition that she never work in food service but to be enforced by her own security company, and the medical institution would compensate Mary for her future loss of wages and agree to defend her against liability suits arising from outbreaks prior to her first arrest; all under the condition that if she breaks the terms of the agreement, her own security company will arrest her and keep her quarantined indefinately (making the liability of future events due to Mary's work & hygine habits her own security company's problem).Again, I don't like this one very much.  I was looking for a better one. I can't see how that proposal would change the blockchain, it looks like it only changes how the blockchain is parsed locally.
I have never upgraded without at least a month delay.  Even if it's to deal with a 'critical' bug, I have just turned off my client and don't turn it on until others have had time to test it for me. Because Mayberry's laws, if generally followed by any society (regardless of the nature of the government, or lack of government) will prosper.  Those that generally fail to do so, will decline.  That is exactly why Mayberry's laws are called the Two Laws of Civilization, and not the two laws of individuals.  The two laws work as advertised even if a minority of the society refuses to abide by them, just so long as those few are regarded as criminals and treated accordingly. Even in the case of the well intended tyranny, the actors must (by definition) act.  When are the unaware ever responsible for failing to act?But that still requires that I committed an action.  I may not have intended to break the window, but I intended to hit the baseball, and if I can hit the baseball I can't really not be aware of the risks of breaking a window within my ballistic reach.  Handwashing was not widely regarded as a preventative of infection at this point.  It was, in fact, this very case that impressed upon the common people that very datapoint; and has much to do with why Americans are more concerned with cleanliness (in general) than their European counterparts.Again, she could not have known this prior to her first quarantine, and neither could have the doctors.  Even after she was tested and found positive, she was tested weekly and many of those tests were negative.  She eventually sued the health department, and her lawyers had her tested independently every week for a year, and that independent lab (unsurprisingly) never reported a positive.  So it was still not unreasonable for Mary to believe that she was not the threat that the doctors claimed, since she had plenty of confirmation bias.Yes, we know this now.  Such a position was not common knowledge at the time, and was held only by a minority of doctors in 1907.  Once again, prior to this case an asymptomatic carrier was only theoretical, and many doctors (much less the medically untrained public) believed that an asymtomatic survivor remaining contagious for years was impossible.  Up until relatively recently, most doctors believed that ulcers were caused by stress; right up until one doctor finally proved it was a persistent bacterial infection.  And this was 90+ years following the Typhoid Mary case, which was the very one that proved that asymtomatic & cronic infection was possible.  Furthermore, the doctor that hunted Mary down was hired by an owner of a rented villa wherein on of Mary's outbreaks occurred, and his job was to prove that the landowner was not liable.  Thus, he most certainly had an economic incentive to find a scapegoat, and a great many of Mary's defenders (during the first quarantine) believed that is exactly what Mary was, a scapegoat.  You can't honestly tell me that this event wouldn't have resulted in a challenge from Mary's own security contractor? No matter how good the future of the Internet may be, the general availability of important information will always be imperfect and/or localized.  If there is no way for an ancap society to respond to an unintentional and unaware domestic threat, (as the example of Typhoid Mary represents) then there is no way that an ancap society could ever be stable, for it will always have that kind of weakness that, sooner or later, must undermine it.  Although it certainly wouldn't be typhoid to do it with all of our modern medical knowledge, any new or unknown infection would have a similar effect; at least temporarily.  Yellow fever had devastating effects upon the social structure of all the cities that had outbreaks prior to the development of a vaccine against it.  Because an infected person was contagious days before any signs of same, locals would regularly treat poor travelers (and those who worked on traveling riverboats, regardless of their status) rather harshly to say the least, and completely without regard to their constitutional rights, or oftentimes even any human decency.Quarantining people on the word of any government expert is no different than Minority Report style 'pre-crime', so if we can't come up with an ancap answer to Typhoid Mary (or a modern equivalent), then how can we object to the TSA's use of no-fly lists other than on matters of implementation?  (as opposed to ideology or justification)  How then could we object to border checkpoints that require us to identify ourselves upon entry into, or even exiting, our own country?  We need an answer for this even as a minimalist/libertarian perspective, or all our logic and reason as to why the state is an immoral and/or unnecessary institution fail; for only one exception to the premise is required to defeat the theory.  Granted, we here all understand that the reality is that government agents often screw up anyway, even the experts.  And thus, it was about as likely that Typhoid Mary would never had been caught.  (How many typhoid carriers worked in food service prior to 1907?  We will never know)  And society was not likely to break down due to a lack of understanding regarding the infection vector of typhoid, otherwise it would have already.  Still, once the passive threat had been identified, an active response was required of the doctors; for no expert trained in his field could discover such a problem and morally choose not to attempt to solve it if he could.This is one reason that I have trouble with the absolutes of ancap theories.  The NAP is an absolute, but it applies to an individual who must choose to abide it, or not.  Maybury's two laws of civilization are similar to the NAP, but they don't require an absolute adherence.  The ability to recognize, and manage, contradictions are a sign of maturity.  So I have to say that IMHO, ancap isn't really a mature political ideology. I don't find this position to be acceptable.  Whether or not she had violated the ZAP by the mere act of accepting a food service job is dependent upon her state of mind concerning the accuracy of the doctors' claims that she was a carrier.  Keep in mind that she was the first example in recorded medical history of a completely asymtomatic carrier, and medical science was even less respected at that time than it is today.  How many people whole-heartedly believe that the medical institutions have suppressed the cure for cancer or the risks of vaccines in order to sell drugs and vaccines?  It's not at all unreasonable to believe that Mary believed she was being unfairly persecuted, and perhaps even without cause.  She was neither the only typhoid carrier at the time (once it was known, many were identified, roughly 3% of survivors were asymtomatic carriers) nor the only one to break the terms of their quarantine release, but the only one to spend the rest of her life in quarantine.  She wasn't even the most deadly in that same decade.And restitution for what, exactly?  She may have caused harm, but again only passively.  A judgement of restitution, even if it were just to impose upon Mary for the events prior to her first encounter with the public health agents, would effectively be a form of slavery.  She literally had no knowledge or control over the harm caused, at least prior to her first arrest.  It's a leap of logic to presume that she intended to cause harm, certainly befor the first incarceration, which lasted for about five years IIRC.  Even showing harm caused was difficult at the time.You can make the argument that a heroin addict can be held responsible for the harm he causes others while high, or for the crimes he might commit in persuit of his addiction.  But how can you make the argument that the heroin addict should pay restitution to the stupid kid that sees the heroin addict and thinks it can't be that bad, and then gets addicted himself?In hindsight, there was many things that Mary had done to earn her quarantine.  But that's exactly the problem that I see.  We have the benefit of both that hindsight and the common knowledge gained from those events.  But what if we didn't?  What if New York state was an ancap society in 1907?  How could the actions that were taken have been justified at the time?  (retroactive justifications are always false arguments, if you can't make the claim at the time then you can't make the argument later)  If such actions cannot be justified under an ancap society, and I can't see how they could, what would an ancap society have been able to do to respond to the (general) threat of unaware & passive carriers of infections, and still remain an ancap society?  If a special medical institution had the special power to incarcerate people under the charge of being a passive threat to society, wouldn't that same institution then have the monopoly on force that defines a modern government? But how, then, could it be an ancap society?  If any instutution, medical in nature or otherwise, were to quarintine Mary away against her will (which is exactly what it would have taken, since she didn't accept any fault of her own) then 1) it wouldn't be acting like an ancap institution, certainly not one that believes in the ZAP; and 2) there would certainly be other institutions that would find fault in the medical institution's actions and move against it, functionally resulting in a civil war, the penultimate breakdown of any stable society, thus destroying itself. Doesn't matter.  Satoshi has already made it clear that the genesis block coins are not to be spent.  If the private key to the bitcoin address that the genesis block grants 50 BTC to actually exists (which it may not) then Satoshi or his heirs could prove their legacy at any time.  If the regular client did include the genesis block in the database, an entire set of rules exceptions would be required because the genesis block does not conform to the structure rules.  It really only exists as an 'anchor' to the blockchain, and to allow block #1 to have something to chain off of so that it could conform to the ruleset without a bunch of exceptions. Nope, because no US campaign can accept anonymous donations.  Even cash at the door donations require that the donor be willing to supply the campaign with identifying information for their records. As a libertarian at heart, I respect the concept that governments cannot actually improve society (http://youtu.be/BNIgztvyU2U).  However, I have issues with the idea that a society without a traditional government (i.e. an institution with a monopoly on the use of force) can effectively manage the very small percentage of people who both have the ability to cause great & widespread harm and also refuse to refrain from doing so.In the past, I've used the example of Child Protective Services and of criminal courts, but both those examples suffer from a lack of specificity.So I want to use a different example, and one from history.How would a (presumedly stable) anarchist society (ancap) have responded to Typhoid Mary without destroying itself via inaction and without violating it's own principles?  For those who need a refresher on her... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typhoid_MaryNow bear in mind, that Mary steadfastly refused to accept that she was contagious, and refused to change her occupation (household cook) to one of less risk to others.  She caused massive amounts of human death and harm, entirely passively, simply by engaging in the type of work for which she was both experienced & trained.  The state of New York locked Mary away in a hospital that was functionally a prison, yet did not, and could not, charge her with any actual crime.  All of the harm that she caused was of a passive nature, and she (presumedly) did not intend any of it.  She spent more of her natural life in this prison hospital than the average convicted murder does today in the United States.What would an ancap society have done differently? Don't assume this applies to all of them.  I'm fairly confident that Peter Thiel would find bitcoin intriguing, since it is pretty much what he was trying to do when he founded Paypal.EDIT:  And it's fairly well established now that Steve Jobs hated government intrusion into his business. Thanks for the correction. I'd seriously doubt that there is any single person that has 1 million+ bitcoins, and if there were, it'd be Satoshi.  And I certainly don't see Satoshi having anything to do with the normal financial systems.As for why hasn't some billionare bought up gobs of bitcoin with the intent of pumping & dumping?  First off, pumping & dumping is illegal.  Second, billionares tend to prefer their own reputations to remain as publicly clean as possible.  And finally, how do you know that some billionare hasn't been buying gobs of bitcoin? The block reward drops to 25 BTC at the 210001 block.  We are at 204K at this point.  I'm predicting Tuesday November 27th, at 4:30pm Eastern Standard Time (+- 30 minutes, so anytime between 4pm & 5pm)You can only call up to an hour long time frame, and you must specify that hour long time frame.  Only the first person to claim that time period can claim the pot.You must pledge to send 1 BTC to the winner to post, otherwise your post will be ignored (and likely deleted by me) for failure to conform to the pool bet rules.You may not make more than one claim, and you may not withdraw your claim once posted.If the time frame of the actual block reward halving is not claimed by anyone before Midnight GMT, October 31st (start of November 1st); then this pool wager is dissolved and no payouts are due.I hereby pledge 1 BTC to the winner of this pool. No they don't, not within their own borders anyway.  However, the CIA is not supposed to work within the borders of the USA.  So it's entirely plausible that some government agencies very much would like to see a competing legal tender in some other countries. This is such a meaningless statement.  It's not really possible for an economy to 'collapse', since it's not any kind of structure, not even figuratively.  The economy can slow down, and it can even do so at a catastrophic rate for certain classes or groups of economic actors, but in any practial manner it cannot really be said that the long term wealth of the US (infrastructure, arable land mass, educated labor base, etc.) is destroyed under such an event.  From a personal perspective, personal wealth is destroyed, but most of that is actually transfered to new ownership or simply underutilized, and not actually destroyed.So when you say the statement above, it would be nice if you would state what the conditions that define "collapse" in your view, so that the rest of us can evaluate whether or not we agree that those conditions apply to the rest of us.  For example, "collapse" for you might be that you lose your job and there is no work within your field of expertise and/or within your accustomed salary range.  That would certainly be bad for you and your family, but might not have any direct effect upon myself. True, but the overall average doesn't really trend that low.  IQ is also a terrible metric to use anyway, since it's a measurement of learning rate (mostly memory retention) and not really any kind of relative or absolute measurement of inate intelligence or ability.  It was never actually intended to be used in that manner, and was developed to evaluate people with mental disabilities.  This is one reason why we all know people with strangely high IQ test scores that don't actually do better than most in any practial situation.  A much better metric is percentile, which (by definition) the average is always 50% among one's age peers.  The variation among races (or cultures, as that is most likely the greater cause in differences between a young Jewish kid in NYC and a young black kid in Detroit) is much more muted, and varies about +- 1%.  A wonderful example of this is my own brother, who has Asburger's Syndrome.  He tests at an IQ level above 140, but in a percentile range of about 65-70%; depending upon the test used.  Taking the same tests, I once clocked in with an IQ of 136 and a percentile of 98%.  I scored a 30 on the ACT heading into college in the 1980's, while my brother scored an 18 (19 maybe? can't remember exactly) and barely squeked in.  The difference being is that my brother can retain facts easily, and manage known proceses effortlessly (like math) so his 'rate of learning' is very high, but he cannot really reason his way through a word problem; thus he can't really think in any practical way.  So his percentile scores are impacted.And yes, I'm a bit OCD, and thus imprecision in the use of terms drives me nuts, so I have to respond.  You may now return to your ongoing argument. Whether or not inflation is high depends upon how you define it.  If you believe that increases in general prices are inflation, then we have had about 40% inflation over the past four years looking at foodstuff, and about 100% inflation over the same time period looking at energy.  If, on the other hand, you define inflation as the increase of the base money supply (over and beyond the growth of the economy at large) then M1 is through the roof but M2 is not.  It very much depends upon what you consider to be of greater importance, the actual production of currency or the creation of debt.  Bear in mind that under any modern fiat currency system, debt underlies the economic usefulness of the currency base, thus the total amount of money should rationally include the total amount of debt in the private sectors (government debts are often self-cancelling, but not always) Thus the most accurate metric that we have for determining the currency base across time is probably M3, which has been declining since 2007; primarily due to the popping of the housing industry and the fact that a huge number of Americans had over-leveraged themselves with home-equity loans and refinacing.  As those bad real estate deals liquidate, debt is destroyed and what was once believed to be valid currency ceases to exist.  This is deflationary overall, and this can be expected to continue until the real estate actually bottoms out.  However, once it does bottom out, the effects of the past several years of QE, bailouts and increases in public indebtedness are going to start to show up in the real economy.  To put it simply, we have not seen anything yet. Having said that, I don't believe that a hyperinflationary event in in the cards so long as the Federal Reserve system exists.  The reason is that such an event is always a political event, not a fiscal or economic event.  If it comes to the point that TPTB in government want to increase the currency base for their own perceptions of gain, the Fed will comply right up until the point that they perceive a threat to their own existance, and then they will refuse to comply.  Since they are a creation of the five major regional banks, and not so much a creation of the government, their contiued existance is dependent upon those banks and the FRN.  If they permit a hyperinflationary event, their con game is over, and they don't want that.  But if Congress were to decide to revoke the Fed's charter (something that I'm in favor of for philosphocial reaons, despite knowing what could happen next), the Congress itself could trigger such a hyperinflationary event.  So could another world war or civil war, but under no concivable condition would the Federal Reserve participate in it's own destruction. sounds like this little side business is having some growing pains. Your opinion of how the primary system should work has absolutely no bearing upon how it has worked for 100 years.  Ron Paul's campaign worked within the rules that the prior national convention established, which is exactly how he should have done it.  Your opinion on that is as irrelevent as my own. Even if they had not changed the rules, Romney would still have won.  But that all makes it worse, since the dirty tricks were only to suppress the Ron Paul vote knowing that it wouldn't affect the outcome anyway.
So long as you don't try to misrepresent yourself, (as some kind of investment, for example; or a borrower with intent to repay) you can beg for donations all you like without a scammer tag.  I wouldn't expect much in the way of donations without one hell of a sob story though. Amen Brother.  Everyone knows how to manage cash and keep it relatively safe.  Kids as young as 8 have billfold wallets to keep their cards and cash.  Nearly everyone knows the basic premise behind a safe (piggly bank).  Users are simply going to have to learn how this system is different or risk keeping their funds with others.  It is not the job of developers to educate users nor alter the main client to accomodate them. Once you have one, you will get more with each block.  You're golden now. NASA, up until recently, has been buying up old 386 hardware on the sly in order to maintian their legacy control computers, mostly in the shuttles.  The reason that they were necessary was because the old & slow cpu's were much more tolerant to ionizing radiation making into the computer case, and thus did not require nearly as much shielding as a more recent cpu arch.  For similar reasons, the USMC had 486 machines in hardened cases up until around 1995.  These thing s are worth something to someone, if only a enterprise business in Africa. You should be able to change a setting on your Eclipse account to add a transaction fee to any withdrawals *in the future*, but this one has already happened and there is no way to recall it in order to redo it. Panhandling goes into Off-topic, other requests (for an organization for example) goes into Politics & Society. For the future you can, Eclipse should have an option to add a fee to withdrawals.  However, you cannot add a fee to this one, since it's done and gone. Not if it had a "red flag".  To do so contrary to the network rules risks getting their block rejected by the rest of the network.  Eclipse shouldn't be creating transactions that are 'spammy' to begin with, but it is just a computer program so there are conditions under which there no other way to create the precise amount.  For example, a transaction that is very small or one that has a lot of inputs can be flagged, even if it's an otherwise perfectly valid transaction.  Again, if your client can see it, it will get it eventually. If you didn't tell them to do it somehow, it didn't happen.  There could be a number of causes for delay here.  The most likely being that the coins sent from the mining pool sent up a red flag to the netowrk that it could be a 'spammy' attempt.  Adding a fee overrides this red flag, but the red flag will not prevent it from being added to a block forever.  Such delays are necessary to prevent malicious attackers from padding the side of blocks with useless data by sending many tiny transactions back and forth between addresses that they own.  If you client can "see" the transaction (i.e. it lists it in the recent transactions page without confirmations) then you *will* get it, but it could be as long as 12 hours.  Much more likely it will be1 hour or so, on top of the 6 confirmations that will then be required before you can spend them again. Did you add a transaction fee? Need more info. Is your blockchain up to date? Sure, it can.  My point is that USB is great for many things; such as thumbdrives, keyboards & mice.  But streaming across a USB bus (particularly across a hub) is a hell of a bottleneck.  Firewire was literally designed for streaming of data.  Again, don't limit yourselves simply to the interfaces that you are used to.  USB would be fine for a single unit, but not for a large number of them.  They will each need their own stream from the host, and the overhead for streaming on USB is huge.  Each unit will be competing with all others for access.  This would also be true for firewire after a point, of course; but overhead for setting up and maintaining a dedicated data stream on firewire is much lower than USB.  USB's greatest advantage is that it's everywhere; and it's everywhere because it was the first market ready hot-pluggable serial bus standard.  USB is VHS, Firewire is BetaMax. I once bought a cheap off-brand MP3 player off ebay that was shipped directly from China.  It never worked, and I think it might have simply been a theatre prop. Firewire is a daisy chain serial bus, it doesn't need to hub.  The second unit plugs into the second firewire port on the first unit.  Also, firewire uses a much higher power bus voltage, of 16 volts nominal.  It could handle a small asic on it's own without powered hubs.  Furthermore, you can now get firewire switched hubs, so that complaint is moot. I don't understand this attraction to usb, at least not for more than a single unit.  If one intends to accumulate a number of these stand alone hashing devices, there are much better interfaces to use.  Firewire comes to mind immediately.  And before anyone complains about not having firewire on their PC, if you can invest gobs of money into a growing ASIC farm, you can buy a $40 firewire card off Ebay.USB has it's place, certainly.  But I would think that it wouldn't take very many of these devices to overwelm even a 480 Mb/s serial bus, considering the relatively high overhead penalty that a spider's web of powered hubs is going to introduce into such a plan. I've been waiting too long to properyly set up Time Machine on my iMac, and now it tells me it needs at least 160 Gb of storage to use it.  So I either need to aquire a fireproof usb drive of at least 200 Gb or I need to subscribe to an online remote site backup service.  I'm open to suggestions, but right now I'm either buying a ioSafe Solo USB drive or subscribing to dollydrive.com.  Dollydrive.com would be $10 per month and the ioSafe USB drive would be $279 if I bought it new.I also found an actual firesafe with a usb port that permits the owner to put a regular usb external drive into the firesafe and use a USB extension cord to connect the computer, but that runs about $500 for just the firesafe. Not quite true, the published address isn't really the public key, it's a hash of the public key with a checksum thrown in for error correction.Wouldn't matter anyway, since that is how bitcoins' transactions work.  A user creates a private key, it's corrosponding public key, and the address.  The address is published and can receive coins, but the public key isn't published until the first time coins are spent from that address.  The way this works is that addresses cannot be reversed to their public key, but the public key is required before the other nodes can verify the digital signing of any spending transactions.  So every time coins are spent from that address, the public key is included in the transaction and the transaction is signed with the private key.  Other nodes can then verify that the signing key is mathmaticly related to the public key presented & the address is related to the public key by the standard hashing algo used.  If I'm getting some details wrong, I'm sure someone will correct me, but this is the general idea. I've recently been informed that the next address schema is likely to be a 'quantum resistant' algo, although I don't understand it.  It's low on the to-do list though, since there are more pressing threats. Satoshi and every one of those early adopters & 'hoarders' that you speak of disagree with your economic worldview.  If we did not, there would have not been Bitcoin, because it would have died in infancy without widespread knowledge that such a thing had ever existed.  The exchange value of gold is only unpredictable in the sense that you don't think in value terms relative to the metal, otherwise it would be the value of fiat currencies that was unstable.  Regardless, the voltility of the exchange rate will dampen as the bitcoin economy grows.  Again, you can start your own version of bitcoin by forking the code and changing whatever you like, but don't count on success because there have been many before you with the same idea, and everyone failed. Neither does gold, which is the physical analog money that bitcoin aims to emulate as much as possible.If you think that this is fair, then try forking the code and doing it yourself.  I predict that it wont end well, though.Those same early investors who gave bitcoin it's initial value did so because of the potential bitcoin presented both as a currency and as an investment.  Bitcoin still needs that support, and it would vanish rather quickly if anyone could manage to alter the protocol  in any way, because that ability alone would present a flaw in the system.  It should not be possible to alter the protocol in such a significant way at this point.Supply and demand.
Baby formula is targeted towards a different species than the source of milk, perhaps? The assumption is that, as the bitcoin economy grows, both the value of bitcoins and the absolute number of transactions will rise.  Right now, many transactions are free because there is little to scarcity of room for new transactions on the next block.  When there are 10K transactions moving across the bitcoin network per minute (or whatever) there will be time delays.  If you are someone who has a need to get your transaction in a block soon, you're going to end up paying a transaction fee to jump the line of free & nearly free transactions.  Miners would, logically, favor fee paying transactions and include as many of them as they can fit into their current block in order to collect those transaction fees.  The current blocksize limit is 1 megabyte, and we know that isn't going to be large enough, but it protects the lower end participants in the full network in the meantime.  Eventually, maintainning a full client on the bitcoin network is going to be like drinking from a firehose, and even with only 10K fee paying transactions in a single block at 0.005 BTC each the transaction fees would be 50 BTC on top of the blcok reward itself. The bitcoin white paper is really just a technical primer, and does not cover some of the more subtle details of the network.  Most of this info I've gleaned from resources & forum members over the past couple years, many of whom are the actual developers.  I don't recall from whom I received this particular piece of data.An additional little tibit, with regard to the brute force defensive security of the blockchain, is "checkpointing".  Basicly, this is a hardcoded list of hash values for particular blocks that are included with the official (and likely the others) client, which is added to with each minor release.  The list cannot be altered except at the source code, and when a fresh client is "bootstrapping" it will check this list as it encounters each of those blocks from the network, in addition to not considering itself up-to-date unless both the peers it's connected to AND the last of the checkpoints on it's list has been encountered.  What this does is it prohibits a malicious set of peers from colluding to feed a new client a completely false blockchain (for what gain to the attackers,  I don't know) without the fresh client knowing something was wrong, for even if an attacker were capable of finding a single hash for a fake block (perhaps granting the attacker an arbitrary amount of bitcoins, in the view of the client being attacked, even if temporarily) the odds of being able to do such a thing for all of the blocks on the checkpoint list (and still not get made on the interconnecting weave of transaction connections and other security measures regarding actual transaction data integrity) goes up exponentially.  No attack vector has even been demonstrated in this fashion, but the sheer level of difficulty that this checkpoint list adds to the issue all but promises that it never will.  And authors of alternative clients can use completely differnet checkpoint lists, further complicating the issue as the complexity of the blockchain grows.  For that matter, a developer could completely randomize the checkpoint list for each minor release, so the attacker would 1) have to know both the exact checkpoint list included in that release and 2) be able to fake substitutable blocks on the fly while 3) preventing the client under attack from makng even one connection to an honest node with a complete copy of the real blockchain. Legality in the context of the Bitcoin system is differnet than legality in greater society.  Whether or not it was legal, from the perspectives of the bitcoin network design, if it's possible it will happen.  But don't jump to the conclusion that this will ever be a risk within the lifetimes of our grandchildren.  This is sometihng for furute generations to solve. Easy!  Easy!  I was not aware this was already under consideration.  You're doing a fine job, Gavin; not everyone here is out to get you. Well, on that note, it would be wise if the development team were to consider the adoption of a second address schema using a different public/private algo.  This way, in the event that a flaw in the current one is discovered, there will be an option to move funds to before the blackhats have the chance to exploit any flaws. Nor would breaking bitcoin's blockchain security give you access to anyone's vault that you, personally, didn't already own in the recent past.  And my understanding of why there are two consecutive uses of SHA256 was more about establishing 'hooks' for a future use of a more advanced hashing algo alongside the current one, permitting the network to upgrade over an extended period of time without the potential of exposing the system to an unknown attack vector or requiring a rapid upgrade cycle. No way.  These days $5 would get you a wrench about four inches long and two ounces.  At least a $30 wrench is required to defeat a one time pad. Now you are misstating my own position.  I have never claimed that hard money is any solution to the business cycle.  I have stated, and stand by the statement, that history of hard money and modern FRB confirms what we should have already known; that a flexible monetary base can and will be manipulated in every manner possible, and this amplifies the business cycle rather than dampens it.The business cycle is the cumulative effects of many a natural aspects of a diverse marketplace, free or otherwise, and cannot practically be "solved" in any acceptable fashion.  A gold standard will not change this, Bitcoin will not change this, and nothing that you can offer will change this.Wow, how does that worldview not make your head expode?Perhaps I would be, but I'm too old to wait for all the data. There will be no "post-mining" era, nor is there any planned cessation of mining.  Fix your misconceptions about bitcoin, and if you continue to have complaints, restate them and we can have a conversation. I disagree.  If they are both effects, then they are both effects of the business cycle, which I know that you don't believe in.  Any amount of a commodity currency is a correct amount, so long as it cannot change faster than the knowledge of that change can distribute across the market.  An inflexible commodity money adjusts value in the marketplace just fine, if left alone to regulate itself.  The real problem is that it's often not in the interests of the soverign powers to permit self-regulation.Then our disagreement here is one of semantics, not substance.  I would agree with the general idea the free market has historically chosen precious metals as money, but I also agree that was far from universal.Nor can I disagree with the above statements. In addition to the present impracticality of brute forcing key collisions, Bitcoin's internal design is modular and is thus capable of swapping in an alternative crypto algo and later deprecating the existing one without a hiccup.  In fact, the current method of block hashing (just as an example) requires the use of SHA256 (secure hasing algorithum 256 bit) twice to produce a validatable block hash.  One of these two algos are likely to be replaced with another similar algo yet to be created, without removing the second use of SHA256.  This results in strengthing of the blockchain brute force security without the risk of accidentally exposing it temporarily during the transition to another algo.  Very likely, the second instance of SHA256 will not be replaced until yet another, better, algo is developed or SHA256 is shown to have a flaw.In a similar manner, wallet.dat keys are created using elliptic curve public/private cryptography; but once a better algo is developed in the future, both the present form of creating addresses and the new form of creating addresses could coexist for a time, permitting users to migrate over time.  Eventually, once the present (older) algo is no longer considered safe enough for the common hardware available, the old transactions long unspent on the blockchain using the old algo would likely only be "lost" coins, and thus be salvage by natural law.  I.E. ten years after the new algo came online there are still hundreds of old transactions on the blockchain decades old, those who can brute force those private keys first get to move them to a new algo address of their own.  In the long run, even bitcoins are never lost.EDIT:  This modularity was an orginal design consideration.  Present bitcoin address all begin with a [ 1 ] for this reason, (testnet coin addresses all begin with a letter, IIRC) and thus future address algos can identify the algo used to produce them by the leading character.  Yes, this too was on purpose.  Satoshi was a far thinking genius. Which, in your view, is the cause and which is the effect?I can agree with that statement.It's a prohibition on states issuing unbacked currencies, but not a prohibition on the actual coining of gold or silver by those same states.  Granted, the Constitution doesn't explicitly prohibt the federal level from FRL; but the implicit idea was that the federal government couldn't do such things when the individual states would still be producing gold & silver coin.  (They apparently didn't understand Gresham's LAw. which is understandable since it didn't yet exist)  There is some eividence that, after the collapse of the Second Bank of the US, SCOTUS was willing to interpret likewise should it had come to that in the early 1900's.  For this reason, the public/private hybrid central bank created by the Federal Reserve Act was neccessary under the idea that a private bank was not prohibited from creating debt instruments or loaning the federal government those same instruments, while still being shackled by the federal government as a matter of regulations.  It was, and remains, a legal workaround; but the practical results are very much like a true central bank owned by the government itself.Yes, they were well aware, which has much to do why they stated it that way.  The Contenintal Congress had issued paper script and debased it so fast that the phrase, "Not worth a Contentintal" was in common use for another 100 years.  The clause above is the justifications for the Federal Mint, but I have met no one educated on the matter who would claim that the phrase "To coin Money" could have been interpreted as to mean anything other than actual coins, regardless of what metal that was used.Interesting logic.  Do I really need to point out the errors here?You make the claim that gold was not used in a free market during a economic boom in the absence of fractional reserve banking (I think you really mean credit expansion, which is different) so I pointed out that it ceratinly was, just not by whom you consider to be part of the market.Ah, and there it is again.  Then you were arguing the inefficiency of gold using a false premise which should have been easy enough for you to correct with a little google-fu.  The 'market' chose gold, not only before the advent of "fiduciary media" (it would help to precisely define that term), it was chosen as  money among the greater part of known civilization prior to the event of writing.  The fact that other cultures used other commodites much later, or that gold was not the only such free market money in common use, doesn't change the fact that gold is and was money.  The common citizen of the Roman republic was as likely to use black iron nails in place of denarius (where we get the common Imperial unit for nails, the "penny" or "pence" while the written unit is a lower case "d" for denarius) or salt as change away from the coast (where we get the term "not worth his salt"); but he still regarded the value of such things relative to their trade value in the silver coin of the realm, the denarius.Yet gold was in use as money for at least 6000 years, while silver only has a known history to about 4000 years.  Silver corrodes, after all. Oh, sorry.  I must have overlooked the later explaination.   Your understanding of Gresham's Law is incomplete.  While it's true that the law is often stated, "bad money drives good money out of circulation" the test is often assumed in our modern world, "whenever the relative exchange rate is fixed as a matter of law".  In a true free market, both currencies will float against each other and will be used for their own merits by different groups. That "make trade easier" part is what economists use the term "frictionless" to refer to a currency, or more accurately "friction" is the total cost (monetary and otherwise) of a transaction in that currency.  No currency is truly frictionless, but Bitcoin is close.  Gold is not close, and you are correct in the sense that warehouse receipts were more convient to trade in, but they represented a defined amount of gold on depost.  Fractional reserve lending was fraud before 1913 in the US.  You cannot rationally make the argument that FRL resulted in economic growth when such an activity was a crime that should have been suppressed as far as possible during those eras.  The manipulation problem certainly has been the problem, and an unavoidable one.  Deflation resulting from a rigid monetary base was not.Great book, too.  I highly recommend it.Yes, those empires did exist, and as far as one might consider an empire to be 'successful' they certain were, for a time.  If the laws of economics were not slow in action, even you wouldn't be advocating what you do. "No State shall make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts." Article 1, Section 10, united States' ConstitutionReally?  Is that what you're going with?His reasons for doing what he did were not relevant to the  point.  You claimed that they were "replaced", I said that they were defaulted upon.  The treasury sticks were deliberately burned to erase all evidence that a debt ever existed.  Are you actually incapable of seeing your own error?In the long run, we are all dead.  It's the near run that often matters in economics.Whether or not you agree that gold was "useful" for the masses or not is also irrelevant.  I highlighted your error, and you dismiss it as not useful.  Priceless.Where did you argue "efficiency" before I jumped in?  If you did, I missed it.  Of course, that would be easy since I tire of reading your BS.  I already am again.  I was not, and am not, arguing the relative "efficiency" of gold.Priceless. The brits did try it at least once, and the results were about as effective.Of course not, neither has anything else.  While the chosen medium of exchange can become a burden upon the economy, it's not particularly helpful even under the best condtions.  The reason is that money, be it gold or silver or paper notes, is only an abstraction of wealth and not wealth itself.  Money is the corpse of wealth, as was so well stated in the book Cryptocromincon.  The wealth of a people is the products & services that they offer, the means of exchange simply facilitates trade & specialzation of labor.  Money is also the "most liquid good" which, historicly; has been gold, silver & copper.  Paper worked better, so long as it was not debased, because such cash transactions had less "friction" than metal transactions.  Bitcoin has less friction still, but paper currencies require trust in the issuing body.  Since eventually all governments default, all fiat currencies fail.  I'm not sure that bitcoin can fail, but if so it won't be because the people have lost faith in some government agency.Again, that's not true.  I could provide a number of cases wherein FRB was not present within a gold standard & the economy at large boomed; if I were inclined to the trouble, but I'm not because I've already had enough conversations with yourself in the past to know that your worldview is as deep as dogma.Another falsehood.  Most central banks in our modern era are truly government owned, even if the Federal Reserve of the US is not.  And that is just a legal fiction anyway, necessary only because the constitution prohibits governments from issuing "debt instruments" i.e. FRN's lacking backing.Tally sticks weren't replaced, they were defaulted upon.  When the king of England stole the gold in the valuts of the goldsmiths, the government agents would carve the "King's debt" into both sides of a stick and then break it in half.  The agent kept the long end, and the goldsmith got to keep the short end as a recept of the theft, which supported the illutsion that it was a loan.  Eventually the king declared the debts to be "ursury" and therefore void, and teh theft was complete.  That is exactly where we get the term "left holding the short end of the stick".  And you would be wise to refrain from challenging me on my knowledge of any history, for that is one subject for which I will soundly beat you down with.That's a possible cause, but only one among many.  As with anything else, the causes of the decline of the Roman Empire are many and nuanced.  Still, this is not an argument, it's a conjecture with an 'appeal to authority' falacy thrown in for good measure.  And I, for one, don't consider Wikipedia an authority on much, even though it's a wonderful resource.Perhaps if you didn't start your arguments with such crap, I'd be more inclined to consider further.Not a red herring, very relevant.  The trade between soverigns was a free market.  Moreso than any of the markets within any particular borders, if for no other reason than there was no greater power to enforce trade regulations.  As I have already noted, international trade has been a free market, as a matter of reality, up until around 1880 or later.  Even then, Admarlaity law treaties really didn't have a significant effect on international trade for decades more.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_of_creditThere, I did it too.  A letter of credit isn't Fractional reserve banking, and it's not a deposit note.   It's basicly a corporate check drawn on an international bank, or more accurately, it's the credit score that the bank is providing to the receiving company and the check. There is a whole lot of misinformation right here in this one paragraph, so let me break it down a little at a time...Fiat only in the sense that the standard units were fixed by a matter of edict, not that they were not related to a fixed exchange rate or predominately credit/debt based mediums of exchange.  So while the statement is literally true, it is misleading in our modern context of what a fiat currency is or how it functions.And in both cases they each became empires only by abandoning many of their early principles in favor of military and economic domination of other cultures.  It is just as ligetimate to say that the debasement of each of those nations' currencies were one consequence of expansionism, not a cause, regardless of whether or not said empires are actually desireable.This is actually false, and provablely so.  While the common man traded in silver and rarely (if ever) saw a gold coin, national soveriegns most certainly did trade in gold well in advance of fractional reserve lending's rise to common acceptance.Likewise provablely false.  International trade was (arguablely) a "free trade zone" clear upt to at least 1880, and the defacto international currency of such trade was gold, even if the majority of such trades were conducted as "letters of credit".Considerin that this was just the first paragraph in this post, I see no value in continuing to read your long winded post. I'm part-Native, and it never really worked that way.  It's not rational to consider ALL of the early American wilderness to be "owned" by the tribes that hunted it or lived nearby.  Even if it were, there were a number of different tribes that could have competing claims to ownership of thousands of arces of unmolested wilderness, and they resolved their competing claims in exactly the same manner.  The Eastern/coastal tribes were (generally speaking) no more nomadic than the white Europeans, and built wooden clan sized homes & farmed.  There is little evidence that the early colonists did not respect an "indian" claim to ownership of an obviously cultivated area.  Those tribes did not believe that a natural & undeveloped area could be "owned", so in a sense they defaulted naturally to the ancap theory of ownership in the sense that it was the labor involed in clearing the forest & constructing the highway that made that real estate "ownable" to begin with.  The concept of 'homesteading' a wild area that has no obvious (living) prior claim to ownership is based upon a similar theory, and led to conflict with the western (nomadic) tribes; who generally believed that property is owned collectively & that a tribe could possess an extended & exclusive territory well beyond the region immediately near any improved areas.  So even by their own concept of ownership (which is obviously different than our own today, and different than those of the Western tribes) the Eastern tribes had no practical complaint concerning this highway or any other until they were denied safe passage upon those roads.  But that was a completely different issue. Everytime that a fork of the code that permits this has been attempted, it has failed.  Every time.  Feel free to try it yourself, though.  Really, we won't mind.
No, Gavin is not directly involved in the development of the Bitcoincard.  And just because one person posting on the site in question doesn't fully understand how Bitcoin works, doesn't make him a scammer.  I'd be willing to bet that the vast majority of members of this forum are wrong about how Bitcoin works on some technical level, and we are certainly the most educated population on the subject.  I was here months in the beginning, still being corrected on some minor misunderstanding of the subject.  I still won't claim to completely understand how the parts all fit together, and I expect that there are less than 50 people in the world who do, and of those 50 less than half could actually teach that knowledge to someone else.  Bitcoin is complex in so many technical fields, which is why I beleive that Satoshi was either a polymath or a group of skilled people. http://freedomfeens.com/blog/2012/09/25/talking-to-statists-2/Yes, Sir; I am laughing while western "civilization" collapses. I agree.  I've demoed Rosetta & TellMeMore, which is similar.  I'm a big fan of computers and what they can accomplish, but we own multiple mp3 players and only one modern computer.  My kids have to do so much on this one machine already that I don't like the idea of another hour per day on an interactive foreign language program.   ...for my homeschooled kids & myself.  Prefer something audio based (MP3, or CD that I can rip to MP3).  I've heard good things about "Pimsleur" based courses, but the examples of what I've seen online so far look like a 'book of the month club' scam.  Not opposed to buying your used CD set, as long as it's complete.  I'm looking for practical spoken communications, not a writing or grammer course like I had in high school. But they are going about it the wrong way.  All they are likely to achieve is to piss off the millinials by attempting to interfere in their communications.  This alone could lead to civil war.  These oldsters don't have any concept of how personal most millinials would take any deliberate act by government to seperate them from unrestricted Internet access.  They most certainly do consider the access that they have paid for, and contracted with a private third party to provide, is a human right; and I agree simply based upon the right of contract.Let them flail with their ineffectual edicts.  It will be their downfall. Indeed, that's my point.  The Internet isn't some singular thing.  While google & DNS would certainly represent single points of failure for how many people use the Internet, that is most certainly not the case for the savvy minority, and it's that same minority that are capable of doing the kind of harm that the 'kill switch' BS is intended to affect.  It won't have significant effects on this group of people, but would affect the regular Internet users a great deal.  That alone should make people question it's true intent.  Either the bosses are truly ignorant of the nature of the Internet AND completely ignoring their own technically educated employees on the matter; or the deliberate disruption of the common users' regular communications methodologies is the real goal.  Considering that I've worked for government in the past, I consider the first possibility to be more likely.  Most people tend to assume that government agencies hire very talented people and listen to what they have to contribute, and thus, as an organization they function as an intelligent and well connected body.  Nothing could be further from the truth.  The reality is that "the fog of war" applies very well to inter & intra-agency politics; and those that have risen to positions of authority tend to insulate themselves with politically & ideologically similar underlings, so the faults of the leadership often pervades deep enough vertically that anyone who has real knowledge to contribute are not in the position to communicate that knowledge with those in authority.  Improve Anywhere has a much more effective group communcations network than many military units that I've experience with, even if the official military networks are more timely when properly used.  I've seen evidence that a text-message based flash mob has better real time communications than the police. I didn't post it over hypted up tech.  I posted it because 1) I've studied the system, because it was one proposal for a transit system connecting downtown Cincinnati to parts of northern Kentucky (it lost to light rail, and that still isn't built yet) and 2) whether it primarily uses maglev @ 100 mph or steel skates on roller bearings @ 50 mph it would work; and it would work quite well.  Near zero lateral loads; due to crosswinds, turn forces, whatever; simply because the car hangs below the track with a 15 degree pivot joint.  Unobtrusive in urban settings.  Requires zero skill to use, so a child in 2nd grade could use it to go to school alone as effectively as grandma after she loses her license & is wheelchair bound.  Most of the time it would follow existing rights-of-way, but it doesn't need to.  It could cross over private farmland, with contract consessions from the owners, with no more interference to the rancher's work or way of life than a powerline; which also happens to be the only way that the system could reasonablely ever hit 100mph, which would require some rather straight track.  Most of an urban network would really be limited to about 30mph (+-5mph) due to the turn radiuses that exiting city intersections place upon the practical grid track network.  It would be a truly electric system, though. Except there is one problem with that 'kill switch' concept, there is no way to do it even if they have the legal "authority".  A government document has no more power to "kill" the Internet in the US than gun laws have the power to disarm criminals.  Iran tried it because they only have a half dozen international connections to unplug, all of which were owned by semi-government entities anyway; and even then data was getting out of Iran.  The US has 10K independent ISP's with varying degrees of their own tier 2 or international connections; and international connections aren't even necessary since Facebook & Youtube (the sites Iranians were trying to access anyway) are in the US.  Sure, they can drop the tier 3 connections linking NYC/Portland,OR/San Franisco/Atlanta,GA and force my ping rates to the moon and my frame rates to unplayable levels, but that's not going to break much else.   Maybe some torrents would drop to zero.  Even sending men with guns to Google & facebook to shut them down is only going to force alternatives to the top in short order. Yuphttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SkyTran http://www.lewrockwell.com/north/north1203.html http://www.naturalnews.com/037281_banking_system_Americans_opting_out.html What is your nation? That which does not kill you, makes you stronger.If this doesn't apply to any activity on the Internet, then it can't apply to anything. I have discovered that my little Eton E100 has crapped out.  If anyone has a working, used shortwave receiver they might wish to part with, let me know. This is what I need, a site like taskrabbit that takes bitcoin, and can be used in my city. Poll is misworded.  Any such fork would no longer be bitcoin, and I'm sticking with what I've got. The very metric we call Gross Domestic Product has no practical meaning in the bitcoin economy.  Gross Global Economy would, but doesn't tell you anything useful. Yeah, that was similar to my experiences.  There is notablely more honey in these than Bit-o-Honey candies, though. Makes sense.  If you've got the shotgun, you've already got the multiple round impact issue resolved.   Holy Crap!  I do now!  A shotgun shell would work as well, but do these things come as a shotgun shell?
Put five of them in a man in under 3 seconds, and he is as likely to drop as with a 45 to the gut.  Might even still cost less.  In the past, I've thought about the idea of a PDW that uses three 22lr barrels arranged in an equalateral triangle, wherein each of the three fires one round simulaniously.  I imagine, though I can't know because I've never actually tried it, the perfect shot group pattern of impact would create a prettly large trauma zone.  I can't know if the ATF would consider it a machine gun or not. Yeah, that's it.I'm old, just accept it. Even in a pro-gun US state, with "stand your ground" laws in effect, there are always legal consequences with any shooting, and if you shot your pickpocket in the back you're going to prison.  That's one of the classic examples that the state instructors teach is almost never a justifiable use of lethal force, and even a 22lr is lethal force.  The reason is that you can only respond to threat of force with force, and only for so long as that credible threat exists (or a jury of your peers can be convinced that a reasonable person would fear the threat under the same circumstances).  This is why Travon Martin is facing felony charges in Florida, because that ongoing threat is under question.  If you shoot the guy in the back, it all but implies that he was running away, thus no further threat exists.And that is why "castle doctrine" laws exist in the US.  If someone breaks into your home, or otherwise forces their way in, the law assumes that they were there with criminal intent.  Particularly after dark and if you don't know the guy.  If they were just drunk and mistook your house for theirs, that's a shame but breaking & entering is, itself, a crime; alcohol kills addicts eventually. Well, a quick google search reveals that not only is my memory a bit off on this topic, there is a bit of disagreement as to that point anyway.According to Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morocco%E2%80%93United_States_relations) Moroocco officially recognised the US on Dec 20th 1777.  However the Wikipedia page on the Netherlands (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netherlands-US_relations) states this little tidbit..."The Netherlands was the first foreign country to salute the American Flag on November 16 1776[1] and therefore the first foreign nation to (unofficially) recognise the United States as an independent nation. On 19 April 1782 John Adams was received by the States General in The Hague and recognized as Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States of America. The house that Adams purchased in The Hague became the first American embassy in the world."So I was wrong.  There, I said it. Because Bitcoin Wallet for Android keeps the blockchain local to the phone, and needs to catch up to the rest of the network on it's own.  This is the primary reason that I've switched to BitcoinSpinner, which uses a divided wallet method & keeps the blockchain on the BitconSpinner server instead. It does if I'm willing to cut off your fingers one at a time until you give me your brainwallet seed. On a loosely related note....1) The Swiss were the first soverign nation to recognize the independent United States,2) the first nation to loan us money and...3) the inspiration for the US constitution's 2nd amendment & general 'militia' defense mindset prior to 1880.Also the foundation story of the Swiss (Will Penn?) is one of the first lessons my children have learned about in their homeschool curriculum (www.sonlight.com).  In fact, that story is taught to kindergarten ages and before the story of the US itself.What made a Swiss born move to Spain?  Work? I'm positive. Wow, I'm continually amazed at the economic ignorance of some forum members.  While it's a bit of a distortion to blame all of the economic woes of our modern world on inflationary monetary policies, inflation in general solves only one problem.  That one problem is the access to liquidity of those who have the the legal authority to create new funds and the people and industries that are most closely connected to that entity.  In the modern case of the US; those entities include the Federal Reserve & member banks, the federal government, & any major corporation or lobbying group with close ties to said government.  That does not, ever, include middle class American households.  And any economic advantage that inflation may hold for a particular nation's trade policy is 1) always a temporary effect that lasts only as long as it takes for the international community to adjust to the changes in relative value and 2) only applies if no one else is also debasing their currency at the same time, which is clearly not the case in our modern world.Also, bear in mind that nations don't actually trade, people do.  So any advantage in trade imbalances due to one-sided inflationary policies benefit a corporation on one side of that international trade, not even a government and never a population. That's not technically true.  If a thug knows who has access to the wallet.dat, all that is required is a little uninterrupted time with an Alabama lie detector.  The trick is that, since they are not a physical object, they need not exist in any particular place (i.e. a safe) that can be compromised. I'm most likely to be holding a Marlin 22lr, and considering that I have in my possesion thousands of rounds for the thing (as compared to merely hundreds for my Mosin-Nagant), I think that it's a fine choice for two legged game in an urban combat zone.I'm not the only one, either....http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hdr14xVetXM Where do you live?EDIT:  Ah, nevermind.  I can see from your profile that you live in the Peoples' Republic of Spain.  Ironicly, some of the best shotguns available are manufactured in Spain.http://www.chuckhawks.com/spanish_shotguns.htmEDIT2:  The US federal government has long had a program for encouraging marksmenship skills in the civilian population (yes, that includes all of the "liberal" administrations, despite some recent anti-gun propoganda to end the program) called the Civilian Marksmanship Program.  http://www.odcmp.com/The Appleseed program is one that primarily uses 22lr rifles, while most of the others use airsoft rifles.  The point of the CMP is to instil high levels of skill into young adults, should the draft ever be reinstated due to another world war level event.  The CMP is also the only federal program authorised by law to sell military surplus rifles to the public, so I can now go buy a M1 Garand, a WWII surplus rifle worth at least $1200 if you can buy it at all.  One of the instructors had one there to show off, and it's beautiful.  I've literally never seen one before in person, that wasn't behind glass at the Frazier Military History Museum  (http://www.fraziermuseum.org/) Well, my wife & I bought her a 22LR rifle for her 9th birthday, and both my wife and my daughter have repeatedly pointed out how she has never actually fired her own rifle.  (Turns out, her rifle may have been defective from the factory, she had to borrow one at Appleseed.  I used her brother's, which can fire a sub MOA with CCI ammo; just not by me)  The problem is that we live in a city, and the only choices we have are to go out to Grammy's farm or to a pay for membership gun range.  Grammy's farm is a bit of a trek, (and not particularly welcome, see below) while Appleseed is held at that very gun range and the range fees are lower for the Appleseed event than if I just took her out myself.  And as they proved this weekend, they are much better at teaching children than I am.  Undoutedly, she had more fun in a group of other children than she would have training with me alone.  She's a social butterfly anyway.Ironicly, I grew up in a liberal (read anti-gun & anti-military) household.  I joined the USMC at 18, which pissed off my parents.  I took great joy in buying my kids their own firearms, which again royally pissed off their grandparents.  The look of shock on my mother's face when my daughter opened that present was precious.  I have long had a policy against toy guns in my home.  My parents, incorrectly, took that to mean that I shared their value systems; whereas I just didn't want to associate a realisticly looking toy with playing.  I wanted them to treat anything that looked like a weapon as if it really was one, even if they knew better.  I required this of them even while they were at my sister's house, where their cousins had toy guns but there were no firearms in the household.  My parents were unaware that I had long had firearms of my own.  I gave the present to my daughter, then stepped back with the camera to take a photo of my mother's face, not my daughter's.  Once opening it, my mom said something like, "What happened to the no toy guns rule?  Wait, IS THAT A REAL GUN!?"  *click*  "Why, yes, Mom; it is! I felt that she might have been getting a little old for toys."  Both my wife & I were laughing out loud at this point, and my parents understood that we set it up (partially) to mock them.My own mother wouldn't even talk to me for several weeks.  It's still funny, though. I want her to learn firearms safety, learning to shoot well is just fun.I took my son there last year, and he was only 8. Among those choices, the M1-Garand is certainly the best singular military rifle, but for the price nothing beats the Mosin-Nagant. I took my daughter to an Appleseed this past weekend.  Between the two of us, we fired off over 1100 rounds.  She's a better shot than I am; probably because it's hard to break bad habits from years of trying to teach myself.  She's 12, and this is her first formal training in marksmanship.  In the beginning, she wasn't putting anything on a poster sized target; but by the end she was scoring in the 170's on the "Quick & Dirty" 25 meter Army Qualification Test.  The best score I've ever got was 15 or so years ago in the USMC somewhere between 180 and 190.I'm exausted and she's ready to do it again.Good times, though. I already had phosphates in my clothes detergent.  Did you want the remainder of the batch? Time for me to finally learn another language, and check that one off my bucket list.And no, I don't consider high school French 'learning'. They generally are, but you still have to request a whitelisting.  It's not automatic.  The 5 post & 4hours rules exist so that we might have a chance to catch bots.  You can start any thread you like in the newbie section, though.  Ask anything you like, and we will still answer it.  If it becomes a major thread, we can move it to it's proper topic section at a later point. Even the Third Reich didn't intend to destroy themselves.
I've been ignoring this latest nuke debate because I don't think that it has merit, but this one needs to be addressed.  Sociopathy does not imply irrationality.  Usually the contrary, sociopaths can be very civil & rational people, and still not care a lick what happens to anyone else.  This is exactly why sociopaths who do not tend to have other mental issues are over-represented among both political classes in every Western democracy and the top leadership of major international corporations.  It's also related to the fact that sociopaths that do have other mental issues tend to end up in a prison cell for a violent felony at some point. Yes, we likely agree.  BDD is an excellent economic metric, a very useful tool for analysis.  And one that has no corrolary in fiat currencies.  Velocity of bitcoin is most useful as a comparison tool against other currencies and across time.  BDD is a very useful tool for comparing one period of time against another, from within the bitcoin economy itself compared to itself. No, that would just mean that velocity had no relationship to value.  But we already know that is not the case here, so it's a moot point. The kinds of transactions that should not be included in velocity, that would be included in BDD, are transfers between a person's own addresses (and any other kind of valueless transfer), exchange price speculation, and probably in-kind donations.  The problem is we can't work this out of our data set, since there is no way to know why the transfers are occuring.  This is generally true with fiat currencies as well, but it's entirely possible that these kinds of transfers represent a much larger share of bitcoin's "GDP" (which is a meaningless metric, in the context of a global economy that can't realisticly be separated from the national fiat economies in particular regions).  Of course, it's also likely that these same types of transfers will become an decreasingly significant portion over time, if Bitcoin continues to grow.  At some point, the variations in velocity metrics for bitcoin and fiat currencies become small enough that they can be ignored, and the velocities themselves compared against each other to determine a relative understanding of velocity.  Velocity of currency is always a unitless metric, and has no real meaning outside of the context it's being used. Your welcome to your opinon on the relative merits of any particular metric, but my point ws that velocity under bitcoin should be easier to estimate than under any other currency.  BDD is realy very similar a metric to velocity, because if your volume is high but your overall BDD is not this means that a small number of people are moving the same bitcoins around rather quickly.  This is a high velocity by definition, although it's without context, and velocity is a useless metric without context. Honestly, it shouldn't be.  We already have a similar metric that is very accurate, called bitcoin-days-destroyed.https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Bitcoin_Days_DestroyedWith a few cavets, namely the difficulty in seperating out transactions that only involve owners moving their bitcoins around from one address to another for whatever reason, Bitcoin-days-destroyed-overall is a very good indicator of the actual velocity of bitcoin at any given time.EDIT: To be specific,  the rolling average of (Bitcoin-days-destroyed-overall-today divided by the daily-transaction-volume) should give a consistant ratio to a real velocity for bitcoin.  The problem I see is that we don't yet know what that ratio might be, or if it will change in the future as bitcoin's economy grows and changes. That would work right now.  Just look at what M-pesa has accomplished.  If a bitcoinspinner style client could be introduced to that low end kind of cell phone, perhaps with some kind of bu.mp app to identify counterparties, that alone would do great things to stabilize bitcoin itself.  While I can't falut your analysis, I think that you are overlooking something very important.  All things equal, and increas in velocity implies a decreasing time preference, meaning people in general are more inclined to spend now than wait for a better deal.  Right now, the time preference is very high in bitcoin, as many of us have been sitting one some considerable funds for moneths to years.  While this is bound to lower as the economy grows, the increases in velocity would tend to cancel out the price increases that a growing economy would otherwise imply.  And this leads to my final point; for all practical purposes the velocity of US $ is limited to the rate at which the middle class worker is paid for his labors.  SInce the average worker is paid weekly, this effect slows down $ velocity overall and drives consumers towards credit to improve the interval; but even credit can't cycle as fast as Bitcoin is capable of, since bitcoins can be respent roughly every hour.  So, theoriecally, a bitcoin can be priced an order of magnatude lower than $ (with an equvialnt monetary base, which we don't have) and move the same value in the same time frame due to the very real possibilty that employers could pay employees for work on a daily, or even hourly basis, using funds spent at POS the very same day. Depends upon what we are talking about.  If you mean small tweeks such as the block interval or hugely disrputive changes such as last-most-difficult-hash which can be achieved with a parrallel blockchain, then yes the developers aren't keen on playing games with a system that just works.  Besides, there is test-net for that kind of thing.  If you mean something disruptive, but truely innovative that cannot be practically implimented without a breaking change, then maybe.You just don't go around breaking a running system to try out your theories. I've got another one for you, if you have the extra honey.  You can bottle some honey mead.http://www.stormthecastle.com/mead/index.htmI've never had mead before, but I'd be willing to try it. Ideally, something about the size and shape of a Campbell's soup can.  In fact, a soup can would be perfect, because I'd be able to put the can into the car on a hot day to calmly melt and recool once I've drilled enough holes into it that it needs reforming.EDIT: A top would be ideal, however.  Otherwise it'll get dirty at my work, and might attract bugs.No, drilling into the wax will leave a hole in the solid wax, but also a portion of the wax will be stuck into the groves of the drill bit.  As one drills into the workpeiece, teh tip of the bit heats up and as that heat spreads down the bit, small amounts of wax melt and trickle down onto the workpiece.  I've tried it with old candles, but that parrafin wax used in commercial candles tends to crumble away from the bit and sling away as I drill.  The beeswax will do some of this, but it seems to cling to the bit better.  Sticker, I guess.  I haven't had any beeswx to use in this manner in years, and I only recently remembered this trick while doing some repair work, and I thought of you guys. Yes, keep your mouth shut unless and until you have permission to disclose. I have a product suggestion.  Once upon a time, I worked in construction, and using a drill bit to cut steel with cutting oil was effective but messy.  There was this oldster that had a cardboard tube of beeswax that he would drill into before drilling steel.  The beeswax would cling to the bit groves and melt as the bit heated up and dribble into the workpiece.  His bits stayed sharper for longer than most.  I've never seen anyone since use this technique, and I don't know how he got the beeswax into the cardboard tube.  Maybe he bought it that way, but the tube just looked like the kind you would end up with after emptying a roll of paper towels.  Perhaps half of a towel tube.  It's been a while.  Anyway, I'd like a tube of beeswax for this purpose. Good thing you acknowleged your misconseption.  I was ready to label you as a troll for making obviously contentious and offensive claims without any support. Canada is a much more continuous culture, being primarily a colony of the British Empire; while the US is the result of 200+ years of global immigration, most of which was not from the British Empire after 1880.  We have the Italian 'mafiso' culture, both directly from Italy and indirectly from other European & colonized cultures affected by 'mafiso' culture themselves.  We have 300+ years of an independent 'frontiersman'/'cowboy' culture that developed here.  We have Jews, Christians, Catholics & Mormans; all of whom have had their own periods on both sides of violent persecution.  We have native & imported aboriginal cultures, some of which are so deeply intergrated into the local population even the US government doesn't bother to note a distinction. (http://www.yuchi.org/ is just one example, since they still exist where my wife's family is from, another is the Black Wolf Cherokee tribe of Kentucky, which was, according to my grandmother, my great-grandfather's family)I'm sorry, but there is no culture quite as diverse in this world as the US, and diversity often leads to tension and conflicts that would not likely occur within a more uniform national culture.At least I can site websites that actully support my claims.  The Swiss often need a permit to buy ammunition, but what says that they have to keep it disassembled?   And who is going to be checking to make sure that a father of three has his Sig in teh proper state of storage?As noted, like the Swiss, Israel is a militia state.  Therefore all able bodied citizens, that are not convicted criminals, physically impaired, mentally unstable or contentious objectors are members of the extended state military structure, somwhere along the scale of fully enlisted and active miltary service to inactive reserve status.  (BTW, this is also how the USMC treats it's relationship with retired marines; as one I am a marine till I die)  Unlike the Swiss, this includes women over 18; whether Jewish, Christian or Muslim, (although they give mulsims a pass if they want it, in practice).  Once again, the fact that their milita is well regulated does not undermine my position.  Regardless of what the laws say, the weapons are both present and distributed across the population.  The fact that Israel does not permit guns that they don't issue to the population is functionally irrelevant.Cops are not militia, they represent the state as a matter of occupation.  As bitcoinchemist noted, you don't seem to know what a militia actually is in this context.  It has nothing to do with survivalists drinking beer and shooting up trees waiting for the UN invasion. Canada is an unfair comparison.  The culture is so dramticly different as to make any direct comparisons difficult.  Which is true with pretty much every nation, so I don't put much stock in such comparisons anyway, but I used that to point out the fundamental error of Rarity's premise.  Gun control does not lead to reduced incidents of violent crime within that culture.  In every nation that has an outright ban on civilian owned handguns, the rate of all forms of violent crime have increased over a period of years since.  I'm not trying to compare Britain to the US, I'm comparing Britain before and after.Are you really kidding here?  The Swiss have a national milita that trains annually with firearms that they are required by law to keep in their homes with ammunition.  That would be every single adult & able bodied male citizen between 18 and 45.  Do you really think that the Swiss need CCW?  Do you think that an intruder is going to think "hey, they can't shoot me because their magazines are sealed"?Another milita nation, not a anti-gun culture.  The only nation in the world that requires all women to serve in the military & in combat positions.  Again, CCW is inmaterial in Israel.Laws, maybe.  That's debatable.  Gun culture, no.  LEt me see a NYC militia march in the parade some time, and if they aren't booed I'll concede you might have a point here. Then let's please revisit one of my links that you obviously didn't bother to read..http://gunowners.org/sk0703.htm     4. Fact: British authorities routinely underreport crime statistics. Comparing statistics between different nations can be quite difficult since foreign officials frequently use different standards in compiling crime statistics.<snip>          * Underreporting murder data: British crime reporting tactics keep murder rates artificially low. "Suppose that three men kill a woman during an argument outside a bar. They are arrested for murder, but because of problems with identification (the main witness is dead), charges are eventually dropped. In American crime statistics, the event counts as a three-person homicide, but in British statistics it counts as nothing at all. 'With such differences in reporting criteria, comparisons of U.S. homicide rates with British homicide rates is a sham,' [a 2000 report from the Inspectorate of Constabulary] concludes."16     5. Fact: Many nations with stricter gun control laws have violence rates that are equal to, or greater than, that of the United States. Consider the following rates:     High Gun    Ownership Countries           Low Gun    Ownership Countries    Country           Suicide           Homicide           Total*           Country           Suicide           Homicide           Total*    Switzerland        21.4           2.7           24.1       Denmark        22.3           4.9           27.2    U.S.        11.6           7.4           19.0       France        20.8           1.1           21.9    Israel        6.5           1.4           7.9       Japan**        16.7           0.6           17.3         * The figures listed in the table are the rates per 100,000 people.    ** Suicide figures for Japan also include many homicides.    Source for table: U.S. figures for 1996 are taken from the Statistical Abstract of the U.S. and FBI Uniform Crime Reports. The rest of the table is taken from the UN 1996 Demographic Yearbook (1998), cited at http://www.haciendapub.com/stolinsky.html. Your worldview is not based on facts.  In every society that has banned handguns for citizens, violent crime rates have increased.  None have decreased since their ban.http://gunowners.org/sk0703.htmhttp://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-1223193/Culture-violence-Gun-crime-goes-89-decade.htmlhttp://reason.com/archives/2002/11/01/gun-controls-twisted-outcomehttp://rense.com/politics6/britgun.htmhttp://libertycrier.com/u-s-constitution/english-warning-to-americans-dont-give-up-your-guns/ I'm not the one making shit up.  Note that I'm teh one who posted the Wikipedia link that says that there was one possible case of a US soldier being shot, but that can't be confirmed, while there are multiple cases of protestors being shot by US agents.  There is no credible historian of the era that would claim that the protestors provoked the encounter, they agree that the tax collector is responsible for that.  Washington sending in troops was very likely due to receiving a one sided report of the events, along with his tendency to trust officers of his administration over stories of government violence and overreach.As as for lawbreaking, you commit an average of three felonies per day.  That's just as much an excuse towards action today as it was then. Whether it was just or not was a matter of perspective, and considering that it was one of the core causes of the rise of the Democrat-Republican party (which eventually split ways after the Whigs faded away) and elected Tom Jefferson to repeal it, it obviously wasn't as popular a perspective as you seem to believe.  And yes, a couple hundred men 'attacked' a tax inspector by public humilation known as 'tar and feathering'.  They did him no permanent physical harm, and certainly didn't shoot at him;(apparently they did, after one of his men shot & killed one of the rebels, that's what happens when you shoot first) this after said tax collector had been using strong arm tactics to extract those taxes in his region.  You can't win this, the facts are that the tax was uneven, unpopular and enforced with violent zeal by government agents from afar.  This is why the tax revolt happened, and in reality the tax never did raise the revenue that Alex Hamilton promised that it would, in part because it was so commonly evaded.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whiskey_Rebellion)  The only people known to perish during this whole episode were tax protestors, not government agents of any flavor. The Whiskey Rebellion is an great example of exactly what I'm talking about.  Those men were being directly targeted, and had a fair gripe.  They were too far from the markets on the East Coast to do anything other with their surplus corn than make whiskey with it, and suddenly they were being heavily taxed for their relatively rare form of income after fighting a war of independence that was, at it's root about the uneven and oppressive taxation imposed upon them by a distant authority.  They were ignored through normal channels, so when they refused to pay the taxes that the new government demanded of them, the revered President Washington sent the US military into a soveriegn territory to force compliance.  Do you think that the officers & enlisted men of that army unit considered the ramifications of their actions?  Do you?  The very fact that we refer to it as "The Whiskey Rebellion" in history books is propaganda, because it wasn't a rebellion in arms until the army showed up, it was a tax revolt.
It's also an unrealistic assumption that those who are in control of the government at that time would be unprepared for a military coup, nor that any significant number of young officers would be free thinkers capable of seeing past the indocrination and propaganda campaign that would have preceded such a tyrannical government taking control.  It is for this very reason that the Department of the Army (plus Air Force) and the Department of the Navy (plus the Marine Corps) each, independently, answer to an appointed civilian in the executive branch, namely the Secretary of Defense.  In the hopes that a single carismatic leader wouldn't be able to take control of the entire military alone, but doesn't help if the civilian government in charge of the military is the problem.  There would be a great number of veterans who could see through such b.s., removed as they are from the immediate influence of the military culture, and veterans outnumber active miltary by a large margin at any given time, but if the veterans are effectively prevented from owning the tools of their former trade (for example, labeled as 'mentally defective' and therefore ineligible to own firearms http://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/citizen-warrior/2012/aug/23/judge-orders-brandon-raub-released-hospital/ ) then they are a neutered threat to tyranny.  Same goes for the organized training of firearms safety to children.  (http://www.adl.org/special_reports/rage-grows-in-America/introduction.asp which is attacking the appleseed project http://appleseedinfo.org ) If that were to happen, what effect upon the Bitcoin economy do you think it might have? Furthermore, the 'ban' on importation or manufacture of full-auto weapons are, in fact, not a complete ban.  There are exceptions, some of them notable.  For example, a FN P-90 is on my wishlist, but falls under the aforementioned importation ban.  Except for policemen.  But once it's been imported for a cop, and said cop has owned it for a period of time (2 years, IIRC) then a standard Class III transfer & ATF tax stamp is all that is required for that cop to sell that firearm to any other citizen with the correct permit to buy one.  I won't claim that this happens often, because it most certainly does not, but there have to be some guys buying up such guns (perhaps for an additional "private pension" fund?) because P-90's are available in the US, apparently legally.Now, I don't know how many states limit their policemen in this regard.  I've no doubt that it's a non-starter in California.  But it is an exception to the ban, so there is no ban.  If there is an exception, then it's not (economicly speaking) a ban.  If the demand is high enough, the exceptions become the rule and then the ban is meaningless political drivel. Okay, so you admit they are not banned.  Then your premise has failed, has it not?And what is your motivation for the belief that they shout be banned? Well, your attempt at preemption is a fail, since as I have already pointed out, Class II & Class III weapons are not banned.  They're regulated at the federal level, and rather harshly, but they are not illegal.http://www.knobcreekrange.com/events/featured-events/machine-gun-shoot This is also an untrue statement.  It's not illegal for a US citizen, with zero history of criminal activities nor mental illness, to own or buy a fully automatic weapon, a short-barreled shotgun, or even a shoulder fired anti-vehicle & wire guided missile.  What is required is a license for each of these classes of federally regulated weapons, and a lot of money.  As you have already alluded to, it's mostly the cost of the process that is the limiting factor.  It is simply not true that there is a ban on such weapons in the US. This is based on a false premise.  Namely that the cost of a legally registered class III weapon is directly corrolated to the black market price of an equivalent weapon.  While there are many ways that regulation can affect the black market prices of such weapons, there comes a point that the black market weapon is cheaper to aquire than a legitimately registered one; then gun control regulations fail.  This price point is always crossed under a complete ban, so it's reasonable to look at places where such weapons are unavailable other than on the black market to take a reasonable guess as to what the maximum that regulations can force up the black market price of such weapons.There are other practical reasons than just the high cost that criminals don't generally use class III weapons, as they are usually used by thugs who have limited experience with automatic weapons, and even the well trained USMC doesn't use full auto M-16's anymore for the average grunt; because the user has a tendency to squeeze the trigger until his magazine is empty.  A semi-auto is a better weapon most of the time anyway. Nope, because you havn't made it yet.  Thanks for volunteering your time. What needs to be addressed about that?  Nation states function in an environment of functional anarchy, kept in check by their own sanity and the consequences of aggression.  I'm not an anarchist, though, so I shouldn't have tp defend that position. I was merely pointing out the double standard among gun control advocates, for I have met exactly zero that advocate disarming the police. Mykul is using 'reducum ad absurdum' to highlight the rediculouslessness of the current system.  Of course anyone willing to build and carry around a nuke is a threat to everyone around him, same for a bomb vest.  The real point here is not that you gunbanners actually believe that you can remove weapons from society, because you don't advocate removing weapons from governments or it's agents.  There is the big, pink elephant in the room.  That governments have nuclear missiles pointed at each other all of the time, and are a constant threat to each other, and all of us happen to be in the way.  So we are under threat every minute of our lives.  So the real point here is not that someone should or should not be prevented from possessing a nuke; because the practical reality is that it's not governments that actually prevent this, it's the high cost of such a weapon and it's limited usefulness to anyone with his head on straight.  But the same argument applies to any military grade weapon that a person could afford and have a practical use for, and therefore any less military/offense in design and more defensive in design as well, such as a home-defense shotgun or a handgun; the opinions of what others believe are appropriate notwithstanding.  I've shot many a full-auto machine gun, and they a a great time.  A minigun costs about $40 per second to actually fire, so it's not exactly a poor man's hobby; but who are you to say what I can't do for fun? It doesn't really work that way.  Have you ever heard of someone robbing a gun store at gunpoint?Or a doughnut shop with three cop cars parked out front? I cannot fathom why you should care, I was just laying out a theory. I have no idea, I'm on Intrade. You're right, guns are tools.  They have a specific purpose and use.  That's how cops use them too, right?  They kill people every day with them, and yet you don't advocate that the cops stop carrying them, do you?  When you get down to the root of the gun control argument, it's about trust.  We're supposed to be able to trust men in uniform, but when these same men are wearing street clothes; whether simply off-duty or retired from service, they're no longer trustworthy?  If you can't imagine yourself comfortable around someone that you know is armed & not wearing a badge, your choices involve carrying yourself to even the odds or simply advocating for government to remove firearms from the public spaces.  The former requires much from you, including the responsiblity to brush up on both the law concerning justifiable use of force and the practical skills required in safely using a firearm; as well as the rather steep personal cost of obtaining the weapon to start with.  The latter option is simply easier, as is doesn't require anything from you other than a vote and imposes the burden of enforcement upon the police & those who wish to carry for whatever reason.  The facts remain, though, that any practical level of reducing the number of firearms in public is impossible by statutes.  Firearms are very old tech, and easily produced by skilled people today, and soon enough it will be possible to print out a crude firearm on a hobby level 3D printer.  And this one might actually be all plastic.http://defensedistributed.com/ TL;DR = I believe that, in the event that Ron Paul & Company succeed inforcing a brokered convention, Romney will lose and Sarah Palin will walkout with it.I know that this theory is going to earn me the title of 'wingnut', buthere it is.  For many months now, the media has been ponderingwhy Ron Paul would be so damned determined to accumulatedelegates (and keep them) heading into a convention for which he hasalready admitted that he cannot win.  It's a good question that I'd beenpondering as well.  The common theories seem to fall flat to me.  The ideathat he's doing it solely for an effect on the nationalplatform & a prime time speaking slot is rediculous; the platform becauseeveryone knows that Romney would pay it lip service only until he won theelection (or more likely did not) and my own impressions of Ron Paul isthat he is a very politically savvy player but doesn't have the ego for aloser's final speech before retirement.  For that matter, he'll get plentyof attention for his speech on Sunday before the convention.  It alsodoesn't explain the Romney campaign's willingness to risk alienating thePaulites (not a few of whom are under 30 and former Obama voters) by usinglegal challenges to attempt to deny Paul his 5 state plurality.  By my ownresearch, Ron Paul has (at least) seven states for his plurality, becausea plurality of delegates is different than a majority of same, nor is itparticularly related to who those delegates are 'bound' to, sincenominations from the floor are different than the actual roll-call vote. Of course, this is all irrelevant if Romney actually has greater than 1144votes on the first ballot, but his actions imply that if he does have thatmany it's not enough over that number for him to feel comfortable in afirst round victory.  Yet, Santorum also has a five state plurality, andthe Romney campaign has done nothing to prevent his name being placed intonomination.  Neither Paul nor Santorum have anywhere near the number ofdelegates to challenge Romney under normal circumstances, even addedtogether they couldn't make much of a dent and there is no way that any ofthem are going to broker for a Paul victory, and Paul knows this. Gingrich has some delegates that he won't release early because he & Paulhave a bad history, and Gingrich has publicly stated that he doesn't likeRomney on a personal level.  Santorum is more likely to make a deal withRomney for some prominate position in the adminstration in exchange forreleasing his delegates for the first vote, which would scuttle a lastditch effort to nominate Paul from the floor.Furthermore, Ron Paul has been running an education campaign like he didin 2008; not one intended to be broadly desireable to the Republican base,which is a little different than how he ran his local campaigns to berelected.  This leads me to believe that not only does Ron Paul not thinkthat him winning the nomination at the convention is possible, it's noteven desireable.  He just wants to retire and let someone else take over,and I don't think that his son is ready for that himself.Considering all this, I contemplated what was the real goal for Ron Paul,and concluded that he is still trying to force a brokered convention, justnot for himself.  While it's never happened before, there is nothing inthe rules that would prevent a candidate from asking his delegates tonominate someone else entirely; and this is just the kind of longshot chance that Paul might attempt right before retirement.So the next question then became, who?I came up with a set of criteria for said person, as follows....1) Must be someone that could crediblely be endorsed by Paul, without asignificant minority of his fans responding with a "WTF?" reaction.  IMHO,this would require someone who is already fairly well liked by the libertywing of the Tea Party.2)  Must be someone with an existing national 'brand', who's name isfairly well known, particularly across the conservative spectrum.  Thiseliminates Gary Johnson, even if ballot access laws didn't prohibt himfrom the Republican nomination since he has already accepted theLibertarian Party nomination.3)  Should be someone who didn't compete for the nomination in theprimary, since otherwise enough of the unbound delegates in Tampa wouldthink "that person already lost to Romney" and vote for Romney to throwhim over the 1144 on the first round.4)  Should not be a person who has spoken ill of Ron Paul or of the TeaParty movement.5)  Should be a person who appeals, generally, to both sides of the TeaParty (i.e. both the libertarians & the social conservatives)Bonus if said person has some demographic advantage over old white men.The only person that I could think of that fits this profile is SarahPalin, and after coming to that conclusion I discovered some interestingthings.Sarah Palin....1)   ...has never endorsed Romney in any real sense.2)  ...has never spoken ill of the Paul movement, at least not during thiscycle; and has repeatedly warned the other candidates to not alienate thePaulites during public speaking events over the past six months or so.3)  ...seems to have kept four or five of her campaign team on retainervia SarahPAC, which could be contractural but that seems odd during anelection year.  While none of these five appear to be involved in anycampaigns, they are not idle either as several of them have had guestspots on FoxNews & FoxBusiness networks.4)  ...has been doing an excellent job of keeping herself in the limelightover the past six months, including a great average in endorsing Tea PArtytype people for Senate primaries.5)  ...has significantly educated herself with regard to national andinternational issues since being thrown onto the national stage without asafety net four years ago.6)  ...has openly stated that she believes that she could win thenomination if there was a brokered convention.So there it is.  I think that Ron Paul has had a secret deal with SarahPalin since the fall, that if she did not run in the primary (and thusbleed off liberty minded votes from the Paul campaign) then if a brokeredconvention were possible Ron Paul would do everything in his power to gether name on the nominating ballot.  And what does Ron Paul get out of it? His son gets first refusal for VP.  And no, I don't think that Rand normost of the Paul campaign staff were at all aware of this "plan B".Thus, Sarah Palin, not Ron Paul nor Santorum nor Huckabee, is my DarkHorse candidate.  And if Ron succeeds in this endeavor and gets Sarah'sname officially on the ballot, I believe that she will win it so longas Romney cannot get 1144 on the first ballot.  Some of my links follow, although in many cases the part that I thinksupports my view is not evident.  This might be confirmation bias, buthere it is, nonetheless, in no particular order....http://libertycrier.com/politics/a-brokered-convention-in-2012-looking-toward-tampa/http://www.nysun.com/editorials/the-ron-paul-rebellion/87932/http://conservatives4palin.com/2012/08/abc-tea-party-seeks-to-move-mitt-to-the-right-2.htmlhttp://www.breitbart.com/Big-Government/2012/05/07/who-is-the-real-sarah-palinhttp://rantpolitical.com/2012/08/02/our-odds-of-beating-obama-are-better-by-dumping-mitt-in-a-brokered-convention/http://conservatives4palin.com/2012/08/how-candidates-react-when-dont-get-the-palin-endorsement.htmlhttp://www.mediaite.com/tv/sarah-palin-defends-ron-paul-hes-the-only-one-doing-something-about-reining-in-govt-growth/http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2012/01/palin_warms_to_paul.htmlhttp://alaskapride.blogspot.com/2011/12/alaska-political-predictions-for-2012.html Close! but no cigar!http://libertymaven.com/2008/10/27/the-great-libertarian-opportunity-palin-paul-2012/2786/ Again, very close.  Back in 2008.http://www.oregonlive.com/mapes/index.ssf/2012/08/ron_paul_supporters_fighting_f.htmlhttp://communities.washingtontimes.com/neighborhood/reawakening-liberty/2012/aug/3/audit-fed-first-shot-ron-paul-revolution/#.UB0jlUFAl-s.reddithttp://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/the-fix/post/how-sarah-palin-helps-senate-candidates-and-how-she-doesnt/2012/08/03/835093c6-dd7f-11e1-af1d-753c613ff6d8_blog.htmlhttp://www.dailypaul.com/244865/a-game-plan-for-tampa-tac-website#comment-2622032http://www.palinquakes.com/open_convention http://conservatives4palin.com/2012/07/robert-ringer-rinosaurus-rex-fears-being-upstaged-at-the-convention.htmlhttp://www.southernpoliticalreport.com/storylink_724_2595.aspxhttp://www.usnews.com/news/washington-whispers/slideshows/10-reasons-sarah-palin-would-make-a-good-presidenthttps://dougwead.wordpress.com/2008/11/02/will-sarah-palin-run-for-president/http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/sarah-palin/9127510/Sarah-Palin-refuses-to-rule-out-presidential-run-saying-anythings-possible.htmlhttp://www.opposingviews.com/i/politics/2012-election/prediction-someone-else-will-swoop-nab-gop-nominationhttp://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/us-election/9128871/Super-Tuesday-Mitt-Romney-dismisses-speculation-of-Sarah-Palin-challenge.htmlhttp://thespeechatimeforchoosing.wordpress.com/2012/03/21/ppp-sarah-palin-still-more-popular-than-actual-candidates-could-be-unity-choice-at-brokered-convention/ If I might make a suggestion, the Uncle Eric series by Rich Maybury is excellent for the simple introductions to Austrian Economic Theory and Praxeology.  Starting with Whatever Happened to Penny Candy? followed by Whatever Happened to Justice? Dude!  You look just like one of the guys on Mythbusters! Not really, the client only uses one key at the moment but is more than capable of handling more.  The one key rule has more to do with conserving bitcoin spinner's server resources. There is no such of that kind of master key, either.  That was only a proposal discussed a couple years ago that never went anywhere. I can't believe I missed this bullsh*t.  There are, in fact, at least three points in Alaska that a person standing on the ground can actually see Russian territory; that fact that this statement was not intended to be taken literally notwithstanding.Good God, some people are just sucked into the whole MSM image machine.  Do people really think that anyone that can get elected to any governorship in America is actually stupid?http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/explainer/2008/09/can_you_really_see_russia_from_alaska.htmlhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bering_Strait_crossing
Not counting those I introduced to bitcoin myself? http://financialservices.house.gov/Calendar/EventSingle.aspx?EventID=304699For Gavin Andreson to have been overlooked as a witness to this event.  It's not like they don't know we exist. I'd rather wait for my check to clear than pay a 15% premium.  I've got a political theory I've developed over the past month or so, that I intend to lay out in detail here.  But not until I've placed my bets. Does anyone have a funded Intrade account, and know how to send that to another member? I recently opened an account and would like to get some US FRN's into it, and I'm willing to part with some of my bit-savings in order to do it faster than a personal check can make a round trip to Ireland and back. Free fish tomorrow. Thanks! My free sample cheque arrived in the mail this past Saturday, unfortunately so did a hard thunderstorm.  The kind with the sideways rain.  Thus all my mail got wet, including the sample cheque.  Amazingly, the cheque itself held up rather well with minimal color bleeding and the private key stickers intact.  However, the evelope that it came it was a common security type envelope, and the blue ink used upon the inside of it to create the security pattern didn't stay put, and bled all over the cheque.  It's kind of a shame, too; as I was intent upon showing the cheque to a friend of mine in Cincinnati the next time I got up there.  He's from Bangladesh and is Islamic.I'd consider getting a real checking account, if the cheques are customizable with my personal info.  However, I'd need to know more about the details of this banking setup.EDIT: I do find it ironic that on IBB's main (unfinished) website, the 'loans' page presented me with an ad for 'Dragons Tale:The first MMORPG casino for bitcoin' We don't serve your kind in here. You'll have to wait outside. Which is what? Define reasonable.  What is reasonable security for one person with enough bitcoin on his phone to pay for a night on the town is going to be different than reasonable security for a cash mule trying to stay alive and deliver goods to the Zeta's. Er... Sort of.  USMC, 4th Marine Division, 0331 (MachineGunner) sorry, I didn't parse the sarcasm.  Yes, I do take this shit seriously.  I was once a professional.  Not a sniper, mind you, but in a related field. Even if you can hit a stationary target at a klic, shooting at that distance has about a 2 second travel time, and real targets have a habit of staying in motion after the first shot.  Even professionals don't like to have to perform at that range.  And good luck hitting a dog at more than 100 yards.  Once that trained doberman where you are, you've got about ten seconds to hit him & his littermate before they are on you at a starting range of 100 yards, whether or not they are deliberately trained or just a feral pack.  Boast about your skills like that and I'm going to have to call bullsh*t. No defense against an infrared scope, though.Or trained dogs. I'd be interested as well, if it wasn't a little big on someone 6 feet tall.  I'm much smaller than that, and relatively skinny.  EDIT:  You look like the Swamp Thing. In order to join, you had to click through a notice intended to inform you of this limitation.  If you didn't read before clicking through, how are we to communicate to you that what you need to do? No, I'm advocating that a dumber device, such as a version of the Bitcoincard, could be used using a piezo speaker & morse.  I don't consider this likely, since it's much more likely that a future bitcoin hardware device will be quite modern.  Morse would work, but be a bit of a cheap hack, much more likely to occur in a developing nation if Bitcoin takes off before today's smartphone tech trickles down to the rest of the world.  Considering that a single rooted & flashed Kindle 2 off craigslist can hold the entire 12 year curriculum of a remote villiage school and do it for far less than that same set of books in print, it's only a matter of time before smartphone tech is common enough that the common man in developing nations can communicate using a several year old (working) smartphone. Android's built-in text-to-speech functions could be leveraged in order to develop a bitcoin app similar to BitcoinSpinner to do what is needed here, and the user could easily control how he hears it by buying a bluetooth earpiece.  Wouldn't do much for developing nations, though.  Braille sucks, BTW.  My wife has a number of visually impaired relatives that would benefit greatly from such an app, and they tend to agree that Braille is broken in many ways.  Tactile Morse would be better for the blind in America to learn, if every single elevator built didn't already have Braille markers.  And tactile Morse has the additional advantage that it's nearly identical to regular Morse code, so once learned the user could hear his dumber electronic devices using regular Morse code. If you could set up a small computer to communicate using the bitcoincard's own network protocol, there would actually be nothing to prevent you from trying to double spend to a disconnected bitcoincard user.  However, it's unlikely (not impossible) that a regular vendor would be willing to accept bitcoincard transactions sans a live Internet. The great irony of this statement is that it's still here and you can continue to say it because we mods respect your right to say it.And our decisions are not arbitrary, whether or not you are personally aware of all that we are aware.  I've seen no one get banned without cause or evidence. 
Although it would be easy for any central bank to destroy bitcoin, they simply won't do it.  The reason is that, in order for them to destry bitcoin, they would have to create a cryptocurrency with all of the features of bitcoin but also backed by the state's monopoly on force.  The features in Bitcoin are specificly chosen because they make Bitcoin into the ideal Internet currency, but central banks don't want ideal money, or they would never have left the gold standard to start with.  Central banks want control, and they would still desire that in any cryptocurrency that they might create.  That control puts it at a disadvantage against the market leader, Bitcoin. Maybe so... Are you sure?  I can't recall mine ever asking for less than .005 BTC. I'm concerned about a particular attack vector.  If you happen to have a link to show me, that would be helpful, but I am already aware of the several advantages of deterministic wallets.  I would like to see one of the crypto-geeks (better than I) assess this particular risk.  I can't really do it because I'm not very good at looking at the code and knowing what I'm looking at. I just discovered that freedomcam.net accepts bitcoin.  I don't know how long this has been going on, but that is pretty cool. I would feel more than comfortable with using deterministic keys for the vast majority of daily transactions, I'm more concerned about the possibility that this might eventually lay someone open to a large theft when the user believed that deterministic keys are as secure as individually created keys, and they most certainly are not.  More than likely they are far more secure than most people will ever realisticly need, since real security is a scale between convience and safety. I know that it's not easy, I'm concerned that it's possible.  It takes government level cryptologists to reverse a twice used one-time-pad, but it can be done.  And deterministic wallets are not standard at all.  As far as I know, Electrum & Brainwallet are the only two examples of it in use in Bitcoin, and Brainwallet seems to use Electrum code to do it, so the methods are identical. Here's and idea.  Tell her it's coming. I'm honestly surprised that we haven't really tested the teens yet.  From my perspectives, the high last year was obviously a bubble due to hype, but there is no hype here.  In fact, quite the opposite, the bitcoin economy has grown significantly; and with Silk Road still marching along as if it's untouchable, the reputation that bitcoin can do what is claimed is starting to really talk hold.  Just last week I had the first person to ever ask me if I had heard about "this Bitcoin thing" without some obvious segway to the topic.  The current userbase should be able to sustain $15 at least, IMHO.  The last I looked, it appeared as if Silk Road alone was doing $2 million per month in gross sales, and the 24 volume record from MtGox alone is roughly 20% of the entire bitcoin base.  Some news is brewing here with this spike & pullback, I just don't know what it is yet. Quite a run, and the 24 hour volume on MtGox is nothing to sneeze at either.  This is going to make it harder for me to invest in more bitcoin.  Must...Suppress....Price!  Minions, go! I don't know if I quite agree.  The thing is that counter-economics or agorism is a deliberate action on the part of the parties engaged in business, as a means of undermining the health of the state.  While agorism could be included in System D, not all such System D economic activity could be considered agorism; since most of it is simply economic actors avoiding the state for personal reasons, not political activism. Could mnemonic.py be used by any other client to produce a set of English words for a regularly produced address?  Thus being able to print out the 12 word sets of a regularly produced set of private keys for archival backup? I have a question concerning the method of deterministic keypair generation that the Electrum client uses.  My understanding is that a 128 bit random number is created for the 'seed', and that all followup keypairs are derived from this number.  The number is represented outside of the client as a set of twelve English words.  While I can see this as pretty slick, I thought of a potential problem.  In cryptography, the Vernam Cipher or the one-time pad is considered an unbreakable code without the key; however it's called a one-time pad because if the key is reused even once, it's possible for a crytographer to derive the original key from the two encrypted codes, so long as he knows that they belong together.  While I would doubt that taking two bitcoin addresses produced by the same Electrum client can be used to reproduce the seed, a large number of them known to come from the same user (and thus the same client) potentially could be used to reproduce the seed of that user, thus laying open that user's entire balance to theft.  What algo does Electrum use to produce the keypairs, specificly?  And is it known to be hardened against this kind of attack?  I don't wish to diparage Electrum, but this potential attack vector with deterministic wallets honestly concerns me, and I don't see this addressed elsewhere. This is also true, if Bitcoin ever reaches this level of success, as solution will be found because we are already too big to stop. It also wouldn't be true once pruning is enabled.  Bandwidth would be a bottleneck for full clients on the margins, but certainly not any server-farm housed full client. Yes there is a real scalability problem if all users are full clients.  No, that was never the intention.  We are already way past the point (imho) that we need more full clients.  We need more light clients and overlay networks to support them, such as BitcoinSpinner, Electrum & Stratum. http://www.forbes.com/sites/jerrybowyer/2012/07/08/july-4th-question-part-iii-americans-revolt-billions-of-times-a-day/Really about the 'System D' economy, of which Bitcoin is a small part.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/System_D I stopped reading at "State based ideas..." A bit of thread necromancy to link this article about 'rationing' of healthcare.http://www.thefreemanonline.org/columns/tgif/market-doesnt-ration/ If it were possible to do with US $ what you describe in any secure fashion for any reasonable cost, Bitcoin could never have come to be to begin with.
We've already got that, but it still requires that the vendor accept bitcoin as a form of payment.  Few do as of yet. MemoryDealers is most certainly an exception, for it was a successful business before bitcoin. There is no need to be an advocate for Bitcoin.  It will succeed or fail upon it's own merits, regardless of what you do.  And mistrust is a rational response to such a radical idea.  I didn't trust it either, when I first heard about it.  I felt that it had to be some kind of elaborate scam.  Yet, something about the idea kept gnawing at me until I had read the white paper about four times, and then something just clicked and I understood it.And here I am.Be patient with your friends.  For the first time ever this past Tuesday, I was approached by someone that I know and was asked, "have you heard about this bitcoin thing?" without a mention or prompt from myself in any fashion.  And it was at a county Republican Party executive meeting, no less.  I was more than happy to whip out my android phone and show him BitcoinSpinner. correct Perhaps you stumbled down the wrong alley on the Internet? Yeah, me too. Indeed, it is.  The walls are evidence that there is an active trading group, thus the price is a current consensus.  The lack of walls implies that speculators might have been scared away as much as it implies that the  price is moving.   There is once you've already sold the rifle! Sure I do.  Screw the handgun in the zombie armaggedon, I'm using a super soaker with petrol in it and a flare gun.  From a second floor balcony. Hotlinks, of any sort, are considered bad form around here unless you have a long post history.  Too many scammers posting links to malware and wallet.dat stealing trojans.This is certainly not 4chan. It doesn't stop trolling very well, but it does help us catch spam-bots.  Also, the four hour login rule limits the number of repeated newb posts where people don't make a habit of trying to find out answers to those common early questions before posting the same question that another guy did 10 minutes before you, and that 1000 people posted over the past month.Please, people; read!  We know that Bitcoin is complex and novel, but once you understand it, everything will just 'click'. Oh, wow.  How 1990.  I didn't know people still turned their computers off unless it locked up. Drama?!  On an Internet forum?  Never! Would an encrypted tunneling app from your phone to control your pc work? Wait, really?  We have a member from the United States?!Gotta be a DEA plant. Sorry, but I didn't see any point of reading past this sentence considering that it just bleeds your bias, just like most of your posts here do...The only reason that someone with your worldview bothers to read an entire book written by Ron Paul is to deconstruct it.  I'd wager it was real work for you to get through it, considering the massive aount of cognative dissonance that it must have caused you.  Even Paul Krugman hasn't actually read an entire book by Ron Paul. There never was much hope, only a fool's hope.Unfortunately, Nobody didn't run. Really?  I didn't get that at all.  You came into our house and took a crap on our kitchen table, so I would think that the responses that you've received so far have been relatively civil. If I lose everything that I have today, I would honestly have to say that I've come out ahead overall over the past 2+ years.Now that you've said your peace, I'll buy you out at $3 per and you can leave. I wonder how hard it would be to get Gavin to do a bit part in that prison garb to do this clip better.  He could just sit there and say, "It's pronounced An-Dre-Son" and then flip him off.
Depends upon what you think is ideal.  If we keep doing what we have been doing we will keep getting what we've been getting.  I can't say that the caliber of the membership today is anything like what it was in 1776. They have a distinctly different history & membership makeup.  You shall know them by the fruits of their labors, and if that is at all true, then they are not related groups.  There is an easy to make connection between the ofiginal Illuminati Group in Europe and the foundation of the secretive fraternaty on Yale campus known as the "Loyal order of Skull and bones".  On that note, in the first hundred years or so of the US, nearly every presidential administration had at least one known Mason, many times that was the POTUS himself.  Around 1900 that trend came to an end, and since then nearly every administration has had a member of the Loyal Order of Skull & bones (known as 'bonesmen') in positions of authority.  Such notable examples of Bonesmen in the Executive branch have included both Bushs & Bill Clinton; so up until Obama, it's been at least as far back as Carter since there was not a bonesman that was either the POTUS or vice, and there is no way to be certain that other bonesmen haven't held other significant positions. The Illuminati are not the Freemasons, even though they do have overlapping sets of symbolism. They did end up with a few ships, but certainly not all 16.  I believe they were called the Kights of Christ in Portugal, probably took other names elsewhere.EDIT: Some more ships ended up in Malta, where the Templars survived in name until the island was conquered by islamists who burned the Templar Archives there around 16/1700. Another tibit.When the KT were fleeing Europe, they had about 16 ships docked in France.  The Friday the 13th order was leaked to many of the Knights, and overnight those docked ships left port.  There is no record of them anywhere ever again.  While it's possible that they dispersed and altered their appearences in order to blend, one theory is that the sailors were carrying the famous KT 'treasure' and took it to Nova Scotia and buried it into a complicated pit vault.http://www.oakislandtreasure.co.uk/ First of all, just because a publicly funded police force has a certain number of cops, does not imply that that number is optimum.  Second, in every city that I've lived in there were always the city cops, the county sherriffs (and contables), the state cops and the city cops of the surrounding suburban cities.  All of these different units communicated fine and seemed to manage the distribution of workload without significant problems.  There is no reason to assume that several private security units working in an overlapping geographical area couldn't manage to do the same.  The 911 operators generally have to choose which unit to call, and have radios that can switch frequencies to do exactly that (or call the different units' own dispatchers to do it). Unbelievable.EDIT: never assume that there is only one conspiracy, whenever a set of several competing conspiracies could explain events as well or better.  Occam's Razor applies here. Speculate away, as I don't intend on expounding further.  The masonic rings are interesting as well, as they don't generally have the more common 'square & compass'.  Usually they have a triangle with 'the eye of providence', a Capital 'G' or this symbol...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YodhAfter all, the eye is kinda creepy even to masons.Draw whatever conclusions you will. I agree with this post, generally, but the focus on interest (riba) by the Koran obscures the greater problem.  The JudeoChristian focus on usury as interest does likewise.  By doing so, the banksters can still get their risk free gains by other means, simply by calling it something different.  For example, the charging of interest for loans denominated in gold in the US has long been illegal, simply because govco doesn't want to imply that gold is still money.  So gold is no longer 'loaned' at 'interest'; instead it's 'leased' at a 'rental rate'.  The end result being exactly the same. The answer would be "no", for that question falls into the realm of political ideology, which is also generally verboten.  Historically, however, individuals seemed to have leaned that way from well before 1776.  The Green Dragon Tavern, where the original Boston Tea Party was planned, was a masonic lodge that was also used as a public bar and community center.  (http://freemasonry.bcy.ca/history/boston_tea_party.html)  At least half of the known participants in the Boston Tea Party were masons.  Ben Franklin was livid about this while he served as emmissary to the King in London, he regarded it as a violation of property rights.Adam Smith, the economist who wrote, The Wealth of Nations was likely a mason; but his documents were ordered burned after his death.(http://www2.gol.com/users/lodge1/history-e/papers/terasawa.html)Thomas Paine, who wrote Common Sense, was certainly not a freemason at that time, but openly theorized about their origins and purpose.  (http://freemasonry.bcy.ca/history/paine_t.html)  Considering that masons cannot discuss such things in public, he certainly was not one at this point.  However, in due course he stopped discussing such things in public, and reportedly refused to do so upon prompting later in life; which implies that he became one himself later in life.Another little tibit.  Look at one of the symbols, the 'square & compass'.  Draw a line connecting the tips of the compass, and another line connecting the corners of the square.  What do you have? Redeemed!  Again!  Would that be reredeemed? <sigh>How about some historical facts, and lets see if you guys can assemble another kind of theory of what freemasonary is actually about.(taken from a website with a bias, but true nonetheless, emphasis is mine)http://watch.pair.com/mason.html"One recent historical account of Freemasonry, THE TEMPLE & THE LODGE, boast instead of the profound influence of Freemasonry on the founding documents, (while carefully trying to avoid creating the impression of a Masonic conspiracy): Now, feel free to research the lives of these men on your own, particularly those names that you do not know, and ask yourself, "do the lives these men led imply that they were party to some grand cabal to subjugate humanity?".  If the answer to that question is no, ask yourself why that might be.Furthermore... (http://www.rosslyntemplars.org.uk/) I am going to assert (because I can't prove it) that Freemasonry (in general) is a branch of the Knights Templar.  Freemasonry as we know of it today was officially founded on June 24th,  1717.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freemasonry)  However, there exists known documents that used the Masonic codes at least as far back as 1390 (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Masonic_manuscripts) therefore blowing the OP's assertion that they were founded with the Bank of England to hell.  The Scotish Freemasonry (the oldest form known) is also known to be deeply tied to the Rosslyn Chapel (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rosslyn_Chapel) as Masonic symbolism is all over the stonework of the chapel.  The Rosslyn Chaple was commishined by the Sinclair family, who were deeply tied to the Knights Templar prior to the breakup of that order in 1305 (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knights_Templar#Arrests.2C_charges.2C_and_dissolution).  Prior to that event, the Knights were deeply involved in finance across all of Europe & the Middle East.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_the_Knights_Templar#Bankers)  Therefore, the OP's assertion that MAsons are tied to international banking is likely true, but not necessarily malicious, for they used full reserve & gold standard banking, and regarded anything less as fraud.  Furthermore, a different branch of those KT that were fleeing persecution in the 1300's found refuge in what is now Switzerland.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/R%C3%BCtlischwur)  This involves the classic story of William Tell, which conviently leaves out much detail concerning his miltary forces, who managed to defeat a tyranical regent in open battle using local & foreign troops agaisnt a much larger force.  Tactics were never discused, but the fleeing KT would, of course, been quite a powerful & well trained group of mercs to have on your side.  In return, it's reasonable to assume that those same KT found political refuge in those mountain cantons.  It's also true that for hundreds of  years Switzerland was the nexus of secret & gold standard international banking & finance.  Incidentally, Switzerland was not only the first nation on Earth to recognize the independent soverignty of the US, but was the first to lend it money for it's war effort; and the last to surrender the gold standard.  Again, not the kind of actions one might expect from a grand cabal bent towards world domination via finance, particularly centered around the Bank of England.Furthermore, it's more than possible that the organization is older still than the KT, for there is some evidence that the secrecy of the organization extends all the way to the foundation of the actual Temple of Soloman, makning the term "freemasons" an inside joke.  (blocklayers & stonecutters are 'masons' you see, and they are 'freed' men)I could easily go on, and I have another challenge for you guys.  While it's true that masons are sworn to not discuss Freemasonry with anyone not in the order, they are most certainly permitted to tell you what it's not.  It's the 'negative affirmation' method of discovery. You can ask about the facts that I've presented, and then ask "is it true?"  If it is, they cannot answer you. If they believe that it is false, they can.  Here are some other questions to ask..."Are Freemasons Diests?"  You might have to explain this term.  The answer will be "no".  Freemasonry requires a sworn belief in a monotheistic God, although it is not, itself, a religion; and theological discussions are generally verboten inside a masonic temple.  They really are not about that."Do the masonic ceremonies refer to the original Temple of Soloman?"  They cannot answer this question.And I dare anyone to claim that i'm some kind of agent of disinformation. Apparently one that had already been redeemed.  I didn't realize that I needed a unique one.  Can I get one? My code is not valid. This is far from an accurate description of bankruptcy proceedings.  And there are a number of different versions of bankruptcy that runs the spectrum from total default to partial liquidation of defautor's assets to simply the court ordered extension of repayment period. I'm not sure, but Timothy may have originally been in Aramaic, not Greek.  Either way, the transalation is  matter of opinion and I hold the opinion of the professional translators for the New American Standard in higher regard than I do yours.  No offence. I don't consider the actual interest rate the defining factor.  If you're giving a loan of only 3% to someone you know is a gambling addict & accepting his house as collateral, it's arguablely predetory lending.  Particularly if he has a wife & kids that live in that house who had no say in the house being used as collateral for the loan.  Granted, the gambler has his own contributions to the fraud, and it's not a fraud if there was no way that the lender could have known in advance that his customer was likely to default.  The key is, would a reasonable third party be able to tell, in advance of the finalization of the contract, that the defaulter was likely to default under the conditions, whether or not that was his intent.  The valid goal of both parties is to repay the loan according to the terms.  If either party is being deceptive, and expects the loan to fail in some other way in advance, fraud was committed even if it cannot be proven to a third party (court).  If it was the lender using predatory practices, it's usury.  If it was the borrower, it was another kind of fraud.Again, see above.  And compounding interest every 30 seconds is irrelevant.  One can compound continuously, if the APR remains proper.  Yes, it's possible to compound continously and do so fairly; many corporate/business loans work this way.  But the math is even  more complicated, so using continueous compounding in a consumer loan is suspicious, if for no other reason that it's difficulty for the lender to compute properly makes them uncommon. If it will survive the washing machine, it will do fine on the top of a vending machine. A nanocell then.  Sorry, I have no use for that. And what is an airave used for?
It only needs to be able to survive a washing machine & dryer. That is a common misquote of a biblical passage, that is improperly used to demonize money.  The literal translation of the passage is..."For the love of money  is a root  of all sorts of evil, and some by longing for it  have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs."1 Timothy 6:10 New American Standard BibleThe emphasis above is my own, but note that the meaning of the passage is completely different.  The "love of money" is greed, "a root"  & "all sorts" imply greed is one of several and "by longing for it" implies that money is the object of the sin of greed, but not the sin itself.Money of any form is simply a symbol, it is neither good nor bad upon it's own, no matter what form it should take.EDIT: the passage also makes clear that there are certainly kinds of evil that do not have their root in the "love of money", I suggest that the love of power is a close second. Interesting question.  The debate between usury versus free market interest rates has a disagreement between sides that is often unstated, so let me state it.Usury is when a loan is predatory, but has historicly been linked to interest.  It's forbidden in both the Old testatment (Torah) and the Koran because the average Joe/Mohammad was mathmatically illiterate for a long time even in cultures that the general population wasn't actually illiterate.  This is the real reason that, in our modern world, we teach young children arithmatic (and why we should teach them microeconomics) in grade school.  So when they get older they stand a chance of not getting screwed by someone with a much better understanding of mathmatics.However, in a true free market, we should reasonablely be able to assume that your average consumer isn't mathmaticly illiterate; and even if he is, use of mathmatics to defraud anyone is still fraud.Therefore usury is a special case of fraud, that pretends to be legitimate via the creative and/or deceptive use of mathmatics to present itself as an honest contract.As a libertarian who understands, and supports, free market economics; I shouldn't have to argue against usury, because it's not a legitimate example of a free market contract to begin with. Looks identical to me, except that it's intended to pay for a wifi hotspot access, not just anything.  Question, can Lock_Time be extended with newer revisions?  If it can, then there is no reason that this process cannot extend much longer than the initial lock_time, allowing the user to extend the agreement from the original period (be it a day or a month) out for as long as the counterparty would allow.Somehow, though, I suspect that extending a lock_time is prohibited for some technical reason that I don't understand. Well, snopes seems to think that it's bunk, but not everything that snopes refutes is actually correct.http://www.snopes.com/language/acronyms/cop.aspTrue, and that is effectively what they do. I determined that the topic had diverged, and followed the thread backwards to the point that I thought that it started to diverge.  It was a judgement call on my part.  Learn to deal.I didn't select you because your views are different than anyone.  I wasn't even paying any attention to whom you were, what your actual opinions on the matter were, or who your opposition was.  And the implication that I was leaves me with the impression that your prior conflicts with other mods may be your own doing.That's your opinion, and you have a right to it.  I have a different opinion on the matter.  It just so happens that it's my opinion that matters in this case.  If you don't like how I do things, feel free to apply to become a mod yourself, and fix it.Again, any views of any mod besides myself were, and remain, irrelevent.I do not know about the validity of your accusations against bitcoin2cash, nor would I normally care.  However, I've already developed a sour taste concerning your biased viewpoints concerning mod actions, so I'm inclined to give bitcoin2cash the benefit of the doubt.  Moreso considering I've had business dealings with him directly, and consider him to be an honest & generally reasonable person.  I honestly don't know you as well, and you aren't winning any brownie points today. Current and prior examples of private security & policing....http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Constable#United_Kingdom"The system of policing by unpaid parish constables continued in England until the 19th century; in the London metropolitan area it was ended by the creation of the Metropolitan Police by the Metropolitan Police Act 1829,[15] and outside London by the County Police Act 1839, which allowed counties to establish full-time professional police forces. However, the lowest rank of the new police forces was still called "constable", and most outside London were headed by a chief constable.[16][17] This system is still used today."Kentucky, where I live..."In Kentucky, constables are elected from each magistrate district in the state. There are between three and eight magistrate districts in each county. Under Section 101 of the Kentucky Constitution, constables have the same countywide jurisdiction as the county sheriff.[46]Prior to the 1970s, the main function of the constables was to provide court service and security to the Justice of the Peace courts. However, since these have been eliminated by judicial reform, the office of constable now has few real functions. Constables still have the power of arrest and to execute warrants, subpoenas, summonses and other court documents, and are required to execute any court process given to them. On the approval of the Fiscal Court (the legislature of the county) they may equip their vehicles with oscillating blue lights and sirens.[46]Most constables in Kentucky are not paid a salary, but are paid fees for services rendered."Think about regular sherriffs, getting off-duty part-time work at banks and private events, as if the constable's office were a temp office for cops, and you would have the right idea.  Incidentally, this is actually where we get the term 'cop' from.  It orginally meant "constable on patrol".http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_police"Security police protect their agency's facilities, properties, personnel, users, visitors and operations from harm and may enforce certain laws and administrative regulations. Most security police have at least some arrest authority. The law enforcement powers of security police vary widely, in some cases limited to those of private persons yet in others amounting to full police powers equivalent to state, provincial, or local law enforcement.As distinct from general law enforcement, the primary focus of security police is on the protection of specific properties and persons.  "http://www.michigan.gov/mcoles/0,1607,7-229-41626_42413---,00.htmlBruce Schneier is af fine person and an excellent resource, but not a fan..http://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2007/02/private_police.htmlAnd from the DOJ's website...http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/Default.asp?Item=2034"The private security field, in fact, is much more diverse than what many may imagine. Annually, it spends more than $100 billion on security products and services. In contrast, federal, state, and local law enforcement spend less than half that amount. Additionally, many private security employees are experts in technology, fraud, and forensics investigation and often hold professional certifications and advanced degrees.Private security and public law enforcement share many of the same goals: preventing crime and disorder, identifying criminals, and ensuring the security of people and property. As there are two private security practitioners for every one sworn law enforcement officer, effective partnerships can act as a much needed force multiplier."And then takent to it's logical conclusion...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Private_military_companyhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letter_of_marqueIncidentally, the US Constitution explicityly grants the Congress the power to establish private armies via a letter of marque...http://www.usconstitution.net/xconst_A1Sec8.html"The Congress shall have Power To .... declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning Captures on Land and Water;To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than two Years"Take note of that last one, and think about what the framers though of standing armies, and how quickly their objections were simply ignored.  They had a far greater trust in private armies, because they existed only for a particular contract and term, and then they went home to their families.  They considered a 'warrior class' type culture within a standing army to be antiethical to a free population.  Seems to me that they got it exactly right. I split the topic, are you seriously calling me immature for doing so?  Or do you have some kind of personal issue with another mod? Yes, we are all very familiar with ripple.  It has it's place, but doesn't remove trust from the metric.  Something ripple like would be useful as a overlay network, perhaps permitting bitcoin users to use the ripple like network to send/receive small payments indirectly to/from vendors that they don't personally know without tiny transactions on the bitcoin network.  Something similar might be usesful for smaller online wallet services to participate in off-bitcoin-network micropayments without actually having a reciprocity agreement with the other party's service. But the use case that we are examing here is comparable to one or more paypal-like services.  So the comparisons are valid. Wait, what?  Are you saying that the user would be able to make instant payments in excess of the funds he has tied up into the channel?Which covers the use case of 99% of all Paypal members, which was my point.Which covers the use case of half of the remaining 1% of Paypal users.This I can agree with. Oh, I see what you mean now.That's true enough, but still true regardless of whether or not you have an account or not, so nothing changes.  If your bitbank asks for personal data, in order to sell it or for any other reason, just find one that does not or start your own. This is all fine, but if a customer is willing to trust the processor with a small deposit, then he doesn't need any funds tied up into the channels.  Once again, I think that this idea is sound, but is more likely to be used at the macro level. That's true, as it has much to do with 'skin effect'.  Still, that has almost zero bearing on the question of radio waves penetrating a thin metal sleave. Why not?  What says that a bitcoin bank (on Tor or otherwise) needs to have your true identity?  Unless they are forced by some government edict, the bitcoin bank doesn't need that in order to either pay your bills, they have your money (or, at least, a irrevocable contract to do so, enforceable within the bitcoin network itself).  I can see no reason why a bitcoin bank, uncoerced by some government ditate, would need to know your name, your home address, or any other such stuff. This only works to a point.  If the frequency of the device is shorter than the resonant wavelength of the foil wrapper, it can just resonate the single right through.  Unplug your microwave, put your cell phone into it, and call your cell  phone and you will see what I mean. I think it would work, but I can't see how the payment processor makes any money.  As you said, his own funds are tied up in multiple connections; so all that money has to be rented somehow, and that doesn't even cover the costs of running the service itself.  I think that this would work great for long term reciprocity agreements between major online bitcoin payment processors, but in order for this to be beneficial there must be more than 4 transactions between users of a service.  For most this is unlikely, as most paypal users don't average one a month.  Reciprocity agreements between large online wallet services, however, can expect to have at least dozens of transactions between their userbases in any given day; many of which will simply cancel out.  A pair of payment processors could choose to tie up, say 1000 bitcoins in each others' service (or use this method to do so with a meta-processor) with the agreement that, should the transactions total to an imbalance of more than 50% of the funds in either direction, the processor that owes produces a 500 bitcoin transaction automaticly, thus rebalancing the flow.  This can consolidate hundreds, if not thousands, of individual transactions on the bitcoin network if the mutual buffer is large enough to permit many small transactions between userbase members, most of which simply cancel out. Not those on Tor.  The Silk Road is, in effect, both an online wallet & a mixer, while also creating a convient market.Not likely, many will exist long before it's a resource issue. All of them?  All your addresses & all the bitcoin banks?  Well, the long arm of the law stretches to the ends of the Earth & the deepest parts of the Internet then.  In that, rather extreme, distopian future why can't you fall back to starting your own client?  Does anyone here not use a bank for something today?  Does anyone here really trust them? http://www.foxbusiness.com/on-air/stossel/index.html#/v/1702587311001/is-the-data-on-the-rising-cost-of-health-care-misleading/?playlist_id=87530This seven minute clip from a recent Stossel episode explains some of the problems with Obamacare pretty well.
Who is 'them' in this context?  If you mean the bitcoin bank, then the answer is nothing.  Excepting, of course, that they lose a customer & they have no access to your funds, so there is no incentive for them to do so. Try restating it so that I can parse it. Bitcoin is the true p2p solution.  If most people choose to use services to cut their own costs, this still will not prevent you or anyone else from starting their own client and running directly upon the main bitcoin network, or using an overlya such as Stratum.  It's not an all or nothing system.  You can favor p2p privacy and control and I can favor convience, speed & lower costs of transactions; and we don't affect one anothers' choices and we can still exchange with each other using bitcoin in many flavors. It's a matter of degree.  Central banking today is what we're trying to avoid, and that is easily avoidable under bitcoin; no matter how many or how large a bitcoin banking cartel may grow in the future. The threat of getting caught, mostly.  If your customer base even starts to suspect you're doing strange things with their funds, one of them is going to start another server and your base is going to abandon you.I don't understand this question in this context. That's just one proposal.  Basicly it's the same as what I proposed about a 'paypal' type company serving many members and keeping a single collective wallet, but in my case one has to trust the company that you are using to not be doing anything with the funds without your concent.  In Gavin's proposal, they can't do anything with the funds without your consent, but neither can you without their's.  I think that there are better ways, but this one would work.  It would likely also permit bitcoin banking while also prohibiting fractional reserve bs.   No, it has zero to do with the number of actual nodes.Yes, transactions that were orphaned by a split remerge will be reincorporated into a later block automagicly. Nothing changes about the mathmatics in a more than 2 way split, beyond the odds of this actually occuring.The two sids would have to be very well balanced for the minority to come out ahead, and such an even split is unlikely.  Even if such an astronomically unlikely event were to occur, nothing about the analysis changes except which side is the majority.This is decided by the network protocol, and it doesnt much matter which you 'trust'Sure, by double spending on both sides of the split.  But splits can be detected, particularly if you are on the minority side, so wise vendors don't sell large ticket items during a network split.You don't really understand what's happing here, do you?  Do you even understand what you just wrote? My money is on an economy built on industry, the 'Audit The Fed' bill passed out of committee......unanimously. You are correct.  Such an attack is no more risky during a retarget.  The simple result would be that the majority split would simply have a slightly higher difficulty, which is considering in the system's determination of which split in the chain has the greater total "length". No.  This, rather rediculous, scenario is functionally the same as a network split.  The network protocol is quite 'split tolerant' and self healing upon reconnection.  The only lasting risk of harm would be if the split lasted for more than 120 blocks, which after a split would take twice as long to occur, and even then the damage would be localized to those miners who managed to 'win' block solutions on the minority side of the split; because their blocks would be considered invalid by the majority chain and destroyed.  Any valid transactions that were included into a minority side block would just be re-released into the newly reformed network as recent transactions, revalidated and put into a new block later.Honestly, such network splits occur occasionally at random, and most people never notice. You also have wait times.  The time interval between my Mil's diagnosis and actual surgery was three days.  The intervel between seeing her genprac and being referred to a heart specialist was about a week.  This was for someone with literally no money to spend on any of this, and it wasn't beause of any government payment scheme.  The fact  is that the real issue isn't the method of payment, but actuall access to quality health care; which is excellent in the US.  In government mandated systems, the governmenet is the gatekeeper.  This can be good or bad, but can only be bad in the US.  The fact that many Americans consider health care to be an industry that governments should not be involved in notwithstanding.  If you live in Europe and like what you have, good for you.  But I don't think that it can ever fly here, if for no other reason than many Americans simply don't want governments into thier private business. My mother-in-law needed a heart bypass a few years ago, and since she has been disabled since birth (blind) and not yet 55, she is not eligble for medicare or medicaid.  She's covered under a SSI (Social Security Income, it's a seperate program) but they don't cover life threatening issues like that.  Don't ask me why a government funded program for the health of disabled people wouldn't cover life threatening issues, but it didn't.She got the bypass, paid for by a charity that the heart surgen belonged to.  The heart surgen did it for free, while the charity paid for everything else in the surgery room.  The only thing that she has to pay for is her follow up visits, because the SSI won't even cover that.My wife & I paid for those ourselves.So even under federally funded social health care, the poor could happily die and the government not care about it; but a private charity ran by actual doctors will make up the slack for government fail.I have no faith that Obamacare will be better, or cheaper. The same way the rich do, with a tiny corporation trust and a good corporate lawyer.Of course, that generally costs more than paying the fine. Then Obamacare is also unethical.  I have already pointed out those non-profit health care cost sharing programs, which under Obamacare do not count as 'coverage' and thus all members who make over $22K per year are subject to the penalty 'tax'. Maybe.  Still think that the contract thing is a red herring.  I don't have a contract, but still pay a monthly fee for data access.  I suppose that I could just stop using the thing as a phone altogether and simply use the wifi radio for access, and I would have a pretty good mini-tablet  computer to do such things with, but that doesn't mean that I predict that we will start seening used android phones being used as bitcoin clients in Africa anytime soon. Less doctors on yachts, yes.Less competent doctors, overall.There is a reason that one quarter of the general practicioners that I've seen in my adult life have accents, and it's not because their nation of origin was big on paying for their education. COBRA is how they stick it to you, it's nothing like what you had before and costs at least twice as much. I wouldn't know.  Do they? Beyond SatoshiDice, there are some reasons why one might want to reuse an address.  It compromises anonimity, but some light clients will still do it.
Just a suggestion.  considering that BF is making a standalone USB miner that can also keep you coffee cup warm, is there any technical reason that a asic based heat trace cable that mines whenever the tempeture of the water drops below 45 degrees F cannot be produced as well? Because you haven't written that code yet. Neither would I, and I already own an android smartphone.  I use a prepaid service for $25 per month, paid mostly in bitcoins. There are several.  Start with researching the 'light' clients defined in the original white paper and work from there.  The bitcoin network is a clearing network, and was never really intended to serve everyone directly.  Most people will, eventually, be accessing the bitcoin network indirectly by some kind of service.  Online wallets are an early example of this, as transfers between users of the same service don't require that a transaction hit the bitcoin network normally.  This is exactly like a bitcoin version of paypal, except if your wallet service upsets you, you can take your business elsewere.  It's also relatively easy for such services to interlink their users so that they can credit their users when a user from another service that they have a receprocity agreement with sends one of their users funds, but settle up on a regular cycle in a collective transfer; likely once each day.  This would only be beneficial for large user bases wherein the two services have a significant number of cross transactions that can be bundled up and largely cancel each other out.Search for BitcoinSpinner, and understand how it works.  Search also for Stratum & Electrum; understand how they interact via an overlay network.  (basicly, one stratum server holds the blockchain for hundreds of electrum clients in a manner similar to, but more standardized than, the interaction of the BitcoinSpinner main server and the android clients.)There are also special kinds of transactions that are intended to reduce network traffic.  For example, send-to-many allows one to pay out to huge numbers of bitcoin addresses at once, for one (otherwise lower) transaction fee.  Imagine if WalMart not only started accepting bitcoin, but employees had the option of taking their wages in bitcoin each week.  WalMart could literally pay their entire workforce in a single, huge, transaction; gathering  up the many small bitcoin payments to buy thing from WalMart from customers and paying them directly out to their employees in a single action.  Compared to paying each employee with his own transaction, there is huge savings to be had here.  To some degree, send-to-many would also allow a single household to pay out all of their monthly bills in a single action as well; although the gain of a couple dozen bills in one transaction versus ten's of thousands of employees would be significantly different.  Other specialized transaction types are being considered as well, including transactions that can be signed by multiple users independently or require multiple private keys to spend; as well as scripted transactions that pay the miners to process a script of conditions.  I'm sure I can't even imagine the number of ways this could be used to reduce resource usage.  Just off the top of my head, a scripted transaction might have an external reference to the inputs and/or outputs of that transaction; permitting the actual transaction to be small but compelling the miners to fetch the rest of the transaction from WalMart's Stratum servers.  No, I don't know how external blockchain reference would work either, but they could.For that matter, a large online wallet service could offer 'cron job' payments for when users don't need to send a transaction immediately for less than it would eventually cost to send a speedy transaction in a congested bitcoin network future.  The fees are tiny now, but we can expect that their costs will rise to meet the market as well as to compensate the miners for the increasingly large amount of network resources that they will have to pay for in order to run their mining businesses.  Right now a single transaction costs about a nickel, but a year ago it was about half a cent.  If in another year, the cost is 50 cents, we will see more people willing to defer to a delay to save on that fee; which the current network permits.  In the future, free transactions may or may not be completed in a realistic timeframe; but one way or another the fees will adjust to the demand.  If you need that transaction to clear in an hour, you are going to have to pay for the privilage.  If you can wait a day or two, you can expect to save money if you permit your wallet service to bundle your transaction up with others.  If you can complete the transaction via an external network, many will favor those networks whenever prudent.  If you are paranoid about your funds, you will still be able to maintain your own full client, but you will bear the costs yourself. I explained why this is a while back in this thread.  The law prohibits the insurance company that provides your employer's plan from allowing you to pay to continue your own coverage, so if you are without an employer, you're a mark.There are some solutions, though.  One is what I do, a medical savings account.  Another is to join a cooperative, but those are often religiously based these days.http://www.chministries.org/http://mychristiancare.org/medi-share/http://www.chausa.org/ You guys worry too much.  No, the bitcoin network could not scale to the point that every person on Earth has a full client.  Yes, there are known pathways to deal with that, which have been generally known since Satoshi's white paper and are now very well understood.  No, they are not yet coded.  Yes, there are people who are working on those implementations at this time. Furthermore, if you can't afford care in the US, you are eligble for medicaid.  Literally anyone over the age of 26 below the poverty line can get medicaid, and a great many other people outside those conditions as well.  Two of my nephews qualify for it, because they were both briefly in foster care as tots.  This was due to a misunderstanding & failure of a new CPS agent, but even one night in foster care and you are eligble for medicaid for life.  Also, in state university tuition.Two of my children are also eligible, due to the fact that they were adopted from foster care.Additionally, there are more than a dozen less broad federal programs to subsidize health care, not counting the state programs that receive federal block grants.  There is literally no one in the US that cannot get care, and I challenge you to find one that I can't refute.  Our systems of social support are disjointed, confusing and largely unkown; but they are complete.  The major differences is that most of the public in the US is unaware of these programs, unlike in single payer nations where it's obvious.Hell, I'm upper middle class, and I could get coverage for life at the VA should I lose my other health care resources; but my wife could not.  Bullshit.http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-18407768BTW, in any system that requires delays for any life saving treatments, such as cancer screening or dialysis, this is indirect rationing because some of those people will die because of those delays.So sueing the NHS because you were denied care, if your life expectancy is already shorter than the resolution process in the courts, is still rationing.  Old age is 100% fatal, it might just take longer for some than other. Not any change.  The irony is that the only way that this bill makes health care cheaper overall in the US, is if rationing of care is widespread like in Britain.  Honestly, it's not likely to affect me either way because I have a medical savings account & can afford insurance; but I do find it offensive that I'll be taxed even more to pay for the requirements in Obamacare that I would not pay for in my own insurance plan.  Forcing me to pay for another person's contraceptive pills or abortion because they can't afford it is forcing me to subsidize them to have sex without consequences.  In the most religious first world nation on Earth, this is dangerous. http://youtu.be/0QQl_fda5Ok As for Obamacare, I say this recent ruling that it's valid because it's a tax still scuttled the bill in it's entirety.  Even if Obama wins another term and the repubs fail to retake the Senate, the court's ruling that it's a tax despite the government's claims also makes it unconstitutional simply because it wasn't passed in the manner that a tax must be passed according to the Constitution itself.  The Constitution explicitly says that all revenue (taxes) must originate in the House.  This means that 1) the senate cannot initiate the bill and 2) the senate can only pass or deny the version that the house provides it or any amendments that the senate approves must return to the house for a revote.  Obamacare was passed via 'reconsiliation', which is a method of syncronising bills, but is invalid for a new tax.  Also, the version that was 'deemed passed' during reconsiliation was the senate version.  So as a tax, it was passed unconstitutionally under two different arguments right there.  Even if it never gets that far, a repeal of a tax cannot be filibustered in the senate; so if the repubs take back the senate and keep what they have in the house (something that I consider a reasonable likelyhood), the dems in minority cannot stop the bill with a filibuster.  Obviously Obama would veto it, but it would be futile because a veto overide requires a 2/3rds majority vote of both houses of congress in a joint session.  In other words, assuming the repubs keep their numbers in the house & a single vote majority in the senate, the repubs would have the supermajority in a joint session.This thing is over and done, it won't last long enough for the provisions to even begin.  It will last long enough for both sides to make huge political hay about it though. There are notable exceptions to every rule, but generally speaking whenever the private sector screws something up, someone loses their investment and then some other company comes in to fix it.  That does not mean that government engineers can't build a hydroplant.  Still, there is no reason to believe that government did a better job than a private project could have in the same location operating under the same conditions.I live in Louisville, Kentucky; a city that has a (relatively small) hydroplant literally at the downtown riverfront.  There is a natural waterfall here that was partially developed into a lock & dam, and the dam part includes a 10 megawatt hydroplant.  It's not remotely enough to power the city anymore, but when it was built it powered everything.  It's technically owned by the government, since it's part of the locks, which is government infrastructure.  For all practical purposes, though, it's maintained by a private contractor for the local power company.Indeed, but most of those great wonders were built against the will of those who paid for it.  Even the Hoover Dam couldn't get a majority of the taxpayers to think that it was a good idea, because the vast majority of those who contributed were (and are) beyond the range of benefiting from it. Probably, but there are laws that prevent any hospital from favoring patients due to their insurance company, so an insurance company would have little to gain from owning a hospital itself.  These are old laws that were put into place in order to undermine 'mutual benefit associations' from the 1920's and earlier.  Such associations were as close to a heath care cooperative as could have existed, and some were powerful enough to hire their own general practitioners; thus running their own practice for the benefit of their membership.  Both doctors' associations & insurance companies lobbied governments to 'regulate' such practices on such arguments as "demeaning employment" to the young doctors who took such positions to "anti-competitive" non-profits killing the insurance companies.  There is a small resurgence of this kind of thing today under a different legal description, concierge medical practices, but they are developed by the doctors themselves, not a non-profit cooperative.  The end results are similar, though.  On such practice association is SimpleCare.  (http://simplecare.com/index2.asp)  They all claim to only be 'cash only' practices, but most of them have an 'annual membership fee' that is somewhere between $200 and $3000 dollars, depending upon all that it includes and the repuation of the doctor.  At the high end of that range, you often end up with your new doctors actual cell phone number, and an agreement that he will respond to at least a minimum number of emergency calls per year. Part of that was because Satoshi also coded a minimum difficulty into the algo, which was high enough that one cpu was never going to be able to reach that mark.  Since there were no gpu miners yet, this required that a number of other players jump into the game before the 10 minute target interval could be obtained. No, he can't. You don't get it for free, there is an opprotunity cost associated with 'hoarding' cash.  The interest lost due to favoring cash over lending is just one example of that opprotunity cost. This should be a lesson to all newbies.  Bitcoin removes the need for a trusted third party, but it does not remove the need to trust your counterparty.  If you don't do your due diliigence, you can exkpect that sooner or later you are  going to run into a con game.  I'm not saying that BFL is a con game, but I have yet to hear of anyone who has received their paid order.  If you get screwed, this is not bitcoin's fault.  It woks like cash, and trusting someone on the Interent because he has a slick website is like buying a genuine gold Swiss watch from some guy you met in an ally.  Just because it was half off, doesn't mean that you didn't get scammed. There it is, right there.  Your great fallacy.  Money doesn't try to do anything.  It's an inanimate object and/or an abstract concept.  Money doesn't do anything that people who use it aren't trying to use it for, and if people wish to use it as a low risk store of value, then that is what it is for.  Any attempt to design a monetary system that deliberately tries to alter the behavior of those people to do with it what they will is doomed to failure so long as there exists an alternative that avoids those 'features'.  Since such a cryptocurrency already exists, designing an alternative to bitcoin that uses demmurage must have some other overwhelming advantage to the user to ever stand a chance to develop an economy in the first place. No, not normally.  The problem with the current system is that health care coverage is generally tied to employment, so six months after a layoff (or immediatly after a fire) both the employee and his family lose their insurance coverage because it's illegal for a seperated employee to continue to pay for his coverage via the health care plan he had with his former employer. It's dominated by for-profit insurance companies, but that doesn't prevent non-profits from existing.  But there are regs that make it hard for any employer to favor a non-profit unless the employer is also a non-profit.  Since very few people work for non-profits in the USA, very few non-profit insurance agencies exist.They used to be owned by religious organizations, primarily, and still generally keep their legacy names (There is a Jewish Hospital in every city, for example) However, laws pased during the 70'sunder Carter forced most of these non-profit hospitals to sll out to for-profit corporations.Mostly closed ownership, but you can buy stock into some mega-medical investment groups that own stock in uge numbers of different hospitals. If you're not a sceptic, you don't believe in good science.  Time will show the truth, but it largely has.  The computer simulation models used to support GW politics have been consistantly wrong in the short term, who in their right mind would believe that they could be inaccurate in the first few years and get more accurate in 100 years?  Predictive simulations don't work like that, proven by the 'butterfly effect' theorm.The irony is that the best long term weather predictive models that we have today are pencil/paper models developed in the early 1800's.  The track record of The Old Farmers' Almanac makes these modern supercomputer aided models look like they were developed either by amatures or frauds.
Honestly, I can't remember how I stumbled upon bitcoin several years ago.  But I can remember thinking, "this has got to be some kind of elaborate scam, but then why go to all this trouble?"It took me about two weeks of reading, dismissing, and then rereading the white paper before I really 'grokked' the idea; but once it hit me, I was hooked.  I understood the real world implications of such a possibility early on, it just took me a while to trust that it was for real.  It was still eight months or so before I bought my first bitcoins, for 6.5 cents apiece.  I spent those long ago. could be some giveaways, though.  Right? He could have, but he didn't and couldn't do it now.  The running codebase wouldn't recognize it as valid.  There is no special powers that Satoshi (or anyone else) can grant themselves at this point. http://bondarms.com/There's also this, which I prefer over a revolver.  It's actually simpler in action, and I'm personally more likely to actually carry one than anything larger.  The idea of using heavy birdshot is also a winner in close quarters combat, because like a short shotgun, accuracy under stress becomes much less of a factor on your side of the fight.  A two shot weapon, first heavy birdshot and second buckshot, wins against a single attacker with more rounds anytime your first shot connects; because even though birdshot isn't generally a stopper, it's hard to aim that 14+ round 9mm when you can't see and half your face is in pain.  I don't consider two rounds enough to have in any situation where one expects a confrontation, but then nor would I consider any handgun to be ideal if one is under arms in a state of imminent combat.As for those who think that 14+ rounds is preferable to a simple 5 shot revolver in a defensive carry situation, how many times have you been mugged by 6 or more attackers?  If 5 wasn't enough, you were screwed from the start, and likely should have been carrying a rifle or simply stayed out of that neighborhood. I got a very professionally looking phishing email today, claiming that my account had been locked due to excessive login attempts.  I only grew suspicious when it conviently provided a click-through link to 'verify' my account. I've read the white paper and know how it works. Then you definately don't live near me. Naw, burying them just makes them harder to get to when the zombies start making the news.  If I have a few cheap but functional rifles (and some ammo to go with them) then when the zombies start making the news I can easily talk to my neighbors on each side that never understood why I buy guns, and 'lend' them my cheap rifles and ammo.  And thus, if the zombies start limping down my own street, there is a good chance that they will meet one of my neighbors before they get to my property.  If my neighbors are armed, even with a cheap boltie, there is a non-zero chance that they will succeed in reducing or eliminating the threat before it arrives at my own door.  Many zombies can be scared off, also. Refuting Gesell's (or anyone's) theories will do nothing to prove that.  You can't prove a negative, not even with praxeology.  Just because you might be able to disprove a theory, does not imply that your alternative theory is correct.Such abuse might not be possible with friecoin, but nor is it possible with bitcoin.  Bitcoin exists & has a real market, friecoin does not.  Freicoin presumes to impose a cost upon savers within it's own economy, bitcoin does not.  A simple praxeology argument goes something like this.Bitcoin eixists & has a value. I can save in bitcoin for less risk to capital than I can in the not yest estqblished friecoin.  As an indificual saver, I have every incentive to favor bitcoin over freicoin.  All savers are individuals, in fact all economic actors are individuals.  Savings leads to capital, capital leads to production, production leads to growth, growth leads to savings; but it all starts with savings.  If the incentives for savings don't exist, neither does the economy.  See above.  The fact that vborrowers would prefer friecoin is irrelevent until there is some saver to borrow from.  Likewise, merchents are interested in payments, and that is irrelevent if the freicoin has no base of savers to give it value.Theorecically, yes.  But a true money serves two distinct functions at different times for different people; first as a storage of value, and then as a means of payment.  Note that the storage of value must come first.SAvings isn't about preparine society, it's about preparing individuals.  Praxeology shows that society doesn't even exist, it's just a colloective concept to dexcribe a massive number of individuals.  Furthermore, savings witihn any currency cannot insure the saver from the breadkdown of civilizations, but only from smaller, local catastrophies.  Insuring oneselef from the end of the world is impossible.  Money is a commodity.  Prove me wrong if you think you can.  currency is not a commodity, and until you understand the difference you cannot understand praxeology ir Austrian economic theories.That's not clear to me, make it clear.No, that would be currency, not money.This is provablely false.  Gold & silver have both had a positive trade value for 6K & 4K years repectively.  They are both money, although they have not alwasy been currencies.  Note the differencers.Define an 'unfair' externality.  And when you're done with that, explain to me (as an individual saver) why I should care about fairness.  If you can get this far, you might be half way to understanding Praxeology. If there is, it's probably European. Do you?  I can personally know for certain that it's impossible that anyone else has 99.9% of bitcoins, because I have direct evidence that there are several people that have enough to total to over 0.1% of said coins.   Do you really think that more labelling regulations are going to change anything? Yeah, I have a 91/30 that I bought with a case of beer & about 30 pounds of stripped copper ~1998 (roughly $80) that can drive tacks at 100 yards.  Of course, I can't drive tacks at 100 yards, so the rifle shoot better than I can.  The milsurp 7.62x54r rounds I bought for it can blow clean through a 10" tree trunk.  These things used to define the term "high powered rifle" before 50 cal personal rifles.Also, if you want some more cool data, look up the terms "Cat's Sneeze" and "The white devil".  One is a special load that is self suppressed, and yes it works, I know this personally.  The second is the most successful sniper in the history of recorded warfare.  A farmer turned sniper during the Finish Winter War who used his father's mosin-nagant that was captured as war spoils during the Finnish war of indepedance.  This guy's record makes all the best snipers of Germany and Russia look like amatures. Hmmm, it appears that I wasn't remembering that quite right.  It was Remington...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mosin%E2%80%93Nagant#United_StatesYet, this link says that there were Winchester Nagants, but those are lever actions....http://scwmosin.weebly.com/the-1895-winchester-rifle.html Here's a fun fact.  The first several hundred Mosin-Nagant were actually manufactured by Winchester for the last Zhar of Russia, and were chambered in Win308.  If you can find one, though, it's probably worth a fortune. And you're a crack shot with your pants around your ankles.  I'll admit first hand that is one scenario that I've never tested at. Oh, sorry.  I guess I'll have to spell it out.  By definition, a satanist is a person who worships Satan.  Any version of a set of mores, whether or not they might resemble those of another group or not, notwithstanding.Therefore, if one doesn't worship satan, how can one be a satanist?  To make the claim that Americans appear to be both christian and satanist, lacking the semantic qualifications that you later presented, seems to me to be an obvious case of culture bias.You've met with actual satanists?  Who self describe themselves as satanists and worship Satan?  Or just some people that you assume fit that discription?and in conclusion, no. I've never seen those rules anywhere in my life, and don't coincide at all with my own understanding of the term.  That said, even if I were to agree that the above highlighted rules are an equivilent to the non-agression principle (I don't), any such similarities are coincidental.  Every religion on Earth has some kind of general principle that seems similar on it's face, and I think that even Satanists would be offended by the comparison, since part of the defining rules you cite would explicitly exclude most Americans & most libertarians.Apparently I did, but my argument stands.  You have a distored view of Americans and satanists. Satanists are anti-drug.[/quote]Can't say that our definitions of the term are even close to each other. The two are not mutually exclusive.  The line for joining the top 5% is about $120K per year, which is considered upper middle class by our own government tax bracket system.  So yes, one can literally say that the top 5% pay 80% of the taxes, while also say that the middle class shoulders most of the burden at the same time.  Bear in mind that when a politico speaks, he doesn't always use those words in the same way that you might understand them.Yup.
For similar reasons for buying a cheap, milsurp rifle.  To give it to your unarmed neighbor when the zombies are knocking at the door. Pretty much the entire part I highlighted.EDIT: Or, perhaps, a very distorted understanding of Satanism? You have a very distored view of Americans. Actually, in America the number that don't pay anything would have started out as 5, and the one rich guy would be paying closer to $70.  The top 5% in the US pay roughly 80% of the total taxes.  That's not a tax rate, mind you, that's the net total tax revenue.  49% of the population pays zero net taxes to the federal government, and roughly half of them get more from federal programs and grants than they pay in.  I should know, I'm one of those who get back as much as I pay in.  The irony there is that I pay in a lot.  I earn a great deal of money, upper middle class even by US standards; yet I have a lot of deductions and tax credits.  For example, I'm a foster parent; so the government (via block grants to states, and then the state to me) pays for the expenses of those fosters.  Althouh that is mostly just a repayment, I do literally receive just about as much money via those reimbursements than i pay in federal taxes.  And I'm in a middle class tax bracket, and paid in about $13K last year. This is functionally what the merkle tree does.  Each transaction has it's own hash, which is then included into a binary hash tree with one other transaction, and then each of those hashes are paired and hashed again to form the full merkle tree.  The last hash (merkle root) is included into the block header, which is then hashed again when the next block includes it into it's own header, thus forms the 'chain' part of the blockchain.  That merkle hash root inside the block header is intended to represent that entire block (in the sequence of the lifespan of the blockchain) once every transaction included into that block has been spent.  Presumedly in the future a great many blocks would be reduced to only the 80 byte, fixed length, headers after a few years time.  There are already several blocks that could be pruned down this way to only those headers, but the pruning functions have not yet been implimented into any client that I am aware.  Mostly because it's not consider a pressing need at the moment. Not all clients need to download the blockchain, just full clients for users who don't want to have to trust anyone as well as miners.  Also, even full clients can prune long spent transactions from their local copy of the blockchain, this is one of the functions of the merkle tree structure within a block.  Certain types of full clients can't do this for practical reasons, but any end-user full client could do it and still be able to verify every transaction that comes it's way.Try it.  See what happens.EDIT: To end your suspense, it won't have any noticable effect upon the network as a whole, as this has been considered and already adapted for.  You will, however, succeed in losing your entire balance due to tiny fees required for 'low priority' transactions.  This will still take some time, however, since the network will largely ignore spammy transactions, due to a built in 'point scale' system that discounts bitcoins that have recently been spent.  This doesn't prevent any valid transaction from occurring, but it does delay those that they system consiers spammy.there has been much discussion on the topic of end users in Africa, mostly as bitcoin as a replacement for M-Pesa.  Do more research, you will learn much of value to your position. I've never cashed out.  Never intend to. I doubt it, but one productive example of interest free savings is as a form of insurance.  For example, certain religious groups believe that they are commanded to prepare for foreseeable events.  The bible mentions famines, fires, etc.  So these denominations might expect each family to "stock up" on consumables, or an entire church might stock a food bank.  Cash can be horded for similar effect.  Not for the goal of investment at all, but "saving for a rainy day".  This kind of saving is self-insurance against whatever future losses that might present themselves.  Individuals do this, so do corporations.  Both do it using many methods; individuals could do it by stuffing cash into a mattress, buying gold or silver rounds, or a large pantry stocked with non-perishable.  Corporations could do it by warehousing materials needed for manufacturing inputs, such as steel or plastics; by speculating on the futures markets for same, or by hoarding cash, quite literally in a 'cash-on-hand' account; or by buying gold.  Governments do the same thing, usually by hording resources such as oil.Funds used in this manner are sometimes put into low risk investment methods, such as a money market account, but the general idea is that those funds should not be put at risk of loss, because they are insurance not investments. If we did, we would all be austrians.  Praxeology (which includes logic, so that statement is redundant) is uniquely related to Austrian Economic theory.  It's not much of a stretch to say that Praxeology is Austrian Economic theory as applied to all of human intereactions, and not just value exchanges.I teach Praxeology to middle shool aged homeschoolers at a local coop, and from what I've read of your arguments (admittedly, less than before when we had our debates a few months ago) I question your understanding of Praxeology.  I question mine as well, as it applies to Bitcoin.  I don't think that there is enough available data to make any judgements.  The great risk is letting your own prefrences color your conclusions.  just because you (or I) might consider one perspective the logical reaction, does not necessarily make it so.Take this statement for example.  You misrepresent the Austrian persepctive, likely because you don't understand it; which implies that you don't understand the praxeological argument behind it.  Austrians don't oppose all things public, nor do we oppose public monetary systems because they are public.  Simply put, we oppose central banking because it's an affront to the free market system.  When a central bank sets intrest rates, it's engaging in price controls of half of nearly every private exchange.  Gold is favored by Austrians because it's historically money, not because it is perfect.You still havn't shown how to do that without breaking autonomy, as far as I know.  Also, the praxeological argument trips up the idea of demurrage.  Demurrage is a forced loss, but Bitcoin exists.  So there is no logical reason (that I can see) that such a cyrptocurrency with demurrage would be favored by savers.  Like it or not 'hoarders' contribute to the value of the currency. And you don't see anything other than lending as productive savings.  This is far from the case.  The truth is that no matter what we say or argue about it all, it's too complex for any of us to summarize completely.  Trained professionals have been arguing these points for decades.  Since the topic is too complex for any of us to completely understand, we must all simplify it in our heads.  Create our own economic worldview, so to speak.  Ultimately, it comes down to belief; which economic theory do each of use consider to be most accurate?  I believe Austrian Economic theory to be most accurate in a great many ways.  IMHO, this is how one can tell which economists to listen to...Which ones make a significant majority of their personal income from their personal investments?  Peter Thiel is an Austrian, and kicks Krugman's ass; but doesn't offer advice publicly.  Mish is an Austrian as well as Schiff, both offer advice; both appear to do better on their personal investments than Krugman.  Krugman does better on his public appearances and writing royalties, much better.  In the long run, our opinions matter very little.  Create your alt-coin jtimon, and let the market decide. No, not mining. Paypal competitor fail.Commenter knowledge fail. Leaving already? It can be done securely, but not in the same manner as the bitcoin network does it.  The key difference here is risk management.  Accepting transactions offline does involve some level of risk, much like accepting instant/zero-comfirmation transactions at a point-of-sale terminal with live internet.  Accepting only transactions after 6 or more confirmations provides a (nearly) absolute certainty that the transaction is valid and cannot be reversed, but those kind of transactions requiring that level of certainty are and will be rare.  Bitcoin only grows if use cases involving lower, yet acceptable, levels of risk are possible.  As of yet, they are not possible; but this is because no clients support methods of risk assessment nor deliberately accepting zero-conf transactions.Doing a double spend online is trivial, because on the Internet no one knows your a serial thief.  The hard part is doing this offline, as in person with someone you are dealing with or inside a vendor's shop, and defrauding them without getting pinched.  The risk of that possiblity is a strong, but not absolute, deterrent against attempting a double-spend for relatively low value transactions.  It's true that a simple double spend attempt is technically trivial if leaving evidence of the fraud isn't a concern, as that would simply involve the backing up & restoration of a wallet.dat file.  However bitcoin is no more anonymous in person than cash is, and probably less likely to be accepted by someone that doesn't know you.  Try to buy a candy bar at a gas station with cash anonymously.  While it's true that the attendent neither knows nor cares what your name is, your face is on camera the entire time.  A double spend is still fraud and can be expected to be pursued in like manner whenever such a pursuit is possible. In direct contradiction to what Foxpup just told you, the real answer is yes but....Any client needs access to the network occasionally, but it is not always a requirement for safety.  The trick is that, should a client be developed for this purpose since one does not yet exist (I'm confident that one will eventually, the Bitcoincard is one such possibility) such a client would have to keep not only the transactions that it would use for the inputs to an offline transaction, but also a copy of the merkle tree that each fits it and the entire set of block headers.  This would allow the receiving client to check and see that the sender had honestly once owned those coins.  If these clients were both full clients with blockchains recent enough to both have copies of all input transactions, they would already both that this evidence anyway.  However, the receiving client could not verify that the sending client had not already created a transaction and forwarded it to the network and was trying to pass off a double-spend upon yourself.  A live internet connection to the bitcoin network protects the receiver against this kind of thing pretty well, but sans a live connection the client cannot determine this, so then it would fall upon the user of the receiving client to determine the risks.  Now any double spend attempt is technically difficult, so it would be easy enough for a vendor to accept bitcoins for a fast food meal or something else along those value lines; because the relative difficulty of a double spend attempt even when the attacker knows that the vendor can't have a live connection (Internet kill switch?) would outweigh the value of the fraud.  Credit card companies depend upon this for just about every transaction value under $50.  Also, if you are dealing with someone that you already know (and presumedly trust) you could accept the transaction on faith. Show them the hardware isle. You are making assumptions about my reasons for disliking MicroSoft products, and I'm still not sure what they are. Ah, no.  The bittorrent protocol was invented in 2001, and the SG-1 series ran until 2007.  The 486-66 was old at the time, but it was all that I had until about 2003, when my sister gave me her P166, which was a huge improvement in both sync & framerate.  And I was oversimplifying also.  Running video files on the 66 required me to drop out of X-windows completely and run the video directly on the framebuffer svga driver, which didn't allow for pausing, fast-forwarding or rewinding.  It was either play from the beginning or kill it.  Even restarting a killed process didn't work right.  So when I upgraded to the 166 w/128 megs (IIRC) I was then able to run the videos in X on BlackboxWM.  So, technically, I was disingenuous; as I couldn't really run a video in BlackboxWM until the 166.  I did try BeOS in the late 90's, but it wasn't watching videos that was the killer, it was simply that I had old hardware and linux worked while BeOS (and any modern version of Windows) simply didn't in any functional manner.These days I'm not so poor, so I'm doing this on a late model iMac because I can afford the extra costs in avoiding MicroSoft products. I remember trying it back in the 90's, after I'd already tried cutting my own Gentoo/Gnu linux on my own machine running BlackboxWM.  Sorry, but I was watching Stargate SG-1 torrents on a 486-66 with that, and BeOS just didn't seem to stack up.  Nothing ever did.  To this day there are people I meet who doubt that I've compiled my own Gentoo, much less played AVI files on a 66 mhz machine with 64 meg of ram. No, they didn't.  The $1K daily rule is there to keep BitInstant inline with US banking laws with respect to international transfer agencies.  The laws exist (officially) to frustrate monely laundering efforts, and probably do apply to bitcoin intermediaries in general, although that has never been tested in court as far as I am aware.  If you want to transfer more than that daily limit, you have to extensively identify yourself to BitInstant, who in turn will do so to the US government on your behalf should any of your transactions come under scrutiny
Here's an idea... If you have a pressing question, ask it in the newbie section.  We do pay attention to the newbie section, it's not just a penalty box, and if you're asking it  perhaps the answer will help others. Truth, and the next obvious point to be made is that all fiat currencies that were designed by (presumedly honest) human beings are still being run by human beings.  Do you still presume them honest?I  can pretty much assume that the math functions in my computer are honest, as the souless machine has no vested interest in any particular outcome.  Humans do, and that is the root of the problem with fiat currencies.  Sure, they're great in theory, but in practice they require levels of integrity and wisdom from people in the positions of power that cannot (logicly) be maintained over generations. The proof-of-work isn't simply wasted watts to make things hard, it also plays an critical role in the cryptographic security model of the blockchain.  Without it, a trusted central server would be required to produce the currency as well as verify that all transactions are valid, thus reintroducing a central bank and central point of failure.This system doesnt work without proof-of-work, and other methods of trying to do the same thing have been attempted as code forks and every one has been quickly broken by other community members just to illustrate the point. The US $ isn't stable relative to gold, oil or even the Big Mac index.  The perception of stability is relative to your base standard.  For Americans that standard is the US dollar itself, so of course most prices will appear fairly stable in a currency relative to itself, all the while the average guy blames (Bush/Obama) for the falling value of his house or the rising cost of gasoline.  Compared to gold, or even silver, the cost of a gallon of gasoline is roughly the same, if not a bit cheaper, than it was in the 1960's. One of the overarching principles of the Amish, all of the various interpretations aside, is that they intend to limit their interdependence upon the non-Amish communities.  The primary reason that electricity is shunned is because, generally speaking, using it requires a dependent relationship on either a power company far away or a generator parts manufacturer & refinery far away.  Sometimes cell phones are permitted in order to allow certain members of the community to interact with outsiders on a business level, but they are certainly not personal property nor utilized by even a large minority of the community.  A bitcoin card would undoubtedly increase the Amish community's interdependence on the greater bitcoin economy, and this fact will not be missed by the elders.  Regardless of the explaintion offered, these are never going to fly in any Amish community.Also, it wouldn't fly because the Amish don't really use currencies within their communities anyway, as it's mostly a cross between a barter & a gift economy. Disagree all you want, but scarcity isn't a requirement, only a limited supply.  They are not the same thing.  I should say that scarcity is important in the sense that it affects the value of things, but only as the other side of the equation to demand; however scarcity alone doesn't create that demand.  And if something is too scarce for the common person to have any practical experience with it, such as platinum before 1850, then it ends up being regarded as worthless metal and made into cannons for ships built to carry gold. I'm not sure that I understand the question.  You can't poll a bitcoin client for it's balance.  None that I know of even allow that as an optional feature with user approval.  The only thing that you could do is capture a card's bitcoin address during an over-the-air transaction, and then scan the blockchain.  But what good would it do you?  Help you find a mark to mug?  A couple of these events and users will be demanding an off (or radio silence) switch and a pin code to use the device at all.  Actually, neither is a bad idea, per se.  If someone mugs you for your wallet, you give it up and are just thankful you didn't get hurt.  If you have a backed up bitcoincard with a pin locked wallet, all they get is a worthless piece of plastic and a small solar cell.  If you didn't back it up, you don't recover your money, but neither do they.  Even guessing a four or five digit pin over and over again is going to take quite a bit of effort and time, and there is no way a mugger could know that you didn't have a backup and will move those funds in the next 1o minutes. This is quite true, and before the Euro a great many businesses faced constant 'currency risk' of changing exchange rates between the time that a deal was struck and the time it was paid for.  The real issue is that bitcoin isn't big enough to buy the things one needs for a complete economy without said currency risks.  When I can buy gas & groceries (at a competitive cost) locally, and pay my electric bill online, with bitcoin; the voltility of the exchange rate will become irrelevent. Scarcity is  not a requirement.  Mined & refined silver is more rare in our modern industrial world than mined & refined gold, yet gold still has a higher monetary value.  The same is true for a great many other things, such as 'rare earth' minerals.  Rare earths are not rare, they are just hard to find in a high enough of a concentration to be economically viable otherwise. Two hops is the default, but there is no real limit.  The default hop can be overriden by software.  Also, these devices are location aware by nature, so vector routing is possible.  Jabber would have to be altered to fit the network model, as I mentioned in the other threads. Great post, but I still have questions....Can you tell me if the mesh network uses any existing tech, such as Dash7?Excellent, this is the practical minimum of an urban mesh network, in my opinion.I doubt this statement.  As a ham myself, I've seen some pretty wicked tech that is hard to find in any commercial marketplace; but that doesn't mean that it couldn't in a hurry.This feature concerns me.  I'd rather have a device that was not replicateable at all than one that permits the company to do it via a distant server.  Even if the device asks for user permission, that does not mean that it must.Which would make it no different than a regular wallet.Not as cheap as I had hoped, but not unreasonable.An unaddressed question.  In the video it mentions the capacity to send arbitrary text from card to card (text messaging), did you see evidence that this feature is real? It does in a way.  I'm sure that different designs will be popular in different regions.  After all, an image of Karl Marx is popular on credit cards in Germany.  Could be because the users like to rub his face in it, literally.  Could be because they used to have his face on the 100 Mark note. the aluminum & steel cases are both too brittle to reliablely survive reloading, and could become a hazard due to imperceptible cracks.  Berdan priming can technically be reloaded, it's just more difficult and requires different equipment.  Generally it's just not worth it.  A lot of military cases are steel these days because militaries don't reload and so the cheaper initial price of steel over brass becomes significant in the millions of rounds range. That is the 'labor theory' of value, and is flawed in many ways, athough it does have an intuitive attractiveness to it.  Bitcoin isn't backed by labor, or electic power, or cryptography, or it's userbase, or it's long distance value transfer services.  Historicly, national currencies were 'backed' by gold in the sense that anyone who possesed a unit of currency had the legal and moral right to demand a defined amount of gold from the government agency that produced the currency.  But what backs gold?  The answer is nothing.  Gold is not backed, because it has an independent value.  That value is a matter of perception, developed over a 6K year history of gold as having value.  Bitcoin has value in the same way, meaning it does not require any explicit backing because it's literally valuable in it's own right, just like gold.  It's no one else's liablity, unlike a US$ or any of the payment methods that are based upon it (bank checks, credit cards, PayPal, Google Wallet, Facebook Credits, etc.)  One could make that rational argument that bitcoin derives value because of all of the things that I mentioned in my second sentence, but value is always subjective while a backing is always explict (and therefore, objective) in nature.After all, as valuable as gold is as a store of value, without that monetary demand gold wouldn't likely be more valuable than lead.  Bitcoin is valuable only due to it's monetary demand, and it has monetary demand because there is a small (but growing) online community of people that believe that bitcoin (as a monetary & exchange system) has and will continue to do as it has promised, and thus see value in participating in that monetary & exchange system. Except thats not what happens either. Please do a bit of research; this topic has been covered quite well already on this forum.  Keywords "Dash7" "Jabber" and "XMPP" should help. AX25 networking protocol would largely be manually configured, but that's no longer a requirement.  They were never really intended to be fixed.  Although more modern modes don't call themselves packet radio and don't use hardware TNC and don't use AX25 protocol, they have their basis in packet.   A dynamicly updated routing table, or a routing table at all, is not a likely condition of this kind of network.  Sensor style networks use passive monitoring to detect reachable peers on the fly, and it's a completely different model than a network that is trying to emulate the mass data transfer capabilities of a wired network.  A bitcoin transaction doesn't need to be routed, it simply needs to be broadcast. Bullshit.  There are a billion people in this world that don't have regular access to electric lighting.  I can't say that it's all that lucrative of a market, but it's still a market.And there are many campers & preppers who actually do buy candles for lighting purposes. Accurate only for that moment.  Once 10.5 million bitcoins have been issued, the block reward cuts in half.  This happens roughly every 4 years, and continues to cut in half every additional four years until the block reward drops below a single bit on the 64 bit integer that holds bitcoin values; after which point no more bitcoins will ever be issued.  This algo results in a total monetary base for bitcoins that is highly predictable and trends towards a (calculas) limit of 21 million bitcoins, but in practice will cease somewhat before hitting that limit. I'm not sure, but a candle peaks at about 1000 degrees F. We're running the show, kid.
Guys, the hotlinking is getting out of hand.  Please edit your posts to remove them. Automated payments are not currently possible.  This would likely require a second, independent wallet app made for the purpose. That photo is funny, but what is the context?  Where did it come from before 4chan? Considering that a regular candle is only about 1% light efficient, it shouldn't be hard at all to triple or quadruple the lumens of such a candle.  Although this would be a relatively small improvement in overall efficiency, and still suck even compared to incandecents, the relative improvement in the cost effectiveness of a candle on a per lumen basis would be huge.  Particularly with respect to those who buy candles for regular domestic lighting. If I keep laughing like that, I'm going to wake the kids! On the flip side, if I had my avatar photo from 1999 too, I'd still have hair.  Well, some hair, anyway.  Most of it in places that wouldn't be in that photo. Good Lord!  Your Dad should have sent you to bed, anime is not something that should be watched by toddlers.  It's such an impressionable age.  And it looks like it did. Then it was kinda silly to subscribe to it, wasn't it? Honestly, that was a hard year for me.  I was making $7 per hour as an apprentice.   You guys have no sense of humor. Really?  Was it taken in the past decade?  The white t-shirt thing and the deliberate pose does kinda scream "party like it's 1999".EDIT:Or, for that matter, maybe even "The Breakfast Club". A gas mantle is a little cloth baggie that has been soaked in a thorium-oxide solution and let dry.  The cloth is just a structure for the thorium-oxide, and once installed the cloth fibers are burned out from under the thorium-oxide leaving a brittle mineral mesh that resides in the direct path of the gas jet, which would look exactly like a small propane torch otherwise.  The loss of the cloth structure is also the reason that one can never remove the mantle and keep it intact.  Thorium is mildly radioactive, but it's much safer than just about anything else that is radioactive.  Your cell phone is more of a risk, even if you actually swallowed a mantle.  Thorium is in everything.  Every rock & body of water on earth has detectable trace amounts of it, which is why it's so ironic that it's classified as a 'rare earth' mineral.  If it can safely remain in a gas jet stream at 1500 degrees F., I'd wager that a thin steel wire coated in thorium-oxide would manage to do as well in a open flame while a wick burned away around it.  Thorium has one of the highest melting points on the table of elements, and thorium-oxide can't burn because it's already an oxide.But you are free to stress over whatever hazards you feel are worthy. Nice car, can I see the rest of it? It stands for Original Poster, meaning you preteen. I deleted nothing, but perhaps one of our 'alternative lifestyle' mods deleted it because you offend them for the implication that their standards would include Matt?  That avatar photo of his is no more his actual photo than your avatar is a photo of yourself. I seriously doubt that would be an issue, or Colman would already have one hell of a lawsuit.  Okay, but how many people would know what a chandler was either? Like JackRabbit said, troll harder.  You're not even on the hot list yet.  We've got a hundred members of this list that are an order of magnitude more offensive than this, and not only are they not really trying, they're still members.  Half of them are Hero Members in good standing.  I'm more amused than anything. And I noticed that you are complaining in advance, since your offending post has not been removed!https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88270.msg970923#msg970923 Obviously not, since you are still talking; but nor are you off to a promising start.  You're going to have to improve your signal to noise ratio if you desire to continue to call us names. I can get a four dollar Coke Classic in a 16 ounce glass bottle, made with real sugar, from the Mexican grocery store five blocks from my house.  The real question then becomes, can you get them to me cheaper?
I'm curious.  Assuming this isn't a lame attempt at scamming someone on this forum from Mexico, which to me seems like a silly thing to attempt here, what product could be bought by a Mexican national with a Mexican credit card that couldn't just as easily be ordered by an American using an American credit card?  Now, I understand that this is a bitcoin forum and most people want to help spur the economy, but if you are paying someone in Mexico to use a credit card then, logically speaking, you will be paying for a credit fee anyway; so why not skip the trouble and additional risks and just buy it yourself with your own credit card (or a prepaid Visa from Wal-mart, if your credit already sucks)?  What is this item? I've been having a thought that's been nagging at me for a couple of days.  I'm bit of an obsessive compulsive learner, which was much harder before the rise of the Internet (and both Google & Wikipedia are my two best friends).  I'm also a bit of a 'prepper' in the sense that I am the kind of person who deliberately stocks up for a winter storm before the leaves on the trees turn to fall colors.  For some reason that I can't really recall, my brain got locked onto the subject of off-grid/power outage lighting.  As in candles, lanterns, etc.  When I get this, I keep revisiting the subject over several days, and this is what has been happening to me.Over the past several days, thus, I have learned much about how modern lanterns work (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gas_mantle) as well as historicly how we got there (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limelight) and the scientific process that such lighting depends upon (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candoluminescence).  (Just to give you an idea how my mind wanders across these broad subjects)  I also learned that candles, although they are the most basic of lighting technologies, are terribly inefficient as a light emitter (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Candles#Light) (although pretty good little heaters at roughly 80 watts heat output per flame) despite still being in wide use on a regular basis across the "third world" along with lanterns, etc.  In such places, lanterns are favored for their superior white light compared to the yellowish light of a standard candle; not to mention the flicker of a candle.  Yet like many other simple & cheap technologies, candles persist even in first world countries because it's sledgehammer simple and will always work when we need it to.  Said another way, when the power fails and the batteries in the emergency flashlight haven't been changed in four years, a simple candle and a match will not fail you whether or not that candle was bought for just such an emergency or because it looks pretty on the mantle and smells nice.And all this brings me to what has been bugging me.  There are many 'rare earth' minerals that have a high candoluminescence that we in our modern world are aware of, meaning that they glow whiter, brighter, with less emissions in the infrared spectrum (meaning less energy lost as heat) and at much lower temps than were ever known in the days that gas lamps dominated London, New York or Paris.  The best modern choice being thorium oxide, which is used in almost every modern lantern mantle mass produced in the world, including every Colman propane camping lantern ever produced.  So why don't modern candle wicks have a thorium-oxide coated thread of metal in them?  I understand why the candles intended for looks or nice smells or comforting background noise (such as Woodwicks) don't include such a simple improvement in luminous efficacy (and potentially light quality, since it would likely be a whiter light) but why not include them in candles made for the purpose of producing lighting, such as those deliberately marketed as emergency candles or those sold in regions of the world where candles are still regarded as a regular light source (as opposed to a medium for perfumes to be atomized and sent airborne in a controlled manner)?If there are any hobbist candle makers around here, let it be known that I would certainly be willing to buy a custom made emergency candle that included the above simple feature, although I have no idea how one might go about getting thorium-oxide in any useful form. It's not a problem for bitcoinspinner, which pretty much does the same thing for an android smartphone.  It would take some significant adoption rates before the server side was heavily loaded even for a low end server instance, and it's not like that can't be scaled up if the market is there.  I wouldn't expect that transfers from a bitcoincard are going to be free, they aren't for bitcoinspinner.Not quite correct, as all signing is a reproducable process by necessity.  Also, any amount of entrophy can be aquired early, over a period of time, or by the wireless radio receiver by tuning to an off channel and digitizing the background noise.  There is no need for a radndome number generator because the digital receiver acrtually is one.I'm sure that some future users will go that route, or simply buy smartphones with this kind of hardware included in the phone.Mobile phones do, but smartphone not so much.  Not yet anyway.  Still, I want a dozen even though I have a smartphone.  I use my smartphones for a great many things, many of which are terriblely insecure.  Hardening my smartphone so that it could do any kind of mobile payments secure enough to keep any significant balance would be an inconvience in so many other ways.  If the devices are cheap enough, they have value as a secondary value storage device, even if they spend most of their time in my safe.  The mesh texting functions also make them independently valuable to myself to keep in touch with my kids when we are in public but separated from line of sight.  I could put some without any balance in the back pockets of my toddlers, so that I could vector track them with a smartphone app should they get loose in a crowd.  I could give one to each of my older kids so that I could keep tabs on them while they wander the Mall or the craft fair, and do so far cheaper than it would cost me to pay for a cell phone & service.  Cheaper even than a set of Family Radio Service handsets, and less publicly annoying.  I could give them away to my pre-teen daughter's click of friends as a texting toy, if they are cheap enough.That's just my own, very real, use case.  I can think of a dozen other use cases off the top of my head, not the least of which is as an actual payments device for people who are 1) to poor or 2) too cheap to buy a smartphone (such as the third world bitcoin user model mentioned by others) or 3) those who actually do own a smartphone but are either beyond their effective 3G service range or 4) desire to have a backup method should their smartphone be physically stolen or 5) pwned or 6) busted or 7) simply a dead battery.  And then there are those who like to go camping beyond the range of their cell service and  the camp store accepts bitcoins but doesn't have wifi.Again, it depends upon the cost of the device.  If they cost under $2 each to  procure, I'll buy a dozen & one  or two hardware gateway dongles jsut for the location & texting features.  The bitcoin fuctions are just a bonus. I think that you misunderstood the intent of that particular webapp.  That isn't there to annouce who actually has a bitcoincard or gateway already, but who would be willing to do so and their estimate of how many potential bitcoincard users could pass that person's personal gateway each week. I have one, and it's pretty cool; but you will be surprised at how many consumer devices will refuse to cooperate with it.  Both Amazon Kindles & Apple products need to be able to communicate with their parent companies servers in order to do much of anything, which kinda makes them useless with the piratebox.  Android phones don't seem to care, and can happily upload & download without complaint. Mesh networking isn't implausible at all, hams do it constantly.  That is exactly what a packet TNC does.  The real question is can they do it in such a small device and with such small power requirements, but 100 meters is nothing for a modern digital mode even at low power levels, so I don't consider that unrealistic either.  In fact, I'm hoping that they are under stating the effective range, because 100 meters isn't practical except in some pretty dense urban areas.  I'd say the bear minimum effective ranges start at 300meters.  And nor is communications sans (commerical) infrastructure implausible, for that is the very nature of mesh networking anyway. I think that the video was mostly a generic promo developed for the card before they settled on using as a bitcoin device.  I doubt, seriously, that it will ever be able to send actual images even though the mesh protocol might support sharing of arbitrary data objects. Maybe, maybe not.  Build it and find out. Maybe it won't matter anyway, but you certainly can't fault us for lack of effort. This was never about Ron Paul per se, even though he has done a wonderful job of motivating the young.  Nor is it about Rand Paul.  Romney is someone who isn't strong in any convictions, so he is just as influence prone from a Republican base that has turned strongly lib as he has been influenced by liberal voices while governor.  If this proves not to be the case, there is always Gary Johnson.  If Romney ignores lib concerns, and loses because 6% of the Republicans voted for Johnson, the next nominee in 2016 will certainly not repeat that error.  The key is displaying that there are more libertarians (and voters who lean libertarian) than has been assumed by all sides.  The voter turnout from the Ron Paul primaries should be proof enough of this, but if not, a Gary Johnson spoiler will certain be enough.   If someone would make an auto handgun that has three barrels in a equalateral triangle, with a triple wide, single stacked magazine, and eats 22lr; I'd love to have one.  The total impuse of three 22lr rounds at once is on par between a 380 and a 9mm, and with greater area trama that comes with the 'multiple tap' engagement stragedy.  And three standard 22lr rounds are often cheaper than one of either 380 or 9mm.I'd like to see the same thing in a PDW, but that the barrels aren't quite parallel and the impact triangle pattern spreads out slightly. Sometimes that's what you get. Rand isn't fake, though. The Tea Partyy started off about 50% lib, but didn't stay that way. Still that is an improvement upon some of the neocons I've met since joining the exbaord. I really didn't think that intelligent people actually beleived some of this crap before, but I now have real examples of party officials who will talk about fidelity to the constitution except (whatever). This is the endgame of a decade long endeavor among small-L libertarians to take over the Republican party.  Keep in mind, that the Libertarian Party was born about 1971 because of a liberty purge that followed Barry Goldwater's unsuccessful presidential campaign.  But a generation of activism as a third party has netted zero gain.  During that entire time, libertarians never exceeded 6% of the electorate; which in our system (as opposed to a parlimentary system such as is common in Europe) that amounts to zero representation.  It had become obvious to the Gen-X libertarians (and some of the old guard) that this third party thing was never going to amount to anything.  So around 2002, or perhaps even earlier, a new plan was hatched.  One that didn't require the total commitment of a population that is known for doing thier own thing.  A campaign of educating (or indoctrinating, according to a certian perspective) of the young Millinial generation using their own, and at the time very new, methods of communications on the Internet.  Ever noticed how the Internet, in general, appears to be very libertarian with pockets of liberalism?  This lifted up a new generation of educated young voters, and now they are ready.  I'm not saying this is what what was supposed to happen, this is what did happen.  And I have to admit that I am more than a little suprised to see it working, but it is.  I am now a voting member of my local Republican Excutive Committee, in addtion to being a district chair.  Nor am I alone on the committee.  Our intent, and successes, are to inject ourselves into the party structure, demonstrate our political will as a block, and take over the party from the grassroots up.  Ron Paul has been aware of, and agreed to be the figurehead of, this movement.  So has his son Rand.  I know this to be fact personally, as I have met both of them.  Honestly, Ron Paul never expected to win the nomination, and probably didn't really want it anyway.  But not only will we be a force to contend with at the national convention, local and state candidates that wish to stand a chance at winning officeare going to start talking to us and talking the talk.  This doesn't mean that they will actually be liberty minded candidates, but it does improve those odds.  The (R) nest to your name, as a liberty minded candidate, is a huge political advantage compared to trying to run an independent or (L) campaigin.  In another 4 years, the demographics & votin trends says that enough Boomers will have died off that the center of the electorate in the US will shift directly to the Millinials, skipping my generation completely.  This was never some off-the-cuff plan by a bunch of disorganised kids.  This is a well executed long range plan, and the Republican Party will be the liberty party again for another generation.  We have already affected change. I would like to point out that it's been more than a week. Heh.Dash7 would still be a better wireless protocol, even on a bus or a bird. Considering that they use only a solar cell for power, just put one into a ziplock bag and tape it down to the top of objects that pedestrians cannot see above.  Like the roof of a bus shelter, or the top of a vending machine.  If they are cheap enough, it doesn't much matter if someone eventually finds them.  By the time your's go bad or are stolen, either the mesh network would be self-sustaining or it likely will never be. Not unless it's a small school, and the kids are evenly spaced and don't move.  Something closer to 30 would be required to maintain a mesh network for any school that I've attended, with a radio radius of 100 meters.  Wifi can get 100 meters in open air space, but 2.45 Ghz is a crappy frequency choice for a mesh.  Without changing the protocol or peak-power, just switching to 433 Mhz would double the effective range due to the lower background noise level & reduced sensitivity to attenuation by hydrogen containing mass.  Wifi doesn't use 433mhz mostly because the band is too narrow for such wideband tech.I wish, at least, I knew what frequency this device used.  That would tell me much about how well I could extend ranges.  A single dongle may only have a radius of 100 meters, but three of them using 120 degree wide panel antennas on a pole can cover 2-3 times that radius under ideal conditions.  2.45 Ghz would not be an ideal condition, however.   Those can be your priorities.  Let others focus on their priorities.  I have a lot of personal reasons to want a secure offline bitcoin device, and I have a lot of personal reasons to want a meshable & service free practial means of near-space texting.  Again, 100 meters isn't enough, but imagine if I had a dozen of these devices & gave each of them to people that I was traveling to a concert with.  Or a ball game.  Just the ability to send a text to my kids headed to the conessions stand "cancel the chips, I want a hot dog" or "cancel the entire order, halftime is over, get back" or using the location features, after one child telss me that his sister's purse was snatched, I could potentially track it up to a point. Well, he learned a lot; while I learned a little.  Mostly I'm just out of practice at rifle shooting.  Hard to go shooting with my Mosin-Nagant.  The local ranges won't permit anything rifle-like but 22lr. No apologies necessary, I wasn't offended.  I was just pointing out that there are people who are using scopes for the sub 100 yard ranges for practial reasons.  When my son was an infant, he did not yet wear the prescription sunglasses, because no one makes them for an infant.  It took some looking, but I did find a manufactuer of baby sunglasses that really did filter out the ultraviolet ranges (the most dangerous frequencies for him) so he would wear the glasses outside, but as soon as we went indoors anywhere he would snatch them off his face.  So one day I was in Wal-Mart (or some other retail store like that) and he was just starting to walk.  He was toddling along slowly, and he attracted the attention of a couple of middle aged women.  I remember noting that they both that very long & straight hair, and were wearing full length skirts.  Now, because my son has no irises, he can get a 'red eye' flash effect under normal lighting, since that is just a reflection off the back of the eye.  Well, these two women were approaching him from behind...."He's so cute!  What's his name?""Isaiah""Oh, a prophet's name"And just about the time that they were getting close enough to reach out an pick him up, he turns around.  Both immediately snap upright and start to back up, just as he reaches out to be held.  They didn't say anyting intelliglbe after that, and just kinda walked away.  I knew right away what had happened, because they both had that look that normal people have while whatching The Excorcist for the first time.  So I picked him up and held him, and just laughed at the ignorant people.He's vicious on Team Fortess II though.
Amen, brother.  I had decided long ago that a meshable device for texting is worth much just for that.  Give them to my daughter and her friends, and let them go at it.  100meters is kinda poor for the purpose, though.  Definately not a Dash7 device. I'm not concerned with the IARU, it's the FCC that controls my license.Nope, it's because it's the law in the US.Digital radios can transmit the callsigns in their normal mode, so long as they are in the clear. In the case of modified wifi gear, this usually means in the SSID.Again, nope.  Not in the US anyway.  The classic example is that you can't order a pizza over ham radio bands but you can over CB. Although bitcoin's protocol doesn't actually facilitate a business transaction, it's the result of one, so I don't know how it would work out. Take a look at what happened in Zimbabwee and you might have some idea. Technically, yes they do.  A standard wifi chip is capable of transmitting & receiving in the nearby ham band (I beleive 70cm band IIRC) and use of these features require a ham callsign to be transmitted with the SSID.  There are two channels available, and are traditionally called Zero and -1, since they are on that side of the unlicensed wifi band.  Unlockling these capabilities, at a minumum requires rooting your phone, though.  In the ham world, this is commonly called the 'Hinternet'.  Google is your friend.I believe that if it's a hoax, it's an elaborate one. Great idea!  Like Prosper.com before the man came down on their heads? We went to Appleseed last summer, and we both failed.  I'm a former US Marine with a sharpshooter range test score, and I failed.  This year, he'll be there with his scope.If you encounter anyone of any age that has  passed Appleseed, trust that they know how to shoot. I can agree that your devices don't seem to be in quite the same market, but you do appear to be threatened by their claims.  Would the Ellet be capable of updating it's core software, if the Bitcoincard became the dominate system for bitcoin transactions offline?  Said another way, would the Ellet be able to talk the Bitcoincard protocol.  That's the real question.But that is the problem, I've actual photos of Bitcoincards.  Granted, still photos can be faked; but I have nothing at all from you concerning the Ellet.  From my perspectives, it's the Ellet that is vaporware.  At a minimum, the Bitcoincard guys have working test models.  I saw a youtube video of two such cards (sitting less than a foot from each other, mind you) perform a transaction on video.  A transaction that can be verified via the bitcoin blockchain.  If the bitcoincard is vaporware, the fog is getting pretty thick. What would happen to your plans for the Ellet should the claims regarding the Bitcoincard turn out to be true? My son has anaridia, meaning he has no irises.  Nothing but black pupil from white to white.  He wears auto-tinting sunglasses to deal with changes in light levels, but the iris also aids in clarity of edges.  So he has a fixed magnification (2.5x) red dot scope mounted scout style on his rifle.  He will never be able to get a license to drive, but the boy can shoot.He also has a set of fresnel lenses to make book text larger, so he can read without eye strain.  I'm still considering buying a Kindle DX (the really big one) for similar reasons.I have no doubt that many people do exactly this as their eyes age.  Don't assume that these guys can't shoot.  When I was a teenager, my uncle was a member of a paintball team made entirely up of Vietnam veterans.  These oldies needed glasses & canes to move about the field, but they would mop the field of the teenagers.  One guy was a actual sniper, and he used a mildly scoped paintball gun to tag opponents at over 100 yards away, but needed reading glasses otherwise.  I had never before, and never since, encountered an old man with a cane that could walk through the woods and literally make no sound. Or, in this case; imagine if a repressive regime began hunting for gateway transceivers.  How long would it take before agencies in other nations began setting up high quality, highly directional gear just across their borders to function as a gateway to those who live near the border?  If a few ham radio geeks can get a standard wifi card to connect over 100 miles with an antenna made from a soup can, much more is possible with mesh protocols that are deliberately designed for distance over bandwidth. Come on, Matt; you know that's bullshit.  I have an android phone that has an 800mhz processor and a battery the size of this card, and it can standby for three days.  This card has something on the order of an 8 or 16 mhz processor, I'd wager.  E-ink doesn't take much.  My Kindle 3 has an ARM processor of around 650 Mhz and 256 meg or ram (an order of magnitude greater than this card requires for primary functions) and it makes three weeks on standby.  Six months on a charge is, of course, an unrealistic claim.  But one hour?  Seriously?This is a fair critique.  However, the creators didn't make any claims that it could be used against repressive regimes.Whether this device actually exists or not, or does what it claims or not, it certainly is presently possible for devices to mesh network quite effectively right now.  The Serval Project attempts to do exactly that with existing wifi hardware on smartphones, although wifi sucks for this purpose.  If smartphones started being made with a 'sensor' style network transceiver, such as Zigbee (good) or Dash7 (better) than we would see all kinds of apps that took advantage of local peerage connections.  An app similar to 'NearMe' would likely become available immediately and p2p texting would become a high-schoolers' main method of communication during school hours.  One reason that manufacturers don't include such network hardware is that carriers see such capabilities as a threat to their business model, particularly their texting and data business model, and rightly so.  There is no way that mesh networking is ever going to be able to handle voice or major data traffic, due to contraints of physics, but small bits of data (such as those apps that are regularly 'checking in' or even a twitter watching app) or apps that trade larger chunks of data but between people in a physical area (like bitcoin) are ideal for sensor networks.  Another reason that cell manufacturers don't make these now is because consumers don't really demand them.  Like yourself, there aren't many that understand their value if one has to have a data plan anyway, which one most certainly would for many years at least.  Not necessarily for bitcoin or local texting, but taken as a whole whatever reductions that moving each of these functions, even completely, off of the dataplan would be a relatively insignificant reduction on the data usage. I want details.  Come on guys, give us an update. Technically true, they had a solvency problem instead.  As a nation they ate away the capital of the prior generations until everyone was poor and simply couldn't match the 'arms race' anymore that was forcing them to continue to extract what little wealth their society could produce for military uses.We have a debt problem, because we have had a solvency problem for some time now. Another Dmitry Orlov fan I presume?  Although I agree with many of his assessments, there are many differences that he overlooks as well, not the least of which is bitcoin itself.  Also, what he describes as 'collapse' is far from it.  It wasn't the end of the world for Russia, and it wouldn't be for the people of the US either, if it does come to that.  A breakup of the union would, by default, be the decentralization of political power that libertarians have been advocating for decades.  Granted, such a method is going to be much harder an adjustment for most than an intentional localization of authority would have been; but in the long run it's not likely to matter.  Like Russia, the US does have enough arable land to grow enough food for it's population even with small scale and less productive methods than agrabusiness; we just wouldn't likely be major exporters of foodstuff like we are today. Well, I'm back.  It wasn't a success, but nor was it a complete failure.  There were no dirty tricks, but that may have been because we didn't quite have a majority, so there wasn't a need for any dirty tricks.  The trendline is obvious, however.  In 2008, Paulites represented about 1/4 of the state delegates; today almost half.  I suspect that if Rand had held off his endorsement for another week, we would have had a majority.  That took the wind out of the sails of many of the activists that were married to the idea that Ron Paul was actually going to be the nominee by some miracle last minute move.  It even seemed to me that the party structure here has recognized the inevitablitity of a takeover of the party structure and ideologies by the young & the libertarian.  There were several cases that I noted that the chair (and by proxy, the state party, since he was also the head of the state executive committee) went out of his way to permit the liberty leaning crowd leniency in their misunderstandings of Robert's Rules.  We ended up with some great resolutions, but not a single delegate to the national convention.Ah, well.  Time carries on.  Whether by ideology or simple demographics, the concepts of liberty will once again dominate in the Republican Party.  It is simply inevitable now. Go for it.  I don't live anywhere near Wall Street. I will get up at O'dark thirty to drive to the Kentucky convention for the Republican Party in my final attempt to become a delegate to Tampa.The odds are long, and Robert's Rule suck.  Pray for me to whatever God or gods you prefer.  I'm sure it can't hurt in any case. why do they have letter tags on them?   Alright, that's already enough.  I want to put an order in for at least 10 of the first run.  And a gateway device that I can plug into my router.  I'll put it on my roof and cover my entire neighborhood.  Then I'll take them to the farmers' market that occurs every Saturday across the street from my house and see what I can do with them. That was hours ago.  Couldn't tweet from the airport?  Did TSA lock you up?  Anal probe your laptop?
A bit longer for me. I don't know why not.  Thus far the headers total about 16megs.It can, it's just not a requirement.  It's unlikely that most gateways are going to be nodes.  More likley a couple hundred gateways port forwarding or ssh tunneling to one node.No, you cannot.  The followuup transactions are not 'valid' for a block until the transaction prior to it is in a block.  I don't even think that they can propogate past the first full node until the first one is in a block. An offline device can create and sign a transaction, it cannot validate it.  However, (in theory, don't know about this device yet) any disconnected device with local copies of it's inputs could also keep the merkle trees that show where those input transactions fit into the blockchain.  This is about as close to an offline validation as it likely possible.First the 'gateway' is just another mesh radio connected to the Internet, there is no reason to expect that the gateway itself would be a bitcoin node.  A counter-party to a change based transaction needs to be able to see that the previous transaction fits into a block, otherwise the next transaction is indistingishable from a double spend attempt.  This would be possible if the counter-party were a connected full node & the prior transaction made it back to the internet by another path,but such an event cannot be assumed. I suspect that I know the tech being presented here, and if I'm correct, the video is likely understating the practical ranges.  I know that I'm guilty of speculation, but I suspect that the mesh tech alluded to is dash7.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DASH7Note that Dash7 devices are inherently location aware, in a relative sense; i.e. they know where there are relative to other dash7 devices.  The customer location tracking features mentioned in the video are one of the encentives for vendors to adopt a set of 'dongles', which would (presumedly) be aware of their own positions in an absolute sense (GPS).Also note that Dash7 devices can have theortical ranges up to 2km, which practially means about 1km; and that it's max data rate is 200kbps.  However, it cannot do both max range and max speed at the same time, so the video's downgrading of the noted ranges might be due to a concern of overpromising or it might be due to the intent of the card designers fixing the data rate at the max and otherwise living with whatever range remains.Dash7 isn't good for data that streams or large files, but for mesh propogation of bitcoin data it's practially ideal.  Also the ISM band that DAsh7 uses (433Mhz) is a 32nd harmonic of that which NFC uses as a standard, so both techs can coexist on the same tranceiver and share much silicon, making such features cheaper to produce. There would be a practical limit, but it's one that's hard to predict.  It depends upon the input transactions that the device has in local storage, because it can only make transactions based upon the unspent inputs that it has since last connect.  It's not practically possible for a disconnected device (light or otherwise) to be able to use the change from a previous transaction as an input in a new transaction because all other devices should require that the change transaction have 6 confirms or at least a copy of the block's merkle tree as evidence that it's a valid transaction and not a double spend.  Since the device is disconnected, there is no way for it to have that evidence even if some other device has already forwarded the transaction to the network on it's behalf.  In practice, such a device is going to have to keep a set of seperate transaction inputs of varied sizes in order to make multiple payments between online sessions. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moravec's_paradoxCreating an AI capable of exceeding human limits of intelligence is almost trivial, particularly when confined to particular definitions of intelligence such as aptitude at the game of Chess.  But until we understand ourselves, we can't hope to teach a computer to do things that come naturally to an infant.http://cvdazzle.com/Therefore, the architect is as doomed by smart computer systems as the Disney animator, but the skilled laborer is irreplacable. REally?  How old are these ties?  Because I'm pretty sure that railroad ties have used toxic chemicals to prevent bugs from eating the support out from under the rails for over 100 years, and at no point would I have wanted such things anywhere near my vegetable garden. I'm curious.  What does one use old railroad ties for? So many things.  Basicly anything that you can normally get online, and many things that you cannot, I have bought with bitcoin.  I've even bought rock'n'roll; but no sex, drugs or guns; though.   At least the ATM will have a camera to film the event. You understand correctly.  A favored address can both be an input and an output in a transaction, however there are other downsides to doing things this way than just making it obvious which output is the change.  They are obscure enough to ignore for the average Joe and it's uncertain that they actually present a risk, so for the vast majority of users it's unlikely to be an issue, but it's a poor habit to get started. Set one up and you will have one. I'll be waiting with baited breath! Of course.  There are a number of different ways to do that.  Unblock only bitcoin ports & whitelist bitcoin related websites, and simply open wide after payment.  A lot of people would pay just to unblock facebook & twitter, so you could just block those sites until paid. http://www.plata.com.mx/mplata/articulos/articlesFilt.asp?fiidarticulo=185Not at all related to bitcoin, but interesting nontheless. I don't think that I'm expressing myself well here.  I not 'scoffing' at the idea that some clients need live Interent access in order to function.  I'm saying that more than one method to support lightweight clients that require live Internet already exist, and none of them actually require the resource overhead of an alt-chain.  Make no mistake, the distributed security of bitcoin is an awesome thing, but it's also expensive in many ways.  Murged mining helps in that regard to a limited degree, but it's a crude kind of hack.  Not at all the smooth, elegant & interwoven solution that bitcoin itself is.What I want is a lightweight client, that can run on my Android phone, and if the cell network is down (snowstorm, Katrina, zombie outbreak, whatever) or I'm deliberately out of my service zone (camping, safari, fishing trip, whatever) my light android client can still transact to some degree sans live Internet.  The light client as described in Satoshi's white paper, that holds the block headers & copies of it's own input transactions; can spend bitcoins because it can create & sign a proper transaction.  It can also receive a transaction.  What it can't do, without live Internet, is check the validity of a transaction; beyond checking to see if the provided input transactions fit into the Merkle tree.  Even with live Interent, an independent light client can't do that nor discover new transactions for itself without scanning whole blocks itself.  That's teh role that both Stratum & this proposal seem to fill.  If this proposal requires live internet at the time of transaction,then it offers no practical advantages over Stratum.  Stratum is, itself, a distributed p2p netowrk protocol.  It may not look like bitcoin, but it doesn't need to either.No, not must.  A client with the block headers, copies of the transactions used to send money to it's own addresses (it's input transactions) and a local wallet.dat can create & sign transctions locally, and it can thus use any of a number of ways to communicate that transction over to the vendor; who then may or may not be able to verify it and may or may not be able to forward that transaction to the Internet immediately.  These are not requirements.  However, a client that holds only a wallet.dat would need the live support of a Stratum server to construct it's own transaction, so that kind of (ultralight?) client would require live internet.It's not slightly more to download.  It's at least as much with potentially several orders of magnitude more to download, store & verify.  There is also the multiplicity issue with blockchains.  Bitcoin requires that multiplicity of redundent data, but the light clients do not.  That is one of the driving forces for overlay networks such as Stratum, to limit the multiplicity.  just because you might not be seeing that across your own data plan, doesn't mean that someone doesn't need to pay for that extra duplication of effort as well.  One way or another, the end users are going to be paying for the network.  I can see that, what I can't see is what gain is there in downloading a regualr digest of a pruned blockchain, when you could just help finish the touches on pruning and do the exact same thing within the bitcoin netowrk, no murged mining hack nor additional network resources required.  What you guys  are trying to acomplish is already possible within the protocol.  Without additional advantages, why bother?And this is another thing, that is one huge assumption.  We didn't know that bitcoin itself would work two years ago.  How do you know that murged mining works as described?  I sure don't.While dicks will always be dicks, those dicks can't really steal anything of significance, and the high costs of doing what you are talking about is a huge deterrent. Stratum uses a different model.  I'm not one of the developers, so I only understand what the intent is; but each stratum server is a full bitcoin client first, and also participates in the secondary network.  The stratum servers don't depend upon each other to do anything outside of what the bitcoin network already does.  The stratum protocol functions as a controlled spigot to the bitcoin network firehose.  A stratum capable client can query a single stratum server that the user trusts (because he has a service paid for, or because he personally set up that particular server) and privately query the stratum server for data about particular addresses or transactions.  The client, should it not trust any particular server, can reach out to several stratum servers in a semi-random way (either biased towards servers that it has contacted before and not be told falsehoods, or by some other method) and query multiple servers and check responses against each other.  It provides a standard method for a single full bitcoin node to function as the blockchain to hundreds or thousands of light clients, that may or may not actually maintain either block headers or transaction inputs.  Like a distributed version of a split wallet service, like BitcoinSpinner without the vendor lock-in.That a remote possibility, but again most of the light clients that we expect to see in the future will be desktop apps that don't mine but are still capable of switching to full node mode at will or by user direction.  If the stratum network is being DDOSed, or is otherwise unreachable, most (probably not all) such clients would simply jump directly onto the main bitcoin network to acheive their ends.  This is likely to cause problems in it's own right, but the option always remains open.I'm skeptical of that, myself.  I will reserver my final judgement based upon what you can show me later.First, it can compare to local blockheaders, it's just not limited to that.Second, see above about checking several servers against each other, or simply running your own stratum server at home for use on your android.You make that sound like that's easy to do, or cheap.  Yes, such an attack vector is possible under thin conditions.  Still, it's potential gain is limited to what the spoofed client is willing to send or what he believes that he has received, not all he has.  I can't see all that kind of effort just to steal my lunch money.  If you're buying a new car with bitcoin, you're going to be taking some more deliberate steps anyway.  The general trend is that security & convience are at odds to each other, and these light clients are intended for convience with relative security, not the full absolute security that a hardened full client could provide while also running it on a cell phone.  This also doesn't consider the use of risk assessment algos.  For example, if your client tries to reach out to the stratum network to check a transaction sent to itself, but can't connect to your personal stratum server, so it falls back to polling 8 random servers & eight servers from within it's own 'good' history.  It gets back all the right responses, but the version number of the nodes it knew about all have different checksums than last time.  Could be that you haven't used this app in a while and everyone really has upgraded, or it could be that you've been corralled into a honey-pot network.  The client notifies you of it's risk assesment, you can either take the transaction on faith or reject it and refuse to hand over the product.True.  You also need the same from an alt-chain just to be able to have one.  That only shifts the problem across time, it does not change teh problem logically.Once the block has been created, true.  Not true while the block is being settled upon.  This is why bitcoin, itslef, requires 6 confirmations before the standar client will resend the coins.My understanding of merged mining is limited, but my understanding of regular proof-of-work is not.  That said, as I undertstand it, merged mining permits the alt chain to leverage bitcoin's securlty to shore up it's own; generally by inerweaving specially identified transactions into the bitcoin blocks, while interweaving all or part of the last bitcoin block's header into the alt-chains's header; thus proving a time sequence in lockstep with bitcoin's own.  While this little hack would permit a mnor alt-chain to benefit from the securty of the bitcoin blockchain, it does nothing that I know of to actually improve teh trustworthyness of the miners that created the alt-chain block to begin with.  Does namecoin do this? Probably, under certain conditions.   And you know this, how? That's worse than getting rickrolled.  What the hell was the point of that one?
Hmm, I'm sure you're right.  A $30 usb dongle attached to my Internet gateway that might bring me new business for less than credit cards and offers zero threat to my existing transaction infrastructure, or $300+ to install a whole new transaction payment system wired right into my POS system.  Those are totally comparable.EDIT: Beyond that, nothing says that the device that provides such bitcoincards access to the bitcoin network has to be owned by the shop owner.  A couple owned by the mall property owner, or a random guy walking down the block over with one on his phone, or the bitcoin geek with his own in his apartment two floors up, and it all happens. I have a pretty good idea, and a cell phone is unneccesary. Then this proposal is already a fail.  Because what do you offer then?  Decentralization?  You might as well say 'the cloud' for all the relevance that would have to the end user.Again, not materially different than a lightweight client or any normal full client willing to provide a pruned block upon request.Not any data so consistant, which is why bitcoin requires the format that it presently does.  The blockchain structure is self-re-enfircing from amny directions; not just from a single merkle tree branch up to the block header.  It is possible, although unlikley, to create a transaction that falsely gives you an arbitrary amount of bitcoins from non-existant inputs and find a merkle tree branch that it can 'fit' in, but that would never last a millisecond of verfications from a full client.But requires constant Internet, so offers zero advantage over the (full future) live network or an overlay network such as Stratum.  In fact, Startum does eactly what you seem to want to do both decentralized and without an alt-chain.Again, a lightweight client can become up to a full client at will, as well as participate in Stratum where it might need to.  There is noting that prevents this kind of actions.Then we're not talking about the same thing.  I'll make a graphic to depict this concept more clearly.  Until then, this conversation can't continue, because you will otherwise never believe that what I am proposing is possible.  I didn't believe it was possible, either... which is why I'm so excited about this idea because it actually does this [/quote]Okay. I didn't say anything about bluetooth. I'll buy them. Both functions are provided for in the same way, a 'sensor' mesh network that permits such devices to talk to each other, as well as an access point wireless dongle that permits all of these type devices to talk to the Internet at large. While this is true, it's far from a complete picture of the intergrated security model that full nodes have access to.  In order for a lightweight client to accept a payment transaction, it must either 1) have Internet and access to a supporting server or 2) accept the evidence that the sender's client provides.  Although a lightweight client sending to another should have no problem sending a copy of the input transactions, which the lightweight client can then verify that it fits into it's own claimed spot on the merkle tree connecting to it's own copy of the block header, this is still not quite the same as what options of verfications that a full client has.I don't see that, sorry.Of course, but this is holds no notable advantage over just a lightweight client once the running network can fully support them.  I can't really see what the use case is beyond what lightweight clients & pruning can't provide.Of course a lightweight client can download the merkle tree and verifty that.  It jsut needs to be able to identify conditions that would prompt that action based upon some local risk model.  There is nothing that prevents a lightweight client from collecting the block headers, and downloading up to and including an entire block if a risky inbound transaction is received.The block headers do contain accurate snampshot hashes.  That's why the merkle tree exists and why the merkle tree root(s) (current block & previous block) is in the block headers. Yet, 1) those goals are the same as the pruning & lightweight client features of the protocol, not yet ready and 2) I don't agree that those goals can be met with a dependent & parallel chain any better (and probably less well) than #1.  You're still talking about a potentially huge block/file that would have to be downloaded every ten minutes.  What gain is there in that?  Might as well stick with the main network or an overlay such as Stratum.And it's quite literally impossible for lightweigt clients to have the 'same confidence as" a full node.  The best that a lightweight client can have is some confidence.It certainly doesn't hurt to talk about it, but I don't agree that such an idea has merit when compared to other methods od achieving similar goals already discussed.  And if I can't see it, I'f wager that there are many more who are going to be sceptical of it's value as well.  Without a minimum critical mass, nothing is going to matter. Perhaps, but only if the benefit to the network is demonstratable as compared to alternatives.  While a p2p solution might be possible, it's not always necessary.  And if it's not necessary, it's not likely resource/economicly justifiable.  Bitcoin is p2p for sound reasons, but what reasons carry over to what amounts to a tracking service?  If the server that a particular client chooses should go down or be DDOS'ed, the result from the perspective of the user is the same as if he had left his service area; a temporary inconveince.  And in the case of header-only/lightweight clients, not necessarily even a dehibilitating one.  I'll admit, this idea has merit; but it seems to lack encentive.  I can admit I might be overlooking something here, but what gain does a miner have for participating and sharing his findings?  Both are important, because if his gains are personal, he then has limited incentive to share the results.A co-dependent blockchain with the same period as bitcoin itself seems like it's just adding noise.However, a daily digest of (postive) balances might be useful in a number of ways; with (perhaps) an hourly update produced of recent (but 6 confirms deep) changes to that digest.  I can see such a bitstream being used as a secondary verification of authenticity for major retail chains that didn't want to track the blockchain at every location, but wanted to also protect against some form of local hack/fraud/yet-unknown-attack-vector.  I could also see small, independent vendors on the edge of the network (read not enough bandwidth to commit) to maintain a realitively trustworthy local database of address balances so that he could accept bitcoin transactions from walk-in customers without getting hosed by every script-kiddie in his neighborhood. It's quite impossible for bitcoin to exceed, or likely even approach, a condition that would result in transaction fees exceeding those of credit card companys; for no other reason than bitcoin users would switch back and forth as it suits them, and the more it costs the fewer people it suits.That said, higher numbers of transactions per block also spreads the burdens.  The more (paying) transactions that a block includes, the more miners are going to stay after the block reward decreases.  No miners are required to include free transactions, so if there are more paying transactions in the queue than could fit within a single block, free transactions are simply going to have to wait till the rush passes.  That's fine for donations, or transactions between trusting parties, but higher transaction values & those with limited mutual trust are simply going to have to pay the market transaction costs to get things done faster.  If it's cheaper in transaction costs to buy your new car on credit, people will do it.  If it's cheaper to pay the bitcoin transaction fee and wait an hour, people will do that.  It's futile to try to guess how such contrived scenarios would work out, because the market would never let things get that far. Although this is an interesting idea, I don't think that it's viable.  How do you encentivise miners to secure this alt-chain?  However, a running balance table server isn't a bad idea as a pay-for service for light clients to use as a means to check their own addresses to make sure that they havn't missed something.  For example, one (or serveral) balance servers could exist that individual lightweight clients could contact out-of-bitcoin-band as a quick check upon startup, or a secondary check.  If the balance returned does not match, the lightweight client may have to try again, but if the balance returned matches what it thinks that it should have upon startup, the client can happily assume that it has all the relevant transactions to continue.The service could be paid for in an anonymous, monthly fee.  Once every 30 days or so, the client tries to send the chosen balance server a small tip, and the server collects the addresses presented in that transaction (since lightweight clients tend to use fewer new addresses, or a more sophisticated lightweight client for the desktop could simply create a special transaction that uses as many input address as may be important, or simply uses the monthy transaction to consolidate addresses into a new operating address producing the server's monthly fee in the process).  When the client is restarted in the middle of the month according to the datetime available to the client, it first checks to see what it thinks that it's balance is, and then sends off the appropriate requests to the subscribed balance server.  If the server responds with the matching balance, the client happliy can quick boot and be ready for action (like bitcoinspinner).  If the balance returned is differnet, the client then should tell the user that it needs to update itself before spending, and proceed to do so in the background.  If the server feels it's not been properly paid, it returns an error code; or of the address is unknown in the blockchain; which would likely be the same as a zero balance to a running balance server.  Lightweight clients (that hold block headers) could still manage local transactions sans live Internet access, but with a warning to the user that Internet was not present and this could present a risk.  This setup would allow android clients to get into a working condition as fast as BitcoinSpinner most of the time, while also permitting delayed transactions/offline transactions to occur, which BitcoinSpinner & BitcoinJ most certainly cannot do. Nominally, yes.  Practically, no. It might yet.  It's still part of the protocol, feel free to dive in and code it into a client fork; and we shall see where that takes us. Print me a Makerbot Cupcake and I'd be interested. That won't work.  The algo is smarter than that. You're the party treasurer, I take it? Couple hundred a month. You are easily amazed.I guess bitcoin doesn't quite 'feel' right to you, so you 'sense' that you can come up with something better, but simply don't know how.Concerning that "don't know how" part, have you ever stopped to consider the possibility that what you are considering actually isn't possible, even if you can imagine it is?Legitimate, perhaps.  But you've been harping about what you vaguely perceive as flaws in bitcoin, but can't articulate those concerns, including the one that started this thread.  Yet you are just as vague about solutions.  Don't tell me that an airship is better travel than a cruise ship, when you've never been on an airship and only walked on a cruise ship while docked.  Either give me details and credible reasons (i.e. ones that I can't shoot down in the first round, at least) or stop wasting my time. How do you propose to enforce your vision?Network effects be damned, eh?And implementation details are what I'm trying to get from you.  I sense that you didn't understand that question either, but pretty good dodge there. It's the price of electricity and the weather, for the little end user/miner who needs a little spot heat in a cold climate.
No, but I am skeptical of such attempts.  I've seen quite a few come and go, and only those that aim to fill a different niche than Bitcoin itself remain, such as Namecoin.Satoshi built this protocol pretty much all by himself; Gavin & the other current developers are great people, but they didn't have the vision to do this.  It would go a long way towards "making things more palatable" if 1) you stopped trolling about bitcoin until you have a real solution or 2) developed that real solution.  Keep in mind that this forum tolerates discussions about alt-coins in the right places, but if you are just going to enter in our house as a guest and then crap on the kitchen table then you are going to get some push-back.  No.  There was a logical procession of events that led this conversation here.  Splitting it would make no sense to the follow-up reader.  I think this side-topic is about dead anyway. What about bitcoin itself is unsatisfactory to this end?  Why do you assume that those whom would develop a currency off of bakcoin would view open source as a "no brainer"?  What if Micro$oft or Apple decided to do it, or Facebook?  What logic would lead you to conclude that an open source solution would be in their best interests?Interesting.  How, exactly, would this vote occur?  How would this prevent an unwanted currency from foundation; via some yet undefined algo or would there need to be a human authority to make such a decision?  If the latter, who watches the watchers? Who holds the veto power?I get the feeling that you really haven't thought these issues through.Oh, I've thought of better ways to do what you appear to want to do, but I can conceive of none that have any particular advantage over bitcoin as it exists.Who is qualified to make that determination?Do you really not see what I'm doing here? Over the counter. Good God man!  28 cents?!  Where are you that you pay that?  I pay about 9 cents per KWH, and I don't really even mine excepting to generally heat the mancave above my garage in winter. how's that working for you? Granted.  I still have no idea what you've been trying to say.Even if Bkcoin were open source, what makes you assume the currencies that use it for backing would be?  What mechanism would exist to ensure that such currencies were up to your standards?  From what I can tell, nothing.  What would happen if some scammer managed to get the necessary Bakcoin to start a currency, bootstrapped a small economy, and then raped it.  What prevents said scammer from absconding with the Bakcoin as well as parsiticly destroy his little fiefdom?  Really, I'm not seing what you're seeing; and since I'm far from ignorant about such matters despite your beliefs, I can hazard a guess that no one but you can see what yor're seeing. Again, what says that such currencies would be well designed, even if they are both open source & designed by the well intended?And there wre many predictable reasons why Solidcoin failed so badly.  Not the least of which was a lack of transparency.Okay, but how would such features be implementd?  And if you don't know how, how would Bakcoin contribute to their success in  quantifiable way?  Seriously, I'm not trolling; I really want to know how you think that this could work.  You're website is sparse on the details and thus far so have you been. Wow.  I'm suprised this guy could figure out how to turn on that camera.EDIT:  Someone with a Youtube account should ask this guy what happened to his videos concerning bitcoin, and if he is going to update same.  After all, he should take credit for calling the death of bitcoin, since it was all true.  His views on the Ron Paul movement is sickening. Maybe it's impossible, but you have an underdeveloped imagination. Don't assume that all the money to be made in bitcoin mining will come from the block rewards or transaction fees.  If bitcoin is big enough that walmart starts taking it, then target will also; but don't expect the mining operations of each (whether they do it themselves or contract out) will accept the transactions of the other.  To some degree, each of these major players are going to have to mine defensively so that they can control the delay times of their own transactions clearing while also being able to offer their customers the option of paying in bitcoin feelessly.Also, don't expect that walmart's mining datacenter is going to ever include transactions intended for Target, if they can identify those addresses. depends on who you are.  I find it unlikely that GPU mining is going to die among those who use the waste heat to warm their flats.  No matter how efficient the custom mining gear may become, there is no way that a professional mining outfit can compete with the guy just trying to make a litte lextra while keeping his bedroom warm in winter.  I suspect that, should bitcoin mining ever go truely pro, that GPU like processors ar going to be sold in strips of every 6 inches or so, and taped to the undersides of water & process piping like heat trace cabling is today.  The biggest mining pool in 2020 might end up the contractor in charge of maintaince on the Alaskan Oil Pipeline.  Or the population of Reykjavík, Iceland.  Two places that heat is in high demand while electricity is relatively cheap. http://libdspace.uwaterloo.ca/bitstream/10012/855/1/jlutz2003.pdfDedicated hardware, sure.  Not unlikely if the market should arise. Seems like we need a method for issuing short term bonds. The beauty of this split wallet method is that even if the main BitcoinSpinner server is successfully hacked, this does not expose the users to theft.  This is what makes BitcoinSpinner different and why I use it so much these days.  Well done, Jan; well done, indeed. Worse than the Democratic Party?  What would that be, the Greens? I'm curious.  What is the bitcoin donation address of the Democratic Party? It's not that it's too technical for Ron, nor is it true that he is unaware of it's existance.  I know that he has, at least, been introduced to it.  As has his son Rand.  Bitcoin is as dangerous a topic for a US politcal official as anything else, and one that need not be addressed.  The campaign could no more accept donations in bitcoin than it could accept donations in Euros; or for that matter, US Federal Reserve notes in person.  It's the campaign finance & reporting laws that get into the way.  Ron has made is opinion on alternative & competitive currencies well known, so he would be neither for nor against bitcoin. Looking to buy more bitcoin from anyone near Louisville, Kentucky via an in person cash transaction.  Post or PM if interested. The comments are telling.  I'd be willing to debate this guy, but I think I'm too old.  I have no idea how to upload a video. I wonder how long this guy is going to keep this video up.  I doubt that he will ever acknowledge bitcoin's virtues no matter how successful it is in the future."grandpa, can I have some bitcoins for my birthday?  I want to buy a new game.""No! bitcoins are not money!  They don't have any value, even if someone else thinks that they do!""But grandpa, no one takes paypal anymore!""Here, have some real money!  I know I've got some dollar bills around here somewhere.""Grandpa, no one takes paper anymore except to roll dope!"
Well, of course not.  But's that's true for anything, isn't it?  Transaction costs show up in every form of transaction, and transportation is one of those hidden ways.  It's one reason that Wal-Mart supercenters do so well even though the farmers' market has better pricing on produce, one stop shopping also means less fuel consumption.  You could add a get together on your next planned trip to Boston.  Check out their local makerspace in Boston, IIRC they do have bitcoiners there.  They might even have some makers who live closer to yourself. It's not a question of example.  They literally cannot do what a central banker could do.I didn't, but you're views one how a bakcoin supported cryptocurrency should work is inmaterial, what matters in that regard is the views & moral fortitude of the developers of said backed currency.  So it's reasonable for me to assume the lowest common denominator.And if you intended to have multiple altcoins that were very similar to bitcoin, why not use bitcoin?  If it;s too big to be a peer, why would being a peer in a smaller pond be more secure than being an end user in the bitocoin ocean? What city do you live in?  Most places have someone willing to trade for a commission, although it's not always cheaper than MtGox. Cool, I collect fiat currencies.  I don't have any Swiss Francs yet.  Got any to offer, mailled to America? Bullshit.  Neither Gavin nor Satoshi have it in their power to create bitcoins at will against the consent of the current community, which neither could ever hope to garner.  While any version of linden dollars or WoW gold, whether officially backed with something else or not, can be created in mass by whomever has direct root access to the server that manages that currency.Whatever that means, I most certainly do not want further details.I don't even know what that means. As I've already mentioned, such flexibility not only exists, it was part of the original protocol from the beginning, those 'tweeks' are just not part of the running code at this time.That sounds fine, but you don't offer a how.What stops any major vendor from using bitcoin as a backing for a store currency?  After all, that's exactly what gift cards & store credit are, store currencies that are fixed to & backed by the US $.  WalMart could do this with bitcoin tomorow, permitting bitcoin users to submit bitcoins into a website for store credit onto a gift card thus bundling as many transactions that the user desires to use that card for into the single bitcoin transaction that placed the credit onto the card.  This solves teh problem with regard to scalibility, locality, transaction fees & clearing delays with bitcoin proper; at the expense of a 'local' centralization in the sense that one must trust walmart to ack honorableley with as much value as one is willing to trust them with, yet this method doesn't require some new & untested (much less undeveloped) proposal. For a varity of valid reasons, I should add.  Not simply FUD. You're going to have to prove that you can do it without supernodes, because bitcoin certainly hasn't displayed that capacity.  Again, full nodes are supernodes; so I want to know how you can create a cryptocurrency to compete with bitcoin without full nodes and without further centrallization.  I say it's not possible, and want you to prove your statement that you can. Wouldn't that then make the designers the new central bankers?Sure seems that you've already spent a great deal of time just on the website.Based upon what I've seen thus far, i would have to say that I'm of the opinion that you have failed in this endeavor. Prove it. So, if the exchanges are issuing their own cryptocurrencies backed with bakcoin, how does that make them any different than a central bank?While gold has been largely useless for any other reason than money or to make pretty things for women for most of the 6000 years it's been in use, this is no longer true.  It's not used in industry not because it doesn't have real uses for it's unique physical characteristics, but because it's monetary value prices it outside of those uses.  It's actually more abundent in our modern world than silver, because silver has significant industrial uses that largely cannot be substituted for less than the market value of the silver.  If the monetary value of gold were to ever crash completely, gold would hit the open market for a great many products.Those were all failures of centralization, not of bitcoin.  Those would tend to limit the trend towards centralization, begetting more paranoid users like yourself who seek other solutions.  This is a feature, not a bug.You're going to have to explain that one.  Because user can choose to offer a transaction fee means that bitcoin is no differant than fiat systems?  Really?  You do know that you don't actually have to pay those fees, right?To each his own.  Honestly I hope you do get your altcoin going, because I truely believe that every one of us are here for a purpose; and if you can't be an example you might as well be a warning. While that looks like an awesome hidden service, how is the ownership of the site you linked to protected?  If the autorities can figure out who set up that site, and there is no reason to assume that they cannot, finding the hidden server simply involves some baseball bat interrogation. There is only one truth, however that truth is presently replicated in 10K+ places.  But for the sake of argument, let's consider this...Not, in fact, correct.  The 'light' clients that I have been referring to are also mentioned in Satoshi's white paper.  Presently the network sends the entire block as a whole digital artifact, but that isn't necessary.  The protocol permits a block header, merkle tree, and transactions to be transmitted as indepedent digital artifacts.  This small change in the network implimentation of the protocol would go a long way towards reducing redundency and reducing bandwidth.  It would also permit a light client to request only the headers, merkle tree & only the transactions that contain addresses that concern itself.  Furthermore, full nodes on the edge of the network (think middle Africa) can receive the blocks in a digital stream instead of participating in the full netowrk.  There are several different modals permitted by the protocol than jsut what is presently dominate.  The network is the way it is right now because that core backbone netowrk is required, but it doesn't need to remain the only way to get the blocks.That was also a deliberately extreme example of a workable solution.  The more likley result would be a high end rack mount server with a gigibit service & a cryptographic hardware co-porocessing unit to off-load the burdens of transaction verifications.  This only applies to nodes that would be taking the full traffic of the bitcoin netowrk in a future that puts bitcoin as larger than the economy of the US, which woudl be comparable to drinking from a firehose.  This kind of node verifies everything that passes through it's control before being forwarded to it's many peers.  It's not necessary for every node to verify the validity of a transaction before forwarding it, by default a lightweight client couldn't verify anything.  All nodes do that now because all full clients are supernodes.  Again, there is nothing that says you can't continue to do so till the end of time, but it's not necessary for anyone besides miners or the truly paranoid.Well, my 4 year old android cell phone has more processing power than the most powerful Cray available 30 years ago.  That said, why does Joe Sick Pack need to run a full client(supernode) himself?  Why can't he hire a service to act in his behalf?  Or if he doesn't want to trust some corporation to track his balances (such as BitcoinSpinner) what stops him from joining or starting a co-op to do that for him?  Why is it full client or bust?Why?  Why would that be 'back to the drawing board'?  I don't think that we will ever get there because of the incentives involved with transaction fees, but what if we did?  Full time pruning of teh blockchain puts a high end limit to just how large the blockchain can become without each and every new transaction resulting in the pruning of some previous transaction.  So far, it's impossible for any transaction on the main network with less than a single Satoshi, and likewise impossible for the transaction fee to be less than a single Satoshi.  Overlay netowrks are destined to take much of this traffic burden off the main netowrk in an effort to avoid transaction fees and bundle mutiple transactions into a single send-to-many transaction to settle up at the end of the business day. Which is the driving force for 1) development and adoption of light & blockchainless clients 2) Stratum and other similar overlay networks such as is used by blockchainless clients (BitcoinSpinner) 3) full implimentation of Satoshi's protocol, in particular the parts that support independent light clients without an overlay network.I've brought up those concerns years ago myself, long before the bitcoin wiki existed, much less had a 'scalability' section.  You're far from the first to bring these issues up.  Don't get me wrong, the practical scalability of the network is a real issue, and just saying "the market will find a way" isn't really good enough, but there are very smart people that have and are working on those issues.Really?  Never heard of any alternative ideas?  I've personally mentioned Stratum three times in this thread just this week.  I also mentioned BitcoinSpinner & similar clients in this thread; which despite your views actually is the market responding to your issue of scalability.  You  might not like the idea of some guy  running such a server to aid blockchainless clients because you consider it centralization, but have you ever considered running your own Stratum server?  Do I need to add a link so that you can find it?That's true enough, taken alone.  usually such need-meeting things have a set of common characteristics that lead most people to collectively refer to such things as "money".  So deliberately creating a currency that is the reverse of good money seems like a poor design decision.So that I am clear on this, are you trying to move the trust metric away from the unit of currency?  Bitcoin tries to eleminate the need for trusted intermediaries and onto the collective protocol & network; are you trying to create a currency that no one trusts for anything or are you trying to move the trust onto the exchanges that would be using bakcoin to start their own smaller cryptocurrencies?I see a number of reasons that I wouldn't trust it for anything, based on just your implied design.  If I, as an end user wouldn't trust it as a medium of exchange, why would I trust an exchange that used it as a backing for their own vanity cryptocurrency?  In turn, why should the exchanges trust it, or each other? Okay, you see it.  Help me see what you see.  Do you hear voices too?  Just because you see it doesn't make it real.  Explain.And how would non-money work as a reserve currency? And why would that be helpful in your view?Wow.  Gresham's law in inverse.  I don't know how to respond to that.  I'm not even sure that I should other than 'corrolation is not causation'. And why would you expect that deliberate deflation would contribute to longevity of a cryptocurrency?  That actually defys one of the root conditions for an ideal money, namely that it doesn't require special conditions to keep it from rotting, slipping away or killing it's owner.  Otherwise wheat, mercury or plutonium would have made fine commodity monies alongside gold & silver. I went to bakcoin.org and read your ideas.  I hope you're not an econ undergrad, but I suspect that you are.  There is nothing like a little knowledge unconnected with experience to beget such a bad idea.  But don't feel like I'm belittling your ideas, sometimes us old guys have to eat crow.  A deliberately deflationary (and punative) cryptocurrency might have a niche.  Go out and make it, and let the free market decide.EDIT: On page #3 you refer to the 'monolithic' nature of bitcoin.  I don't think that word means what you think that it means.EDIT2: What is your understanding of what a 'supernode' would look like in a future with bitcoin exceeding the transaction rates of Visa?  And under what conditions could the successful growth of bitcoin to that transaction level directly lead to it's failure? Reading this made me think of this....http://www.dilbert.com/strips/2012-05-25/I say Stratum is a better plan, but whatever.  I really wasn't asking for your ideas, only checking to see if you had any.  Now take those ideas and fork the bitcoin code.  Start your new & imporoved altcoin, and we shall see.  If you are right, everyone here, including myself, will eventually be using your altcoin and you will have been the ultimate early adopter.  I, for one, don't begrudge Satoshi his early mining gains, nor would I begrudge yours if you turn out to be correct.  But I don't thingk that you're correct, so I'll hang out here for a while longer. I ment that we can't take it down, and detractors are going to find a way to replicate this even if it didn't exist.Whatever will be will be. Fair enough.  Let's assume for a moment that your not trolling, and that your concerns are valid.Do you have any suggestions for improving the protocol?
We don't control that website, and thus don't control that metric.  Fudders are gonna fud.  It's what they do.And the membership of this forum crossed 10K months ago, but there is no chance that the ownership of this forum is going to start counting IP addresses.  That wouldn't be any more relevant a metric anyway.  Not only do not all members run their own client, much less one full time; there are many more people who use bitcoin who don't have memberships.  Again, the growth or decline of the number of listening-but-not-mining clients is irrelevent to the function or resilence of the bitcoin network whether they are on the open Internet or some PVN.  Beyond some minimum number required to support the bandwidth of the network as a whole, that is.  The very fact that we can't know how many (or where are) all the network's nodes happen to exist is, itself, a contribution to it's resiliance.  An attacker can DOS the pools or exchanges, because he can find out it's IP address and a government agent can steal a server because he can find the farm that holds it; but these things cannot stop the bitcoin network for no other reason that you cannot kill what you cannot catch.  At worst, these kinds of events simply disrupt the network temporaroly and force more users towards Tor and I2P. There is no incentive for the end user to keep their bitcoind running 24/7 because there is no gain for the network, either.  A non-mining node that is just on the network listening and relaying adds nothing, so long as there exists somewhere one running with the entire blockchain.  It only takes one, and the mining pools' clients count.  Bitcoin does gain a little in the 'many-copies-keeps-data-safe' area, but that's just as true regarding a client that doesn't normally listen or one that just connects every few days to update it's blockchain.  This amounts to the greatest of non-issues for bitcoin.Again, not relevent.  The very fact that the numbers quoted here can't be trusted should be proof enough that this issue isn't and issue. A better question is this...Can you, without asking for special permission nor paying anyone for the privilege, set up a 'peer' to Wells' machines?  It's the ability to peer, not the reality, that makes bitcoin different from Wells Fargo. I'm begining to suspect that you do not understand how bitcoin actually works, what decentralization means in the context of economic science, nor what it means to be a 'peer'. Forget about moonbounce, just bounce it off of the F2 ionosphere with a near-vertical incident skywave (NVIS) single-sideband ham transciever connected to a standard stereo soundcard. You pretty much described how coin mixers work in your OP. If you truly feel that way, I'll be the adult an offer to relieve you of your entire burden of unspent bitcoins for $2 apeice.  Which, according to your theory, is $1.99 more than their true worth.In the meantime, the rest of us are going to keep doing what were doing, okay? More and more personal nodes also are "quiet" nodes as well, whether or not they are listening hosts.  Basicly this means that they don't announce their IP address in any fashion, and may also primarily use a VPN, Tor or I2P.  Which means that they might accept incoming connections, but the incoming node must first be aware of the IP address of the quiet node.  This could be because those two nodes have connected in the past, or the IP address of the quiet node was revealled to the other node over the bitcon network itself.  Certainly not all nodes can be quiet, but any node can switch from quiet to normal to offline and back whenever the user wishes.  My own node is fairly quiet when I have it on, and does accept incoming connections from nodes that it recognizes, but isn't online at all most of the time. +1 TangibleCryptography As for myself, most of my 'early adopter' wages have already been spent.  I did profit well in the several years since I bought my first 1000 BTC, but I can profit little more now.  I now have less than 100 BTC left from that original set.  My son asked me not so long ago, "If the price has increased so much Dad, do you regret spending what you had for less?"  My reponse was, "No, because I did well by speculating early and gained much of what I wanted to buy when I sold them; much more (speaking in the context of value to my son) than the original bitcoins cost me.  I literally couldn't lose now if the value of a bitcoin dropped to zero tomorrow."I've bought video game licenses, handmade jewlry off of Etsy for my daughter, pretty rocks for both of them, server rentals, clothing, cell service on several occasions, food of several sorts (mostly candy) and recently baklava; among other things that shall remain unmentioned.  The key to selling stuff for bitcoins, and thus seperating early adopters from their bitcoins, is to offer an advantage with bitcoin versus other (more established) alternatives.  You could offer a small discount compared to credit cards/paypal, or a more private or more convient alternative than standard methods.  Silk Road depends upon this, and can charge a premium because their method of handling bitcoins are a huge advantage concerning the limitation of legal risk for buyers as well as sellers. Last week, I spent almost $400 worth of bitcoins to buy exactly $400 worth of prepaid cell phone top-up card numbers.  I got a discount from face value of 4% compared to the precise exchange rate at the time.  I did it, in part, because I knew that Virgin Mobile USA was just about to alter their resalers' terms in such a way that future discounts were unlikely.  Since my monthly service rate is $25 per month, I'm sitting on 16 months worth of cell service that I know that I will use.  Yes, I was just as likely to gain as much or more over the next 16 months by holding the bitcoins and paying as I go, but that's a risk.  I still have bitcoins to do that with, and still plan on buying more, but the phone card numbers are a solid win so long as Virgin Mobile USA doesn't go bankrupt in the next 16 months and I don't lose those numbers before I can use them.Basicly, I'm hedging against a fall in the bitcoin exchange rate.  I believe that bitcoins are going to stay pretty much the same for most of that time, and I neither believe a drop nor a rally is likely, but I don't know.   Oh, I use Amazon all the time.  I wish I had seen this one last week, I spent over $200 in a single sitting, and that wasn't even my only order that day.  Would this also work for kindle e-books? Doesn't matter as long as pruning is enabled. I'm pretty sure that Electrum uses a similar method for desktop machines, but I'm not sure about how ready that client is.  The last I heard it was still beta. Why a geosat?  Those are much more expensive for a number of reasons, and a geosat can't cover the entire earth, we would need at least three of them.  There would be no practical method of determining which transactions originated from any particular nation, even if that were a desirable goal. I don't know why it would need to be hashing.  A node with a full blockchain would be good though, with some method of communicating with it.  An Amsat would work for that. A 'light client' is one of a couple of slightly different hacks, all that are intended to allow the user to have a local wallet.dat while not requiring the full blockchain.  The two big ways this works are 1) blockchain headers only client and 2) split wallet.dat client.  #1) Doesn't really save much bandwidth yet, because the network doesn't (yet) support partial block downloads so right now they have to download the whole block before discarding the parts it does not need, which is all of the transactions that do not include inputs or outputs that use any of it's own addresses.  However, #2 does work at present, and one wonderful such example is BitcoinSpinner for the Android smartphone OS.  How it works is that the phone keeps the addresses & their associated private keys encrypted on the phone, while the rest of what is kept in the normal wallet.dat file is kept on an account with the BitcoinSpinner server.  The server knows your (very few) addresses, and tracks your balances for you.  When you need to send money, your phone will inform the server to whom you need to send a transaction and for how much.  The server then creates the transaction based upon it's local blockchain & what part of the wallet.dat that it possesses, and then sends that to your phone which then uses the private keys to sign the transaction, and sends it back to the server, which then sends it to the network.  Method #1 was described in the original white paper by Satoshi, but method #2 seems to be the more practical method at this time. Bitcoin isn't perfectly anonymous, this is correct.  Additional measures need to be taken in one wishes to remain anonymous with those whom he actually is involved in business with.  Bitcoin is fairly good at keeping third parties out of your private business, however.  It is true that any person with whom you have already sent funds to can forever associate you with those addresses, unless you use a 'tumbler' service to hide your own addresses; however that only applies to those exact addresses and does not necessarily mean that your other addresses can be associated with them.  That's not impossible either, but takes some professional level mapping of the blockchain to do so and is something that can be completely avoided with some care.Tor only hides the IP address of the machine from which you are doing business, but the second part of that statement above is incorrect.  You do not have only one address to send from, you have as many addresses to send from as you have used to receive previously.  Funds are not bundled together unless 1) you deliberately do so by combining your funds under a single address sent to yourself or 2) you create a large send transaction that requires that the client use the funds from multiple addresses in order to meet the amount required.  In either case, the association of those addresses can be assumed after the transaction is sent to the network, but not before; and your client will not attempt to reuse those same addresses unless someone sends more funds to those addresses at a later date. It's a different ball game.  The largest part of bootstrapping the blockchain, either on first boot or a catchup, involves verifying each block before proceeding to the next one.  This is both a compuationally & disk access intensive process.  There are ways that future clients could improve significantly on this, but right now the focus is on primary function & security, not performance. This is something that developers have considered.  You need to use a light client, not a full node.
Wow, you're full of information aren't you?  Most of it wrong.  You just quoted an ambient temp for a nearly perfect vacuum, which is something that has no meaning.  The surface temp of any object that does not produce it's own heat is a balance point of radiation received and radiation emitted.  Outside of Earth's atmosphere and in direct sunlight, that surface temp is closer to 92 Degree Celsius.   To get anywhere near the number you quoted an object would either have to be so far away from the Sun that it was barely larger a star than any other, or permanently in the shadow of a major object that did not emit infrared heat from it's dark side.  The only reason that space could be considered 'cold' anywhere near Earth's own solar orbit, or anywhere on our side Mars, would be because the boiling point of water is below it's own freezing point, evaporating off your skin instantly and taking heat with it for as long as it lasts.  That would be the least of your worries, though.  And it has zero to do with how to regulate the temp of a space born mining rig. Yes, but there are no GUI wallet programs that support it yet. There are rules to the minimum fee structure and miners and nodes are free to enforce whatever fees that they want. Ah, I see.  A bitcoin card can't be a  passive RFID.  It has to be an active id by it's nature.  Good luck cloning those. Demurrage can't work in a bitcoin-like cryptocurrency without breaking something.  I've looked pretty deep into this before, and wish I were proven wrong.  So far, it just adds too much complexity or it fails to encourage the desirable activities such as deliberate consolidation of inputs.  One thing that could be done is to add a new rule to the minimum fee structure that adds a relative increase in the minimum fee after a year or so, in such a way that long term savings accounts end up paying for their past security eventually; but that's not really demurrage and doesn't contribute much to consolidation of the blockchain nor does in contribute anything to the running security. What is a proxmark? <sigh>Do some research on the matter.Unless you intend to carry a second phone to actually make calls, texts or use the Internet while mobile; you're going to turn that mode off eventually.  I'm not concerned about a live hacker taking my money, I'm concerned about a worm or virus that steals android wallets.  That only takes a few seconds. Smartphones are just computers that are always accessible to the Internet.  Android can be, and has been, hacked.  No thanks.  I have an android phone and won't keep more than petty cash on it.  I want a device that is inherently more secure than an operating system with continuous Internet access that can still transact in a relatively conveint fashion.  I can have a perfectly secure savings account printed onto archival paper & in my safe that I can send money to all day, but I can't readily use that on a normal basis though. No it's not.  You're just not understanding.To varying degrees, many are and have in the past.  I'm talking about a computer program implimenting a standard speculation stragedgy.A billionare doesn't need to colude with anyone in order to defend the peg in a $40million market.  By definition, his resources are already unlimited within the trading range of $5+-.10.  The only way the market maker stands to lose in this scenario is if the natural price shoots towards zero and he ends up owning all of it.  After which there is no more market to make. It's not theft buck, it's how currency markets are supposed to work.  There are a dozen small nations in South America that openly & deliberately 'peg' their local currencies to the US $, and this is exactly how they do it.the scammers are undermining confidence in the market.  no one wants to play in a market they know will rob them.   we will regain some market confidence when the scammers are caught and exposed[/quote]You assume that this invovles some kind of fruad.  I'm telling you that it doesn't require that.  All it requires is one person with the resources to buy the entire market and the apparent willingess to actually risk that occurring.  He can defend the price floor until the last bitcoin is his.  What he cant do forever is defend the high end forever.That's a different subject altogether. It's when a barrel is so hot, that it bakes a cheap primer into firing.  I've literally never seen anything like this actually happen, and I've fired an M60 until the barrel glowed red and each new round produced a white hot dot on the barrel that zipped down and out.  Throwing them into a fire will blow them, but it's the caged force of being inside of a chamber that is dangerous.Not that throwing ammo into a fire is actually safe. Nonesense, all he needs is enough funds to be able to buy out the entire market, which would be exceedingly easy to do for any billionare willing to do it.  If the bot is set up to buy (with resources at least as large as the whole market, which is effectively limitless for this tiny market) at $4.90 with a delay of several hours, he can accumulate bitcoins for $4.90 or sometimes less without dramaticly affecting the volume adjusted price.  By selling at $5.10 (again, with a delay) he sells them at $5.10 or more.  The delay exists to 1) let smaller players soak up the price movements in order to stretch out his funds and 2) to obscure the presence of a "wall".  The only way for said player to lose money in the near term is if 1) everything goes sour in a hurry and he ends up buying all the bitcoins in existance at that price level (as in a major security hole is found in the protocol that cant be fixed, unlikley at this point) so that volume goes to zero because he already has them all and there are no buyers or 2) the price movement that wants to trend lower overwhelms his funds.  If the top end of the bot is ever overwhelmed then the investor still makes money in the process of defending the top end of his target trading range.  Not as much as he could have if he let the top end seek it's market price, granted, but he can't lose money by buying at $4.90 and selling at $5.10 even if he doesn't have the resources to defend the peg.  Perhaps the top and bottom aren't rigid price points, but percentages.  There are major market makers in the commodities markets that do things on the stock market this way to prevent (or profit from) 'buy the rumor, sell the news' type panic movements.  The goal of such a bot isn't primarily to profit from price movements, although it generally does except in extreme conditions.  It's primary goal is to suppress voltility for a time to permit the market to mature as well as develop a 'safe' reputation; and the profit taking occurs in the long run.  It's speculation taken to a long view.That is functionally what the bot does.  Perhaps the bot is  set up to set aside 5% of the coins it buys on dips, so tht if the high end of the bot is ever overwhelmed (selling 95% of all teh coins it's accumulted) then the bot owner still has the las 5% to take full profits from once the market price has found it's new home.  Set the bot up again with a new trading range, rinse repeat.  Again, the only way the investor stands to lose under this scenario is after the whole bitcoin market grows bigger than he is.  Any investor knows how big he wants to be, few are going to get caught off guard in this sense.This is true, and exactly what I said the long term goal would have to be.  Did you bother to read it?So?It only takes one big market maker to do the job.  If others come along later a see that some bigwig has already set up his system, maybe they do look for another market, but so what?  Again, this is a long view speculation, the speculation being that the bigwig is betting on the long term success of bitcoin.  Isn't that what we all are doing?  The suppression of voltility imply mimics a larger & mroe mature currency market, which is what small businesses want to see before diving in. By encouraging these small businesses to dive in, the invetor wills his prediction to become reality as the market really does mature under his watch and voltility really does stableize just as the bigwig is ready to withdraw his deliberate support and start to take his profits.  Notice it's not in his best interest to take all his prifits in any particular time frame.We actually don't want that. I think that I can explain it.  The Price stickiness at just under $5 (i.e. price drops to just below $5 per btc, and then recovers) imlies that there is a hidden buy order at around $4.90. (or more likely a bot) There is no way for us to know how big this buy order actually is, but assuming that it's actually just one major player iwth the buyorder, the past several months have already shown that it's someone well heeled & with a tolerance for risk.  It could be just about anyone with a couple million dollars in their petty spending account, but there is one particular billionare that comes to mind for me.  If correct, it means that someone is quietly both supporting bitcoin & intentionally damping voltility; perhaps with a /exchangecompanion sell order at $5.10 or so, thus range bounding the price.  Obviously if true, both the buy and sell orders are delayed execution type orders which would be likely if the intent is to suppress voltility and not invest per se, because it gives other speculators a chance to soak up the price movements before the bigwig's bot kicks in.  This makes sense for any major player with the funds to be able to dominate this little market, because it would not only allow said bigwig to quietly build up a substantioal amount of bitcoin wealth over time, without sending the price to the moon; it also allows the bigwig to profit later because suppressing voltility is what helps the (more risk adverse) small business type economy to mature.  Eventually, it then becomes in the bigwig's own interest to remove the top limit and leak the info that said bigwig has been investing in bitcoin; thus permitting the btc price to double or triple on that news alone.Think about it, if the news came out today that some semi-famous investment billionare was buying bitcoins; say perhaps one that has a history of picking major tech/Internet winners while young, who had a well known and strong libertarian streak, who was highly tolerant towards risks (a venture capitalist, perhaps), a history in the online currency/money markets and a well-known connection to the cutting edge of the Interent; then the 'hangers on' that follow investors like that one would flood into bitcoin in short order, thus sending the exchange price back towards it's record in short order.  Said billionare then sells half his accummulation of bitcoins at four or five times the price he bought them for, restablelizes the price at a higher price point, makes a killing and still has a fortune left in bitcoin.  And bitcoin also gains withthe suddenly public knowledge that bitcoin has the very kind of backing that detractors claim that it does not because that isn't explicit. That would just mean that you should buy them in pairs, like deuling sets. Such as? Webcam hack? A false fact.  Only bullets designed to pierce body armor in handgun calibers are considered 'armor piercing' under US law, as a standard velocity deer rifle in full metal jacket can defeat all but the best of body armor that is available.  One such example would be the FN Five-Seven series (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FN_5.7%C3%9728mm) because the weapons were designed for the bullet, and the bullet was designed specifically to be used by military users who often needed more penentration because other militaries use light body armor.  As such, the standard velocity bullets for these weapons require a special import license, and a reduced velocity round is sold in the US.  Because of this handicapped nature in the US market, the Five-Seven handguns don't have the "stopping power" that they do for European police users (and irony like I have never seen) so the current police choice is the 10mm and will remain so because the 10mm & 9mm are cheaper. Any super-sonic high power rifle round is 'armor piercing' since the usual definition of that term is that it can defeat a class II body armor vest, but it's meaningless these days since most police are issued a class III vest and the military uses Class IV 'dragonskin' vests.  Only the class IV vests stand any chance of stoping a 30-06 standard velocity hunting round, but even if it succeeded, the wearer would likely have life threatening internal injuries due to the kick in the chest he just got.  Whether or not they are marketable in the US has less to do with the reality of their armor piercing ability and everything to do with their construction.  Generally, green dotted ammo is military surplus stuff, full metal jacketed, and thus is just fine for sale, but I don't recommend you sale it unless you know for sure.  I have caseloads of green dotted rounds for an old pre-soviet Russian rifle.  It just a color-coding that generally means standard rifle velocity. I can't disprove you, and didn't intend to.  I was just asking what your price point was, should the community prove both willing and able to hit that price point.  I consider compatition a good thing, but it's still replication of work and if it can reasonablely be avoided, benefits all concerned.  Replication of work can't always be reasonablely be avoided.  I'm personally not interested in a fpga solution, even though I would consider it technically superior.  I'm personally interested in an asic solution, because I can use the waste heat to warm my home in winter, so I believe that basement mining operations will always be a factor, because professional mining operations not only have to deal with the overhead of dumping heat, they also have to outperform the basement miners to such a degree to overcome the economic advantages of co-generation. Thereortically yes, but here's the problem with that...1) would shove many marginal banks into insolvency.  The federal reserve exists to prevent this, they are not really going to ever do this to any degree that would really matter.2) would do pretty much the same thing as above, so again, not going to do it to any effective degree and3) would, for many reasons, increase the effective interest rate that the government pays to it's own banks for rollover debt financing.  Which would bankrupt the government which holds a monopoly on force within the same nation that said banks reside.  I can't really see that one happening either.Well, there is a sweet spot, it's just always moving and we don't know what it is.  And we can't know what it is except in hindsight.  That's the 'fatal conceit' that Hayak talked about.Close enough.There are actually better 'catastrophy' investments than bitcoin.  Silver is one, to a point.  So are bullets for coo=mmon calibers even if you don't own a gun, because of the varoius commodites used in the product as well as teh practical usefullness of the item in teh worst of conditions.  Obviously this should come after a well stocked pantry & a couple of cans of kerosene.  In the house of the wise are stores of choice food and oil, but a foolish man devours all he has. Proverbs 21:20 Interesting.  A capsule RV.
Then how do I use it? As lucrative as it can be to be to be a dealer, that doesn't usually compare to how lucrative it is to be the market maker, so you're probably right. I can't say that I've ever has such a good experience with it.  I found that it takes many times longer than my Imac wallet.  Perhaps it's a difference in hardware, since my android is several years old now and only has a 800mhz single core.  I've also had it stall for hours on end, and even crash the entire phone resulting in a reboot.  Which all contributed to my decision to move to BitcoinSpinner, which works flawlessly on my phone, so long as I have a 3G connection. I have no idea, and I question whether that is even knowable to anyone that doesn't deal with silk road, which I don't. EDIT:  If it is, then the owner of Silk Road hasn't taken much of his profits.  How does he pay to keep it all running without cashing some out? That's almost certainly a coin tumbler escrow.  The semi-random automatic transactions that are constantly moving small amounts around and back helps to hide the true volume of in-out transactions.  The collection into a single address also tends to hide who is paying whom, should an observer be able to link an address to a person in some other way, such as standard detective work.  The claim that it's the tumbler for silk road is likely, but irrelevent because no one knows who silk road actually is.  That's akin to saying "I can track MoonShadow's money, because I have his address!", the anominity then rests with "Who the hell is MoonShadow?" I understand that developing such a product requires huge investments and risks, but this community is rabidly pro open source.  You might succeed at this for a time, but someone is going to replicate it and release it to the wild eventually.  I'm sure that you understand that, so the goal is to get as much profit from it as you can before the open source developers catch up.  May I offer an alternative to all this?  If you have an idea of how much revenue you expect to earn, let us know.  You can proceed with your licensing method however you see fit, but if the community can raise the funds, would you accept a collective donation in order to release the bitstream open source? +1 for this service.  Excellent turn around time and customer support.  I maxed out my Virgin Mobile phone.  Yes, that was me. Sure they do.  They are usually made of concrete, and support a great deal more weight than a dogsled.    I've personally gone through drive throughs on a bicycle, the trick is to find where in the concrete the magnetic sensor is and put the bike wheel directly over it, so I suppose that you would need to have steel rails. $3.50 in BTC, I presume.  Does that include the shipping? Ah, I see.  I know what firmware is, but I've never heard it called a bitstream before. I'm interested, but I'm not understanding something.  What is the "bitstream" in this context, and what is it for? Well, if blockexplorer has the transaction, everyone else should as well.  This is quite the mystery If it has a lot of input transactions to create this one output transaction, that would explain the high fee, but as long as the fee was actually paid there shouldn't be any trouble getting it into a block. Yeah, I gave up on mine months ago and moved to BitcoinSpinner. Doing great so far, and yes, banking defaults are themselves deflationary.  Any 'money' that they create by fractional reserve lending (it's not the multiple that is often implied, the new money is forced into creation as the loans are repaid with real cash, and the interest on loans without any bank reserves to support them become the new money.  Ultimately, though, the fed is forced to create that money due to the demand that fractional reserve banks have created.) is then destroyed when those loans go bad and teh bank defaluts.That depends upon what you consider a 'win'.  Yes, the Federal Reserve can literally create as much money as is necessary to contradict price deflation in the near term.  However, they 1) can't dictate into which sector that liquidity primarily goes into, which is why we have a succession of market bubbles.  The inflation has never been even across the entire economy at any point in history; and 2) is they take the printing too far, then they risk the destruction of the public trust in the currency, which results in the hyperinflationary death of the currency.  Since their entire world revolves around that trust, and hyperinfaltion would destroy the banking system that gives the Federal reserve it's reason for existance, the fed governors are not going to risk that unless forced into it by poltical events beyond their control.  This is why, always and everywhere in history, the hyperinfaltionary death of a fiat currency has always been triggered by a political event wuch as a war or a revolution.  Bankers know why their currencies die, and won't permit it without a fight.  That is also why the FedReserve is traditionally a politically independent entity, to insolate it's leadership from political pressures.  It's never really worked that way, but it was a good idea.Yes, it will.  That is, it will if there is still enough trust in the system to prevent a hyperinflationary death. It doesn't have to be the case, but wherever the monetary base is ridgid and the credit system is limited (as in full reserve lending) there has never been a case that could be held up as an example of a deflationary period that was predominately caused by anything other than increases in productive efficiency or growth of the economy.  While I'll concede up front that doesn't mean that such events are impossible, they are most certainly possible under fractional reserve lending & fiat monetary systems unattached to a commodity base.  We are living through just such an event right now, namely the contraction of the monetary base due to the rapid fall of credit.  While the majority of the effects have thus far been mitigated by the Fed's massive increases in the monetary base (M1 or M-prime) this only works to keep prices stable while the economy is still contracting.  Once the economy actually starts to recover, there is no practical process for the Fed to recall that liquidity, and thus a future of massive price inflatin is already backed into the cake.  Flexible monetary systems resonate and do so in an unbalanced direction, always favoring inflation of the maonetary base in the long run.  This was less possible under a gold standard with full reserve lending practices, and is actually impossible under bitcoin.  Bitcoin can 'resonate' but must, by design, do so in a balanced fashion.  There is mathmaticly no other possibility. Tell that to the Japanese.  Just-in-time manufacturing ate Detroit's lunch in the 1980's.  Print-on-demand & every aspect of the Internet is doing the same thing for the media industries today. You could have been stationed in Japan for an entire career, and never really understand the culture your wife came from.  Just the fact that she was willing to marry you implies that she is one of the exceptions, but I'd wager that if you asked her about the Ainu she would tell you that it's a subject best not discussed in polite company.  Ask her why a six plate dinner set is a bad wedding gift.  Ask her if your black suit is okay for her grandfather's funeral.  The Japanese are a walking contradiction in many subtle ways.  None of this has anything at all to do with whether or not my idea has merit in America, but the implication that Japan is the emotionally mature culture to emulate is both rediculous and insulting because it implies that has been the case for some time.  Both their national education system & national constitution were designed by a US general in occupation, if the Japanese culture is 'emotionally mature' today it's largely due to the fact that the Japanese people regarded defeat as a sign of infierority and proceeded to assimulate the best qualities of the culture of the US while trying to keep the best qualities of the original culture.  Whether or not they were successful is a matter of opinion, and you are welcome to your own, but when you present your opinion as self evident fact using circular support you can trust that I will call you on the bullshit every time I see it. What, no more hyping up of a culture that you don't really understand, Corned?EDIT:  Hey corned, if you know any Japanese friends, ask them about the Ainu (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ainu_people) just one time and I can promise you that you will never be bothered by their presence again.  To this day the Japanese are more opposed to inter-racial marriages with the Ainu than a KKK member in 1930's Mississippi, and even they have trouble detecting the racial differences.  The Japanese don't really have a cultural problem with a Japanese woman marrying an American, whatever their race, but they do have a problem with the Ainu. I still say that Mish has a better grasp of deflation/inflation than either of them, and a far better predictive record than either as well.  Ironicly, he's not a "trained" (read academic) economist.  He's just naturally talented.  Rich Mayberry, the author of the Whatever happen to ...?  series, is another such natural talent.That said, Schiff's viewpoints are valid from a certain perspective, as are Krugman's.  In both cases, it's difficult to get someone to understand something contradictory to his worldview, particularly when his income is somewhat dependent upon him not understanding.  Both Schiff & Krugman fall into this group, while Mayberry & Mish do not.  In the latter case, both make the majority of their income from their own investments & selling data about said investments and their reasoning.  Technically that would be true for Schiff as well, but not really in practice.  Schiff also might have been influenced by his father, logically, and the long term prison sentence his father received for challenging the legitimacy of the IRS.  (Made worse by actually being correct, the government really comes down hard on that.)
Capsule hotels in Japan have lockers for the same reasons that US capsule hotels would.  From a practical perspective, theft from a US hotel room is rare & most likely by the cleaning crew.  I've seen a great many hotels, particularly in vacation hotspots such as Myrtle Beach, with small wall safes inside the hotel rooms.  I suppose it would depend upon what you consider a 'problem'.  Again, petty theft is underreported in Japan.  Japanese people don't loot in mass due to social pressures that don't generally exist in the US.  The US has many cultures, Japan has exactly one. Dude, you're much more likely to get crippled by a cop in the US than be murdered by anyone, at least outside of the national capitol.  Sleeping in a public park is, at a minimum, a sure way to get messed with; by cops or otherwise.  And the common halls of any hotel are camera monitored, whether the room is a standard double bed or a 36" x 80" x 36" box.  The only kinds of murders that occur in hotels in the US are crazy people who lose it all, crimes of passion, or professional hits.  None of which are any less likely to occur in Japan in a hotel than a hotel in the US.  Most murders in the US, and the primary reason that the US has the high mark of murder rates in the first world, occur due to either anticillary crime (i.e. involved in the drug trade, gets wacked by a competitor) or due to familiarity (i.e. domestic violence/ disfunctional family members killing each other).  In both cases, such kinds of murders are vastly less likely to occur in Japan than anywhere else in the world.  That's the cultural difference, which again has almost zero effect on the odds of getting killed or maimed while sleeping in a hotel.The fact that one is much less likely to be killed by a family member in Japan is more than wiped out by the odds of a Japanese teen or young adult committing suicide.  Japan is one of the few cultures on Earth to have ever considered suicide to be an act of honor, and none of the others are cultures that anyone is likely to hold up as a model.  So it's a bit of a stretch to consider the Japanese to be the 'emotionally sophisticated' culture nor the one to 'place a higher value on life' than other cultures.  That's just bullshit.  We are talking about a modern society that as recently as 70 years ago considered their emperor to be a god incarnate for whom death in battle was considered a life goal. Crime is far from unheard of in Japan.  And like everywhere else, petty theft crimes increase as the economy sours.  Sure they don't murder each other at any rate near what Americans do, but that's a bit like comparing apples to oranges.  They still don't like sleeping anyplace that feels insecure.  The big thing about capsule hotels is that land space is at such a premium there, and that has zero to do with their culture and everything to do with the fact that they never had a plague of the black death nor a cycle of culture conflicts that nearly wiped out their youngest generations several times, like Europe.  That's pretty much what the colonists were trying to get away from.BTW, to some degree the crime rates (other than murder) are skewed in Japan.  Petty theft is rarely reported, because of the perception of futility.  So theft rates are underreported as compared to the US, where we tend to report even the futile events due to insurance requirements. A ship could also move out of the way of a storm, an island can't.  And considering that we're talking about glorified sandbars, there's no certainty that there will be any useful island left after the first good tropical storm rolls through.And a ship that isn't moving, doesn't need a pilot.  Most of those jobs mentioned can be performed by the same people while not piloting the ship.  Do you really think that a ship needs both a first officer and a radio officer?  Some ships need these things, but mostly because they are in constant motion. Yeah, it used to be.  I miss those days sometimes. Five acres is very small.  Are we sure it isn't in hectares? I've never played Bioshock.  I'd tried to read Snowcrash, but just couldn't get into it like I did with Cryptocromicon, System of the World & The Diamond Age.  Why an aircraft carrier?  Those are particularly uncomfortable ships.  How about a cruise ship?Until something dramatic is found on the ocean's floor to justify the expense, a city underwater is actually less likely from an economic perspective than one on the Moon.  At least a moonbase would verifiablely have H3 to collect for export.  There is probably nothing else on the moon of any particular scarcity to ever justify a moonbase economicly.  Bitcoin mining in the dark craters of the moon would have free cooling and continuous solar power for two weeks at a time, though. This thread is a perfect example of exactly my original point.  This thread will never end due to the differing opinions on the semantics of the word "democracy".  In the end, Bitcoin is what it is, and it doesn't matter at all how it's described. You do realize you just insulted my home city, right?  I've lived in Oceanside, California (north of San Diego) Chicago, Ill. and Cincinnati, Ohio.  Louisville is, by far, the most cost effective, cleanest and safest city that I've ever known.  Granted, my experiences are limited, but I returned home deliberately.  And there is much more to do around here all year round, although I'll admit Louisville doesn't seem to attract the big conventions.Someone else can do it in Pittsburgh.Speaking of gun toting rednecks, Louisville also happens to lay claim to the greatest number of Class III weapons in America, per capita.  A gun range just outside the city limits hosts one of the largest Class III weapons events in the world twice a year, the Knob Creek Machine Gun Shoot.Don't call anyone rednecks, though.  Such utterances could prove unhealthy. Generally, yes.   A bitcoin/cash 'capsule' hotel on one floor in this building....http://www.cityfeet.com/Commercial/ForLease/427-S-4th-Street-Louisville-KY-40202-16800612L16800612L1.aspx...directly connected to this skyway network...http://www.gotolouisville.com/emailer/gif/standard/LouieLink_Map.pdf...with a price point around $12/person/night.  (If a capsule hotel goes for ~$30 per night in Japan, it damn well ought to be less in a US city with one of the lowest costs of living in America)  A relatively small 'capsule' hotel compared to those that do well in Japan, but would be ideal for backpacking travelers, locals who get hammered while downtown and convention attendees; in addition to 'couch surfers' in between couches.  Minimalistic accomodations; a comfortable place to take a sh*t, safe place to get a warm shower, and a relatively secure place to sleep without getting your gear stolen or the cops kicking you in the dark.Seems to fit well into this article's viewpoint about future investment strategies....http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2010/02/products-and-services-for-permanently.htmlThis kind of thing should work even better in larger cities such as Chicago.  I wonder why it's never been tried in the US.Anyone know how much commericially manufactured 'capsule' bunks cost? If I get everything that I would like, I would like one clear photo of the entire weapon next to your bitcoin address and one clear photo of it disassembled as if you were about to clean it, also next to your bitcoin address.  The point is to prove that you actually own this particular weapon & that you didn't go online and find a photo of another in better condition.I don't know enough about the current state of the market to make a fair offer just yet.  I'll get back to you. Can I get a photo?  And what are you asking for it?EDIT: A better photo, and one that can verify your ownership of said object.  May I suggest a markerboard with your bitcoin address? No, you don't know what it means.  The US, regardless of who is at fault or who is the POTUS, is not a democracy and never has been.  And don't blame your problems on the village idiot, it's unbecoming of an adult.  The POTUS can't do anything of importance against the will of Congress, so there were over 400 'adults' in the room that wanted to do what was done, and every one of them were thankful for the village idiot. IT's a difficult question to answer, because too many people have different ideas of what 'democratic' actually means. Internet access for a large group of users is relatively easy anywhere on earth except the poles, and even that isn't insurmoutable.  Still won't be as cheap as a mid-city broadband account, but the data for a minor bitcoin node shared by the group isn't an overwhelming burden. If it isn't in international waters beyond the authority of an existing government, it serves no purpose in seasteading whatever.  Nice thought though. I play games on Linux all the time. None without their own unique risks. Doubtful, because any one person turning off or on an infected machine would have little effect upon the total hashrate.  It would be lost in the general noise.
Skilled people don't use Windows exclusively, so it's a moot point.  Skilled people who use mutiple OS's know that GNU/Linux (and many other *nix class operating systems) is inherently more secure than Windows, even though Windows has improved significantly over the past decade.  Therefore, if some random person asks me what to do to improve their bitcoin security on windows, my default answer is still to use something else. I'm sorry, but there is just too many ways to discretely copy and transmit an unencrypted wallet.dat for such efforts to be worthwhile.  I'm of the opinion that Windows isn't secure enough of an operating system to safely handle bitcoin of any significant amount at all, even if there isn't existing evidence of a breech.  There are simply too many ways to infect a windows machine, check to see that a bitcoin instance exists, copy & transmit the wallet.dat file (encrypted or not) and do the same for a keylogger stream.  I may be paranoid, but I wouldn't put much on any machine I don't have administrative rights upon, even if it was a GNU/Linux machine owned by someone that I trust and believe to have the skills.  If windows is all you have, IMHO you'd be much safer putting your spending money onto your android smartphone and using bitcoinspinner.  At least, for now, there are no know wallet.dat stealing viruses for android.  Or perhaps a split-wallet type online storage service, that permits two-factor logins.  If you use windows, you are already trusting the security model of some faceless entity for which you have no real recourse against in a dispute.  IMHO your odds of getting burned at an online wallet service are actually lower than your odds of being pwned with your own bitcoin client on a windows machine.I don't know if there might be anything in the logs worth keeping on the off chance that this guy gets caught eventually, by him or others, but I'm fairly certain that there is nothing there that is going to tell you how he got pwned.  Not in the bitcoin logs, anway.  It's very unlikely that the thief targeted him specificly, and sent those coinds from his client.  If he had, the client would have displayed the loss immediately, rather than have to catch up to the blockchain first. There used to be a cash mail service out of Canada called bitcoin4cash. Because some people on the Internet use it for crime?Really? There is nothing useful to be found that can't also be found at blockexplorer.  If you are certain that the funds have been transfered out of your control, and it sounds like that is the case, then there is nothing that can be done.  That is, nothing within the context of the bitcoin system.  If you're determined enough & willing to teach yourself to be a bitcoin guru, it's possible that you could track this guy down eventually.  In which case, you'd need your existing data for prosecution.  But this requires that 1) you learn to be very good at digital forensics, 2) you have the time to put into it and 3) the thief eventually makes a mistake with the funds in those addresses.  For a value of about $50, it's probably best to take it all in as a fairly cheap lesson in security.  If the same thing were to happen to me, I'd be out thousands of $.  I keep about 10 btc on my cell phone. The problem being that you can't trust a website to create a private key for you.  One needs to create a single address/private key set completely offline and print it out before destroying the wallet.dat that produced it.  I have exactly one address set up this way, but instead of paper it's on a couple of very well encrypted thumbdrives; one in my gunsafe and one in my safety deposit box.  That private key has never touched a computer that has had any Internet access since creation, either the thumbdrives nor the offline computer, and the offline computer has had it's ethernet card physically removed, and itself resides in my gunsafe.I figure if you can get into my gunsafe, I'm already past screwed. The block reward cuts in half in Januarry of 2013, so the inflation rate literally cuts in half.  I suspect, then if things just keep plodding along as they have lately, somthing that I consider very unlikely, then the value of a bitcoin in December of 2013 would be closer to $15. Actually, that's a real possibility.  He has not been heard from since before the Japanese Tsunami that killed more than a few unidentifiable people.  And from what can be determined, none of his original block holdings from the early part of the blockchain have moved since. "let them die hungry" is a bit of hyperbole, don't you think?  Such things are very rare in the worst of conditions, including the Great Depression.  Libertarians tend to get this image of being social darwinists, but it's simply not so.  I've never known a lib that would give to help someone truly in need, and I've never known a lib that wasn't better prepared than the average Joe for hard times, either.  Never.Personally, I get a monthly quota of public transit tickets, even though I don't often use them myself.  I get them pre-tax, due to IRS deduction rules; but I do pay for them.  I give away at least half of what I get to people I meet on the street, generally more in the winter than the summer; because a three hour bus ride to nowhere in particular is a fine place to take a warm nap without much risk of getting hassled.  I give them to local shelters and my church for similar reasons.While the business cycle may be "bad" for a great many, they are also unavoidable.  They existed to some degree under the gold standard and were the greatest of arguments for central bank planning & control of the fiat monetary system; and they have existed since.  Rarely have they been more mild than under an unmanaged "free banking" gold standard.In my words this would be "Not price deflation but monetary deflation can cause problems."Why? What's so different?[/quote]Price deflation can be caused by a great many things beyond changes in the monetary base, most of which are still beyond the control of central bank magement even if the data existed to matter.  It's like cpmparing Apples to the entire fruit market.  Austrians focus on changes in the monetary base because it's actually possible to draw conclustions and make predictions based on focusing on one variable at a time.Specificly, the expansion of credit puts upward presssure on prices, particularly commodities prices used as inputs for industry.  But prices are themselves signals to other producers concerning what commodities are in demand, leading to investements in the production of those commodites even though there may not be an actual increase in demand.  For example, There has been an attitude of 'boom' construction in China the past decade or so.  In the beginning, it was driven by an honest need, and then the government opened up credit because they perceived the need in order to support construction.  Later on the needs were satistfied, but construction companies are in the business of building, so they have an incentive to continue building on the cheap credit provided by the Chinese government.  An attitude of "build it and they will come" develops, and the construction forces up the price of steel & copper.  This tells metals producers in other nations that China needs materials, when they would not if the interest rate wasn't still 'cheap'.  Ultimately this leads to steel manufacturers building new facilities and copper mining companies opening up new viens.  This floods the market of materials, but eventually the Chinese government notices that there is much credit debt & a lot of mostly empty new buildings, and (belatedly) tightens credit.  This causes a complete halt to marginal new construction projects, and the new steel & copper production that was just coming online turns out to be excessive, and the market rates for those products crashes as it becomes apparent that such investments were not needed to start with, thus 'mal-investments'.  This is literally what has just happened in China.  Something that many Austrian economists, bloggers & commentators have been warning against for 5 or 6 years.Not sure what you mean here.[/quote]"gold is cyclic because of fractional reserve lending". But forbidding it is repressive. Luckily bitcoin removes the need for backed paper currencies and fractional reserve altogether."The above statements are, IMHO, generally accurate.Yes, it's harsh medicine.[/quote]We agree that the managed solution just make things worse. For me it is because the solution does not attack at the root of the problem and for you no action should be taken at all, but the result is the same: no, Keynes, that's not "good".Since my position is that the root of the cause is inherent in the monetary system (for example gold), let's discuss how propsperity works under a gold standard.When some enterprise it's very profitable, many actor invest on it to compete for the profits, which drop by that very competition as the demand is satisfied. Real capital works in the same way. For example, if a town has very few houses in relation to its population, the rents will be high, and there will be an incentive to build more and get the rent that the houses will yield. As long as the yield of the capital in proportion with its cost of production is over the rate of interest (discounting price inflation and after paying for the risks), more houses will be built. But with more houses the offer increases and the rents drop. So do the yields. And at some point is not profitable to build more houses and the savings must be invested in other sectors.[/quote]Doing great so far.Just an interjection, this kind of observation isn't unique to a gold standard.  It's the natural state of a free market if left alone.If I understand the question, then your wrong about the cause.  It's not the non-perishability of the refernce captial unit that matters.  The down cycle occurs because investment trends have 'inertia' in the minds of investors, who tend to continue investing in the same areas that have done well for them in the recent past.  It's the tallented ones that can see the inflection points that change investment conditions and not continue past thezero future margin point, the rest tend to lose money until they have learned new habits.Hmm, "war is econoimcs by other means".  So perhaps. I don't quite agree.  I think that there would still be a cycle that statistics could identify, but that it's period and amplitude would be significantly attenuated under such a condition as to be inmaterial for the majority of people.  This is generally how it was for Joe Average for the first 100 or so years of the United States (generally) under a gold standard, it was those who earned an income (directly or indirectly) from investment capital and banking that such cycles affected to any dramatic degree.  Perhaps the Interent could one day lead to such a rise of distributed wisdom, but until such event the cycle will continue. Amen, brother.  Now go forth and preach the word! Close enough for government work, yes.I don't think that defining it that way works.  The question then becomes, "good for whom?"  Financial cycles simply exist.  They always have in moderately free economies.  There have been entire tomes written on the how & why, but largely I consider that an irrelevant question, insofar as knowing how & why cycles exist doesn't really contribute to any ability to avoid them.  Fortunes have been made by men with some undefinable quality that gives them an edge over predictions, Warren Buffet not remotely being the first in a long list, so for those rare investors cycles would most certainly be 'good'.  For most people cycles are generally 'not good' and suppressing them in their best interests, but since we can agree that history has shown that those who accept positions of such authority tend not to have such a gift, we are all better off with reactionary natural systems than managed ones.  Honestly, if I had the ability to predict markets, I wouldn't accept the position of Federal Reserve Chairman either.  I'd be spending my time and money beating the market.  Would you?"Destructive" yes, but necessary also.  Like fire clears away the brush so that the might oak might grow.  The deflationary phase is simply the result of the expansionary phase's overreach, and must occur.  It's harsh medicine, but the illness is worse.Again, I consider that an irrelevant question; but I tend to agree with Austrian theory in the sense that the cycle is an aggregate result of investment successes leading to overinvestment, overinvestment leading to exuberance, exuberance leading to mal-investment, mal-investment leading to investing failures, investing failures leading to panic, panic leading to liquidation, liquidation leading to under-investment, under investment leading to new investment successes for the next generation, and so on infinium.   you're confusing fractional reserve banking with a gold standard.  A gold standard is, generally speaking, referring to the convertability of a national currency note into a predefined weight of gold.  Fractional reserve banking is the idea that a bank can lend out more in loans than it actually has on deposit.If the gold standard was a bankers' paradise, we would have never left it anywhere on Earth.  Are you really going to claim that bankers don't have influence over governments?  Or that the Federal Reserve system wasn't created by and for bankers?  The Federal reserve system is why inflation occurs to begin with, and why there was too much cash chasing too little gold.  Nixon didn't have any choice, the gold was probably long gone before he ever got there. Semantics, but okay.I can't see such a condition ever happening, for no other reason than of people with concerns like your own.Meaning that all self-regulating systems are responding to market stimuli (in an automatic fashion), but by definition, that stimuli has already occurred.  Perhaps in the very recent past, but in the past.  Thus the system reacts but cannot predict.  The jsutification of moving to managed monetary ssytems 100 years ago was the idea that an expert should (theoretically) bea ble to  foresee stresses building in the monetary ssytem and move to prevent or temper them.  Experience tells us what Hayak alread knew, that there simply isn't enough data avaliable to any one player to consistantly make such predictions, ans false positives are at least as bad as false negatives.  Hayak called it "a fatal conceit".Yes, but by who's definition?  Hayak defined inflation and deflation as the expansion & contraction of the monetary supply, not the increase or decrease in market prices. Under a gold standard, the monetary supply couldn't change much from the base gold volume outside of a temporary gold rush, since credit expansion was naturally limited in scope.  Thus, all fiat currency inflation or deflation was the direct result of controller error and/or political intervention.  Likewise, I'd wager that 'hoarding' means something entirely different to you than it did to Hayak.Conceeded.Well, there are many ways to look at the transaction costs, and that one is just as valid.  It's truely impossible to seperate the effects, though.There are, indeed.  These differences come down do disagreements in degree, not perspectives. Real people are quite relevant for bitcoin.  Much like a gold standard, there is no way for the "one percent" to leverage liquidity flucuations, which is really the condition that you are describing.  This is one major reason that bankers don't like the idea of a gold standard, and why they won't like bitcoin either.  That's one effect of fractional reserve lending, which has practical limits under a true gold standard or a bitcoin standard that do not exist under a pure fiat currency. There remains no evidence that a deflationary spiral is a real threat, or even a real economic theory.  I find this to be one of the most amusing things about this viewpoint, let's explore it a bit, please.The theory, at it's root, is that if the value of the bitcoin increases too much, people will hoard' it, increasing it's value further.  This leads to a crash in the exchange volume as some other comparable currency is used in it's place.  Grisham's law in effect.   While this sounds reasonable to an academic, it ignores the reality that we are talking about common people doing common things, not the rational speculator looking for an ideal exit.  Real people don't hold currency for it's own sake, nor to trade for some other currency in the hopes of turning a nominal profit on arbitrage.  Real people hold currency in order to spend it later, and real people don't consider only the future value of a currency in choosing to spend it now or later.  Real people have real problems that often require them to spend money sooner rather than later, and for those people the future value of the currency is irrelevant. Perhaps, but I question your analysis of the trust model that Ripple uses.  I'd say that Ripple is more akin to a web-of-cosigners'-trust model than a mutual credit system like LETS.  That's not to say that Ripple can't be succesful in it's own way, but all that it's really doing is replacing the credit card companies' consumer credit rating system with a peer-to-peer model of credit rating.  Ripple could trade in silver, bitcoin, hours of labor or shells; but Ripple isn't (itself) a currency or even a transfer system.Okay, but we are contesting the 'problem' part of your observation.  It's not under question that, if bitcoin is ever truly succesful, that deflation is going to occur.  We contest that it's necessrily a problem.  The rasing value of bitcoin might be bad for some, but it will be good for others.  Who complains about the falling cost of milk but the dairy farmer?  Apple doesn't want to sell last year's Idevice for less this year, they have to because their industry is in a constant state of deflation.  Who does falling consumer prices harm?  Not the consumer, certainly.  And if deflation is too rapid for bitcoin, what happens?  At worst new vendors are reluctant to enter into the bitcoin economy, the growth slows, and the deflation rate tempers.  It's a self-regulating system just like gold was internationally before 1913.  Self-regulating systems are not perfect.  They are, by definition, always reactionary.  This leaves open the possibility that bad things can happen in the short term.  The past 100 years should be proof enough that deliberate oversight, even by the best experts in the field, isn't better.  That distinction is the essence of the conflict between Keynes & Hayek, as well as their successors.  Bitcoin is a grand experiment in Austrian theory, for there is no room in the protocol for intervention on any level.The irony of that statement is if Bitcoin is successful, the theories of your academic predecessors are disproven. The point that you're missing is that bitcoin isn't just a payment processor.  It can function in that role for a very large portion of it's economy for decades, but that isn't it's only use.  CC's & paypal have no other use and therefore those transaction fees are truely unavoidable.  With bitcoin, there and will be many different wasy to exchange.  In teh early stages, yes, any bitcoin accepting business is going to have to deal with the exchanges & the costs that they can impose.  This will limit early adoption rates.  However at some point (usually aroun 12% of the general public in any given area or market) bitcoin is suddenly 'mainstream' and the savvy business owner doesn't have to depend upon the exchanges for all of their conversions.  I'll concede that a future that involves never needing to deal with the exchanges if you are a bitcoin business owner isn't going to happen in my lifetime, but it's all a matter of degree.  These are not sudden events, they're transitions.  The business owners who deal with bitcoin early on are as likely to keep a portion of those funds as not.  No business just hangs onto checks or credit card receipts on the possibility of appreciation or the possibility of reduced conversion costs.  Such things will never happen.  Again, bitcoin is much more than a payment processor, even though that is a large part of it's current functions. Yes, to be literal, Ithica Hours are not a LETS.  A true LETS is a mutual credit system.  But that's part of the problem that bitcoin is trying to solve; credit systems require that parties in transactions be identifiable after the fact.  The entire CC & Paypal industries are, functionally, based upon this same system.  You cannot participate in a LETS system unless the 'system' knows who you are and how to find you.I've made the argument in the past that Bitcoin is, in many respects, more like a LETS designed for the Internet, wherein the local exchange zone is the whole of the Internet; than it is like actual cash.  The blockchain takes teh function of the community ledger & distributes it, the total number of bitcoins in circulation represents the functional maximum credit expansion of the entire community.  Likewise, the blockchain & network know who you are, to the extent that is necessary for the function of the system; which by design happens to be very little.  It would be trivial to expand bitcoin into credit systems, but that would just require greater levels of self-identifcation. I have no idea.  I was just responding to the simple question, "why haven't we seen this in the wild?"
That is an interesting perspective, and it may very well prove true.  Yet, Bitcoin was designed to be cash on the Internet, and thus in person transactions are actually an expansion of the protocol in the same way that Paypal is an expansion of the 'protocol'  for fiat currencies on the Internet.  So even if Bitcoin is always a niche medium of exchange, that's still a huge niche. We are.  Search the forum for OTC. I disagree that the current crisis is rooted in resource scarcities.  I would say that the past several years are the result of bad investments trying to clear from the previous two decades. This argument is a matter of semantics.  The 21 million btc limit is a limit in the calculus sense.  technically the limit will never be hit no matter how many decimals are added to the current protocol, but for any practical reasoning it matters little. More often, there is an explicit or implicit peg to the national currency.  Ithica Hours are a fine example of this, since officially they are supposed to represent an hour of labor, but for all practical purposes that standard hour is $10. I, for one, find Etlase2 amusing.  I doubt that it's in any way that was intended by himself, however.But I suppose that I'm just another Mises libtard anyway, so I admit that I'm biased upfront. The already confirmed transaction is going to stick, the second transaction that triggered the double-spend is going to be ignored by the network forever.  If it all happened as you said, the exact same inputs should have been used for two different transactions; but I now question your story, since this shouldn't be possible accidentally.  If the second set used overlapping transaction inputs, but not the same set, the other inputs are functionally tainted unless & until you can get a guru to dive down into your wallet.dat file and destroy the second transaction, so that it will stop resending it to the network.I am not that guru, and it's probably not worth it. While an increase in velocity across an entire market can have the effect of inflation, velocity isn't inflation.  The effects of velocity are reversible, and therefore naturally balancing.  Bitcoin will find it's own velocity, eventually.  After which time whatever effects on overall prices that bitcoin's ever changing velocity has will be lost in the daily transaction noise, too small an effect for anyone to define nor care about. Most likely your client resent the orphaned transaction after a period of time had passed and it didn't show up in the blockchain, after restart of course.   While no one would loan at a loss, investors might invest at a potential loss, if the investment is ideal.  Take the example of Warren Buffet 'loaning' money to General Electric following the crash of the GE stock price around 2007.  His loan rate was below market, but he had a clause that permitted him to convert those bonds directly into preferred stock, if the stock price turned around during the loan payback cycle.  Thus, the official interest rate represented a loss limit, not a certain loss.  So Warren Buffet did risk losing a small amount of money on the actual corporate bond rates (compared to other similar investments) but stood at least as much chance of being able to turn a very nice profit if the stock price rose significantly over the following several years, which is what happened. Since I know that you have, and will continue to, be hammered by the Austrians in the crowd for echoing this Monetarist theory position, I'm going to address the questions posed about 'price stickiness' and velocity.Fiat currencies, as they are used today in a functionally digital form (i.e. bank accounts, credit cards, debit cards etc; not cash in hand transactions), all have a maximum velocity that is largely constrained by the settlement period of these payment methods on the one end, and the payday cycle on the other.  To illustrate this point, the laborer may be able to spend on credit, but only to a point.  Over his lifetime average, he tends to spend paycheck to paycheck, like most people.  So he earns his money, and that money cannot (generally) be spent before payday.  If he buys something with credit, he has it before payday but the funds are not (practically) available to the vendor until the cc transaction clears; so his velocity cycle is no faster than the 30 day average clearing time for credit cards or the average 7 day clearing time for personal checks.  Prices appear sticky for many reasons, but the max velocity time for the consuming public is one major contributor to that perception.  However, it's just a perception.Of course, cash or bullion used in person have a near instant max velocity, limited mostly by the time & costs of moving physical objects from person to person & marketplace to marketplace.  While Bitcoin doesn't have an instant max velocity, since it generally requires a minimum of 6 confirmations for turnover; nor does it suffer from the physical limitations of transportation.  Overall, the delays of cash & bullion versus bitcoin are likely a wash; or perhaps even favor bitcoin.  (After all, an hour after you pay for your groceries in bitcoin at wal-mart, they could be paying a cashier in Bangladesh with those same coins, and in another hour that same cashier's wife could be buying cloth in another business while her husband is still at work)  Therefore, bitcoin doesn't have the constraints on velocity, or economic 'friction' as many here refer to it, as any other secure distance payment option available before bitcoin.  The illusion of 'sticky' prices in bitcoin will either not exist, or be a local pricing issue. We still can't seem to teach computers to do something that comes very naturally to an infant, namely identify human faces well.  Search for cvdazzle and you'll come up with a website dedicated to 'playing peekaboo' with the public camera systems in London.  Fashionablely. The actual blockchain can be shared in a number of different ways, but the database cannot be shared among multiple instances of bitcoind.  On way to make this work on a unix machine is to create read-only symlinks for user level bitcoin daemons that have their own database inside their own shell account, but this would result in massive duplication of work.  Windoze can do it using similar methods over network drives.  I don't think that a multi-user version of bitcoind has been created, but if it has I would doubt that it was safe. That depends on a great many variables beyond the control of the attacker, or even the vendor.  But the length of time that the vendor's node has been in existence has a significant effect upon how deep that node is.  Yet, the first step is to locate said node.  This first step is no small feat unto itself, even if no special steps have been taken to hide the node.  The second step is to 'isolate' said node from major nodes; and not just mining pools.  There do exist nodes that have been deliberately modified to allow unlimited connections & do not mine, for the purpose of creating 'supernodes' intended to improve the network latency.  An attacker would have to isolate these nodes as well, which is something that is also unlikely to go unnoticed for very long.  Also, an attacker would have to know if the vendor's node uses Tor or any VPN to connect to one or more peers.  If such an attacker can do all of these things, then the attacker can do a complete finney attack to remove all doubt of failure.  However, in a practical sense, to do these forms of attacks it would basicly have to be an inside job, for the attacker would have to have at least network access to the vendors node, which in a practical sense means physical access to that node.  A corner vendor shop might keep his node running on his POS computer, accessible to a cashier with ill intent, but there is no way that Wal-Mart would.  This is the kind of attack that would work once or twice before word got out about how it's done and business associations sent out alerts to members to do things differently.  IMHO, this kind of attack, and pretty much every version of a finney attack that I have heard thus far, are only theoretical and not a practical attack vector because 1) the nature of the network makes identifying any particular node very difficult and it's connected peers moreso and 2) it's a class of theoretical attack vectors that are well known among the developer community here.  Black swans never fly in from a watched direction.  The very fact that these types of attacks have been openly discussed on this forum contributes to the future difficulty of their success, since developers of vendor POS nodes are likely to consider these known attack vectors in their node designs.As to the statement that my ego has been affected, I personally don't have any skills in this area; but I do understand how the system works & find it somewhat offensive when someone with a low post count comes into this forum with the belief that he understands it generally and thus can make generalizations based upon whatever prior computer science experience he may have.  Granted, the network topology isn't unique, but nor is it transparent.  There are a great many things that can be done to make a node nearly invisible to an outside observer. If you are going to keep substantial funds at a website not under your own control, such as Mt.Gox or any one of these wallet services; then please use the two-step authentication (i.e. yubikey).  If they don't have it & don't use split wallets (i.e. they keep your secret keys at the server) just don't use that service.  It's money people!  Act like there are people out there who want your personal data, because there are.  Bitcoin isn't Facebook!  There really is something to be gained from stealing your data! Adding nodes to the existing netowrk isn't the same as destroying nodes.  The network exists, any nodes that you could add to it would attach at the network's edges.  Adding 100K new nodes to the networ would, at worst, slow down the network for those persistant nodes that were already connected before your botnet arrived.  If you don't believe it, try it.  But setting up a lab experiment like these guys did, that favors you, doesn't count.   I dare you to do it on the live network.  If you can 1) find my personal node & 2) manage to slow my propagation rate down to an unworkable delay then I will concede defeat and shout your superiority in all manner while also lobbying for your sainthood in my free time.A bit of warning, though.  You're going to have to do it using your own funds & without being noticed by the bitcoin watchdogs.  Some of these guys have some real talent, and they won't take kindly to your 'proof'.  You must destroy the network without getting caught for it to count, and it has to last for at least 10 minutes.  If you do get caught by the watchdogs, which is highly likely, you can 1) expect that you will discover that you are wanted for a stautory rape charge in some East Coast state that you've never been to and 2) that's just what the script kiddies will do.  Before they are done, you will discover that your own smartphone hates you; and has sent gay porn to every person currently in your contact list as well as your entire high school graduating class & every person that you have ever dated.I just thought that I should be upfront about the possible consequeces of failure. They say such things, but notice that when it comes down to it, they act differnetly.  Take Occupy in Cali for instance.  They've recently 'occupied' a Berkley research farm on the argument that what they are doing with the property isn't as noble as what they would do with it, but then they take over the property and proceed to act as if it is their own and expect others to honor their claim.  It's a contradiction.   Nodes that you can trust to interact with you honestly, based upon history of connection and/or the known ownership of said node, such as connecting to one or more of the major pools or one or more of the fallback nodes that have been running since the dawn of bitcoin.  Still don't need to trust that they are forever honorable, because you have so many connections.  Basicly you are simply not allowing new connections to nodes for which you have no history with. No matter how many nodes you create, you cannot prevent valid transactions from propagating trough the honest nodes.  This is why the normal client uses so many connections, to protect against the posibility of a 'finney attack' which is what you just described.  It only takes one honest node to completely route around your blockade.  And that is for low value POS transactions only.  Anything of any significant value, and sellers are going to demand either personal data or at least 6 confirmations.  Try and buy a new car for less time than an hour, by either cash or credit. The US doesn't sign a lot of international treaties, but still acts like we did.  If an American is found with a weapon, otherwise properly registered, 10 miles off the coast of Florida, registered in the state of Florida and the boat he is going to an American jail.  Firearms are prohibited for Americans on private vessels because the US State Department doesn't want to deal with all of the crap that would go with Americans packing heat in foreign ports.
Most nation-states large enough to have their own navy, google is your friend here.  As to who enforces the rules, if you have weapons on board and enter Liberian waters, or even close enough that they can forciblely board your ship, if weapons are found on your boat most nations arrest you.  Liberia might just shoot you and drop you overboard.  Either way, your next of kin get nothing and there is not a thing that your country is going to do to help you.  Yes, China has signed the treaty.  That same treaty is why military vessels cannot enter soverign waters unless those nations have agreements, and why China & Japan keep getting into small fights over a few useless islands between them, because both nations claim them. Excellent idea. Ah, no.  It doesn't matter what flag you fly, civilian vessels may not have weapons.  Otherwise they are a valid target of war.  That is stated explicitly in an international treaty called "the law of the sea". I read the suggestions presented in the paper, and I've personally proposed both over a year ago.  Looks to me like someone has been lurking the forum and turned that into a school project.  The 'listening post' solution that they present isn't even as hard as they imply, because there is a flaw in how they perceive transactions propagate.  Normally, a transaction is transmitted to every peer once verified, but do not propagate those that fail validity at all.  So any particular vendor is unlikely to ever receive both transactions in a race attack, as the only nodes that get both are, by definition, the "front" where the propagation waves of each transaction meet.  Yet if a vendor, who accepts 0/conf transactions, were to modify his own client to send transactions to all peers except one (preferablely as far from himself along the network topology as he could determine) then that client could simply wait to get the 'correct' transaction from both his "nearby" peers and his chosen special peer from across the network.  If they match & are good, then a (successful) race attack is very unlikely.  If they don't match or the special peer never sees either transaction, then something has gone wrong and the trade should not be approved.This method doesn't require that a special service or a distant node owned by the vendor exist. What city & country? The ten second window has been (intuitively) known among most of the old salts of this forum for two or three years.  This might be the first time that it was confirmed with any kind of experiment, or perhaps not.  Many methods of reducing exposure risk to a 0/conf race attack have been proposed, but none yet implimented simply because they don't have any current demand in the marketplace.  I've personally suggested more than one method, myself.  Furthermore, since there are so many different tactics at reducing said exposure, there is no practical way that an attacker could know in advance which method, if any, his mark may be employing.  The simplest method of all would be to simply delay the completion of the transaction for ten seconds.  How often have you seen an electronic check or a cc transaction take longer than that? Sorry, but no.  The 'Law of The Sea' is significantly more strict in many ways one might find surprising.  For example, no one on a ship in international waters (or the soverign waters claimed by a nation other than on your flagpole) may have a working firearm in their possession unless they are officials of some government or their military.  This is why merchant marines have to use fire hoses to fend off pirates in the Indian Ocean. They're accountable to the government of Japan.  If you think you have standing there, feel free to file a complaint. Time span of get requests, but if they come too fast they don't count. It does, indirectly.  But it's kind of a circular loop, since the fed chairman is appointed by the president.  Of course, the fed chairmen can only be appointed from a very short list provided by the board members of the federal reserve, whom are themselves appointed by the largest member banks.  Granted, the federal reserve board is very limited in it's practical influence upon the actions of Congress, but that is not to say that they don't have any. No, you pay the fed's salaries, via the inflation tax.  There must  be profit before there can be a salary. If you had read the thread, I mentioned that I can do that all now if I'm willing to pay for a cell phone & service, but I can avoid such charges with a meshable device. nope I'd likely buy a usb dongle to serve this purpose in my own home, in order to keep my own cards up to date.Only if she travels beyond a single hop range, and again, if I know generally where she is going (say the mall or a public park) I don't need to know precisely where to meet her if I need to drive to pick her up.  I couldn't text her from the house if she was beyond the single hop range, but if I sent a text like "I'm on my way to pick you up, we're going to grandma's, be ready" the text would arrive at her card as soon as I were close enough for a single hop to work. Yes, but if the device is cheap enough, there are uses for the device that would drive adoption that does not necessarily depend upon a critical mass to support mesh networking.  That is my point, I have personal uses for a number of such devices that would encourage me to deliberately create a mesh network within my own family.  Get enough of those, and a critical mass is created regardless. ORLY? Who pays for the Fed's employee pensions, then? How is the US monetary system paid for?  You know that it costs money, right? It is if I see it.  Where are you finding this NSFW content at? Partially true, mostly not.  The single largest creditor of the US Federal Government is The Federal Reserve and member banks. Bingo.  A very wise person was once quoted by saying, "the borrower is slave to the lender."  This is true enough at the personal level, and true enough at the national level as well.  If the federal government is the borrower, who is the lender?  It sure isn't me. http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2012/05/making-internet-safe-for-anarchy.html
Uh, Why?  The newbie section is the only place that you can post for the next four hours, it's not the only place you can read. Yet, the common American didn't have any direct experience with those banks that failed.  The Federal Reserve exists to protect the banks' investors and their funds, not the livelyhood of the public. ... is only outmatched by the myth that a fiat currency cannot return to a gold standard without economic upheaval.http://lewrockwell.com/case/case45.1.html I disagree, the mesh texting feature makes such a device useful for me independently of whether or not it can transact in bitcoin.  Like I said, I want 6 right now for my wife & kids.  Way cheaper to give my kids each one of these to let them go play than give each of them a cell phone with service.  With android phones (and my ham radio privileges) I can give each of my kids a cell phone that uses APRS to tell me where they are, and I can call any one of them home at will.  My daughter can take my cell phone with her to her friends house, and I can track her progress with extreme accuracy.  But that means that 1) I can't use my cell phone in the meantime and 2) I have to pay for that data plan.  With a wallet card sized device, I could do some very similar things without the need of the costly data plan (granted, I'd be paying for one such plan anyway, but not six) or the expensive hardware (i.e. the android smartphone required to run the APRS app).  If my wallet card couldn't see her card because there wasn't yet enough such cards in my neighborhood to support a mesh, I'd still be able to get into my car and drive a couple of blocks to locate her signal without needing to actually see her.  I could get a seventh and pin it to my dog's collar, and find him the same way whenever he got out of the yard. I've got a Samsung Intercept I've had for a number of years, and I've long been annoyed with the poor battery life of the device, which is made worse by the bloatware that Virgin Mobile insists that I keep one the phone, that I never use.  Worse still by the fact that no oversized lithium-ion batteries are available for this device, because it's a slider and aftermarket batteries often need  to attack to the back of the device in such a way to make sliding impossible.  Well, it's long since off warranty, if it ever had one, and so this weeked I resolved for finally root this device and install a different rom without all that bloatware.  I did some research and found a rom call 'IcyPop' for the Intercept that runs Android 4.x.  I must say that I'm impressed at this guy's talent, and the addition of a cpu control that backs the cpu speed down to 66mhz while locked is quite the battery saver.  I think that my standby battery life more than tripled, even though my battery dies pretty fast if I'm using it.  Which brings me to my question.  My device is capable at running at 66mhz, 266mhz, 400mhz and 800mhz.  Nothing else in between.  Does anyone know what the minimum speed that I could set the 'waking' cpu speed to that can support a proper phone call?And if there is anyone else out there with a Samsung Intercept or Moment, consider doing this.  IcyPop isn't just fast and easy on the battery, it's beautiful. While this is all true, the problem is this kind of analysis is (at best) concurrent or (more likely) delayed.  Said another way, these metrics look at recent history (and perhaps the trends) in order to make a future prediction.  That is, after all, the point of all this; to make an educated guess as to what comes next.  The problem with that is there are other metrics that should more indicitive of the future than (in particular) the consumer price index over the past several years.  The metrics of the monetary base, for example (M1, M2 & M-prime) have more than doubled over that same time frame.  Has the demand for liquidity and/or the practical size of the US economy doubled during that time?  No and No.  So the simple logic of the law of supply and demand (as applied to monetary demand) says that, eventually, we are going to see some rather severe inflation, assuming that the federal reserve does not (or cannot) withdraw that liquidity from the banking system at the next inflection point.  There is no historical evidence that the academics who work at the federal reserve even have a reliable theory that could inform them of such an inflection point.  And that should worry you more than the small, and dropping, risks of a deflationary event. Of course I see variation, but I see a pattern as well.  Don't you? yes, while it was in the blocking wallet; but most of those are for passive rfid formats like in passports.  These devices are active units with their own processors, and don't depend upon the security of the readers or trust that all readers are themselves trustworthy. use the search function for the dedicated wallet printer For that price, I'm seriously considering bidding on this. No.  IW is 20 miles, plus the property was built by the US government and a condition of the sale is that the new owner must consent to that as an ongoing fact. SDR's still cost too much. While this is somewhat true, it's a natural law that in the absence of any established cultural rules on property, societies tend toward a known set of such property rules.  If you stake a claim on unused/undeveloped land, and start to work it as such, some other people will respect that claim; but property isn't about what you can defend, it's about agreement.  For example, if there were no laws on the matter, and you moved onto the abandoned farmland a few miles from me.  I wasn't working that land and didn't claim it, because I couldn't do anything with it anyway.  So you start working it, and I respect your claim on that land and the products of your work.  Not because I must, but because by respecting your claim I can expect the same from you, you will respect my claim on the portion that I have been working.  This is how society really works, but on a much larger scale.  A land deed is simply a document that states that a government, acting on behalf of society at large, is honoring a claim of ownership.You can watch this very natural set of property rules in their most basic form by watch toddlers in a playroom.  Whoever has a particular toy and is presently playing with it 'owns' it for the moment, and any attempt by others to take it away will result in not just resistance, but cries for help.  Yet, if the first child gets up and walks away from the toy, another could come in and take that toy and stake his new claim, and often expect it to be respected by the other kids and the adults alike.  After all, it does come naturally.EDIT: And you can tell that the claim of ownership is known by the kid who takes toys from others, even if he doesn't respect it, because he never calls for help to take away the toy and doesn't expect the adults to help him do so; and when the child who feels that he has been wronged squeals for intervention he does expect to receive aid, while the attacker will often lie about the facts or simply look quilty.  Because in truth, he knows he was wrong. It's a solution to the problem.  Rather than run a bitcoind on the hotspot hardware or use an api to do it with an overlay network, simply forward bitcoin ports from the hotspot hardware directly to a full bitcoind that you control. Probably you can, when that is available. Or just a port foraeding over a ssh tunnel. All USB sticks are slow, mostly because USB is slow.  Expecially if your pc only has a USB 1.1 host chip.  I could see such a thing taking a full four days to bootstrap a full gig, because there is more to verifying a single block than a single copy action.  There is a huge amount of disk action that goes on with the bitcoin index/database files.  That's most likely where your problem lies.  On my nearly brand new Imac, a new install took me 7 hours to bootstrap using the internal harddrive, and the case/monitor was actually hot.  Even a couple hours of TF2 won't make that thing more than warm.  If you intend to keep your complete client & data on a USB drive, I recommend a USB 3.0 card. You have a firewall blocking incoming connections.  Could be the computer, or it could be upstream from it.  The first step is to figure out where your firewall is.Honestly, you don't need more than 8, unless you're going to be mining locally & solo.  Technically, you don't need more than three even while bootstrapping.  Most computers choke on the verification of the blocks, not on the peer bandwidth anyway. It's not really a timer, it's a page view counter that doesn't credit you if you are clicking too fast. Sounds normal.  Your old bitcoin addresses should still be present, and still usable.  The client just doesn't display all of them.
If I must, but most users are too lazy to do that everytime it's actually necessary. First tip, don't mention SR.  Ever.Second, the best way to buy bitcoin depends upon who you are and where you live. Yes and no.  Eventually running a full client is going to be like drinking from a firehose, but only professional miners, wallet services, banks, etc are going to bother.  Most people will be using thin clients that don't maintain a complete blockchain that is dependent upon a central server to tell it what transactions are important.  Much like BitcoinSpinner on Android or Electrum works now. http://bitdex.net/you do realise those where toys right? You do realise that's a price difference of about 1.25% right?  I often see larger price differences from one block to the next and from morning to night at the same station.  Dude, you're not getting gouged.  If he actually has a monopoly at one station in the area, you're very lucky the price difference isn't 50 cents per gallon.  I looked up bitdex, and there wasn't even that much there from my perspective.  I'm sure that you know whether or not a product exists with bitdex, but I don't.  You don't even have a video or the attempt at a faq, just a cartoon of a book.Ad-hoc meshing may or may not be a solution, but that also depends on what your persectives on what the problem is.  Wireless mesh networking has it's place, but I won't claim that it's easy or likely, but a meshable hardware wallet would be a useful feature for some.  Furthermore, you don't have a working demo either; at least not one you are willing to show us.How then, if not some kind of p2p ad-hoc connection?  If it involves a cable, you've already lost.Fair enough, texting is an unnecessary function.  Still, they would work great for sending the device a cryptographicly signed purchase receipt, something that I would find useful.  You could buy something at wal-mart with bitcoin anonymously, but walk out of the store with a return receipt that's far better than the paper receipts available now.  Of course, if you are using a wal-mart branded bitcoincard, they know who you are anyway. I'm not.  I'd call it a fail, or at least a dodge.  I asked if he could prove that those afore mentioned criminal activities have occurred.  It was a loaded question, of course, because the only way that he could prove any such thing would be to have access to the private computers of those afore mentioned criminals.  Which, most likely, would mean that those computers belong to himself or someone he personally knows quite well.  Anyone who would use a publicly posted bitcoin address to send funds to a publicly known criminal either doesn't know the criminal part & didn't buy criminal services or is an idiot, and it would be hard enough just to prove one or the other, much less an actual crime. Preconfigured is a different requirement than doesn't require linux. can you prove that? This so explains your hostility to features claimed in bitcoincard, you're biased because you're invested into a competitor.  I'm glad to hear that there are more than one option on the way, but I will wait until there is something to see.  Will your product be able to transact without cell service & send free text messages as well? And what is BitDex? good luck with that. that's a practical impossibility. Sure, you could use a bitcoin client that exclusively uses Tor to hide your transactions, but you still can't be certain that the phone company doesn't already know what your addresses are.  Android clients are going to continue to be a huge part of the bitcoin economy, this is true.  However, so will stand-alone hardware devices like this one.  We seem to have a bunch of naysayers on this forum with little real knowledge about digital telemetry repeatedly declaring either 'un-possible!' or 'no one would want one'.  I want one.  Hell, I want six for my family, and I'd start to give them to family members for presents instead of gift cards.  Can you see a future wherein a teenage daughter says, "Dad, can I borrow your keys and your smartphone? I'm going to the mal- *cough* library." or "Dad, can I borrow your car keys and a few bitcoin for my card?..." Not everyone uses smartphones, or ever will.  My wife uses a cell phone that can make phone calls and text, and nothing more.  I have a android.  I've noticed myself that for the act of making actual voice phone calls, her's is superior even though my is three times the cost.  Plus, there is the issue of security, your cell phone could potentially get hacked or malwared.  A simple standalone hardware device that uses a data protocol that doesn't permit arbitrary code to be loaded onto it from the radio is more secure by nature, thus better for the common user.  Better even for the power user in many cases as well.Yes, some people will want it.  No, you can't practially do this with a smartphone, because no matter what you do, your cell phone company knows who you are, where you are, and what packets cross their network.It would at that, and that is a market bitcoin needs to be able to penetrate with reasonable & inherent security.  I own a smartphone, and I'd buy this card today (and a dongle for my home router) if it were available.  I can think of no other method that is as secure from infultration, as portable and as convient.  Sure, my cell can text just fine, but not anonymously and not if I'm out camping beyond my providers reach.  If I had one of these cards for each of my kids, whether they had bitcoin or not, I could  communicate with them even when they were hidden by the trees, so long as they were in radio range with me and/or their siblings.Smartphones are just computers.  Android is a version of gnu/linux, as an example. Linux is fairly secure by nature, but it's not perfect.  The problem is the shear complexity of the modern OS, which leaves open the possibility that a security hole was missed by the developers to be found by hackers in the future.  There is also the problem of your cell provder, do you trust them enough to handle your money?  Becuase from a practical perspective, they have acces to your unrooted cell phone; so somewhere there is a backdoor to the device.  This is how they can update your phone's software over-the-air without your personal involvement.  What happens if the next wallet stealing trogen is written by the former developer for Sprint? I think that you got that from me.  I said, if this card is based upon Dash7, a line of sight range of 2km is possible.  At least it's possible with a true line of sight and the owner holding the card above his head like shown in the video.So? It's neither 'retarded' nor deceptive.  The video advertises 'no supporting infrastructure' with a collapsing cell tower in the background.  Although it's not technically true, since a usb dongle attached to the back of a POS terminal or internet router is 'supporting infrastructure', the reality is that it doesn't depend upon commercial communications infrastructure.  It can mesh to extend it's practical communications ranges, although that's much more likely to involve privately owned dongles and the internet than not.  Still, your cell phone can't mesh at all, unless you have a rooted android phone with a running Serval client, and even then can't mesh more than 70 meters with no obstacles.  (I should know, I have actually done this)  If your city has a power outage, your cell towers' batteries die in three or less hours.  So not only can't you make a regular phone call, even though your cell phone is fine, you can't spend bitcoin with the guy standing next to you.  With a device that's capable of directly communicating with other devices sans infrastructure support would at least open up the possibility of bitcoin business transactions in meatspace where internet access is not a given.  Someone is going to do this, and if done well, the radio standard is going to stick, and more capable devices are going to come into existance that can act like a bitcoincard, a bitcoincard server, etc.   That would permanently break my forum autonomy, so I'm going to decline. We could have a lot more running clients than that, since some of us have 'quite' clients, myself included, that won't show up in those scans.  Those are usually based upon the ip addresses that show up in the bitcoin IRC bootstrapping channels, and there are many clients now that don't use those channels anymore. 40 meters, just after dark.  No I don't do it often, and intentionally skipping in the CB band is illegal.  I have a ham radio license.
You're displaying your ignorance on the topic.  GSM is a wideband commercial product not intended to mesh.  GSM cell phones have a practical range of about two kilometers, but that is to a very senitive celltower tranceiver.  If you tried to mesh two handsets, your range is unlikely to be any better that wifi.  Basicly, if you can see the whoites of their eyes or be heard yelling, then it would work.  There are many variables that effect range; including effective radiated power, receiver senitivity & bandwidth, mode of transmission, error correction algos, etc.  Comparing a mesh tech to that of GSM isn't even comparing apples to oranges, it's comparing apples to pencils.  And the goal of such a mesh isn't to connect two cell phones together with a high enough quality to support a voice codec, it's to transmit a data file of half a kilobyte within a few seconds so that device cound forward it again until the transaction finds an internet router. Alright, how do you come to this conclusion?  Support your position. Thank you for your unsupported layman's opinion.  As for those of us who actually know a thing or two about radio telemetry & propagation, we've been providing actual facts on this kind of device for longer than most of you in this thread have even known what a bitcoin was.EDIT: I've literally bounced a 2 watt signal off the F level of the ionosphere and was heard over 200 miles away from my position; and actual line-of-sight distance of at least 350 miles up and down.  Granted, that was with some high quality gear that wouldn't fit in my wallet to save my life; but for someone who's only experiences with low-power digital telemetry involves the wifi scanner app on his smartphone to tell me it-just can't-be-done is offensive. They don't need to be trusted.  I can do exactly the same thing right now using my openwrt wifi router, simply by blocking non-bitcoin port numbers and letting bitcoin port numbers pass unhindered; or by capture and redirection of all client-side traffic to my local bitcoind.  The whole point of bitcoin's structure is that there don't need to be trusted gateways.  There is little to no malicious activities that any particular gateway node could do to any user.  Can't steal their coins.  Can't expect to double-spend against such a device, since it's as likely as not to be somewhere else when coins are sent to it anyway.  (it's a consumer wallet, not a point-of-sale device.)  Can't see how a sybil attack is likely against such a device, for similar reasons.  Having a full blockchain makes such things impossible, but even just having the block headers, merkle trees & copies of input transactions relevant to the addresses that the wallet has private keys for makes pretty much anything unlikely, or at least "costly" enough of a crime to not make the funds that could be found in a random wallet device worthwhile.The only malicious activity that I can think of that might be possible, is to feed the wallet device false input transaction data, but even if the client accepts them as true, no one else would so the device simply wouldn't be able to spend those coins that it never really had; which might irritate the owner, but he still couldn't lose anything as a result. I'd buy one today.And yes, they could work well, in theory.  And yes, they would need routers in addition to peers, but those would be provided by retailers.  The mesh mechanism is to extend the functional range of such a device, but is inmaterial for a bitcoin device.  A disconnected bitcoin wallet isn't disconnected when you're home, only while you're out using it.  So it can update it's blockchain (assuming it needs it, but it shouldn't) while you are at home or otherwise within wifi range of an open hotspot.  The devices need to be able to broadcast transactions, & hear other transactions, to protect the owner from a possible form of theft by deception.  Namely, if the device didn't broadcast transactions until it could connect to a wifi hotspot, a criminal could pretend to buy the car you were selling on Craigslist, pay you with bitcoin using both your wallet devices, and after you drive away the thug you paid to mug him would destroy his wallet device.  Thus giving the fraudster the chance to overwrite the transaction that he paid with on his own device and keep the funds.  If all bitcoin devices broadcast all transactions immediately, the fraudster in this scenario can't know if the transaction was heard by another wallet device, another person's cell phone, a router connected to the internet or nothing at all.  This lack of certainty removes the potential gain from such a criminal strategy.  It's not really speed of transaction propagation that is critical, but the potential of same.  If bitcoin is ever as popular as Paypal, we can expect that retailers that start accepting bitcoin are going to also invest in a receiver for broadcasted bitcoin transactions, since it's in their own interests to make certain that transactions make it to the Internet as quickly as possible to prevent double spends attacks against themselves.  Although it would be possible to exclude transactions that don't concern the retailer, the additional overhead involved in making such a discriminating router would most often exceed the marginal additional cost of simply forwarding every bitcoin transaction that it hears.  A store the size of WalMart could get away with only one such receiver per store.  A mall might need two or three for all the stores, depending upon it's size and layout.  A bunch of small stores down main street could get together to sponsor one for the whole block, although the costs of such a receiver if you already have Internet access at the store (who doesn't in America anymore?).Theories aside, there wouldn't need to be a critical mass for such a device to be useful, and in places with retail density, the mesh traffic might actually be counterproductive.  It's when you're far from a retail outlet doing business that such distribution of the transactions are necessary. An attacker could bias your device from afar, but he'd also need to know precisely when you pushed the 'start' button.   And if you were using a normal radio to do it, you could hear the attempt at screwing with it.  Although it's technically possible, the practical means of influencing the entrophy in this fashion is pretty remote. Yes, relevant.How did you get ahold of these so cheap, and how many do you have?  I'm going to bid just so I can play with it, but I might need two. I realized today that I left out an important step in my previous description of the simple biased gossip protocol.  The header of any packet must contain a simple hash of the data, so that (lacking forward error correction) a receiving node can know when the message it heard was corrupted, and simply discard it.  Again, I don't think error correction would be worthwhile because 1) although AM is a noisy mode, UHF tends to not be that bad, at least concerning natural noise and 2) it's not actually necessary that a transaction be heard and forwarded by other devices, it's just beneficial.  The repeated transmission at intervals takes care of the redundancy of data issue without error correction.  I'm guessing it would, anyway. Well, that's exactly why I mentioned an am receiver tuned to static.  Pipe that into the stereo mic-in jack of a small computer, mash the resulting bitstream up with some hashing algos, and you've got a pretty decent RNG hardware on the cheap.   If it's a dash7 device, it uses 433 mhz. It doesn't hold a blockchain, so it doesn't actually have to update in that manner.  Yes, it would require some kind of supporting infrastructure, such as a specialized internet router that acts as a Stratum server. It's more of a motorbike than a car....http://www.hover-bike.com/ Actually, there is a new type of capacitive touch screen that is actually a solar panel itself, so that you can let your phone charge by simply placing it on the table face up and letting the screen time out. http://ht.ly/6yUTGHere's the site of a manufacturer of a similar device, but not the same device. I saw this the other day.  It looks to me like someone has been reading my other threads...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=75729https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8540.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=53567.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1256.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1256.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2386.0https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2039.0And managed to find some hardware to do it with.  I've been trying to find the manufacturer of the card device in order to get more details on the thing, but so far it seems to be vaporgear. Although this is a cool project, and I'm sure that I'll participate when the time comes, it's not really relevant to the topic problem.  However, this group is bound to be a great resource regarding the FCC process should a licensed band prove necessary. This is true, and exactly why NFC tech is being included into some phones these days for Google Wallet and other similar credit card substitutions.  I don't know that I would want to depend upon NFC being in every hardware device, however.  I'd much rather start with a single radio device that can manage to do everything that it needs to with that one radio first, if that's possible. Discussion about how to use bitcoin to circumvent taxes or government finance laws is a verboten topic on this forum.  If you can manage making your bitcoin transactions anonymous, you can manage to get to the SilkRoad also.  I'm sure that if you want to have this conversation there, many will be accomodating, although don't assume that you aren't talking to a cop there either. Mind?  No I don't.  But the US federal government isn't a monolithic structure, in order to spend the kind of money & time to do the deed, some faction is going to have to get enough of a budget to do it.  The only department with enough of a budget now would be either the military or the CIA.  Neither has much interest in monetary policies or "crimes".  The attempt to approve such a budget for any dept that would actually care would send up some real red flags within the government itself.  I'm not saying that it couldn't be done, if anyone can the US government can.  I'm saying that the US government has easier attack vectors to pursue first, such as simply making this all illegal and a huge propaganda campaign. The 433 mhz band is an international ISM band, just like 2.45 Ghz that wifi uses, so it's legal at less than half a watt most places and no one cares much about the rest since they still work just fine.That would work, assuming that the 'heartbeat' function was turned on.  However, I'm concerned about a man-in-the-middle type attacker, who places a hacked device hidden near a POS system and randomly attempts to pretend to be the POS register, or just uses a beam antenna from across the street.  Most of the time it wouldn't work anyway, but if it works at all it's a problem.  There would have to be some kind of challenge & response crypto standard, say to display a four digit pin on both the POS system checkout screen and your device so that you can look at them and make certain that they match.  This wouldn't matter for the messaging system, because messages could be encrypted to the receiver's public key, which you aquired some time ago in a 'bump' kind of fashion when tapping the two (gps known and in radio contact) devices together.  If public key encryption is too much for the device (probably not, if it's got to do the bitcoin encryption anyway) the devices could trade a set of random data to be used as one-time-pads.  Actually, for texting this would be better, for public key encryption has the habit of making the messages much longer than any simple text message could be, which is one reason that SMS isn't encrypted normally.  Longer than necessary messages would be a killer for the app.  The messaging functions of the device would simply have to collect entrophy data, and then package that into a one-time-pad, trade that data in near proximity (this is where NFC shines) and encode messages with a 1/1 byte ratio, then add a header that told the receiving device where the message starts in thier pad in case there were unreceived messages, then change all used pad data to zeros.  Any device that used the same nym wouldn't be able to see the message.  Plus we would have to assume that there would be nodes that saved all traffic, so privacy would require encryption anyway.  The device would have to have enough flash memory to keep a several kb of pad data per saved contact.  5kb for the sending pad, 5kb for the receiving pad and you're good for several hundred texts before you have to get close again.  The app could warn you when your pads were getting low.I think you should do a hack to get that transceiver hooked up to a USB output together with a reasonable aerial. The datasheet says it takes serial input. That way developers with breadboarding skills can make a couple and start trying them out. You can crowdsource the writing of the mesh network software ! :-)[/quote]
This is an excellent idea, but users need to be warned to use high quality, archive grade paper & ink.  Regular printer paper yellows while regular ink eventually fades and 'blends' marring the sharp edges of the QR codes.  If the key pages also print the keys in a human readable format, this isn't likely to matter within a normal human timeframe; as if the QR code is too blurred to scan well, one just has to sit down and type it in.I might buy one, if they don't cost too much.  What would the printer do for entropy, though?  Perhaps a simple am receiver to encode the static background?  A regular microcontroller is way too deterministic and simple of a device to not have some kind of deliberate entrophy; otherwise the keys produced are going to have some distinct bias towards a particular set of keys, and there might be address collisions. Again, that's after they bought the hardware and built the most powerful supercomputer the world has ever seen, and did so while outpacing not just the current network growth, but also the reserve hashing power of the network.  Something like this wouldn't go unnoticed or unchallenged by factions within the government itself, due to the cost of construction alone. Dude!  That's awesome!  I'm all over this, thanks! NFC would be great for point-of-sale or in-person trades, but not transaction dissemination.  NFC has a practical range of about half a foot, so users' devices would have to be placed beside each other and deliberately told to interact. Breaks over.This little IC transceiver seems ideal for the purpose...http://www.linxtechnologies.com/resources/data-guides/trm-xxx-lt.pdfThe chip doesn't impose any protocol of it's own on the dataset, so a simple form of 'gossip' mesh seems ideal for the dissimination of signed bitcoin transactions.  Such as transmitting a transaction in the raw with a lead-in signal (a "hello, listen up I've got a transaction here" header, really) with a hop-number in the header that would be retransmitted by other devices after deducting 1 from the hop limit.  Perhaps the hop limit would always be the same (say 7 max) but if a device hears the same transaction with a lower hop numer, it takes the lower hop number when it is it's own turn.  Devices would only retransmit the transaction with a semi-random delay (this is how packet radio avoids collisions) and cancels it's own broadcast if it hears the same transaction again within it's wait time.  The initial device transmits the transaction three times; once immediately (or as soon as the channel is clear), once about 5 minutes later (5 minutes plus a random anti-collision delay following the last transmission by others, again packet radio method) and again after about an hour.  No listening devices respond with an ACK, but store this transaction for later transmission.  The listening devices then wait about 7 minutes (6 minutes + a random wait of 0-100 seconds) but cancels the broadcast if it sees another transmission of the same transaction during that time frame.  (i.e. it could still be near the original device, could be near another secondary device, either way there is no need to retransmit at this time) The secondary device then will attempt to retransmit again at about an hour (60 minutes + random delay of 0-100 seconds) but also cancels the transmission if it hears another first.  All devices then go quiet about that particular transaction until in range of a wifi hotspot (if equipt) and dumps it's transaction pool onto the Internet.  Since a mangled transaction would simply fail to pass the checks of a full client & a gossip protocol is very resilient otherwise, we don't need any additional error corrections or ACK packets.  This same device would work just as well as a p2p texting device, something like Jabber over the air, if hashing of the data & a directional bias for the gossip were used.  For example, assuming that devices had a gps chip, and broadcast headers always included a MAC address for the originating device and the presently broadcasting device, and a (shortened) last known gps location for the presently transmitting device; all devices in the area could establish a short lived 'directional' routing table.  A sending device could choose up to three of the devices that it calculates to be in the best general direction & best distance for it's destination (i.e. the 60 degree sector of the last known position of the intend recipient node) and name them via their mac addresses in the header.  Since those same three devices know where they are & where the originating device is (generally, with a gps code intentionally reduced for accuracy) they can jude for themselves the direction intended, and (nearly) immediately rebroadcast the packet with three more mac addresses and one less on the hop variable.  This continues in that direction until the hop count drops to zero.  If the intended device recieves it, it sends back an ACK in the opposite direction.  The package can be expected to proceed in teh general direction (assumeing that there is sufficient node density) and generally fan out as the hops progress, but no interferance in the opposite direction of the intended direction occurs, so the max hop number could be higher, say 15.  With a standard range of about a klick, a hop limit of 15 has a max possible range of 15 kilometers in an urban area with optimum density, but due to line-of-sight losses and interference, teh practical limit would be closer to 10 klicks.  Still not bad for infrastructure-less digital communications that doesn't cost anything.   The radio has decent range at a decent throughput, about a klick at 10kbps.  Add an ecapselating mesh packet header protocol, and we're good to go there.  I'm not sure how to handle in-person initiations of transactions, however.  In other words, I don't know how to get a POS device to request a payment amount from a device over the air.  EDIT: If a biased routing sceam, such as above, were used; a 'heartbeat' for devices that have not transmitted within a ten minute time frame would be required, so thta nearby devices could know that there still is a device in that direction.  This would just be a very short burst, contianing only the devices's mac, the shortened gps code and (maybe) a basic vector.  (I.E, moving 5 miles per hour NNW).  If the device has another packet to broadcast, or is moving faster than 25 miles per hour, a heartbeat packet would be pointless.  This same kind of biased gossip mesh could work well if the devices stored knowledge of fixed base nodes with Internet access and directed their transactions in that general direction.  The obvious disadvantage would be that there would be no way to hide your location information. not enough information.  what do you mean by a sent notice? If you got burned, it wasn't by bitcoin.  First, go here...http://blockexplorer.com/and input the address that you sent the coins to.  Make sure that it's correct via the MtGox history page. Type that into that search box, and you should be able to find the transaction if it has been included into a block.  Second, don't trust websites ran by people that you have never met to be honest with your money; if they screwed you, you have no recourse, but I doubt that is what has happened.  MtGox has a fair reputation, even after the flash crash & hack debacle. Bitcoin neither aims to be the only currency in the world, nor could it achive such an aim.  You are confused.  Bitcoin is an idea, it doesn't have goals.  Anyone who is part of this community on the hopes that bitcoin will destroy competing currencies doesn't understand the nature of exchange or the rise of natural money.  Friedman was refering to the idea that a currency union such as the Euro could exist worldwide, presumedly without a gold standard, and such a monolithic currency union would need to be enforced by governments (because left alone, the "little people" will develop their own alternative methods of exchange).  Bitcoin has no enforcement wing, and thus cannot become a monolithic currency union, even if some governments might choose to use it as their official currency in some strange and distant future. No, it's not.  It seems like a small form factor imagination of a device that I've been (mentally) playing with for some time, that uses Dash7 radios to mesh to other such devices, with a dash7 dongle plugged into an Internet router somewhere in order to occasionally connect to any overlay network such as Stratum or the split wallet.dat system that BitcoinSpinner uses.  In fact, it looks a lot like that.  A small dash7 radio and a microcontroller running a custom cut version of BitcoinSpinner, through in the ability to send texts to other cards and a standardized system for requesting a payment via that text (all doable via Dash7 native to the radio) and you have a complete system.  In fact, the bit about the location detection in the video practically screams dash7, since that is the only protocol that I'm aware of that can precisely calculate relative position vectors without outside infrastructure (and thus, if you are a vendor with a few dash7 gateways & already know their precise physical placement, determining the absolute position & vector of any arbitrary dash7 radio is simply math) and the only protocol that can mesh via a rapidly changing network neighborhood.  It was originally developed for the US military for some kind of future warfighting gear including a heads-up display on the soldier's combat helmet that could tell him in near-real time where the nearest tanks/buddies/whatever were relative to himself as well as their "operational status" (i.e. are they still moving, or flat on their face?)  It's an awesome tech, that Dash7 mode 2 (version 2.0) has improved upon greatly for mesh networks.  Because there does not need to be a 'coordinator node' (access point for wifi, root server for other mesh networks) there can be a nearly limitless number of nodes on the network within the broadcast range of any single node. (more practically limted to about 1000 or so nodes within radio range, for reasons related to the physics of digital radios)  In practice, however, bandwidth is the issue, and Dash7 isn't intended for mass data transfers.  Moving whole blocks would be impossible, but moving block headers, pre-pruned merkle trees & loose transactions would be trivial.  If every gateway to the internet for such a dash7-like mesh network were also a Stratum network server, this kind of three layer payment network (the standard bitcoin network as the clearinghouse backend network, stratum as the user network & dash7 devices that can share data natively and communicate with a stratum server when possible) would be able to effectively utilized by the entire planet. You only need the private keys, because the addresses could be derived from the private keys anyway.  If you backed up your wallet.dat less than 100 transactions ago, you're still covered.  The client is programmed to create and maintain a future pool of addresses that defaults to 100. Sorry for your troubles.  That's how it always is, though.  Getting the money is the hard part, spending it is always pretty easy. The bitcoin network collectively runs at about 140 Teraflops.  Not even Amazon could buy that much hardware without notice, and they certainly don't have it now.  Maybe a major government, such as the US or China could do it without public notice, but not without other governments noticing, and they'd want to know why bad enough to figure it out, and there are enough governments that would secretly oppose anything that the US government does to be willing to do the same thing to help the network.  And this is just what the live running power of the bitcoin network is capable of.  There is likely as much as 50% more hashing power in idle reserve across the current network that is able to come online should the network come under a 51% blockchain attack.All of this also doesn't consider the vast amount of money and time required to build such a supercluster, all the while the network grows.No, for all practical purposes, the bitcoin network is no longer small enough to be overtaken by any single entity working alone even for a relatively short period of time.  Even the US government couldn't be more than a temporary irritant using a 51% attack.  The electricity alone costs about $15K per day at average US power rates.  They would do something else. I'm sorry if I came across as hostile, that was not my intent. That's one way to look at it, but in my humble opinion, a bit off of the reality.  One cannot spend recently received coins unless they have been confirmed 6 times (about an hour), or freshly minted coins for 120 blocks. (about a day)  There are sound reasons for this that are not resolved by an alt-chain with a shorter interval using the same number of blocks.  The security model of bitcoin is more like a continuous 'brute force' race, the blocks are just checkpoints along teh way.  And at this point, no one owns enough computer hardware to commit to a 51% attack, so the rented clock time model is the real threat. Welcome, but this isn't really a trading site.  It's just a forum for bitcoin, which doesn't generally object to peer to peer business trades going on.  I'm a (retired) US Marine myself, quite a bit older than yourself, I am certain. I don't see how this could be considered fraud, unless the OP didn't intend to tell the buyer that the free to him server runs arbitrary code for the provider.  Nor can I see how this business model could work out, but it's not fraud if the user knows that he doesn't really own the computer. DARN it! I'm now at work, and only have access to my phone's BitcoinSpinner app, but it only has 4 BTC on it! Do you know anyone with bitcoins already?  I'd guess not, but like anything else, the best way to aquire anything is from someone that you already know in real life and generally can trust.  What city do you live in?  Many major cities have someone from that area that you could go meet in person and buy with cash, if you really are that desperate. If you are asking how many hops, on average, a network message must travel to move from one edge of the network to the other, then this is literally an impossible number to assess with any accuracy.  Not only is the network in a nearly continuously changing state, many of the nodes are 'quiet' and deliberately don't exist in any detectable form on the open Internet.  Yes, this is possible.However, one could take a reasonable guess by starting with the default number of connections the average client makes, and a stab at the number of clients that (visablely) exist.  My intuitive guess is that the network doesn't require very many hops to saturate the network at the present time, but that number is going to increase dramaticly as the size of the connected network increases.Every node is an impossible question to answer.  Average propogation time is currently pretty short, less than ten seconds to any node connected with a broadband Internet connection capable of keeping up.  This is also expected to increase significantly.Since the node must verify every aspect of the block from the transactions to the merkle tree to the header before forwarding takes places, much of this time period is highly dependent upon the number of transactions in a block and the speed of the node.  So again, this is an impossible question to answer to any accuracy because 1) we don't know the hardware these things are runing one and 2) the number of transactions vary.  I'd be shocked if it took an fairly moder computer more than 50 miliseconds to process the avaerage block lately.  Even so, both metrics are expected to change dramticly over the next couple years.Once it's obvious that a longer chain exists, yes.Eight if the node must initiate all connections (due to a firewall, for example) or 16 if the client can accept incoming transactions.  However, this is just the default, which can be altered arbitrarily by the user, and it can be reasonablely assumed it's in the interestes of miners and mining pools to have as many connections open as is realisticly possible. It may actually be impossible to collect such data, without deliberately setting up some nodes across the planet to act as controlled observation points.  I'm not sure what good that it would do you, because the metrics are likely to continue to change as the network and userbase grows.  The 10 minute interval was chosen because it's a long enough interval that network latency should never be a major problem (for miners or otherwise) and it's a round number that repeats evenly every hour.  Basicly, it's arbitrary but it was still an educated & safe guess.  Forks of the code that use shorter intervals have been attempted, but none ever amounted to anything.  Mostly because a sub 10 second interval is way too short, and that is the only interval that is close enough to an 'instant' confirmation to matter at a point-of-sale; and to have the same level of certainty against block reversal, the same time period must pass (roughly and hour) before it's mathmaticly secure enough to call it complete.  Instead of 6 block confirmations, a 10 second interval would need 360 to approximate the same resilance against a brute force blockchain attack. The instant payments problem can be, and already has been, solved in other ways anyway.
A little OCD is sometimes productive.  I've discovered a couple other unlicensed Part 15 device bands that the FCC explicitly permits public use of, even though they are all officially federal government bands.  To be specific, they are vhf bands likely reserved for military functions.  And yet, according to this little gizmo (http://reboot.fcc.gov/spectrumdashboard/searchSpectrum.seam) there is a fairly wide spectrum available between 255 Mhz and 322 Mhz and again between 335.4 Mhz and 399.9 Mhz that Part 15 devices are permitted to use.  I tripped over them due to this website (http://www.pocketwizard.com/wheretobuy/frequency/).  I would suspect that these bands are fairly wide open, since they are not worldwide bands.  Great for practical testing of devices and communication protocols, certainly.  It shouldn't be difficult at all to make small & portable devices that can communicate over distances of a klick or more even in an RF noisy urban area.  And with so much bandwidth (potentially) available, more robust and modern communication methods should be available as well.  Regular wifi radios can be used for devices to connect to the internet or (in ad-hoc mode) directly to each other to trade blocks.  So what is really needed is some means of a one-to-many message broadcasting mode.  I don't know if it'd be better to use phase shift keying modes & modified varicode, or multi-frequency shift keying with forward error correction to transmit bitcoin network messages as raw data.  And off the top guess, and I'd say starting at the top end of the higher open band at 399.9 Mhz and moving down in channelized sets would let devices communicate well to great distances by shifting to narrower & higher signal-to-noise versions of the chosen mode in order to extend their clear propogation reach when necessary or wider & more bursty versions when a selection of other bitcoin devices can be heard to mesh with.  I'd say that QPSK1000 would be the widest practical version of PSK, potentially narrowed all the way down to BPSK10 on the narrow, slow and far-reaching end.  Or prehaps a single quarter-channel wifi radio (5 Mhz protocol instead of the standard 20 Mhz that is used in the 2.5 Ghz band) for the reuse of common chipsets, with a batman like mesh network constantly trying to find other bitcoin devices.  This would make the interfaces with normal wifi routers, as well as the development of bitcoin specific routers, both cheaper and easier to interface.  Or perhaps using Dash7's open source protocol OpenTag as a baseline would be more appropriate.I really can't keep this up alone without my head exploding.  I need some help from some other radioheads on this forum. In my research on the feasabilty of using the 27.120 MHz & 40.680 MHz ISM bands with low power ( half watt or less) devices to broadcast the transactions, I noticed something interesting.I was concerned that 1) efficient antennas in these frequency ranges would be too big to be practical and 2) occasional 'skip' would interfere with devices far afield from the one trying to broadcast locally.  But then I though that using skip characteristics intentionally might be useful in it's own right.  The problem being that, since the F layer of the ionosphere is about 150 miles up, the devices that produce 1/2 watt transmissions would have to be detectable by a computer that was listening at least 300 miles away, because the only way to deliberately use F-layer skip to this end is to use Near Vertical Incidental Skywave to exclude interference from broadcasting towers & prevent radio shadows from buildings & geography.  The quality of the transmitting gear is important, but not as important as the quality of the receiving gear and the digital mode chosen.  Now the range of NVIS is roughly 300 miles max, simply because the practical useful angles are from 45 to 90 degrees from the horizontal; so with a reflector at 150 miles up, the emission wave simply can't travel farther than this reliablely.However, the frequency that is best for using NVIS changes from season to season and from night to day.  For this reason, using NVIS with very low power devices is going to require the ability to change bands.  So I went back to the ISM bands listed on Wikipedia, and was looking to see if there were any lower frequency bands that could be used, and I saw these.6.780 MHz13.560 MHzNow, for a simple device that can switch from one band to a completely different one, it's best to have a set of frequencies that are harmoncis of one another.  This turned out to be simple, because 6.78, 13.56, 27.12 and 40.68 just happen to be exact even multiples of 3.39 Mhtz.  This little bit of data, combined with the fact that there are no other ISM bands on lower frequancies than 40.680 Mhtz, makes me wonder what the hell uses 3.39 Mhtz and could produce harmonic resonate emissions to any degree to justify the establishment of a protected band for the harmonics; particularly one that could produce significant interference all the way to the 12th harmonic (40.68 Mhtz)According to a quick google search, 3.39 Mhtz happens to be the primary frequency for HAARP.  I can find no other data to contradict such claims, and no other purpose for 3.39 Mhtz to offer another explaination.  Also the fact that Wikipedia says that HAARP uses 3.5 megawatts of transmitter power would tend to support the position that those harmonic frequencies wouldn't be useful for anyone trying to communicate.I'm not much of a conspiricy theory believer, so I'm not going to address that topic, but it might be safe to say that any attempt to establish a frequency & mode standard for Part 15 bitcoin devices on any of these bands is destined for frustration & failure.  I had intended to set up a high quality listening station in order to monitor these bands for quality over an extended period of time, and test out a few QRP modes for the purpose (such as PSK10), but I think that might be a pointless endeavor.  It is my experience that I can only manage one at at time.  Not as far as I am aware.  Feel free to write such a quick start guide. You answered your own (implied) question.   Bitcoin has a potential velocity rate several orders of magnitude faster than what is possible or common with fiat currencies today.  Increases in velocity tends to suppress the market trade value of bitcoin. Members of this forum are pretty gunshy about external links to software, do not post links to this pristine miner.  Offer it to the developers in the devepers section once you can do so, and let them vet it.  Any attempt to post a link to this software in the general sections, or without letting the developers check it, will quickly earn you a 'scammer' tag and you will likely be banned for malware.  If it's worth having, they will include it in the software section and give your friend his due mentions. I don't understand the question.  Are you talking about the golden coins under my avatar to the left?  If so, this has more to do with your time as a member & post history on this forum.  It's not really a reputation issue.  If you are talking about something else, I have no idea. +1 Bees BrothersOutstanding quality honey candies. I ordered a large box of stuff from Bees Brothers, but intentionally didn't use my forum account or name, so that my repuation on this forum wouldn't influence him (in the sense that a newspaper food critic entering your resturant seems to always end up with the best waiter in the place).  All of the candy was delicious.  I'm not a big toffee fan, so I gave the sample of honey toffee to my wife.  When she bit into it, her eyes rolled back into her head and she didn't speak for over a minute.  Her overall assessment was highly favorable, to put it mildly.  The honey caramels are excellent, and of the quality one expects to find in a specialty candy shop.  All of the other products are also of professional artisan quality, the kind of things one might expect to find on sale in the shop portion of a Cracker Barrel resturant.EDIT: the bag of roasted almonds was gone in 6 minutes, and it only lasted that long due to rationing.  I have four kids & only 1 wife, but all four of us loved those almonds.  Wife said that she was headed to the gym after that sampling fest. Yes, I now need a fifth hand.  Go back and actually read what I wrote before typing something else.  I specificly noted that we were talking about (and likely confusing) two differnet subjects.  I know full well that tps bottlenecks are related to network latency and not hashing of blocks.  I stated as much, if you had bothered to read it.  You have a right to your opinion, and a right to be wrong, but continue to be an ass and I may just choose to exercise my privilages. There are 'hooks' in the code that are intended for future algos to be added to the existing process, or be replaced by them, by consent of the network.  The larger the network grows, the less likely this is going to happen for trivial issues, but if someone 'breaks' ECDSA then the network would have to migrate to another cryptographic signing algo.  There is a known path for this; in fact, it's expected from the start that bitcoin will not always use the same algos.  For example, bitcoin currently uses SHA256 in hashing the block, but it uses it twice.  At some point, another hashing algo will be added in place of the second SHA256; thus reducing the bitcoin network's dependency upon this single algo.  In such manner, even the complete breakdown of SHA256 wouldn't compromise the security of the blockchain; for both types of hashing algo would have to be broken at the same time in order to compromise the blockchain security model.  Right now, there isn't an alternative hashing algo to compete with SHA256, but several are being developed and tested presently.  Once one of those comes out one top, whichever is considered best by the network (and is different enough from SHA256 that they won't likely share a fatal flaw) will likely be added to the code by the developers.  The vote on the matter then comes down to whether or not users choose to upgrade, or stick with what they have, or simply choose a forked client to upgrade to (written by a developer who prefers a different algo that the other developers rejected, and decided to take his ball and start another team).  Your participation (or lack thereof) is your vote.  Whichever outcome results in the greatest hashing power overall overtakes the rest of the network and becomes the defacto standard. And now I need four hands to properly complete this one.  Hashing is transaction processing.  The OP's complaint is that a network node must verify each transaction (and blocks, including the transactions within) before relaying them or adding the new block to it's local chain; yet the current algo that bitcoin uses for this action is particularly slow, so there might be a limit to how fast the average computer can process the flow of the network (there is) before the network as a whole begins to choke on the delays of thousands of computers that fail to keep up with the flow.  This isn't an new observation, as the demands on bandwidth & cpu time are predictable with growth.  That is exactly why light clients are named in the whitepaper from 2008 and why clients that do not require or keep a complete local blockchain (Electrum, Stratum, BitcoinSpinner, etc.) exist now and will continue to exist.  As has been mentioned, there is no reason to expect the casual end user/consumer to need to run a full client.  There is every reason to expect that running a full client (or a Stratum server) is going to be a specialized commercial service for hundreds or thousands of individual users Yes, but the client won't let you send transactions if they include inputs that are less than 6 blocks deep, unless those same inputs are change to yourself from a previous transaction.  Yes, he would.EDIT: Although the client might appear to let you send quicker than this, because the client (by default) chooses from the oldest of it's eligible transactions to use as inputs to a new transaction.  So if you have many transactions of various ages, the client generally attempts to consolidate the oldest transactions.  This behavior is beneficial to Bitcoin in general, in the sense that those older transactions could then be pruned from the blockchain by any client that desires to do so. This is an excellent point.  Bitcoin is modular, so if Mave proves itself to be as robust as it's inventor might like to believe, bitcoin will just assimulate it into itself.  The fact that Bitcoin & Stratum actually exist, and Mave is vaporware, is a secondary point.  Bitcoin has the market advantage and the capacity to evolve using new tech, Mave will never make it out of the cradle before it's best innovations are replicated by Bitcoin or some overlay such as Stratum. Ah, I see.  You've started a new client, and it has to catch up with the rest of the network.  Since each full client requires a complete copy of the blockchain, with all of the transactions, all the way back to January of 2009, this first part takes some time.  It's not usually even the downloading part that takes the time, it's the verification part.  For the client to know independently that no funny business has been going on, it must independently verify every single transaction in each block & the block itself, one block at a time, from the genesis block (block 0) all the way to the last block before it can know what your new balance actually is.  Odds are high that, unless you have a serious gaming rig, it'll take your pc longer to finish hashing through 175,975 cryptographic hashes of blocks (each with it's own merkle tree of cryptographicly signed transactions) than it will take the rest of the network to confirm any transactions intended for yourself in the meantime. The transfer takes about six seconds.  It's the confirmations & clearing of the transaction that takes so long.  The clients require that a new transaction be 6 blocks deep into the blockchain before it can be spent again, which takes about an hour once the transaction makes it into it's first block.  Currently, that means about an hour, since there are no congestion delays to deal with. Well, once one of the founders of Greenpeace comes out and says that Greenies are screwed up for rejecting the science on (carbon free) nuclear energy, it's past the cult stage. What the moral of the story then?  Don't buy contraband on websites that accept paypal?  Don't trust encryption wherein copies of your keys are on file with a corporate server?  Or don't post packages of contraband from an address that can be linked to you?  The US dollar needs paper from trees & cotton, and printing presses, and a mint, and employees, and security trucks to move it around, and computers to count it all, and banks to hide it in, and construction of banks, and more employees.  All of these activities require electricity, and material resources, and human resources.Ergo, the US dollar isn't green. You can lock the thread yourself.  I don't recommend auctioning off stuff on this forum, there are better sites for such things.  But if you do, be explicit about your end time and reserve price.
What can't you buy with "real" money? Excepting that there is only one source for the blockchain, no it wouldn't.  Part of the normal client's security model involves getting blocks from differnet sources, and validating them so that they all fit into the same blockchain.  That's where the trust of a datacasting company would come in, for it's possible that such a company that turned to the dark side, (or a hacker gets ahold of the private keys in order to fake being the company) then it's possible for the attacker to send faked blocks to a high value target that also happens to be a costumer.  In this way, the attacker could theoretically create fake blocks that permits himself to send himself his own bitcoins, and then spend them again at the attacked vendor.  Sort of like a delayed double spend attack.  Actually, this might be possible regardless, so I doubt that anyone selling high value items for bitcoin (say a brand new car) is going to be satisfied with just a couple of block verifications.  Odds are high that such a vendor could justify an Internet downlink of their own right, and that buying in bitcoin is going to both require personal identification (ever tried to buy a car for cash at a dealership?  It's not cash an carry) and at least three verified blocks before you get to leave with the new car.  This datacasting idea is more about the little vendors.  Like the guys who sell hot dogs at the street corner downtown.  He's more likely to use BitcoinSpinner on an Android than a datacasting company, but the concept is similar.  He's not going to be running a full client under his hot dog tray paying 4G data rates to keep up.  Eventually even 4G isn't going to be able to keep up anyway. And half since. Yes, but his complaint is valid.  A client for such a subscriber would have to be modified to accept the encrypted & signed block digest from the datacasting company as both trusted and authoritive.  Such clients could still get such data from other clients that they come into wifi range of, such as customers, but in order to invalidate the trusted block, the subscriber's client would have to have a complete copy of all of the blockchain.  Right now, that's not much of a problem; but by the time that vendors in Africa are using a service such as this in order to transact daily in bitcoin the block limit is going to be huge and a full copy from any source is going to be like drinking from a fire hose.  There already exists an overlay network (Stratum)being developed in order to permit light(er) clients to directly utilize the bitcoin protocol without needing a complete copy of the blockchain, but in every case some level of additional trust is required of the operator of the server that your client connects to in order to update it's local copy of it's own address inputs.  BitcoinSpinner for Android uses a similar client/server trust model in order to allow an Android client to quickly assess what it's own balance is without needing to download and verify it's own blockchain.  Local complete blockchains & verfication will always be available to anyone who wishes that level of security, but only banks and the most paranoid of consumers are likely to continue doing so when the size of the average block approaches 10 Gigs every 10 minutes. It would be a high value key, yes; but don't assume that it's one that would be easy to aquire.  Yes, subscribers would generally be trusting the security model of the company they contract with, but if anything happens, that trust dies and another datacasting company takes away their business or the subscribers get their own Internet feed.  It's not vendor locked. Uh, no it's not.  The broadcast tower is just a means of propogation, the security is in both the encryption that the bitcoin datacasting company uses with it's customers and in the cryptographic signing of those same encrypted archive/digests.  If someone gets a copy of those private keys (for signing, not for encrypting of the digest), then everyone who uses it is vulnerable, yes.  This is no different than the security model that bitcoin itself uses, for it's the private keys that matter.  No one can fake being you without them, this is why identities are not necessary under bitcoin and identity theft is practically impossible.Although it might mean some degree of centralization due to economic concerns, but even the customers of that company aren't locked into that trust relationship, and any of them could catch the broadcasting company if they tried any tricks themselves. Only until the rollout of data lines into Africa were to take that work away, but that still could take decades.  Still, I wonder if this is even necessary.  My understanding is that the rollout of cell phone carriers is rather substantial in Africa, despite the difficulties in getting Internet to those carriers.  So the most likely scenario is that cell carriers would sponsor their own version of a BitcoinSpinner server on their local network, with a vendor locked app for their customers.  Less than ideal, but probably still less than $10/mb.  Yet, this datacasting idea still has legs.  I'd wager that it's no longer $10/mb, and that there is a per-broadcast fee involved, so that daily digests are still less expensive than hourly.  However, hourly would significantly limit the possibility of a local double-spend attack against a subscriber.  Doing the same thing with a more local DRM shortwave station would likley cost more relative to the subscriber base, but might offer the ability to send new blocks closer to their creation.  Either way, a bitcoin datacasting company could stand to make money by using a trick out of the BitcoinSpinner playbook to reduce broadcasted data while also preventing 'free riders' by pre-emptively pruning the broadcasted blocks to include the headers, the merkle tree (perhaps complete, perhaps pruned) and only those transactions that have an address of a subscriber as either an input or output.  This way, subscribers could present the datacasting company with a list of the addresses that they wish to include, and have a standard limit, say 100 addresses.  This would also permit a local 'business association' to get several vendors who only use a couple of addresses apiece (i.e., one for the cash register, one for personal spending, one for a savings account and one for the wife?) and share on downlink equipment & subscriber fees.  The datacasting company could, instead, charge subscriber fees based upon how many addresses it's scanning for; thus an entire town could have one downlink (local Internet service company, perhaps; trying to consolidate their own middle level Internet costs by blocking bitcoin & other p2p ports, but still provide the minimum level of service for customers?) and all the locally relevant data while excluding addresses and transactions that only matter to North America, Japan or Europe.  In this sense, the downlink company becomes a trusted provider, but if any bad things happen the damage would still be limited and identifiable.  Also, even though the digests would be encrypted & a hacker could extract that code from downlink equipment, that digest could still be 'signed' by the downlink company's own address private keys, which no hacker is going to have; so even the malicious things that an attacker could do locally would be limited even with a trusted blockchain provider.In order to use this method effectively, portable light-client devices that have the ability to present a disconnected vendor's bitcoin client a copy of their own transaction plus their inputs & merkle tree positions would be necessary; but I think that is where we shall end up anyway.   The primary goal of hiding the servers is to prevent an observer from linking an address to an IP. http://www.wmo.int/pages/prog/www/TEM/EMDCS-INT/satbroadcast-india.htmIf this page is remotely recent, then datacasting a daily digest of the most recent blocks would be relatively cheap for all of Africa, India or South America.  A company that sold POS devices for businesses without any reasonable broadband access to the Internet could sign up for the daily digest, receive their gear & a blockchain on a thumbdrive, and then be kept up to date withing a day by the daily digest.  At $10 per megabyte (per continent, presumedly) that's expensive broadband, but not if shared across 1000+ subscribers.  Even at twice that price it wouldn't be out of sorts for this kind of thing.  Granted, those vendors wouldn't be able to prevent a double spend, but if we were talking low value trades, such protection might be unnecessary.  Those same subscribers then might be able to charge a small fee to individual bitcoin device users for access to their blockchain, thus keeping local devices up to date with just a wifi connection. Don't get your hopes up too high there. While it's good that you're thinking, there are a couple of problems with the idea...1) A table listing all of the addresses that have a non-zero balance can't go into a block, although it's more than reasonable to have such a service exist for the use of future clients that might use Stratum or some other overlay network.2) A table wouldn't break the bitcoin system, so there is no way to 'invalidate' unspent coins, even if they are known lost.  This is a feature, not a bug.  Even if you could, who would get those coins?3) The whitepaper already includes a method of blockchain reduction.  "Pruning" of the blockchain, or the removal of old transaction data for which coins have already been spent several times, is included in the protocol.  This is why a 'merkle hash tree' is included in the block's internal structure rather than just a flat file of transactions.  After all transactions have been repeatedly spent again within a given block, including the coinbase transaction; those transactions, their data and their merkle tree branches can be removed from the block's data.  This reduces the block's data size all the way down to only an 80 byte header.  So long term, a full client can reduce prior year blocks down to headers alone, resulting in about 4 megs of data per year plus all current unspent transactions plus about a month worth of all the most recent transactions whether spent or not.  Although this doesn't put a cap on the size of the blockchain, growth is far below the historical growth of disk sizes.  Even miners can do this to their blockchains.  Only the most paranoid of client setups would require the entire blockchain like they all do today, but I'm sure that such a very paranoid client will exist somewhere on the Internet.  There is not any full client that 'prunes' yet because there isn't a need for it yet and the bitcoin network depends upon the "many copies keep data safe" method.  By the time Bitcoin really starts to take off, clients that prune by default will exist.  Already there are light clients (that cannot mine) that don't download or keep blocks created prior to their first startup date. Any blocks produced by miners caught on the minority side of the split will be over-written by the blocks produced on the majority side upon reconnection of the network split.  Thus, transactions included in those abandoned blocks will return to 0/unconfirmed and have to be reincluded into a new block.  Any 'coinbase' transactions (i.e. the transactions that gives the miner of a block 50 btc for his efforts) and any transactions based upon those same coinbase transactions that occur on the minority side of a split will be invalid after reconnection.  This is why coinbase transactions take 120 blocks to mature, while regular transactions take only 6; to limit the possibility that a temporary network split (due to non-malicious failures of the Internet) could be used in a follow up transaction that would prove invalid later.  The truth is, temporary network splits occur regularly, likely about once a day, but are expected and the bitcoin protocol has a method for self-correction.  If you mine solo, and ever get a block that the network rejects, it is because someone else also found a block at about the same time and beat you to half of the network.  However, if there is another tie on the two sides of the network, the split can continue until a block is found that isn't a tie, and then the side of the split that lost that race updates to the winning blockchain.  It's not uncommon for there to be two or three blocks in a row that 'tied' before a tie-breaker block was found; but I don't think that it's ever even hit 6 blocks in a row, much less 120. No.That's mathmaticly impossible.Any existing coins that could be spent on either side of the split would be limited in scope.  That said, there are methods for detecting a split.  Most importantly, there are methods for automaticly detecting that 1) there was a network split and 2) you're on the minority side.  Which is important because any double spend attacks are really attacks against the vendors on the minority side, because it's very very unlikely that a reconnection of the blockchain leaves the vendors on the majority side on the short end of the stick.Or the whitepaper.  Bitcoin doesn't work like you are imagining that it does. This kind of thing has been discussed to great length in prior years. The end conclusion is that it is assumed that a network split of this magnatude cannot be maintained for any significant period of time.  Partly because of the nature of the bitcoin network, it only takes one live link between these two networks (between two bitcoin clients) to prevent the lesser side from dropping behind, and even that can be intermittent.  There is also the fact that there would be some rather creative people on both sides of the split with vested interests in undermining any intentional split.  A single thumbdrive with a copy of the longest blockchain smuggled into China would completely destroy the shorter blockchain and update the entire minority network in under an hour.However, to our knowledge this kind of thing has never happened on any significant scale, so it's all speculation until it happens.  This is why I said that Iran might be a neat test case. Big cluster, yes.  But the root point of this thread is that Bitcoin would not be greatly affected by that.  Neither would email.  But Facebook, Viop and my Steam games would be completely useless.  Likely Twitter and the other high speed social networks, even if they deal in short fits of text.  Simply because they deal with so much text headed towards one single choke point. Bitcoin does not have a choke point as long as the individual user can get any bandwidth.Miners would be screwed, however, because any blocks they mine would take too long to propogate. There are plenty of local ops to trade in cash, even in Western Europe. http://pskmail.wikispaces.com/If you have a ham license and a HF rig, You are never out of touch.I wonder how difficult it would be to modify this server code to move bitcoin messages. The way it should be and the way it is are different things. Know-your-customer laws require that money transfer agencies (that might wish to deal with Americans) respond to suggestions of illegal activity.  He might have thought that you were a fed trying to entrap him, because most anyone who would really ask how long it would take to transfer wouldn't mention a well known black market.  Transfers in bitcoin take roughly the same amount of time regardless of the intended recipient.That was incredibly stupid. I did mention that as an unknown.You don't know that either, so you stand by a myth that you can't possiblely have any more evidence for than I do.  And the truth is, I've much more direct & personal experience with the bitcoin economy than thou.  My intuitive estimate, based upon my own experiences, says that 1) the moving of coins is less than half of all volume and 2) the cash/bitcoin trade is not more than 25% of the remaining legitimate trade and 3) the black market (excluding grey markets such as second-hand) is less than that.  I didn't say that they were insignificant, I said that they were not the majority of the economy.
Did you plan on showing them the gambling & porn side of cash, too? No kidding.  My wife & I homeschool our kids too, but I wouldn't do that to them. OP, did you start a new forum account just to post this?   No way.  Hazlitt's work is way more readable than Bastiat.  If, for no other reason, than Bastiat was translated from French. On quick look at bitcoinwatch.com tells me that the total volume of bitcoin in motion in the past 24 hours was 904,380.25 BTC while the volume on the exchanges presented on that same page total under 73,000.  Granted, there could be a great deal of cash trading off of those markets and some of that first number is users moving BTC from one address to another.  But it seems a bit silly to think that with a daily volume over 10% of the entire monetary base in current circulation, cash/bitcoin trades could make up anything near a majority of real economic trade volume. Contraband is, beyond doubt, a not insignificant portion of any economy.  However, I seriously doubt that such business is anything near a majority of the Bitcoin economy.  I've personally made dozens of purchases; from a handmade necklace on Etsy, to pretty quartz rocks, to Steam game licenses, to Internet services, to cell phone service (via a Virgin Mobile Top-up card #) to (most recently) candy.  I've never bought anything that could be considered contraband where I live. Is it your's? I just checked Amazon for a kindle version, and the answer appears to be no. Pretty  much any ham gear, but using it is going to get the feds on your tail, because hams aren't going to suffer you for long.  It's a fine emergency communications plan, however, and an attack on the commercial Internet infrastructure might just qualify.  In a true emergency, anyone has the right to transmit.  True emergencies mean that life or property is in immediate danger, not that you can't read your email.To be honest, however; Marine VHF gear has been in use by unlicensed users for some time now.  As long as you are using it far enough from the ocean, and yield to primary users, that you don't tick anyone off, then no one calls the FCC and thus no one really cares.   That's why it matters, because established members should have better credit.  At least within this forum. Britain's social welfare system is based upon taxation, not private enterprise.  So I wouldn't call it that.  I wouldn't call anything capitalism, because the term is as tainted as "communism", and so is the economic systems that people tend to refer to them with that term.  There is no such thing as a free market in this modern world, so it's not accurate in an economic sense to call Britain (or the US) capitalist nations. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=483.0Usually here. There are plenty of modern economics books as well, this is mostly a discussion on the classics.  For a more modern text, I suggest Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?.  It's targeted for teens and younger, so you should be able to follow it okay, even as a Krugman fan. This would be a good opprotunity to see if bitcoin routes around the block.  Do we have any forum members from Iran?  Considering that access to this forum may be blocked later, I wonder if we could set up a means to test bitcoin penetration into Iran after the block.  Say, perhaps, get the bitcoin address of a volunteer in Iran.  After the block, other volunteers could send small bitcoin amounts to this address, and if the user in Iran can see those payments, return them to the senders.  If one person sent a small amount each day, and the volunteer agreed to return those payments as quickly as reasonable, we could track the effectiveness of the block. Their social welfare system?  Really? Yes, because it's an educated guess on the average.  You see, people vary and it's difficult to nail down such a number because we kinda can't do social experiements on human beings in order to refine the guess. My goal is to create a transaction broadcasting channel that other devices can listen to, but not compete with existing tech.  Wifi can be used regardless. Yes, generally speaking.  Libertarianism does not equal anarchism.  To a lib, there are certain "natural" laws, which can be summed up with Maybury's two laws.1)  Do all that you have agreed to do and..2) Do not encroach upon another person or their property.Property is not defined here, because it's a difficult meme to plainly define.  However, most of the time the simple, 2 year old type of 'possesion equals ownership' is somewhat accurate.  As in the idea, the car in my driveway for which I alone have keys for belongs to me, because I paid for it. Why?  I have them all on Kindle, and it didn't cost me a dime. Maybe, but then I'd require a definition of "social-libertarian" to know if there were fundamental differences.
For any society larger than Dumbar's Number (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar%27s_number) that is dependent upon members of that society treating each other with the kind of mutual respect that is required for a truly voluntary commune to exist, some form of social hiearchy with the capacity to impose it's will upon individuals is required.  Otherwise it's unstable.  This pretty much describes any group larger than a (relatively small) church business meeting.  No town, city, county, state or nation can function otherwise; regardless of whether or not they are communist, libertarian or other.  Even libertarian ideals require a common social order that can be enforced upon individual members; but ideally that common social order is minimalist in nature.  Communism cannot be minimalist in this fashion.  It's literally impossible. Okay, but a voluntary collective must also respect the right of members to leave the collective at will.  This also means that such collectives are not stable social constructs lacking the force of law.  Thus, although a libertarian society can coexist with a collectivist sub-culture; a collectivist society cannot coexist with a libertarian sub-culture; because the growth of the libertarian ideals are destructive to the collectivist social order.  So, in the end, a society that is libertarian with minority collectivist population is still a libertarian society; not a communist society.  Marxism , by it's own definition, seeks to establish a predominately communist society.  Therefore one cannot be a marxist and a libertarian at the same time. European Anarchists aren't libertarians, primarily they are marxists.  Marx himself regarded the destruction of the capitalist order a necessary step towards communism.  Libertarians who can rationally be considered anarchists (in the literal, 'no ruler' root meaning) don't have a further political goal.The problem with you guys is not that you don't understand collectivism, you all seem to.  You guys don't understand libertarianism.  The ideology requires economic liberty of individuals; which in turn requires a community standard for private property rights.  The default for private property rights is very similar to what exits, collectivist ideals of property rights require enforcement structures.  Therefore, it's impossible for communism to function in the absence of central control of economic systems.  No matter how I feel about the effectiveness of such an economic system, central planning of anything is invariablely opposed by some minority group.  The smallest minority is the individual.  Follow out the implications of your thought patterns and you will reach a different end than any that a libertarian can support. Personal freedom is about economics & property.  No matter how many times you say it, a collectivist cannot be a libertarian.  The two worldviews are mutually exclusive by nature. "Marxist Libertarian" is a contradiction in terms. Such fears are based upon a fundamental lack of understanding about what the Internet actually is.  And as for smartphones, ever heard of 'rooting'? Anyone else care to weigh in?Any other radio geeks with an opinion on the best band to use, or the best mode? This is something that I expect to see in the next five years regardless.  It's already being done in many cities. If the Internet is brought down as a whole on a temporary fashion, Bitcoin will just pick up right were it left off upon the reformation of the network.  There is only one way to stop the Internet long term, and that's a global nuclear war.  If that happens, your gold is worthless too.Bullets, maybe not.That said, even the compete destruction of the Internet does not necessarily result in the breakdown of the Bitcoin network, although it would certainly disrupt it.  If two bitcoin clients survive, and can establish a direct link to each other, then Bitcoin survives.  Many copies keep data safe, and bitcoin takes that method to an extreme. I can't see these. You don't actually have to change anything to the server code to permit Tor access.  You have to add a tor node to run along side your server on the same machine, and set up a 'hidden service'.  I don't claim that is an easy task, nor that it's likely to be used by more than a small minority of people unless a version of bitcoin spinner is released that uses tor natively.  That is why I asked if the server code would be released, so I could do it myself. There would be more words, not necessarily more content. Are there any plans to release the server code so that users can set up their own servers and redirect Bitcoin Spinner to use that server?  If not, is there any plans to add the option of using Tor, so that even the presence of such a client cannot be determined? I know almost nothing.I do know that this server isn't the original bitcoin forum that Satoshi actually used to make those posts.  I also know that he was an incredibly privacy aware person who was at least as well educated about how he leaves digital tracks as anyone here who might pursue him.  If anyone would have had the wherewithall to ask the admins to spoof his connection data, it's him.  If anyone on this forum could have actually got cooperation in such an endeavor, it's him.  If I were Satoshi, I would have had my connection data randomized & selectively deleted.  If I were an admin with the right & ability to honor such a request from the founder of Bitcoin, I also would have done so while taking that to my grave if necessary.  I am not either person, however; but I think that you all are just spinning wheels. You assume that the admins here havn't been complicit in screwing with such data.  I will say this much, once upon a time Satoshi & those who ran this forum at the time were mighty tight, and all of them were aware of such techniques. Can't.  Part 15 devices that are intentional emitters are limited to the ISM bands, otherwise everyone who has such a device must also have a license with the FCC.  That would kinda kill any anonimity of using bitcoin with an offline device.  I'm mostly trying to start a conversation about starting a standard, so that hardware experimenters can use a common set of standards to make their devices comminicate more effectively with a bit of prior planning; rather than just let some incompatible devices talk past each other until a defacto standard arises.  First the transaction broadcasting method, then perhaps the block data method if one is necessary.  I don't think that they will be, because an offline device that can occasionally connect via wifi to collect updated info concerning it's own address balances and new transaction inputs can create transactions and continue to spend it's own known change until it's balance is zero. That's fine too, but that is a different goal.  It's not enough to just send a transaction to your seller, although that's certainly possible with any direct wireless peer model, because if I were to buy something of great value from you, and have a deal with a local thug that if he mugs you before you can get to a signal to send that transaction to the Internet, then all the security against double spending is useless.  Thug just mugs you, steals your device, and smashes it and I give him half and keep the bitcoins to spend again.No, the idea here is different than just the ability to trade person to person while offline, the idea is to have a standardized (& relatively cheap) method of broadcasting that transaction to the wild, so at least the parties involved don't know that said transaction hasn't been heard by other bitcoin devices nearby.  A bitcoin gateway, such as I am presenting here, doesn't need to even have a transmitter, and as such isn't limited in the quality of the receiving equipment.  Done right, even low power burst transmissions of transactions could travel for miles in the open or blocks in the city.  Using an offline device affords a different kind of security model, even where Internet access is readily available, but there needs to be some method of getting those transactions out there.  There also needs to be some way of getting block data processed and into the devices, but one thing at a time. While this is true, the higher frequency ISM bands are in heavy use by existing part 15 technologies.  Obviously, Wifi dominates 2.5 & 5 gigahertz, but many other techs compete for this same band.  433 Mhz is commonly used by simpler devices, such as garage door openers and car remotes, but is still a very viable band.  I reject it only because of the potential that Dash7 transceivers could come to dominate the band if they ever make it into cell phones.  Dash7 would make an ideal p2p meshing tech for bitcoin to piggyback  upon, but that would happen regardless of any alternatives.And some are Europe only, which is another reason that the higher ISM bands are so crowded, because they are nearly worldwide.  No ISM band is universal, however.  I'm considering only the best solutions wherein realistic enforceablitly of public spectrum regs exist.  No one cares what laws Iran may pass, they can't prevent such devices from their public anyway.Yes, 433 Mhz is a near-global ISM band.  More widely respected than 900Mhz, less than 2.5 Ghtz or 5 Ghtz.  I doubt that 40 Mhtz is a worldwide ISM band, but it is in USA, Canada and Europe.  The rest of the world can adapt or use a different band. The comments are filled with patheticly uneducated perspectives. Good God, those are expensive!
Perhaps the 40 Mhz ISM band would be ideal, after all.  It would permit smaller antennas of reasonable gain than 27 Mhz.  And if the standard mode chosen is PSK500 or PSK1000, at least 10 devices could be transmitting at the same time, and a single computer with a sound card could decode & forward all those transactions at the same time.  Also, a standard 2Kb or smaller transaction would take less than 20 seconds to burst.  Granted, less than one second is ideal, but I'm not sure how that's going to work unless we were to use higher quality radio modems (read more expensive). Much has been discussed, including by myself, on the value of bitcoin devices that don't require constant Internet access in order to transact.  Part of this would likely include some kind of ad-hoc p2p wireless networking ability between devices, as well as the ability to monitor a set band for bitcoin related data.  I had an idea.Wifi uses the 2.5 & 5 gigahertz ISM bands, not because they are ideal, but because they are unlicensed AND they are wide enough bands to support the channel width required for high speed data transactions.  None of the ISM bands of a lower frequency (in this case, better transmission & propogation characteristics), however there is nothing that I know of that prevents a narrowband digital part 15 device (unlicensed intentional transmission) from working in the lower frequency ISM bands.  I've personally mentioned using Dash7 sensor tech (433 Mhz ISM band) for this purpose, and this might yet happen anyway, but Dash7 radios are still vapor-gear.  However, basic radio modems on chips are not.  Their bandwidth is narrow & data throughput is slow, but they can also operate on better bands & individual transactions are neither large nor subject to problems if distorted. (due to internal checksumming)  So error correction is unnecessary.  If we were to establish a 'standard' frequency and mode for the literal broadcasting of transactions from disconnected devices, then such devices could be sold that can monitor that frequency and either store transactions that it sees to be released to the Internet latter, or simply as base stations (inside brick & mortar vendors?) which forward the transactions immediately.  The transmitting device doesn't necessarily even need to know if other devices heard it; it could simply transmit in a standard pattern.  I.E., a buyer's device could transmit immediately, repeat again 5 minutes later, and again an hour later, then perhaps once each day until it sees it's own transaction in a block (or a supporting server tells it to stop).  This would both protect against a device not being heard due to no other devices being within range of the buyer's device, as well as protect against a broadcast 'collsion'.  The seller's device could ack the transaction, permitting the buyer's device to quit, but this shouldn't be required should the seller's device not support monitoring the bitcoin channel itself, such as a standard computer client or an android client.  Of course, it's in the interest of both seller & buyer that another bitcoin device that can act as a gateway to the internet does exist.To be clear, this frequency would be for the movement & broadcasting of transactions only.  These disconnected devices would have to get blocks by some other method, but an occasional wifi connection to promote updating the local blockchain would work fine, permitting stand alone devices to exist that could literally act as bitcoin wallets in meatspace.As for the choices of ISM bands... (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISM_band)The ISM band near 27 Mhz is very close to the Citizens' Band (USA) and the 11 meter ham band, so the propgation characteristics should be fair and the ISM is tiny, so it's rarely used by any other widespread tech that I know of.  So it shouldn't have to deal with much interference.  As the entire band is only 320 KHertz wide, even Dash7 wouldn't fit well using it's narrowest mode.  I'd say that a modern 'sound card' mode such as PSK31/63/125/250/500 would be ideal, but this requires both a sound processing chip (no longer a high requirement) and a tiny, single frequency (crystal controlled?) SSB transceiver (not so easy) to be within the portable device.I don't like 40 Mhz, because the ISM band there is only 40 Khz wide, so PSK31 would be the only available mode narrow enough to fit without interfering into nearby licensed bands, which might bring the hammer down via the FCC; if only as an excuse. I don't consider PSK31 to be a fast enough mode to reliablely move a transaction, because it would take far too long to complete. (EDIT, I don't know what I was thinking here, except perhaps I was temporarily conflating Khertz with hertz; for PSK31 is only a 31 Hertz wide mode, not 31 Khertz.  A number of PSK500 channels could coexist on this band just fine.)I don't like the 433 Mhz band, because it's already in use by many other consumer devices (garage door openers, being one) and the future might have that band packed with Dash7 devices.I don't like bands of lower frequency than 27mhz, because even the 27 mhz band is going to require some fairly inefficient antennas to fit into handheld consumer devices, and anything of a lower freq is going to be worse. It's a good article, but ironicly he displays his own economic biases by citing long debunked viewpoints while trying to indirectly support bitcoin with them. I see.  Well, smooth migration was considered from the start by Satoshi, and mentioned in the white paper.  It was not expected that the algos that are secure today would remain that way forever, so there are 'stubs' in the protocol to allow future algos to be included and deprecated as required. Your assuming that a problem will be found that breaks the current system.  I find that unlikely, considering all the algos that bitcoin uses are modular, and can be swapped out without much problem, so long as the developers & miners can agree on a future path.  Do you know what Stratum is? I don't understand the goal.  What problem with bitcoin are you trying to correct? Unless you have permission from your employer to do this, this is considered theft by deception around here. Count me in for 1 satoshi, also. If you think that you could do better, do it. Computers are not different, just an extreme example.  Deflation is neither good nor bad unto itself, but think about the consumer.  Is it bad for the consumer if the price of a gallon of milk drops 5% a year?  Of course not!  Is it bad for the farmer?  Maybe, but his own costs are likely dropping by 5% per year also. +1 for Candies, I received my order as expected and he went to great lengths to make certain that I was happy with what I got. You can if your pruning algo follows the specs in the white paper.  Again, as you have already mentioned, you don't know.  You've done some research about the topics at hand, this much I can tell; however you don't completely 'grok' bitcoin.  Don't take that too personally, it took me weeks before I even understood the most obvious functions of the system.  The system works in so many interconnected ways to support itself, that I have insisted that Satoshi was either a team of professionals acting as an amateur or a truly gifted polymath just learning the art of programming.  The truth is, the system is elegant with finely tuned incentives, interactions and security tricks all in play, not some kid genius's after-school project hack.For these reasons and others, it would be a terrible waste of effort and bandwidth form me to attempt to explain any of it to you here.  You're simply not close enough to it yet. The devs didn't stop anything over the overflow bug.  All that they did was contact a majority share of miners, let them know that there was a problem, and asked them to cooperate.  They did.  If they had not, the devs couldn't had done much of anything to stop the overflow bug.  In hindsight, it wouldn't have amounted to much anyway.  Once those same miners had upgraded to the patched client, those same clients just started to reject blocks with an overflow transaction and backed up the blockchain as far as was required automaticly.  There were still old clients trying to submit tainted blocks for weeks because there were miners who had not been paying attention and had not upgraded.  I was here when that all went down, and wasn't mining; and I can honestly say the network didn't really skip a beat from the perspective of a casual user.<sigh>  Again, you display your ignorance in such matters.  There are sound reasons for everything that ou sight, and foreseeable solutions to the potential problems that you noted.  These topics have been debated to no end long before you ever arrived.  The search function is your friend.21,000,000,000,000.00The number of BTC that will ever be produced (est) with 1 satoshi = 1 cent per decimal places, and what you get is 21Tn, or about twice the M2 money supply of the United States, only divisible down to 1 cent.[/quote]Okay, I see what you did there.Again, there are sound reasons for the choices.  Do some research, please.Not yet, but someone is going to add such funtions before they are really neeed. Sure it is.  The idea isn't particularly useful if mining, because mining requires as little a delay as possible.  Regular clients, however, can tolerate transmission delays just fine.  It's useful for getting the blockchain to parts of the world that Internet access is sparse or prohibitively expensive. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2039.0 You could, actually, if you wanted to become a donator to the site.  But tell me how you figure newbies are going to get some bitcoins to donate, if they can't post to the site first?   Developers can't "stop the world" in any context, and tweaks can be made to the running network anyway, at least as long as users are willing to upgrade.  The network is particularly fault tolerant.You don't know how the system works, but in the same sentence claim that Satoshi did a lot of stupid things?  Are you trolling?Point one isn't true, but only because a decimal shift isn't how it would be done.  The values are stored in a 64 bit integer variable, but only about 54 bits are in use, so the leading bits can be taken as a 'marker' to tag values using an extended standard.Point two is certainly true.Where did you come up with that BS number? Not if it's not installed. Personally, I didn't feel like it.  But good call considering you haven't been here very long, most people don't understand this is possible. Except those theories are B.S.  The only way to do what they imply is to have enough of the hashing power to deny all other miners the chance to broadcast a valid block, which either requires significantly more than 50% of the total hashing power of the network (which is actually over 100% if you are attacking the network, the 50% number assumes the worst case, that half of the previously honest network suddenly turns malicious) in which case you can do much more harm to the legitimacy of Bitcoin than a simple DoS attack on the blockchain; or one must be able to deny Internet access to a significant majority of your mining competitors for as long as you can (thus creating a sudden drop in the effective hashing of the network, leaving you with a cluster that is effectively half of the network anyway, but even this still requires that you be the biggest single cluster on the network).  The only known effective way to deny all miners access to the Internet, is to turn the entire thing off.  I seriously doubt that is even possible these days, for Bitcoin isn't particularly dependent upon DNS, which is the 'normal' way that is imagined about an 'internet kill switch'.  In the long run, the most damage that either of these methods could do is to delay transaction clearing, not prevent them from occurring.  This could be a problem if the network could be backed up for days, but that is extremely unlikely.  Even Deepbit (should it turn to the dark side) couldn't do either of these things for more than an hour, assuming that the contributing miners didn't bail.And as you pointed out, the current transaction rate wouldn't result in much backup at all.  Bitcoin would have to be several orders of magnitude more popular for that to be any risk at all, in which case bitcoin would also have several orders of magnitude more market cap value, and thus several orders of magnitude more hashing power (at least if the past three years is any guide in this matter).
You display your ignorance of the system with these above statements.  No, the US government couldn't do more than irritate the network with an Anonymous style DoS.  It would take some talented work for them to find just my node, much less all of them.  And you can't DoS what you can't find.  It's literally true that the only way to stop Bitcoin now is to shut off the entire Internet and keep it that way. Hmmm, probably so, but the end result would be similar.  Such moves against bitcoin wouldn't go unnoticed forever, and there are certainly factions both between and within governments that would likely move to undermine any such attacks. Not a single one of those is still valid.  The 51% attack issue was a real problem a year ago, but it no longer is.  Any government that tried to build a gpu cluster capable of overtaking the network now would distort that market and pay huge premiums to do so, even if other goverments didn't secretly oppose them. I can see how that might work to undermine blocklists, but selling the private keys works just as well.  Anyway, he might have to wait a long time to mine his one transaction. It's a near certainty that all three methods are currently employed, but there are limits to how much influence these methods can impose. I've seen both hand cranked and electric, so no.  If I recall correctly, all of those machine at WDW were electric. Actually, you can mutilate or destroy them.  Have you never seen the penny presses at tourist traps?  You put in 51 cents, and the machine presses your penny into a little keepsake with a new image on it.  They are all over Walt Disney World, for example.  I seriously doubt that Disney Corp is going to be caught off guard doing something illegal. This is correct.  If you create a transaction but don't broadcast it, it doesn't exist.  The same is true for a block. That's mostly true, but so what?  I don't understand the point you are trying to make?  The coinbase transaction is the one that all miners must make, and correctly, for their block to be valid at all, whether that is done by a pool master, a lone miner or a botnet. Another newbie who thinks he alone has discovered the Great Bitcoin Flaw (tm) that all the rest of us missed.Please, enlighten us.  What have you discovered? Doesn't have to.  Usually, the pool master does the merkle tree work and just passes the merkle root & the rest of the header to be hashed to the miners, so the miners don't see more with or without transactions. The same kinds of assumptions were in place for many algos that are now considered broken.  I made my guesstimate based upon the likelyhood that someone is going to come up with a mathamatical shortcut to help them brute force these current algos faster.  But the root of my point is that assuming that the algos that Bitcoin uses at present are secure forever is both wrong and unnecessary at the same time. Okay, you are entitled to your own opinion, even though reality doesn't care what my or your opinion may be. This is wrong from the start. We're not talking about someone buying a car with bitcoins.  Do you really have any idea of the technical difficulty in doing something like this?  Imagine the cost to the scammer to just set this up once.  No one would do this to take a person who knows his name for a couple hundred dollars. Actually, that's not likely true in the long term.  You see, even though that Bitcoin was designed so that lost keys are unrecoverable, those lost in the past few years are likely to be recovered eventually so long as Moore's Law holds up for another couple generations and the value of a bitcoin shoots for the Moon.  This is because Bitcoin's address creation method is (intentionally) modular, so that newer and more secure algos can be added (or swapped) into the system under the fair expectation that eventually all cryptographic systems that computers can use become insecure with the march of Moore's Law.  So eventually, a different set of algos will replace the current set to stay ahead of that problem, and over a few years all current users will move to the new algos.  Then the lost bitcoins will be visable to everyone because they are the unspent transactions that remain after this move.  Eventually, Moore's Law lowers the bar for brute forcing the old algos enough that 'treasure hunters' are incentivised to set up data centers to hammer at those remaining transactions looking for a keypair 'collision' that produces a private key capable of spending those old coins.  And then they are no longer lost.This process is likely to take 80+ years even with Moore's Law, however; so don't be worrying about such things right now. Seems to me that you would have made a good economist, but I'm glad that you're an engineer.  Economists don't actually do anything economicly productive, at least not those that actually call themselves economists. This says all that I need to know about your worldview.  The free market isn't theoretical at all, it's the default emergent order in the absence of coercion.  And capitalism isn't remotely the same thing. <cough>  Ahh, no.  It's not.  That would be currency appreciation, not deflation.  I don't understand why this concept is so hard.  From an economic perspective, deflation is a (relative) reduction in the monetary base in circulation.  Changes in the value of the currency/the prices of goods in that currency is often a symptom of deflation or inflation, but changes in the monetary base are not the only (or even the majority) reason for such visable symptoms.  Actually, I'd find that hilarious.  But I don't have any loans outstanding right now, either.
The policy has not changed regarding such claims.  I was considering nuking it for lack of content.  But I suppose if you guys are getting entertainment value out of it, I'll leave it be. I agree, but I was giving him another chance to clarify before I nuke this thread. Your client should be able to see the transaction within a few seconds, assuming that it is a valid transaction, but it won't let you spend it until it's been included into a block and 'confirmed' several times.  As the other responder said, he would have to be a master cracker to take it back before one confirmation and God after six confirmations. How about a direct accusation, or quit?  Have you tried the 'report to moderator' button? Or, perhaps, you could learn that the POTUS doesn't have the power to abolish the fed, nor institute a gold standard?Honestly, it's not realistic regardless of who wins. Prove you're not a bot. Maybe not 'screwed', but it's adoption would be hampered if the US $ returned to a true gold standard, because then the US $ (which is already fairly digital in nature) could easily go the distance and become an online competitor worldwide against bitcoin.  Since bitcoin is neither backed by anything, nor is it an international reserve currency like the US $ is, it would likely get crushed if Ron Paul wins and actually succeeds in ending the Fed. I support Ron Paul because he's an honest man, whether or not there is a return to a gold standard is inmaterial for me.  Actually, if we ever were to return to a gold standard in the US, Bitcoin is screwed. That's a common error, perpetuated by poor news reporting by people who, themselves, don't understand economics.True deflation or inflation are in increase or decrease of the overall supply of the monetary unit in circulation relative to the overall size of the economy that employs that unit.  It comes down to the law of supply & demand, if the economy doubles in size; and therefore there are twice as much in goods and services, while the monetary base remains exactly the same, then we can assume the relative trade value of that monetary trade unit to double.  Said another way, the value of the dollar goes up, so the prices of those same goods go down.The same is also true in reverse, if an economy halves it's economic productivity while the currency base remains the same, prices double because the value of the currency has halved.  This would be a 100% inflationary event, which would be catastrophic.However, while a doubling of an economy would be equally disruptive, it's hard to argue that it would be catastrophic in nature, because an economy can only double if the economy can manage a doubling, otherwise other economic forces will delay that same growth.  Resulting in a slower (but never negative) growth rate.  This is what the bitcoin economy experienced last year, for the economy grew in size so fast as to outpace the growth in the monetary base.   Here's a little hint for you to consider your error in logic.If the money power would love to have a gold standard, we would have a gold standard.  [/list] Probably. By the way, we've been having this kind of discussion repeatedly for two years.  Many people have tried to spin off new blockchains that incorporate various tweeks to the protocol to compete directly with bitcoin based upon whatever perceived flaw they though existed.  Only one of those blockchains remains remotely within the realm of viablitity, and that's Namecoin, which technically isn't a currency so much as it's a domain name registration & transfer ledger. Both of you are literally correct.  Bitcoin is designed to be inflationary during the early 'bootstrapping' years, and trend toward stability, but the permanent loss of bitcoins cannot be accounted for, so in the long run bitcoin is slightly deflationary.  However, economicly these things are a matter of degree; and bitcoin isn't going to be nearly as deflationary as every fiat currency on earth has been inflationary.  We are talking about deflation rates that would be barely discernable over a normal lifetime. (that is, unless you're the guy who's dumb ass rich dad died without putting the passphrase to his wallet into his will)  The growth of the bitcoin economy, and the business cycle that will occur once the economy is a stable size, are variables that would dominate the deflationary nature of bitcoin by orders of magnitude.  And, sorry to say for all the 'deflationary spiral' daydream believers on this forum, those are two aspects of any economy that is beyond the scope of the currency unit itself.  There is literally nothing we could hope to do to manage either condition, whether you might consider them problems or not. It's not really a problem for bitcoin.  It's theft from the bot's actual owners, but we can't really do anything about that.  But he's right about botnets being inferior to serious mining operations, it takes several orders of magnitude more energy to hash at a comparable level to a high end graphics card, and when asic mining cards start being mass produced even the graphics cards are going to lose. Refusing to relay a valid transaction is different than refusing to recognize it as valid.  In theory, a talented coder can set relay rules for his client already.  There is nothing preventing nodes with additional relay rules from rising any more than there is nothing preventing a miner from setting additional block inclusion rules, but those only affect that miner and those who choose to make use of his code & ruleset.  A single miner who refuses to relay valid blocks produced by a competing mining pool amounts to little.  But if a significant number of nodes have a similar relay rule that delays the transmission of a valid block without transactions, then that rule becomes a defacto sanction against the miner who produces null-set blocks.   That's a matter of opinion.  Bear in mind that including transactions into a block does add some nominial amount of additional processing load for the miner, so it's not free for him.  This null-block miner might simply be a pool that has a higher fee requirement for inclusion than the common amount.  That is his right.  And the only response for the other miners is to increase their own mining power.  This "arms race" benefits the security of the blockchain, even if a not-insignificant minority of blocks are null-set.  I'd be more productive if the miner in question published the minimum fee expected, if that is the case, but it's not necessary. It's not a DOS vulnerablility unless the attacker can mine nearly all blocks empty, in which case he already has 50%+ of the network and can pretty much do anything.  If he has less than a majority of the network, he can't prevent valid transaction processing every 20 minutes or less anyway.  So no, that's not an issue in this context.And how would it make 51% attacks easier for others?  Again, I think this is an over-reaction.  If you think that this is really a problem, work on a patch that allows miners to simply not forward valid transactions that flag on a user's personal blacklist based upon address or whatever other criteria.  If enough miners agree that this is an issue, they will incorporate your patch and the null-miners will be sanctioned by the community without a community wide action need be taken. It's not a vulnerability. 1) A charity accepting donations, mining for their own benefit.2) a bank accepting free transactions of their own account holders, as an off network benefit.3) Wal-Mart accepting free transactions for in-store purchases. I'll be not shocked at all, if this turns out to be a bug in a minority client; such as in combined mining. Nothing, so long as this rule remains a choice of the user.  It can't be a change that breaks the current system.  For example, you can add a rule that prevents your node from forwarding an otherwise valid block or transaction by whatever criteria you choose; so long as you don't reject the block if it gets into the blockchain.  The rules for validity must remain the same, but you should be able to add whatever rules to further limit transmission that you like.
This could be a bug in a modified mining code's transaction verification code, or (more likely) a malicious player.  Either way, I don't think responding is necessarily the best course of action.  If it's bad code, it's not really our problem to solve, and the developers are going to notice eventually.  If it's a malicious miner, then with 15% of the network it's no small attacker; and getting us to respond in some fashion is as likely the goal as would be adding more power in the future.  Empty mining blocks were always going to be an issue, we knew this from the start, so this problem has been mentally hammered for two years.  There is nothing that we need do about it as a group (such as change the code) because by rejecting fee paying transactions they are harming themselves.  We don't wan't to alter the code to respond to this, because then we would be the reactionary group, responding to the attack vectors of an unknown malicious agent by potentially adding new attack vectors.What we could do is publish the bitcoin addresses of the null block offenders, and both try to identify them as best we can, and (as individuals, not as a community) choose to delay transactions & blocks produced by that address.  Because the decision making process is based upon the propagation of a new block, even a short transmission delay in a majority of nodes will result in this malicious attacker's effective hashrate being reduced.  Which can function as a punishment for failing to respond to the social rules of the network, but does not require widespread code changes to deal with a particular attacker.  Users can choose whether to participate in the sanctions or not; just like they technically can already do if they have the coding skills to make the local changes. Wow, they spent a lot of effort to collect the criticisms of various persons, but none of the rebuttals.How balanced and unbiased they are! Just got back from the midnight showing of Hunger Games.  Good movie, but falls way short of the book. Most of us expect that the annual velocity of bitcoin to be much higher than fiat currencies, due to the relatively quick settlement rate of the bitcoin network.  Although most people get paid for their work weekly, with about a week delay on average, before they can again spend those funds themselves; it's actually possible for employees in a bitcoin economy to be paid daily and spend those same coins an hour later.  The higher velocity capable with bitcoin also means  that the bitcoin price is likely to be suppressed compared to a currency with a much lower velocity due to technical constraints.For those who don't understand what I'm talking about; although cash is an instant form of settlement of trades, most transactions in modern economies are credit transactions.  Although such transactions are 'completed' instantly (based upon the credit of the buyer) they take up to 45 days or longer to be 'settled', during which time any real funds involved in the transactions are not available for further transactions.  Think about sending a paper check in the mail to pay a bill; the funds to pay the bill are supposed to be in your account before you write the check (otherwise it's "kiting" which is fraud) and mail the check.  The check must travel via mail to the company, then back to the bank, before the transaction is completed.  This is true even if the company credits your payment upon arrival or not.  But the company cannot use those funds when they credit you with the payment, they must wait until the check clears your bank and is on account at their bank.  As you can imagine, just a paper check can take weeks.  Businesses with merchant accounts at the credit card companies can get access to those funds faster (as in a couple of hours) because the credit card company can credit the merchant's account for an (assumed) valid CC transaction; however, such credit based transactions are not final for much longer due to rules and laws governing consumer credit protection.  So a merchant could re-spend his new funds pretty quickly, but if it turns out that he was burned he loses those funds after the fact, (chargebacks) and then finds himself in the debt of the CC company.  It doesn't take long before merchants start to maintain a standing reserve balance, just like one would do for a checking account.  The aggregate result of all these reserve accounts is a drop in velocity/increase in cash demand/increase in relative fiat currency value.  (Yes, the suppression of velocity can result in the increase in value of the currency, so long as the issuing institution is expected to still be able to follow through).Since bitcoin is truly settled (as fast as) in one hour, those funds really can be re-spent without fear of chargebacks.  Thus reserve accounts are less necessary under bitcoin than under a credit based fiat economy, which was the only way to do online transactions up until this point.   The price of the bitcoin going up isn't quite the same as deflation.  Bitcoin won't experience deflation until the block reward is reduced to near zero, which isn't going to be a real problem for at least a generation.  If the whole world is using bitcoins in thirty years, the value of a single bitcoin is going to be pretty high, but the actual deflation rate would likely be less than 0.5% annually.  Perhaps far less, if effective safeguards against lost address keypairs are developed.An annual increase of the bitcoin value of 30%+ is indicative of a rapid growth in the bitcoin economy, exceeding the current inflation rate by at least that much.  Although the rigid nature of the bitcoin monetary base could act as a brake on economic growth, it's literally impossible for rapid growth to be "deadly" to the economy.  <sigh>Another newbie who believes he actually understands how money works. I feel the need to warn you, unless you plan on moving to Iceland, it's impossible for mining to be profitable for you in Germany with an electric rate of .23 Euro per KWh.  That is, unless you already live in a flat where electric heat is the only option. If that were anywhere close to the reality, mining would be insanely profitable right now and we'd have dozens of well heeled players trying to jump into the game.  The fact that it is not so is evidence enough that your assumptions are wrong.  Even if ASIC mining drives mining costs down to less than 50 cents per MH, the end result is that the total hashing power of the PoW network increases to match or exceed the value of the network, not that the cost of overtaking the network goes down. This is a false dictonomy.  I did not claim that absolute control was the result, nor is it necessary.  A dominant investment does grant the investor the power to undermine the network with less than 50% of the processing power.This is based upon what?  For a PoW miner to gain majority control over the network right now would require significantly more processing power than is available to all of the top 50 unclassified supercomputers on Earth, while a PoS system based upon the current Bitcoin economy would take no more than the current Market Cap of $46 million in order to gain a solid majority stake. He's talking about pool miners. This is not a requirement with proof-of-work, merely a convience for pool mining.There is, but I'm not willing to argue that point.  It's secondary really, anyway.Speak for yourself.Anyway, I've made these kind of arguments many times over the past two years, quite literally on both sides of this issue.  What it all comes down to is that PoS doesn't offer an advantage over PoW, but attempts to solve a presumed future problem that I (no longer) agree exists.  I also do see potential problems in it's practical implementations, although those may not be insurmountable.  However, the very biggest problem with PoS is that a major entity could literally come in and buy it out and become a new central bank, as the requirement for having more than the processing power of the whole of the honest network no longer applies to a PoS miner with a large enough of a stake.  Your not going to solve a problem here. And the current proof-of-work system isn't a tragedy of the commons, it's actually the reverse of same.  I was thinking along these lines early on, and made some of those same very arguments about a year ago, but I accept my error now.  A tragedy of the commons requires that a common resource be consumed by self interested players, but what is really happening is that a common resource (the security of the blockchain) is actually being aggregated.  I've made many counter arguments to my prior position on this since then, particularly centered around the incentive for major future entities in competition investing in exclusive mining agreements.  Think Wal-Mart & McDonalds agreeing to partner on a mining center that makes every effort to exclude the transactions intended for the Target & Burger King alliance.  I.E., companies in different industries have an incentive to work together, but exclude their competitors, as far as that is realistic in order to avoid transaction fees & processing delays.  This adversarial situation benefits the bitcoin consumers collectively, regardless of how each set of mining alliances should treat each other.Brick & Morter banks would have similar reciprocal processing agreements; in order to get the other bank to process their customers' transactions without a fee & relatively fast, they would have to do the same for their customers.  Such an agreement would benefit both banking institutions, regardless of their relative size.  For example, MEGABitCoinBAnk in NYC has 100,000 customers and a 1000 GPU data center, while LittleFarmersBitcoinTrust near Cincinnati only has 10,000 customers and a 50 gpu data center.  Both banking institutions stand to benefit to some degree, so long as they are not competing in the same local markets, so the agreement happens.  MEGABitCoinBAnk is likely to make dozens of such agreements, leveraging the gpus of those dozens of local banks, even if some of them do compete with each other in the same market. Indeed, this is already true without the proof part. Proof-of-stake is a flawed voting mechanism for bitcoin or an alt-coin.  It would, at a minimum, require associations between the addresses within a major stake claim; breaking many types of anoniminty that existed prior to the claim of stake. For the right price, they could be heating my garage next season Valve Games RMS?  He's the guy who invented root-mean-square, right? Oh, Yeah!  That's why I bother, the POWER! looks pretty serious Now this is a newbie post with some quality to it.  It doesn't really matter what your opinionof our methods are, of course; but at least you have one.
Close!  Pot belly, cheesy mustache and a fedora. Again, no.  Even the block reward is just another special transaction.  There are no bits that represent a bitcoin, or fifty. I'm a lesbian trapped in a man's body. There are still free transaction, if you are patient.  There is no reason to assume that free transactions cannot continue to exist.  They most certainly will. No, they don't.  Only the transactions reside in the blockchain. Natural monopolies are not monopolies, but temporarily dominant economic players.   Why not?  transaction fees are never going to amount to much per transaction, due to it's automated functions.  Such functions, at some level, require human intervention in the case of credit cards and the like.  Bitcoin doesn't need human intervention. I thought it was a fairly good bit from a media type, but that she wasn't particularly well versed in public speaking.  She said, "um" too much for the stage. Indeed, you could say that, and be entirely correct.  Because that's true.  Those Federal Reserve Notes that you carry around in your wallet are represented by the ink and paper, but currency is always an abstract idea.  As I said before, currencies are just another form of standardized unit of measurement, in this case of relative valuation.  We mere mortals need numbers to make economic calculations, and currencies are just numbers. I had not heard of coinworker.com before this thread.  Is it a bitcoin version of mechanical turk? (https://www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome)Stuff is happening so fast now, I can't keep up with the flow. In that case, I'll take a sampler pack.  Whatever you can assemble into whatever standard shipping container that you choose to use.  PM me a description and a price, please. Mmmmm, candy.Now this is something that might get me to part with my bitcoin.These didn't fall off the back of a truck somewhere, did they? I believe that, too.  But the Misis Regression Therom applies to naturally occuring money. you can forget about paypal, no one uses it.  They like to screw with bitcoin users, even when the paypal transfer isn't backcharged. You probably missed my explaintion earlier in this thread.  My argument against bitcoins being a commodity is rooted in the idea that commodities are objects with alternative uses, but bitcoins are nothing more than entries into a 64 bit variable on a transaction.  There does not exist an object, not even a digital one, that can be referred to and honestly state "that's a bitcoin" or "that's a half bitcoin".  There are no cryptographic tokens used that represent bitcoins in any fashion, unlike earlier attempts to create a cryptographic currency online.Thus, if they don't exist outside of an abstract concept in our human minds, then they can't possibly have an alternative use.  Now the bitcoin network could have alternative uses, such as a timeservice for public notary online, or as a name registry as in the case with namecoin, or even a shared entrophy source for cryptographic communications; but those alternative uses are alternatives for the service of the network, not of the unit of value that we refer to as a 'bitcoin'. I care not what a law says.  I'm concerned only with the economic meaning of these words. Really?  Care to explain your logically consistent reasoning?  If it violates the definition of a commodity, then I'm going to call B.S. This is a rediculous comparision, that does not deserve a response. Sure.  All currencies are standardized units of measurements of relative value.  I'm sure that doesn't tell you anything, but that is what they are.The Spanish once considered platinum to be worthless, because no one had a use for it and it wasn't widely enough know to be a money.  They famously made cannons out of what they had for a couple of spanish ships intended to transport gold they got from the Americas.  One that was sunk still sits somewhere on the ocean floor, filled with it's shipment in gold.  In modern valuation, one of the cannons is worth more than the rest of the ship and it's cargo.  Gold does have unique physical properties that we can make use of in modern industry, but that we don't because gold is too valuable.  Those uses don't exist without industry, so to say that gold is uniquely valuable if no one else wanted it is false. Those are not uses for bitcoin, nor the bitcoin network at present, although it's possible that a parallel network (like namecoin) could serve such a purpose.  Tell me what the bitcoins themselves are useful for beyond a unit of exchange.Honestly, I know it's an impossible task, as I have already mentioned, bitcoins don't really exist.
No, there are no tokens, not even in the transactions.  There are only the transactions, with entries on who is sending bitcoins to whom (via addresses) and how much.  That is all. I'm going to have to dissent here for technical reasons.  In reality, bitcoins are no more than a mental construct.  They don't even exist as a digital object.  Only transactions exist, and they are not, themselves, bitcoins.  There is only the accounting system. Once again, the absurd part is that a commodity is something with a use other than as a monetary unit.  A currency is a unit of exchange by design.  Even commodity monies (gold silver) are currencies once minted into coins.  Until that happens, those monies are not actually monetary units.Tell me what other use bitcoins serve and I'll agree that it's a commodity. http://iang.org/papers/triple_entry.htmlTL,DR version....Triple entry accounting is wherein there are three ledgers that record a transaction that must agree.  In this case, one personally trusted by the buyer, another personally trusted by the seller, and a third party trusted by both.  This is the classic trusted third party problem.  In the case of bitcoin, the blockchain serves the role of all three ledgers.  Each of the two parties involved in the transaction have their own local copy, and the trusted third party is the rest of the bitcoin network. That's exactly what a currency is.  A currency isn't the paper it's printed upon.  A currency is a standardized unit of measurement, in this case, of relative valuations.  The accounting in a cash economy is performed by the exchange of paper scripts that abstract value, bitcoin does the same thing using a collective & distributed triple entry ledger system (the blockchain). Not yet, but there is no reason that I can think of that Java couldn't be added. That's a good idea. I do not want to ensure any such thing.  An Internet connection defeats the point.  I'm presuming that two people transacting in near-meatspace probably know each other well enough that defenses against a double-spend attack are unnecessary. Ah, no.  His son's full name is Randal Howard Paul.   Um, no.  The airlines are private (mostly), but airports most certainly are not.  Not even in Britain. There's another lesson to be learned here.  Both the US Marines & UK NHS are government run systems.  If the systems is private, they lose some measure of funding whenever mistakes are made.  Government agencies do not. Sure, but they are only here in the newbies section.  See how that works? Wait, the UK system works?  For whom?  It certainly didn't work for the guy who had to drink water from the hallway flowerpot. Roads are an example of a decentralized transit system, if we are going to consider the infrastructure to be equal to the system.I would wager that the opposite is true, but time will tell.  In the meantime, I won't object to sceptism, but I wasn't suggesting that any of these systems had staying power, only that decentralized private transist systems actually exist.Not necessarily.  In the long run, access may prove to be more important than effiency.  I've seen a number of small PV installs around my city lately.  These people aren't putting them up for monetary reasons, primarily, unless they are stupid. Yes, I do.  ARPANET was a project that received funding from DARPA, a sudo-government research agency. However, that's not the same as ARPANET was a government creation, it was not.  And ARPANET is not the Internet, either.  Difference between a primate and a human being is still more than just evolution. My initial impression of the protocol, as explained in the dissertaition, is that it's much like the exchange of cryptographic tokens over a ssh connection directly between peers, as well as a digital receipt of said transaction, with a built in mediation system upon the breakdown of honesty.  Based upon that limited initial impression, I can think of a number of ways to screw with the system that wouldn't work with bitcoin, mostly modified web-of-trust attacks. Currently reading the creator's dissertation, and encountered this gem..."Following the cash paradigm, it needs to be done peer-to-peer and offline in a repeatable way. Such a transfer is called teleportation. The main technical problem is to guarantee fairness under all circumstances. The fundamental effect of the Byzantine Generals undecidability state issue (see page 57) does not allow conducting such a transfer without a (trusted) third party. This fact seems to contradict the offline attribute of the aspired cash transfer. To the authors knowledge, there has not been any treatment of this challenging problem, neither in the practical field nor in the literature over the last 10 years.[/b]"It appears that this person, likely German born and a graduate student in California, has been researching the academic media available on the subject of digital currencies, and managed to completely overlook Bitcoin during the past two years.  Poor bastard, I hope that he managed to complete his degree, at least. Does anyone here have an intimate knowledge of Faircash?  (http://faircash.org/home.html) From what I can tell, it's a central bank for a cryptographic token based digital currency. Proof that Google had considered creating it's own digital currency, but backed away from it for fear of opening up another battle front with governments. 1) the Internet is not a government creation2) no one could realisticly destroy the internet by any means whatever.And messing with DNS simply aggravates the naming system, which is a far cry from being a critical component of the network.  If the US government started to do any such thing, browser plugins that permit alternate DNS servers, or completely differant naming systems such as namecoin, would spread like wildfire.  Even if this isn't true, the DNS system mainly exists to support the "Wide world web", otherwise known as 'websites', which use the hypertext transport protocol.  HTTP isn't the Internet either, it's just one (quite popular) protocol that uses the Internet.  Bitcoin, as an example, doesn't even use DNS in any mission critical manner; so if the entire DNS system were to fall off the Internet, the bitcoin network might not even notice.  Most other Internet protocols aren't terriblely dependent upon DNS either; for example, most ftp clients can use DNS to resolve a server name, but save the IP address into it's account settings.  If your web browser does the same thing (none do, that I am aware) and DNS drops off the Internet, then you could still visit all of your bookmarked favorites and likely not notice any change.
That sounds interesting, and would be a wonderful thing to have if one had both a wifi radio and a Dash7 radio, but it's overkill for what I'm trying to do. Sure, there are historical examples of both utilites and transit systems.  If fact, historicly neither of these services were municipally owned enterprises.  In the modern world, examples of decentralized transit systems include 'jitney' cabs, Flinc (www.flinc.mobi), Avego (avego.com), Zipcar (www.zipcar.com) and RelayRides (www.relayrides.com); in addition to more obvious examples such as Greyhound (www.greyhound.com).For that matter, the New York subway system was originally built and managed by private enterprises, but was 'nationalized' during the second world war and never given back.As for decentralized utility services, that is really just you (or your condo association, etc) providing for itself as opposed to relying on the municipal water company or the power company to do it, but it's uncommon because the economies of scale tend to favor those municipal companies.  Even so, a local well for non-potable (i.e. toilet flushwater only) can pay for itself in no time, and there are many building in Downtown Louisville, Kentucky (where I live) that do have their own wells for that as well as for open cycle heat pumps.  I know of no private business that purifies it's own building potable water however, if only because of the liability if the filter should fail unnoticed and some old guy gets something from the water fountain that puts him in the hospital.  The municipal water service is indemnified from such events, so long as they can show that they made a 'reasonable' effort to monitor and prevent such things.Likewise, anyone can put solar panels on their roof or buy a genset, but neither option compares to the peace and reliablility of the municipal power grid. That's correct, as the concept of a state is presently known.  However, a state that does not insist on such a monopoly on legitimate use of force is not inconceivable.  Most people don't know this, but once upon a time the United States was one such nation, and there were several (but never all) of the many states that did not insist on such a monopoly either.  Most of the Western territories (i.e. Utah, Wyoming, etc) didn't have a monopoly on force within those areas as a practical matter, and that is why (despite the relative peacefulness of the age as compared to today) history refers to this period as "The Wild West".Following it's founding of the nation of Switzerland (of the old confederacy, circa 1291), that nation could also lay credible claim to a national government that didn't insist upon a monopoly on the use of force, as such powers rested in the 'cantons' for centuries, and as a matter of practiality, most of those cantons in turn expected the citizens and clans within to participate in the maintaince of the public order.Even Great Britain can make some claim that their societies were not originally dependent upon a government monopoly on the use of legtimate force.  For starters, the prison known as "Old Bailey" was traditionally managed by a warden and guard force recruited from within the prison population itself; so the "criminal element" (mostly debt prisoners, really) literally policed their own during their sentences.  Also, the British had (at that time) a form of private police force, as anyone could be hired as a 'constable' (as opposed to a sheriff or his deputies) who acted much like how one would expect a private security guard/detective/thug would act.  Of couse, local governments could hire constables as well, and that is exactly how modern urban police forces 'evolved' as well as where we get the word "cop", as it's entomology of the word comes from "constable on patrol".  Where I live that legacy lives on, as while the Chief of Police (sheriff) is appointed by the mayor, there are two elected positions in each county in Kentucky called 'contables' that impose police powers upon the elected individual, but offers no salary.  In practice, the elected constable is just a businessman that runs a private security force and hires off duty or former cops to hang out in banks or hotel lobbies, or serve court summons to civil actions.So it's not true that we don't have evidence that a state can't function within the NAP, or that a state can't co-exist with private protection services.  It's only in the modern world that most people can no longer imagine such a thing. I've built a working piratebox from a TP-Link MR-3020 (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox_DIY_OpenWrt#Tutorial_A:_TP-Link_MR3020) and now I want to put a small bitcoin 'relay' on the device.  The goal is to have a simple process running on the piratebox that will present itself to connected peers as a bitcoin peer, allow bitcoin clients (on android devices, for example) to connect as normal, and relay transactions, blocks and other messages from one connected peer to all others present, but not to perform checks on the transactions or blocks or to keep a local blockchain.  The idea is to allow two (or more) bitcoin clients to transact in meatspace (within radio range of the piratebox) without either device needing live access to the Internet to do so.  Imagine, as an example, a phone-to-phone bitcoin transaction during a power and/or widespread Internet outage; or alternately, a transaction between two people out camping beyond their service plan's coverage map.  Why two people would want to deal in bitcoin beyond the reach (or observation) of elements of the Internet are beyond the scope of this request. SW? I doubt I used the word "lied", I believe that Krugman does actually think that he's correct in most of what he says, although sometimes I have to wonder if he says some of these things knowing he's likely wrong.  I don't remember the Icelandic debate, but I don't make a habit of trying to disprove those who disagree with me with facts.  I find that most people on the Internet don't actually believe in facts, and in the end I just waste my efforts. I can point to quotes by Krugman and others that imply exactly the opposite.  krugman is and was a prolific writer, and was bound to get a win every now and again.  Paul, by comparison, hasn't changed his views since 1971, as you mentioned.  And yes, eventually he was bound to be correct, but not because the end results were unavoidable.  But because his warnings were not considered at all.Krugman, like many politicos, has changed his position on such matters on several occasions.  I challenge you to find variation in Paul's own written or spoken words.  Any variation at all. I don't think you're wrong, per se; but you are seeing the community through colored glasses.  The dominate ideology among the early bitcoin users (myself included) is strongly libertarian.  The US, (for example) is not a free market anymore; and hasn't been since 1913.  It's literally impossible for a free market to exist if the monetary system's value is 'regulated' (price controlled) by a central bank; because the monetary system in use is half of all the transactions.  Whether or not the monetary system is well managed or not is irrelevent. It's not a real time, but an estimate of the time that it takes to browse.  Keep moving around, but not so fast as to indicate that you aren't actually reading *any* of the threads. Then put the thing on silence and don't pay any attention to it till you want it.  That's what I do.  My android cell is just a portable internet and computing device, as far as I'm concerned. You could, actually.  A donation to the operating costs of this forum is a fine way to prove that you're not a bot, but it presumes that you, as a newbie, actually have any bitcoins to donate. 1) email confirmations can be automated, so they no longer prevent bots.2) the culture of this forum is one that favors high degrees of personal privacy, so an email address is not really required. Almost certainly, but that's not a common topic of conversation in this forum.  Please save that for the 'off-topic' section. Nope, that's a recent phenom.  I came here (about two years ago now) trying to figure out the "scam", because the idea of it was eating away at me.  I just knew it had to be some kind of scam, but the idea was so compelling I couldn't stay away.  About two weeks in, while reading the white paper for the fourth or fifth time, suddenly I "grokked" it.  And I've been here ever since.  I'm a mod mostly because I'm here just about everyday and I'm not skilled enough to help development. You just did, but worry not, we are aware of his crimes. Although it's possible, that isn't the most likely explaination.  There is a 'dark pool' at MtGox, that allows major speculators to have standing orders that are not visable until they are in play, under the logic that a major speculator could shift the mood of the rest of the market and potentially trigger a panic.  We can argue whether or not such a panic would occur regardless, but the pool exists nontheless. Bitcoin seems to go through cycles of calm puctuated by weeks of mad movements.  I have no idea why this is, but it might end up with a 10% range for weeks or months before the next big breakout.  It's happened before.  This is generally a good thing, and as the currency matures the volatilty should quieten down more like the forex trading rather then the current pattern which is more like commodities trading. You can read all of the forum except the staff section, you just can't post anywhere else but the newbie section.  The best way to set up with pool mining is to go to one of the websites operated by one of the pools.  Use your google-fu with "bitcoin mining pool" and you will find a number of them.  Their own FAQs are the most relevant to your goal. Not quite correct.  The pools are comprised of voluntary membership, that can leave at any time.  If there is any kind of split, those pool operators cannot count upon maintaining their leveraged position longer than it takes for the news to spread across the community.  At most, a pool operator would have three days before the majority of his membership heard about the split, and then decided for themselves whether or not they agreed with their chosen pool's direction.  To be a pool operator is a position of temporary power. Not really, just common sense.  Don't be rude.  Don't advertise in other people's threads.  Don't spam the forum with too many of your own threads.  Those kind of things.
I can cling to that one.EDIT:  Yes there is such a thing as "fair use" in patent law, although it's not called that.  Anyone or any company can produce another company's patented products for their "own use" (usually market research) so long as they don't actually sell those products or anything substantially similar until the patent expires.  Drug manufactures that produce generics depend upon this to exist, so that they can get the products to market the very same day that the patent expires.  The island nation of Malta has turned this into an artform. Once the tech matures, very few of bitcoin users will care about this forum or any like it.  The goal of a currency is to be used by pretty much everyone in some capacity, the vast majority of whom don't care about the details.  And this forum runs pretty deep.  The half hour rule will come when the tech matures, and will likely come faster than that. I was using the Internet in 1987 and GNU/Linux in 1994.  Both are examples of emerging tech with a huge future potential but minimal network effects at the time.  Today, if you aren't using the Internet, either directly or indirectly, you're a monk or over 80; and if you don't have a linux kernel running on some kind of hardware that you own, (such as your generic DVR) you're either a monk or a hardcore Apple devotee, and I'm not sure about the latter.  Bitcoin is less than three years old, expect that it's going to be difficult for a while yet. Indeed, this has gone way off topic.  I'll admit that I've been party to it, but it has to stop.  I'll be forced to split the thread if there is any more of it, and that involves a great deal of work on my part. Well, at least I know that you're not a bot.While the 21 million bitcoin limit is correct, it's a limit in the math sense of the word.  The total bitcoins issued will ever approach, but never reach, 21 million.  The 2030 date is misinformation that we have been trying to combat for some time.  However, each bitcoin is divisible to the eighth decimal place (in a sense, because there isn't actually an artifact that could be called a bitcoin, not even a digital one) at the present time.  So if the integer that holds the value is never increased beyond the current 64 bit (unlikley) the block reward will slip below the eighth decimal place around 2130, not 2030.The incredible divisibilty of bitcoin insures that the 21 million bitcoin limit is irrelevent. Somewhat true.  The developers can decide to make whatever changes that they want, but if the majority of the miners do not support the changes, then it doesn't matter much what the developers actually want.  So it really comes down to convincing enough pool owners and miners that the change is worthwhile.  However tech savvy the miners may be, they are not all developers themselves, and dissent among the development team seeds confusion among the miners.  Tycho's insistence for more time, in light of some dissent, is a wise man's opinion.  I, for one, don't know enough about programming to even know what I'm looking at, so I (personally) have to trust someone.  I favor Gavin because he was knighted by Satoshi long ago, for good or bad.  It's entirely possible that I'm in error doing so, but if this is really a near-term security issue, then something must change and Gavin is (IMHO) the commander of necessary changes.  Even if a near term bug fix isn't forthcoming, a checkpoint update every few days would be prudent.  Of course, that means that we would need someone qualified to actually monitor the blockchain with human eyes to make sure that there have been no attempts to capitalize on this bug before releasing the next checkpoint upgrade, but at least then it won't be required that everyone participate, since if there is an attack that screws up the blockchain, a valid copy of it will still exist somewhere on the network that will allow us to contain damage. The risks are uncalculatable, so no insurance company would touch this without exorbinant fees. There is a reason that we don't do this.  If we were to shuffle threads we think are scams into such a section, users might not do their own due diligence because they are under the false impression that we are looking out for them.  Or worse, that we could actually know about all of the scams before they came across them.No, sorry.  Cavet Emptor. This proposal is not much different than a few prior proposals for 'demurrage' made by a number of users, myself included.  In the end, even I was convienced that such a thing is not only not possible, it's likely counterproductive. unfunny I don't speak for anyone but myself, but I am of the opinion that you are the legitimate lead developer for the current state of the standard bitcoin client.  Even the most openly sourced, and collectively developed, projects have their benevolent dictator.  The GNU/Linux kernel development over the past 17 years being the most prominant example.  If you are honestly certain that you are correct in your assessments, make your decision known and run with them; however, if you are not certain let that be known as well and let us has it out for ourselves.  If you force a code split, so be it.  We all know that it will work itself out eventually.  There has already been a number of splits among this community thus far, and such code splits don't necessarly spell the end of an open source project who's time has come.  This community is no longer small and weak enough to be destroyed by such a division.  I won't even promise that I will personally upgrade without my own due diligence, but the details that really matter will filter out over time. We have them, they are called mods. Glad to have you.I've had some concerns about those externalities, but they are generally minor and no one has been able to come up with a modification that doesn't either break user anonimity, create a potential network attack vector or establish a network version of a "central bank" node.  All three of which simply undermines the system.  So in the end, I have just resolved to trust that those externalites are insignificant compared to Bitcoin's other advantages.Good luck trying to break the general view on economics, I've been trying to do exactly that for years now.  And you are certainly not the first trained economist in the mix here. This is not accurate information.  Try not to speak with authority on the matter until you actually have some, please. Respond to this post with something that a bot couldn't do within an hour, or expect that your account will cease to exist, please. I know that they don't work as advertising, because I've never seen one.  That said, our forum, our rules.  The Solidcoin guys are here only at our pleasure, so if they want to advertise here they can buy ad space to support the forum or go start their own forum. I feel entitled to remain free from coercion.  To advocate the position that information is property, is to engage the collective forces of governments & society to compel those who do not agree with you to comply with your ideology.  I advocate only for the natural default conditions whenever force isn't used against the peaceful. They can't be created by anyone.  It's not like running a printing press.  The system is self-regulating, the mining is the distribution method.  The idea that bitcoins are 'created' by the miners is misleading, although not altogether incorrect.  I can't really explain it starting with what you now know.  It took myself two weeks of fairly intense study on the matter to get it myself.  You need more study first, it's not something that can be explained in short bites.As for the value question, as any respectable economist will tell you, value is always subjective.  Bitcoins have value because there are those of us who do understand the system, and believe that it can work enough that we are willing to risk our own funds to that end.  The common answer is that Bitcoins are worth whatever someone will pay you for them, which is both true and a terrible answer.The white paper is where anyone who wishes to really understand the system should start.  Both the bitcoin.org FAQ and the Weusecoins.com type sites are aimed at laymen, i.e. the same kind of people who use cash but think that it's still backed by gold.It's not quite like that.  Once set up, there is little human labor, this is true.  However, the cost of electricity versus the near-term market value of the bitcoins that you could generate with what you have are pretty close together.  So those that do it professionally almost always have some kind of advantage over the average Joe with a GPU.  Could be specialized hardware, a personally tweaked GPU miner process, or a need for spot heating for their garage in winter.  You also risk the GPU itself, as mining full time could drasticly shorten it's expected life.That would require a course in Austrian Economic Theory.  The short answer is that the bitcoin's value has more to do with it's utility as a transfer of value over distance system than as a commodity, which is the service that the network provides to the users of the monetary unit, since no other monetary unit can do the same job for the same costs, or with the same level of anominity.I'm saying that you should take more time to learn more about it because you are likely to be disappointed in what you can get for what your machine can produce.  It's not a get rich quick scheme, it's likely the costs of electricity will equal or exceed the value of the bitcoins that you could produce. Startup costs and electricity cannot be shifted aside.  This question is invalid.Basicly the miners are repeatedly 'hashing' a block of transactions, looking for a hash number that is less than a particular number that represents the present difficulty necessary to produce a block every 10 minutes or so.  At that same time, this process is functionally "brute forceing" the blockchain in advance of an attack, securing the blockchain against any such attack on an ongoing basis.  There is much more to it than this.You assume incorrectly, because they are neither free nor require little effort.I suggest you study the system till you 'grok' it before you attempt to setup a mining rig.  You will likely be disappointed otherwise. Information isn't property.  Even the framers of the US Constitution recognized this, by refusing to enshrine copyright as a eternal right.  If it was a property, they wouldn't have been opposed to perpetual copyrights; for that matter, they probably wouldn't have felt a need to mention copyrights as all in the US Constitution, if they regarded it as a form of personal property.
Ah, Coinhunter; our own resident Treasury agent persona.  Did the last guy get a promotion? Yes, post mail relays are illegal, but how would you be found out?  If you were to open an evelope addressed to you, only to find another smaller evelope inside (sealed, addressed and stamped) what would you do with it? No, there is no filter that I am aware of.  Deletions are done only by living moderators or admins.  However, an unattached complaint about a particular website is not only off topic within this particular thread, we've had some trouble with bots doing exactly that. I can't see them, so I can't answer this question, but it's possible you looked like a bot with only 'introductory' type posts that could have fit into any thread anywhere.  Try to respond to the posts of others with relevant info, even if it's just to complain about how completely stupid this whole thing is.  What we need to see is that you're actually an independent mind. I'm even nicer, I'll buy every bitcoin you have for 10 cents each, just to preserve your peace of mind. Actually, that's not true in any absolute sense.  It's just difficult for you to observe the changes in the US$.  Compared to the history of the purchusing power of gold, instead of that of the US $, a gallon of gasoline hasn't varied more than 5%, comparing the average in 1971 to the average in 2011.  I'm pretty sure that the value of the US $ has varied far more than that in the internim, almost exclusively down.  That little fact has much to do with why I'm here to begin with. We've all been here longer than you.  We've seen this before. Individual miners, that stick it out, still make more simply because there is less competition.  That was his point.  The near term value of the BTC generated is likely not to change much, but miners are also speculators themselves. There is a tor app in the Android market, but true anonimity is likely impossible. Paypal and CC's have consumer credit protection clauses because they are required by law.  They have done so well primarily because there really hasn't been much choice in the matter.  Not that CC's are simply going to go away, but bitcoin really is a threat to much of the business that the presently do receive. Most people who use paypal, or credit cards for that matter, don't need the consumer protection services.  Bitcoin is, most certainly, a real threat to both these business models. Not because it's not in their own interests, but only because Amazon is an American corporation, and thus a creation of the state.  The ire of government is likely the only thing that Amazon fears. I've recently bought an Imac, so that my children will have less trouble with their schoolwork.  Although it's a great platform for actually doing things that I want to do, it's not anything like BlackboxWM on GNU/Linux.  So I can't seem to find where I need to place the bitcoin.conf file for the newer Bitcoin-Qt client.  Also, I'd like very much to be able to proxy all the connections to Tor, and directly to .onion addresses if this is possible.  In other words, I'd like to set my local bitcoin instance as a hidden service and connect it directly to other such hidden services.  If anyone knows how to do either of these things, please let me know.  If you have already succeeded in starting your bitcoin client as a hidden service, and wouldn't mind another connection, please PM me. Be careful with such artificial transaction fees, because it's not really the number of transactions that a given transaction begets that is the problem, but the total bandwidth consumption and computational demand upon the network.  In the near term, a single transaction with numerous outputs is more efficient most of the time.  This is because, with a transaction fee that is higher simply because of the actual demands of resources, a send-to-many transaction is less burdensome in the short term, and the longer term results of future transactions are unpredictable.  As an example, it would generally be vastly less resource intensive for a large corporation to use send-to-many transaction for weekly payroll then to produce a standard two-output transaction for each employee.  In either case, however, what the employees do with those transactions next are not dependant upon how they are paid.  Such large send-to-many transactions take up a lot of space and bandwidth, but remain relatively efficient if compared to the space and bandwidth that those same outputs would have produced individually.  We can assume that the send-to-many transactions will have a much longer 'lifespan' in the blockchain before they can be pruned, but we can also assume that some percentage of the individual transaction would have lasted as long. The sigs are available, but apparently not on the main bitcoin.com site via http.  That should be fixed. Apparently, the US Justice Department has arrested four founders of a website popular with Anonymous, and charged them with conspiricy to commit copyright infringment.  Anonymous has responded with the largest DOS attack in years, if not ever.  Never disturb a sleeping dragon. On Judge Neo's show tonight, at 11:30 pm, I was lucky enough to catch a little bit about Bitcoin. Exactly.  This entire thread is just bait for a flame war.  Ignore it, please. That's a fair point. Wouldn't apply in this case.  I'm certain that if Amazon.com sold bitcoins to a Visa customer, Amazon.com would either be able to prove that they sold it to the correct person, or simply didn't engage in the transaction.  Said another way, Amazon.com has the ability to verify that their customers are who they say that they are at the time that they order anything.
True, but it would happen.  At least for a while.  Credit cards are not going to just fade away anytime soon. Wouldn't matter in the least.  Amazon.com could sell bitcoins directly, sponsor a separate trading site, or sponsor any of the current market sites and it would instantly become the biggest player over MtGox.  And Amazon wouldn't need to move 10K per day, because it's more likely that the value of bitcoins increases to the point that a thousand per day represents values in the millions of US dollars.  All the metrics are arbitrary except to one another.If Walmart.com starts taking bitcoin, and selling in in person at their "money services" counter, they would be bigger than Amazon in this respect in very short order; and the value would shoot for the moon. I chatted as well, and got this...<snip>You are now connected to Edmond from Amazon.com.Me:Bitcoin as a payment method?I was wondering if Amazon had any plans to accept bitcoin as a payment method, and if so, when I can expect it?Edmond:Hello , my name is Edmond. I'm sorry about this. I'll be glad to check that out for you.Me:Why would you be sorry? What did you do?Edmond:As I checked as much as I want to give you more information about the Bitcoin as payment. However, as of now there is no further notice feom our management about this but if there will be already a notice form this I'll send you already an email that we can now accept Bitcoin as a payment on Amazon.Me:okay, thanks.</snip>So I'm also of the opinion that there isn't really any official position on bitcoin from Amazon, and near term adoption as a payment method is unlikely. It's not too soon for bitcoin, but Amazon may or may not be cautiously considering such a move.  Bitcoin is ready for such events, but the inclusion by Amazon or any other major player is going to introduce some major price movements again; because it won't just be one.  If Amazon does it, there are many others who will do it also in short order. 'Both perspectives are correct in their own way. Yeah!  That's just what I was thinking!  Joe Six Pack and Aunt Tellie would never have trouble with scientific notation!</sarcasm> The same process applies equally to square footage coverage per gallon of paint.  I had assumed that you were talking about something other than reading the label and taking their word for it. I think I should be offended, but I have no idea what point you are actually trying to make here.  Can you point out my error in either the above crosspost, or the current thread? The American Standard is based upon English Imperial, to be sure, but not only is it not quite the same (it's 'evolved' since then, there are several less commonly used units that have no English corollary) it continues to exist, along with metric, because Americans continue to choose it.  I have an American built car that has both Miles-per-hour and Kilometers-per-hour on my speedometer, this is required by government edict.  Every freeway sign in my state since ~1999 has distances expressed in both systems, also by fiat.  I know many (mostly former military) people in my city that could quote you distances in both systems without any obvious mental effort whatever, but the only time I've seen driving directions preferred in km was when I overheard a conversation between the counter attendant at Mammoth Cave National Park (a young woman of about 20) giving driving directions to some 30-something guy who (by his accent first, and confirmed later when I saw his license plate) was Canadian.  He couldn't wrap his head around miles, but this young woman switched from miles to klicks without missing a beat.  Which, considering her rather thick southern drawl, I know that most people (from other American states) would have assumed she was uneducated.  I'm pretty certain that she has never had to use metric for anything growing up, beyond school work.Says you. I use metric at work nearly every day.  I maintain massive plastics injection presses and assembly lines for a living.  I have to have both sets of tools, because even though most machines are American Standard, there are many machines that only Germans seem to make.  I find it amusing that metric bolts don't come in as wide a standard spectrum as AS bolts, and to compensate there are fractional metric bolts in the millimeter range.  The engineers there really hit the roof whenever someone finds a metric bolt in a fractional size that also fine threaded.  Those have to be special ordered, even though I could buy the closest AS equivalent at Home Depot.  The early engineers who developed the standard spectrum of AS bolt sizes during the Industrial Revolution didn't just pull those fractional inch sizes out of their hind ends, nor did they say "hey, I think an eleven-thirtyseconds just sounds good!"  Yet the standard specturm of Metric Allen bolts run from 3 mm to about 20 mm hitting every integer number with a couple of oddball fractionals in there for more specific purposes.  The standard units were obviously chosen to match the metric system units, not their engineering design goals.  I'm pretty sure the same can be said for just about every aspect of metric tooling and hardware. Really?  Alright then, show me how you can get from cm to liters of paint in metric.  Without using a computing device or a conversion table. You have the right to your opinion, and I'm sure that 'inertia' has much to do with it, but my point stands.  Americans use the American Standard by choice.  I was taught the metric system in school, and I'm sure that you were also.  I used metric during my military career.  I do know how, and so do most Americans who managed to graduate high school.  And many products in the grocery store are in metric, and that doesn't tend to trip anyone up, either.  So it's not all a matter of 'what we are used to'.  Again, there is not a single case of a nation moving to metric because the public voluntarily did so in the absence of some kind of government edict.  Not a single one.  And your examples, although intresting, aren't exactly representative of real world problems.  Why would you need to know how many inches are in a mile quickly?  They are two vastly different scales, and are thus almost never used in the same context.  Which is exactly true with "how many cm in a km?" which I note that you didn't ask.  How many cups in 3 gallons?  Well that would be 6 half-gallons, 12 quarts, 24 pints, 48 cups in three gallons.  No calculator necessary.  See how that works?  How many troy ounces in a ton?  That's a rediculous question from the start, since not only is troy not an American Standard measurement, they are in entirely different scales and wouldn't every be used in the same context anyway.  Again, "how many grams in a kg" isn't a comparable question.  How about how many grams is in 7 metric tons?And how many cubic inches in a cubic mile?  Are you serious?   Are you trying to imply that you wouldn't need a calculator to do this in metric?  I sure would need one. I know a lot of engineers, many I'm related to.  The truth is that engineers use it only because their employers require it, most of them don't really like using it either.  The *only* architect that I ever encountered that used metric, by choice or otherwise, learned very quickly why his peers did not; construction workers hate using metric units, and will go out of their way to make their employers' jobs harder.There is no case of a population voluntarily moving to metric in the absence of government influence.  None.  I don't blame Europe for getting together for a common standard, because their imperial units were all screwed up and different from one another; but base 10 units only work well on paper, not in the human mind.  Most of the American standard units are based upon halving of larger known units, thus base two.  It's easier for the human mind to visualize halving and quartering of larger units than one-tenthing, which has much to do with why the American public never embraced the Metric Standard.   Wait, have you been paying attention for the past four years?  For that matter, for the last 20? Grraaaiins!I need some sleep. The network is very robust, it can't be forcibly stopped without destroying the Internet itself. For that matter, not all of the nodes can even be identified.  A crash at MtGox would, at worst, cause a crisis of confidence.  I doubt even that, because it's already happened and we are all still here.  I bought bitcoins before Mtgox was around, and I'm sure I'll do it again without them.  A market majority position doesn't imply that they are a critical component of the bitcoin infrastructure. I don't doubt that the bruteforcing of addresses, as they presently exist, would require a truely astronomical computational ability, and is certainly safe for decades.  That was the point of the design, after all.  However, I think that it's also a bit silly to assume that such astronomical computational abilities will remain out of reach for humanity forever.  The only cryptographic algo that is provablely secure from brute force forever is the simple Vernon Cypher, which has no applications here. Yes, sorry.  Address keypairs are created by ECDSA, while the hashing is done by SHA256.  The bruteforcing would have to be done by ECDSA hardware to create any address collision.  Basicly a huge rainbow table would have to be built and the list of lost addresses would be compared against it. Besides, there is a long term solution for the lost coins anyway.  Eventually, hashing hardware will continue to increase until SHA256 alone is no longer secure.  Long before this, another algo will be swapped into Bitcoin in it's place (or in addition to SHA256, the code in question is modular as well as there are already two 'modules' to use, both just happen to be SH256 at the moment).  Eventually, everyone who still has funds are going to move those funds to addresses using the more secure algos, and the lost coins will be exposed for being the only addresses left on the blockchain using oly SHA256.  That's when the 'salvage' process begins, and the treasure hunters of the electronic currency age will be doing everything that they can to be the first to force a SHA256 'collision' against those (now known) lost addresses.  Actually, we don't know that.  All that we can really know for certain is that there are addresses in the blockchain that have not transfered funds away in a very long time.  We can't know if they are lost unless the owner of the address says so, and can prove that he is, in fact, the owner of that address.  However, the way the system is designed, if the person making the claim can prove that the address is his, then he has the secret key to that address, and thus the funds are not lost.Also, we don't really need those lost coins, it doesn't really matter how many are lost, because the 21 million BTC limit is arbitrary anyway.
Still a shadow of legally enforced segregation that existed in the south.  Most of the Freedom Riders grew up in the north, and were told to expect the kind of treatment that they have heard of, but never experienced personally, because they grew up in a northern state.  There is a huge difference between some racist who refuses to ride on the same bus with you, and the racist with a badge who releases the trained attack dog on you for your belief that you get to ride on the bus regardless of someone else's opinion.  Check your history books, black men in the south risked getting beaten or killed for looking a white woman in the eyes.  For that matter, they risked getting killed for sport in some areas for the act of being black.  That's real racism, and it was often condoned, if not outright committed by, the elected and appointed representatives of law and order.  If I was so inclined, I could find dozens of such cases in the old south prior to 1960 that went unpunished.  I can probably find a dozen such cases in the north also, but the perpetrators were normally prosecuted.  No one just stopped being racist because of the law being changed, or the Civil Rights Act being passed.  It took a generation of education, at least, to alter the culture; but only the hard racists in the deep south were forced into it, the Civil Rights Act made little difference to the culture of the northern states and western states, which is one reason that it passed so easily. Greyhound bus lines were not segregated except in the states that required it as a matter of state law. The 'de facto' segregation of the northern states was a shadow of the reality of the legally enforced segregation of the south.  It's offensive to even compare the two.  Sure, there were racists everywhere, and many of them were attracted to positions of power, particularly in the police forces, and thus crap happens.  But it wasn't officially condoned as a matter of state law north of the mason-dixon line.  For that matter, the kind of person that would pass judgements upon another human being's character, value or criminal intents based primarily upon a group identity beyond their own control is still the same kind of person that is attracted to a police career.  That much is true everywhere and always.  Tribalism cannot be stamped out of the human condition by the simple act of passing a law that prohibits it, and it's the height of arrogance (or irrationality) to believe that it could. That's called the 'time preference' of money, and is uniquely Austrian. Every single example of segregation that you have just presented were universally present in southern states in the 60's because of state segregation & 'Jim Crow' laws that compelled private business owners to do so.  The "Freedom Rides" events are the prime example of this.  The cross country bus companies couldn't have cared less if there were blacks on the same bus as whites, but couldn't allow this to occur in certain states because of the law.  The same was true with the segregated bus stations, maintaining multiple facilities was more expensive than intergration, the free market most certianly would have fixed this one in the South if left to it's own devices, because that is exactly what happened everywhere else. You might be right about that, I wasn't trying address whether a free market is capable of eliminating racism or not in this thread.  And neither was RP in respect to the Civil Rights Act.  His point, and mine, is that any such selective enforcement of a positive right by any level of government will lead to unintended consequences.  Also, the free market pretty much suppressed racism in Britain, although that wasn't an absolute job either.  The change in the laws came after the changes in the public viewpoint, and I believe that is how it always happens.  The Civil Rights Act was only possible after the paradigm shift among the electorate, leading to many of the effective clauses in such laws to be overreach for that reason alone. subscription to any thread is tied to one's own posting history.  you have the power to delete your own posts, therefore you have the power to unsubscribe. You don't have to prove it.  A lawyer would simply have to be able to convince a civil jury that it's likely.  It's not criminal to through someone out for any reason, but such a lawsuit has open ended monetary risks.  No buisness owner should face such open ended civil suit risks for exercising their own right to do business with whomever they please, and not do buisness with whomever they please.   He could also post a sign on his door requiring that all who enter wearing a tie will have it cut off and nailed to the wall before being seated, but that isn't a legally enforcible notice.  It only has authority upon those that recongnize that it has any such authority.And no, I didn't just make that one up.  The cut tie scenario actually happened. No, it is not, in fact, legal for a Jewish owner of a restaurant to refuse to serve a skinhead, with or without a nazi swastika tattooed on the back of his head, if that said skinhead had not (yet) committed a known criminal offense against the owner, other patrons, or establishment and he has the funds to pay for the meal.  The reality is that the clause of the Civil Rights Act that RP objected to at the time, and still does, made this (admittedly unlikely) scenario a matter of civil rights.  It granted the skinhead a right that does not exist, namely to be served equally by one who does not wish to engage in business.  This is one example of the inevitiable, yet unintended, consequences of federal laws such as this one; that charge the federal government with the task of selective enforcement of positive rights.  And yes, this is selective enforcement, because the right of the Jewish owner to not engage in business with someone he doesn't wish to is borderline slavery.  This isn't a thread about the moral aspects of this scenario, for the moral aspects are obvious enough to anyone who isn't a skinhead.  And the scenario remains rare, because skinheads (like most people) prefer to self-segregate, and thus wouldn't likely enter into such an establishment without a hidden motive, also likely malicious.  Because of this, if a Jewish owner refused to serve a skinhead, he would more than likely get away with it, but the skinhead could then sue under the Civil Rights Act and likely win. Spell it out for me, then. And that is the point.  According to the Civil Rights Act, it's not up to him to decide.  He must serve anyone who enters into his 'public' establishment who has the money to pay, without regard to his race or appearances (excepting a lack of shoes and shirt).  I'm trying to highlight the details.  RP was opposed to the singular clause in the Civil Rights Act that would force this Jewish shop owner to serve a person who hates his family, simply because the hater could (correctly) claim that it was racial discrimination at his expense.  It's not like a neo-nazi in NYC can't find another place to get a meal within two blocks, such shops are everywhere.  It may not have been a practical objection at the time, but RP was right that it would eventually become an issue.  Any shop owner that put up a sign that prohibited black people from entering that store would be on the news within a day, in the modern era, and be under a boycott that would (rightously) destroy his business within a week.  No federal force required.  RP's analysis of the situation is historicly correct, the reason that Jim Crow laws persisted for 100 years after the end of the civil war was due to racism among government agents. He has a sound logic for that as well.  America is supposed to be a nation of laws, not of men.  National holidays that honor a particular person encourages a 'cult of personality' type reverence (bordering on worship) of the person, instead of the ideals that he promoted.  We have already seen modern politicos claiming support of his ideals, among ideologically opposed political figures, due to distortions of MLK's intentions.  I've literally seen some people claim that MLK was a marxist at heart, which is complete bs.  And I've seen Glenn Beck functionally claim to be MLK's modern torchbearer, which is equally bs.  I don't doubt that MLK was a personal hero of RP's; he remains a personal hero of just about every adult American seeking any public office.  Which is, itself, an irony; considering that it's a fact that the majority of the people that MLK was protesting were actual local and state officeholders.  Said another way, they were the government.  Personally, I think that MLK would be disgusted to see how his legacy has been used to justify wide abuses of law by governments everywhere, but my opinion on the matter is of no more value than anyone else's.  There is a sound reason that Islam prohibits the construction of images of "The Prophet", even though they tend to go overboard on the matter. Of course something will happen.  Something happens everyday.  Most just isn't dramatic or newsworthy. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=57298.0I've started another thread related to this one.  Specificly for FlipPro to address a concern that I have with the Civil Rights Act. As a spinoff of the "A vote for Ron Paul is a vote for love" thread, I'm asking this question...Should a Jewish owner of an eatery in NYC be forced by governments to serve a hungry neo-nazi skinhead, if he has the money?How say you FlipPro? You're getting your libertarians confused.  Ron Paul has openly stated, recently, that "States don't really have rights, the people who live there do." A house divided can not pass new laws.There is one thing that Ron Paul could do as president that congress cannot prevent.  He can recall the armed forces.For that matter, he could make an example out of congress for passing that terrible Defense Authorization Act that defines the entire planet as a battlefield.  By being the first person to use that clause to have those who voted for it arrested for violations of their oath of office.  I can't see him doing any such thing, however. I've not the skills to impliment this, and would just love to have it.First, some background.  I have an android smartphone, and a budget type service with Virgin Mobile.  Data is 'unlimited', but it's throttled with a top end limit of about 150Kbps.  I also have an old boombox at work that I have a cassette adapter that lets me use the smartphone as an input.  I've used it to listen to FTL via the low bandwidth shoutcast stream, but at 150Kbps it chokes on the kind of streams from sky1.com and the like.  What I want is a website with a selection of shoutcast feeds from a 'jukebox' that permits me to sent it a small amount of bitcoin, and then choose from a selection of songs from with the genre the channel represents.  For example, the website might ask for supporter donations for randomly chosen music, but take about .05BTC and let the donator choose the next several songs before reverting back to a randomly chosen feed.  It could also have some ads while in random mode, in part, to remind connected listeners that they could direct the programming.  A low bandwidth shoutcast file, of about 64Kbps or so, is needed for me, however.
Yes, I made such an assumption.  I have no evidence that can reasonablely support this position, but nor is there any evidence to support the position that $2 was an overcorrection.  There simply isn't enogh data to make such a determination, and there cannot be. The ghostwriter has been outed, ironicly because he apparently did put his name to one of the letters in question.Channel 19 is a local channel to my hometown.http://runronpaul.com/interest/breaking-author-of-ron-paul-racist-newsletters-revealed/ While I believe that the initial floor of $2 a couple of months ago, and the following slow rises to $3 or so are justifiable based upon fundemental metrics related to the bitcoin economy; the most recent spike to $6+ is unfounded and indicative of a rising mania.  The growth of the bitcoin economy simply hasn't had the time to keep up with that kind of runnup. I have to note here, that these recommendations are valid regardless of the accuracy of the predictive power of a single, pre-iron age society. Aww, man!  I knew that and didn't even think about it!  Good show. FDR was a closet racist, and Lincoln was openly so.  I find the claim that RP has a single racist bone in his body to be difficult to accept, and even if he is, he doesn't vote that way.  You shall know them by the fruits of their actions. Why would you give it back?  They donated it to his campaign under the false impression that he shared their ideologies.  That's their error, why compound it by giving it back to them so that they can use it?  Why not use it for the campaign?  That's not to mention the sheer complexity of giving back a campaign donation to a federal campaign.  That is a rediculous idea from the start.  If you were a naive RP supporter, and are no longer naive and not a RP supporter, then I'm 16 and sexy. I'm calling bullshit. If that becomes the norm, yes. A true Gandian, I presume?If you really want to make a difference, register as a republican in your state as soon as you can, and attend your precinct caucas.  Try to get elected as a county delegate, and then as a state delegate at the county convention (which can happen an hour later in some cases).  When you get to the state convention, try to get elected as a national delegate or help elect someone who can attend.  This is how the true power structure works, the primary elections are a preference poll, and are often not binding upon the delegates.  Particularly if their assigned candidate has dropped out and/or no candidate can get a majority of votes on the first round.  This is the magic that the Ron Paul campaign pulled off yesterday, capturing a majority of delegates to the state convention all but secures a majority of the delegates sent to the national convention will be favorable to Ron Paul as the nominee should they get released from their assigned candidate.  The new national rules within the republican party all but garantees that the convention will be "brokered" without any single candidate capturing an absolute majority of delegates.  The last thing that the Ron Paul campaign wants is a two man race. Definately not. I've got bad news for you guys.  None of you get to choose.  Even if you are a Republican, odds are high that you don't really even get a vote.  Mitt took first place in the popular vote in Iowa with 25% and Ron Paul got third place with 21%, but the popular vote is only a proxy.  The actual delegates are chosen by the causas process, not the vote.  The voting is simply a non-binding straw poll, and there is nothing that binds those delegates to vote for the winner once they get to the state convention.  And no one watches the state convention. This is an utterly rediculous statement. If this were remotely true, then bitcoin would rise to the moon again.  Considering that the reality is much more muted than it was in the spring, I doubt that there is much blind optimism.I've personally bought dozens of items online.  The system has a steeper learning curve than using credit cards, but it's easier once you know how.  If it were useless, I would have sold out last year.Gold isn't consumed either, and your statement that everyone who bought on the way up needs to eventually sell them is just as true with regard to gold.  Gold is still a commodity.  Consumption isn't a necessary requirement.The market is very tiny, and growing at an estimatable rate of at least 50% APR.  That's not slow by any metric, even though it would still take decades at that rate to match a moderately sized western economy, and that rate is almost certainly not sustainable.More specificly, 7200 bitcoins come into existence every single day.  It's is because of that precision of increases in the monetary base and the knowledge that the market continues to absorb those new bitcoins without a drop in value is how the growth rate of the economy can be estimated.Which is just as true with just about anything else, only much less so due to bitcoin's very small economy.  As the economy grows larger, those bubbles will become less and less dramatic.Probably, but are you a sucker?Is that your problem? Or theirs'?Couldn't speculate upon that, but whether they are suckers or not, they keep coming.  So by definition, the bitcoin economy grows.It always does.  The market depth on mtgox doesn't reflect a significant portion of the market, since there is much more in the 'dark pools' and who use bots to trade without showing up on the data charts.  Don't put too much faith in that.Obviously, someone is that stupid.  Or that smart, depending on the outcomes.  Time will tell. You guys are overthinking it.  When a bitcoin driven version of this...https://www.flinc.org/...becomes a viable model in major urban areas, then bitcoin would drive a rise in ad-hoc, and unmarked taxi services. What are the odds that this overlay network could be used to permit two mobile devices to transact directly, in the absence of Internet access for one or both parties?  For example, a direct ad-hoc wifi connection or an indirect connection via a 'piratebox' type device?  Asuuming, of course, that the sending device doesn't need Internet access to produce a transaction from it's own, known address funds. Could you provide a rough, layman's explaination of that algo please? 1) No idea.  I've never bought bitcoins this way.2) Vulnerable to what, exactly?  3) Again, vulnerable in what way?4) Not long. Magic The Gathering Online ExchangeAt least, that's what it was orginaly.  The site neither shares the original intent of the founder, nor any of it's codebase anymore, so it's become a kind of branding; like Amazon doesn't really tell you that they started off selling books online, either. Again, the internal block structure can be pruned to whatever level the client's owner feels is appropriate, all the way to nearly nothing.  Most 'thin' clients won't need to even receive more than the block headers to start with, and thus won't need to 'prune' at all, but instead collect the data that is directly relevant to it's own addresses on the fly.  Your idea has merit, but offer little advantage to the current system, but huge risk of creating an unintended attack vector. Likely, and that is a problem.  An outflow of foriegn cash implies a trade inbalance, and one not favorable to the use of bitcoin as a value transfer mechanism unless it can help tp remedy that outflow.
If US FRN's are traded in Somalia as well as local currency, the simplist near-term solution is a wad of cash in a UPS International document envelope.  However, this still isn't a particularly cost effective solution for individuals.  The early advantage of using Bitcoin as the medium is that the exchangers on the Somali side will be incentivised to arrange for the shipment of the physical cash.  Considering that Somalia doesn't have any foreign trade to speak of, eventually any imbalance of cash transfers is going to have to result in the physical movement of either cash or goods. This suggestion, as presented, makes no sense to me.  The blockchain isn't the network, so it doesn't parse to put the blockchain into a tree with each 'node' at each block position.  Are you talking about the network topology?  If so, a tree would be a terrible idea, because it would create nodes of special significance within the network.  Thus potentially permitting some kind of presently unknown attack due to the predictable nature of a static network topology.  If you are talking about the blockchain itself being a merkle tree so that not every node must keep all of the data to verify the validity of the blocks, it already is so; but the merkle trees are internal to the blocks and permit future clients to 'prune' the blockchain by deleting transactions that are not relevent to it's own needs without compromising the testable structure of each block.  The only part of the blockchain that must be kept in order to verify the strongest/longest/correct chain is the block headers themselves, which are only 80 bytes per block or about 4 megabytes per year. Homeschooling is already an exception, so I doubt the question means anything.  But within the (self-selecting) homeschooling community itself, success as measured relative to the 'average' is quite high regardless of social class, parental income or racial background.  There have only been a few major studies done upon adult homeschoolers, but they all seem to imply that the differences between those catagories are below the margin of error.  Said another way, the odds of success in college (and life in general, if measured by income or final educational level attained) for a homeschooled student are both higher and indistingishable regardless of classification or group identity.Although I can agree that the mom's time is precious, I don't agree that those kids are screwed.Not anyone, but some.  And yes, for free to the parents.  It's called charity, and those who accept it know damn well that they are not entitled to it.  I attended a private school that was wholely owned and operated by the local Catholic archdiociese.  It was the kind of school that when founded, students there were more likely than not to be children of first generation Irish immigrants.  These days, about one in five of the students are children of first generation hispanic immigrants.  There is still a convent on the property, although they don't teach anymore and didn't teach when I was there; I did have one class taught by a monk.Lucky few, correct.  And they know it and are thankful for it.  Some grow up to become truely successful, and repay in kind by donating back to the school even if they are not (or never were) Catholic.If you had actually bothered to read what I wrote, I mentioned that I had no idea what the outcome of widespread use of virtual schools would be.  I'm sure that if they prove to be wildly successful, it wouldn't be terriblely long before the Finns replicated that success in their own way.School lunch & breakfast programs are widely common here in the US as well, even if they might not be universal.  I've never seen a grade school that didn't provide both, and that includes the one that I attended when I attended it back in the 80's.  I'm sure that the details vary from state to state, but Finland is pretty small so choose any state program you like and feel free to make comparisons.Only because you are seeing what they want you to see.  It's the unseen that is most troublesome. The education is not free, someone has to pay for it.  Regardless, I have personally seen relatively poor families do very well while homeschooling, and I personally attended a private school that did and does accept students whose parents cannot pay for tuition.  Homeschooling, generally speaking, is a much cheaper option than any other method; including taxpayer supported education.  And with much better results.  Furthermore, one can literally homeschool via an online 'distance learning' program associated with a state funded university for zero personal cost, and the results are similar.  They are often called 'virtual schools'.  So from a certain perspective, the US could literally homeschool every child willing to participate in that manner with a quality and free-to-them education.  Whether or not the results would be competitive to Finland under such circumstances, I would not hazard a guess. Montessori style education is just unschooling in a well equipt day-care style environment while parents work.  It does tend to work out well, since most children are self-motivated if the love of learning isn't crushed by formal schooling first.  However, I have yet to see a single Montessori school extend beyond 6th grade. This is a useless study.  It compares government school systems to each other, based on arbitrary metrics comparing scores between groups of 15 year olds (an arbitrary age) in testing for arbitrarily chosen subjects.  It would be trivial for any number of different private school systems in the US to crush Finland's numbers.  Average scores for US students in government sponsored schools in the US suck, in part, because everyone knows that they suck so many parents with means don't send their children to government schools, so those government schools suck more.  Compare Finland's scores to say, Covington Latin in Covington, Kentucky or St Francis High School in Downtown Louisville, Kentucky or Highlands Latin School in the Highlands district of Louisville, Kentucky and these scores would be embarressing.  And those three are just a few that I could think of off the top of my head.  For that matter, just comparing Finland's average scoring to the average American homeschooled high school aged student would make a lot of Finnish schoolteachers question the effectiveness of their careers considering what the average, untrained parent educator can do. And my response is, so what?  A century is a long time to make such adjustments.  It's simply not a 'crisis' by any rational definition of the term. Ultimately, this is true.  However, the client has to start somewhere with aquiring the blocks that build that longest chain, because a fresh install doesn't know anything about the longest chain.  So it attempts to develop direct connections with a number of peers that are all sending it blocks that agree with one another, reducing (not eliminating) the possibility of an isolation attack.  The thin client model isn't about the greatest form of trust or security, but a balance between trust, security and convience.  If you can't accept the risks of getting screwed out of a small amount of spending coins on a cell phone thin client, then stick with a full client.  No one is forcing you to accept a reduction in security, thin clients simply offer a choice. Trust can be developed by a thin client the same way that trust in peer nodes is developed in the bitcoin protocol.  By polling randomly among a set of reachable nodes and comparing their responses.  If any response doesn't match, dump all those nodes and try again at random.  The odds that more than one random server on the Internet is trying to screw you, assuming that you are not caught into a honeypot local internet, is remote.  Moreso considering that it's largely impossible for those random servers to know if you are capable of verifying such data or not.As a thin client, you are also not trusting the server with any critical data that cannot be corrected later.  You are not offering it access to your private keys, for example; just polling it for otherwise public data available on the blockchain, namely the balance of certain addresses and copies of certain confirmed transactions. I think that it was just a matter of time before a parrallel/sidechannel network was developed. No way to really know the answer to that question, but it certainly doesn't hurt. I'll pledge 2 BTC. There is nothing smart about a 'smart grid'.  The power grid is just a passive bus, the power goes where it goes, the 'smart' part is the ability to track what goes where. The short answer is, all else remaining the same, yes.Of course, all else does not remain the same, so a little longer answer is, probably. The regular client runs a check to make sure that the address entered is a valid bitcoin address, but it's not possible for a client to know if a valid address does not exist.  New addresses are created all of the time, and someone has to send bitcoins to one before it could enter into the blockchain. I'm looking to buy a worthless Zimbabwe million dollar bill, or several.  I just had a great idea for a christmas gift.  Rapid shipping may be necessary. http://vermorel.com/process/CreateJournalEntryComment?moduleId=5042156&entryId=14193327&finalize=trueThis is interesting, although I believe that it's impossible for a malicious merchant to discredit a trusted address, because they wouldn't be able to sign the transaction properly.  However, this brings up another idea, rather than encode the evidence of a double spend into the blockchain; why not a side-channel method of submitting the offending address and proof of a double spend attempt to a dedicated server for the purpose.  Since a double spend transaction doesn't propogate across the entire network, a side-channel method is necessary.  Perhaps a second, dedicated IRC channel.  Or better yet, a flag that permits the victim to send the evidence across the network already tagged as proof.  In this way, clients that receive the proof can check the proof themselves and compare it to their own blockchain to decide if the expensive address can no longer be trusted.  In this way, a database of 'burned' addresses can be compiled and shared with new clients in like manner. bitcoin4cash is from Canada Is not forbidden.  Feel free to link to your bitcoin related site in the appropriate forum sections, once you have full forum posting priviliages.  Please don't do it here. http://www.calculatoredge.com/electronics/lineofsight.htmAccording to that, line of sight is 21 miles.  If either the cell tower or the mast is higher, the los is farther.
Yes, but the point I was making in the OP was that trying to build a foating city-state is going about it the wrong way.  The concept can only work if it starts with smaller communities and builds up to the point that a mostly stationary floating city-state is economicly sound, and then those that want such a thing will make it happen.  We already have the smallest of such communities, they just consist mostly of couples or families that tend to cluster around a particular marina.  They cluster because they need access to infrastruture that is expensive to provide for individual boats, as Interent service is one such example.  The central 'escort' boat can provide many of these infrastrucure resources while at sea, further reducing the individual family unit's dependency on shore provided resources, but cannot realisticly eliminate that dependency.  But the more time that you spend at sea, the cheaper the lifesype can be overall, because marina fees are no small part of your budget.  Interent costs can be shared by such a community by using marine quality wifi gear to connect to a sat uplink on the communty's escort ship, and save on bandwidth costs by using a squid server to cache those pretty pictures that everyone sees from facebook and the like.  The problem is only slightly more complicated at sea than for a remote African village trying to get connectivity for their schools.  A system similar to sailmail could also help to maintain a minimum level of connectivity while at sea too far from shore to reach a cell tower.  Although, with the right equipment mounted on the peak of the escort ship's mast, it's not unrealistic for a community to be beyond the international line and still get a bar; for cell towers are always mounted well high on the horizon and are designed to work to some considerable distance with tiny devices using low power outputs and terrible antennas.  I'd be willing to wager that the line of sight possible between an atenna mounted on a 70' tower and a high gain sector antenna mounted on the peak of a 40' mast is considerable. You have things backwards. Try to be a little more obvious. It was an obvious truth, stated well, by someone who knows that subject more than the rest of us.  Helen Keller undoubtedly was an expert on the falsehoods of security, for she had none except for what was provided for her by others.  Just because she was insightful in this topic, doesn't imply that she was equally insightful in others.  Likewise, the Unibomber made some good points in his manifesto and he was  a homicidal nutjob; but the fact that he was a homicidal nutjob doesn't necessarily detract from his other insights.  There are many other current examples that comes to mind straight away, such as Occupy Wall Street and Glen Beck. Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.-Helen KellerRead more: http://www.brainyquote.com/quotes/quotes/h/helenkelle121787.html#ixzz1h7cYSV3Q There would be no manmade statutes.  The natural laws apply, and maybe a couple of extra laws agreed upon by all members prior to entry to protect the society at large. First, support this claim.  I have no incentive to respond to this based upon your assumptions. What if I don't like Belize? Actually, the Lifeboats idea doesn't even use aquaculture.  They intend to use hydoponics. Well, most of those are either within the coastal space of an existing nation, too unstable to form a foundation, or both. Not really.  You can promote a bitcoin related or accepting business if you like, just try not be become obnoxious about it.  A link in your signature is an accepted method, but a banner in your signature just annoys people. Although salt as a preservative is useful, it's not nearly as reliable as refrigeration and all that salt is a health issue.  I was using those links as an example as to how I got to my idea, don't let them limit the concept.  Cats are pretty stable, but there are better ways to generate power on a boat.  Solar cells are obvious, but there are also little turbines that you can get for a sailboat that generate charging power from the passing flow while underway, at the cost of some extra drag.  There are also little wind turbines.No, because most of that is very dispersed, and would require huge fishing nets to get.  And all that you would be left with is plastic.  Everything else eventually rots.Obviously you didn't read the thread.  Money comes from selling infrastructure services to some yacht owners on the move, many of whom are pensioners trying to save living money while seeing the world in retirement; among other sources. The Prius isn't an electric car, it's a hybrid.  The use case, for the batteries, are different.  An electric car can expect to deep cycle it's battery bank daily, a hybrid generally doesn't deep cycle it's batteries except in relatively rare events.Taht is based upon a great number of assumptions, as far as the 3 degrees rule is concerned.  That's even assumeing that it's possible to even get there.  And I've literally grown tomatos in a bucket on an apartment deck without great human effort.  With the right knowlege and investments, there are many ways to grow food.MiMH batteries are less toxic than others, but as a hydride, it's still toxic if released directly into the environment.  A modern common rail desial is about 50% efficient, and can burn vegetable oil directly.  There has existed a desial engine design that was nearly 50% efficent for 100 years, ist's just very heavy relative to it's power output.  They are still made in India, called Listeroids after the origianl design, as Lister CS.  SOme of those have ran continuously and outlived their original owners.That's not even considering the total efficentcy of using coal to charge car batteries, because the coal plant might be 50%, which is pretty good, but then the transmission can be as low as 90%, the charging and discagiing cycles can be as low as 75% for a new battery, and less for an older one, and the transmission system (mostly the electric motor) are usually about 90-95% to the wheels.  That estimate of ICE efficenies in cars is already to the wheels.This is a fair point, but does that make up for it all?  I doubt it. Batteries can only be recycled to an extent, and it depends upon the type of battery as well.  Steel block engines have been recycled for over a century.Only in the immediate area, not overall.  That is, unless you live in France, where 80% of the baseload power grid is fission nuclear.  In the US, widespread adoption of electric vehicles would tax the grid as it is, and spur the contruction of more coal fired plants.  I've worked in coal plants, nat gas peaking plants, and nuke plants.  I'll never voluntarily return to a coal plant, but wouldn't think twice about living within 10 miles of a modern American nuke plant, but we won't get nuke plants, we would get more coal plants.  You're electric vehicle burns coal, as delayed and distant that combustion may be.  And don't even bother to bring up solar power or wind power to run the American private vehicle fleet.  That doesn't even come close to being realistic.Not off of the line, but max speed is an issue or max range is an issue.  It's a design trade off.  Falls back to that energy density issue again.I presume that you mean one of the various versions of the inductive highway lane concept.  Sure, that works but it's incrediblely inefficient, and there is no way to solve that inefficiency without making the electric cars incompatible with the roads we have everywhere else or making all of the other cars incompatible with driving on an inductive lane, or both.  It's a band-aid solution to the limited range issue that would require a massive investment into new highway infrastructure, and who is going to pay for all of that?Yeah, I've seen it.  The one where they talk about leasing the battery pack to the owner of the car.  This is because the battery will not last as long as an average car, which is only about 7-9 years.  Imagine if you had to completely rebuild your engine every two years, how well would that vehicle compete in an open market?Sure, you have a say.  You're saying right here.  What you don't have is a vote in the matter as it pertains to the rights of others.  Get used to that.Reality is a bitch, but that doesn't mean that is because of something "the Rich" have done to you, personally or as a member of some class/group.  The privileged are so privileged as a direct consequence of not being screwed.  The underprivileged are not so underprivileged because "the Man" is trying to keep them down, but as a consequence of being screwed for other reasons.  Not everything that goes wrong is someone else's fault.So what?  I can't do anything about that, it's just the way the world is.  If you feel called to do something, become a teacher.  My kids are homeschooled.  They are both the only kids for whom I am responsible and the only kids for whom I can do anything to help.  I'm doing my part, are you? Well, at least that wasn't a no.That was sort of like a 'Japanese' no, however. Escape from government ihas nothing to do with my perposal, per se.  My proposal is to literally provide for the underserved logistics of those who already do choose to live on boats. Then you are most certainly not the target demographic.  You may now return to your regularly scheduled lifestyle.  A big catamaran could do this, but only one boat at a time.  Lifting clear of the water isn't necessary, just lifting it enough that it's no longer independently bouyant and then mechanically coupled to the escort ship.No minimum, because escorting boats that aren't quite independently capable is the point.  One of the primary jobs of a flotilla leader is to keep on top of weather threats, and steer clear of them or know when to tell the rest to drop the plan and run their boats, and which direction to flee.  Just about any weekender or coastal cruiser can cross the Atlantic, if there isn't anything that can go wrong, during the right season.  You don't want to  be trying to get to Maine in November and you don't want to be East of Florida during hurricane season, for examples.  All other oceans have their own storm seasons and calm seasons.  As bad at longer term predictions that meterology is, the daily storm reports are a modern miracle for anyone who actually lives on a boat anywhere near the Eastern seaboard of the US, including the intercoastal waterway. or just some mooring whips on the escort boat, big fenders, and a gangplank. I could do that too, but it's the female that sets the baseline for acceptable cleanliness for both of us.  I'm certain that I'm not unique in this marital aspect.That would actually work pretty well.  Kill germs like listerine, anyway.
My google-fu produced this link straight away...http://www.stowawayholdaway.com/What about an upsized version of this thing, perhaps made from the kind of gas shocks that hold up my minivan's rear door?  And then the gap could be spanned by a collapsible gangplank with a handrail and secured to the escort ship's deck.Go back in time and invent Angry Birds? And a laundrymat.  The escort boat needs a laundrymat. Yes, most of the time, but I was thinking about common denominators, and many costal crusiers are set up to manage waste under US law, not the Law of the Sea.  Those with septic tanks often don't have their own pumps to jettison waste or a low drain port while the tank is kept above the water line, making the design assumption that the owner would be paying a marina to pumpout.  A portable, gas powered sludge pump would serve this purpose, and could be moved from boat to boat once each day without causing a 'stink' I'm really just thinking out loud here, and the concept assumes that a large number of the ships in the flotilla are primarily sail driven coastal crusiers that would otherwise be unsafe to venture far into the open ocean without the additional security of group travel, for both the piracy issue and the 'single-point-of-failure' issue.  Group travel offers the security of operational redudancy, should there occur mechanical breakdowns or hull failure.  Some, at least.Individual sat phones are expensive, but a marine wifi-mesh with Viop and a HF transceiver or sat uplink on the escort ship is less expensive.And butter lasts for months at room temp, if protected from oxygen.  I have a 'butter bell' crock that does this on my countertop.  Works perfectly.I'm sure there are many other ways to arrange this.There has to be a way to deal with this.  I don't have experience on the open ocean, but there has got to be someone with insight on how the risks here could be mitigated.Yes, exactly my point.  Those who pay very little for a floating bedroom with a sail might be willing to pay a little for infrastructure support on an open ocean crossing.Needless to say, I am in. Boatopia 2015!On a side note, MoonShadow, check out www.ussubmarines.com and try not to touch yourself while you peruse. [/quote]Thanks, now I need to clean my keyboard! This post from ClubOrlov (http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2011/12/occupy-million-dollar-view.html) got me thinking about what an American version of "boat people" might look like.  The truth is that there are already a huge number of Americans who live aboard boats, most tend not to go anywhere.  There are a number of reasons for this, but a big one is that even though it's possible to live full time on a (relatively) cheap 'weekender' without a loan payment, the spartan nature of living on such a vessel on the open ocean leads most people to maintain a slip rental at a marina.  Such a slip rental is about as expensive as renting an apartment, and thus most people who do it either must maintain a steady income or are (retired with pension | otherwise independently wealthy).  It's certainly possible for most people to spend a few days away from the marina, but it's much like camping; no hot showers, no refrigerated foods beyond what an ice chest can maintain, limited choices in meals and near zero adult conversation (beyond your spouse) other than the marine radio.  Also, it's hard for most people to afford a sat phone, so access to modern telecommunications via the Internet tends to require a line of sight to the marina boathouse.  So most people, retired or otherwise, who live aboard a yacht of any size that could be affordable to a middle class couple for equal or less than living on land tend to either stay at the marina for access to (hot showers | powered refrigeration | a toilet | a relatively inexpensive supply of drinkable water | Internet & cell service | freshly prepared hot meals | whatever) or are 'making passage' from one port marina to the next as fast as is reasonablely possible.That all said, it occurs to me that it's possible that a form of 'seasteading' could occur long before massive floating cities could be built, by communities of live-aboards moving in 'flotillas' but served by a larger vessel with the capacity to serve as many of these needs while on the open ocean.  The way this would work is like a 'floating trailer park' or 'redneck yacht club' wherein all of the smaller boats lash themselves together and to the large vessel in the evenings, have dinner together on the deck of the large vessel, showers on the large vessel, and sleep on their own vessel while the crew of the main ship kept the 'watch'.  No one would be trying to go anywhere overnight (which is something that individual boaters will often do trying to make passage quickly) but would all wake up, have breakfast together again on the main boat, and then seperate and shove off to all make a pre-determined amount of headway towards their next primary destination.  The main boat would need to be large enough, with enough displacement, to carry enough water, fuel and food for it's own crew and sip as well as for many others.  A good target would be a large ship with teh resources to provide for the needs of 30 people (the inrastructure needs can be estimated based upon the number of people and the legth of time, because most of the resources are about pepole, not boats) for 30 days.  So 900 persondays.  This would permit a main ship with a crew of six to service a flotilla of about a dozen small boats (presume 2 people per boat) for one month between port stops for restocking or 14 boats for a two week long passage.  Also, the true live aboards wouldn't need stop at any particular port at all, and could keep following teh lead ship on it's planned route or stop off to 'winter' in any particular port that might appeal to them.  Groups of live abaords could charter such a boat to 'escort' them from northern ports to Southern ports so that they didn't individually need to make landfall at all along the trip, nor rush to get there, payijng for the eintire trip with all servces included.  Other such escorts ships could simply follow a published route, and live abourds could choose to join the flotilla for a time, paying for their needed services individually, and then abandon the flotilla as it suits them, perhaps to join another more heading their prefered direction.  Large ships tend to cost a lot, not just because of the logrithmacly increasing complexity of construction, but also for the relatively high costs of being able to provide these comforts independent of shore support.  Large ships, including cruise lines, can desalinate seawater while underway using very expensive reverse osmosis filters, but benefit by the economies of scale that providing water for 1000 paying  guests provide.  It's possible to get such systems for small yachts also, but their bulky size, power and maintaince requirements, and high upfront costs make them very impractical for a small boat not much bigger than a bedroom.  The same can be said for building a shower with a hot water heater, a decent sized galley, a sat phone or even an inboard engine.So then, what does it take to supply 900 persondays?  The average person on land consumes between 5K and 7K gallons of tapwater per month.  Most live aboard types would consume much less, since most of that is actually flushwater and many marine 'heads' are low or no water types, such as a composting toilet (which are pretty expensive ifbuy a commerical one) or even somethng as simple as a sawdust bucket toilet on the low end (http://www.duckworksmagazine.com/05/articles/toilet/index.cfm).  So assuming the low end of that range, and half of that range is flushwater that can be disregarded, we end up with 2500 gallons per month per person.  This sound high, but includes showers, cooking water & cleaning water in addition to what is actually intended to drink.  So 2500 * 30 = 75K gallons of freshwater storage or the capacity to desalinate and filter 2500 gallons per day, or some combination therein.  The escort ship would also have to include tanks capable of carrying and pumping large amounts of fuel, both to sell to clients and for internal needs, such as refrigeration (a great example of an economy of scale advantage, an escort ship could power a pair of chest freezers,one set up as a chest refrig, via an engine driven refrigeration compressor for vastly less energy and sunk costs than each boat could do so individually) cooking and hot water (another huge economy of scale advantage).Really, I think I might smell real oprotunity here.EDIT: This website also contributed to this line of thinking (http://www.sealionsfoundation.com/page29.php) even though I don't think highly of their plan or it's chances of success. Batteries are heavy, and include a huge 'sunk' energy cost in their production.  They also don't last very long relative to the steel block combustion engine.  They contain huge amounts of poisons that would contanimate any area that a major accident occurred.  They are relatively slow, and have very limited ranges and long 'refueling' times.  Even many 'green' leaning inventors have acknowleged the problems with electric transport, which is why the Revopower Wheel was invented.  Pity it never made it to mass production, I would have bought one straight away.  There is no substitute for the energy density of petrol.Mostly matters of physics and economics, not matters of technology.  Electric vehicles will become commonplace as soon as the economics of peak oil force the issue, and then people get accustomed to the particular inconviences that electric transport presents.That is an accurate assessment.Perhaps we could have, but again, there isn't a lot of further research to be done.  Again, we know how to build thorium cycle reactors, and we did it fourty years ago, but we just don't.  The infrastructure, as you noted, exists for the refinement and production of uranium fuel rods, because of the military's desire for plutonium.  We no longer need any more of that, and really need a lot less than we have, but the infrastructure exists.  So uranium fuel cycle reactors not only have a precedent, they have an economicly mature nationwide/worldwide supply chain.  An equivilent supply chain for thorium reactors would have to be built up from scratch, which can be done if we had the political will, but it seems that no one but India has any such will.No contest there, but it's not really your's to decide.True equal rights under the "law" (common law or natural law, like how the term was intended when the framers spoke the term.)  No special rights for historicly oppressed groups, no identity politics.  As a parent, I am responsible for the quality of their education and their health care, and no one else gets to intervene in my decisions. (excepting, perhaps, the child)   the electric car was invented before the internal combustion engine driven car.  The electric one lost due to real physical disadvantages and economic realities that persist to the present day.  So your assumptions are demonstratablely wrong.  We also know how to build thorium reactors, we just don't.The SUV has a valid use case.  It's not significantly different than a minivan, nor are they less efficient; and they can be used as a small truck as well.We can't.  The best we can do is to present a level playing field and hope that the law of averages will permit these talented types to rise to their potential. Although individual mining nor pool mining will likely never competely cease, most of the mining in the future is likely to be the above example or similar examples.  A brick-n-mortar bank in a city that issues banknotes backed by bitcoins would not really need much of a safe, but would have a vested interest in mining both to help support the security of the system that they depend upon, but also to ensure timely processing of clients' transactions.  Such banks would likely form receprocity agreements to process the free transactions of other banks' customers, as well as advertise their median hashing power to attract customers.  Also, mining need not be looked on as a primary profit goal.  ICeland could become teh bitcoin mining capital of the world, simply becasue they have high levels of geothermal eletric capacity and need the heat.  Banks in the hot places of the world could simply contract with building management companies in ICeland and Siberia to mine in their favor, and the building uses the waste heat. Because the currency is issued at a steady rate, so in the first year the monetary base starts at zero and goes to 2620800, then double that again the second anniversary.  So at the second anniversary, the inflation rate is roughly 50%.  The same amount is issued during the third year, so around the third anniversary the inflation rate is about 33%.  Likewise, the same amount is issued during the fourth year, so around the fourth anniversary, the rate is 25%; then the block reward cuts in half, so the rate suddenly drops to 12.5%.  The inflation rate is relative to the monetary base already issued. Yes, indeed. The inflation rate of bitcoin is both a product of how the currency is issued as well as an inventive for miners to participate.  It's very necessary. explain, please. Yes, you're right.  Sorry.So next year it will be around 25% then suddenly drop to 12.5%. That's tiny. Yes, the inflation rate is still very high, somewhere close to 25% APR right now.  About this time next year it will be around 12.5%, but will suddenly drop to about 6.25% and resume it's slow decent for another 4 years.  For any increases in the BTCUSD exchange rate to be sustainable, there must be a growth rate in the economy that exceeds that inflation rate.  For the first 18 months, there was no bitcoin economy to speak off, so for the past 18 months maintaining an economic growth rate well in excess of the inflation rate has been relatively easy starting from near zero.  However, as the economy grows larger and the monetary base grows larger, the difficulty in maintaining such levels of economic growth increases.  I still don't believe that an economic growth rate well in excess of the inflation rate is improbable, and that we are as likely to see a return to steady exchange value growth as the general perception in the strength of bitcoin increases while the general mistrust in national fiat currencies also increases.  There will always be noise in the signal to deal with, however. I have never used any exchange to either obtain bitcoins, nor cash out into any other currency.  Considering that I'm surely far from unique, by what logic do you state the above?I do not see the unintended consequences that you seem to see. This is demostratablely not so.  I've seen posts on this forum by him/her that imply that he expected some consolidation of hashing power into professional mining groups, and that when the time was right, a parrallel transaction clearing network would arise that would leave the main bitcoin network as a kind of user accessible 'backbone'.  It may or may not have occurred as s/he imagined it, but that is part of the point.  The rise of professional financial bitcoin services is not what s/he was trying to prevent; but instead prevent a form of central bank from arising that could dominate the network.  Although it requires that we pay attention, any mining pool that approaches the 51% mark gets knocked around by the membership.  This will no longer be necessary after a certain size, much like it's no longer necessary for us to be too concerned about a single majority attacker today.  The pools, at least, can't really hide their network power. +1 Bananington I received and used my steam codes just fine, thanks.  Couldn't get a screenshot, though.  I guess I'm too old to figure that part out. Some of us can, but you just can't get those exported.  You're lucky if they are shipped across state lines.  The 'BBC' here means the Bluegrass Brewing Company.  I don't care for beer, myself, but from those I know who do, the BBC makes beers that are better than well known brands such as Guiness. You do tend to say a lot of extreme crap, but on this point you are dead on.  There is no such thing as "American culture" and probably never has been.  Germany goes to great lengths to prevent 'divergent cultures', to the extreme of persecuting Christian homeschoolers with a Nazi era law, because they openly fear that would lead to civil conflicts in the future. It has been proposed that the human species is capable of maintaining a maximum of about 150 personal relationships before civil structures with formal rules are required to maintain order.  This is also the maximum stable size of tribes across human history.  It's not natural at all for humans to form group associations beyond this limit.
There are many cultural reasons for the prevalance of crime in Honduras, but most of them will be muted or simply not apply to a charter city simply on the assumption that such a city will become very international and cosmopolitan rather quickly.  Major corporations that establish factories there would likely function like little city states of their own right, much like many do in China today.  The charter cities website isn't truly libertarian in thought, like the idea of a charter city is, because they talk about major utilities providing public services in the kind of private utility with a public monopoly setup like many US cities do.  In reality, most of the early & large corporations will provide their own utilities; from entire factory roofs that function as rainwater catchment systems for huge cisterns to trash collection.  I've seen this kind of thing happen personally.  Companies don't lack the ability to provide for their own services unless local regulations prohibit it.  For example, the company that I work for now contracted with the local trash collection company to pipe their methane to the factory, and burn it in huge direct vent heaters on the factory floor, circumventing the local power monopoly completely.  This city (Louisville) also sits on one of the largest replenishing aquifers in the US, and thus there are many buildings downtown that have state licenses to build, maintain and draw from huge water wells under the buildings.  Most of them use them for things other than potable water for the building, such as open cycle heat pumps, dumping the flow into the Ohio River; but there is nothing to prevent such a company from switching their entire building over to an internal water treatment system other than the fact that 'city' water is very cheap here.  It's cheap here because the 'city' water monopoly isn't a true monopoly, because I have the same right to a well in my backyard without a permit for under 100K gallons per month.  Private wells remain ununsual in the city, for many obvious reasons, but the very fact that it's practically and legally possible helps keep prices down.There's that, but unlike mugging someone for thier cash or their shoes; mugging someone for thier cell phone is harder to hawk because it's inherent tracking makes it a risk unto itself.  Think about how rare cell phone thefts are at present.  Laptops get stolen from public spaces all the time, but some 'candid camera' type experiments have shown that most people won't steal a cellphone left out in public, such as on a public bench in a crowded public park but will if it's an mp3 player or even a cell phone still in it's retail packaging.  The rational explanation is that those who are inclined to steal it are concious of the implications of gps in cell phones. In agreement with you, however, modern fiat currencies aren't money either.  They are obligations of the government, and thus functionally debt in their own right.  So the expansion of credit/debt by the private sector is practically identical to the literal expansion of the monetary base by government debasement.  I'm just an INTP and prize sematic precision. You're quite welcome.I doubt any city that adopted bitcoin as an unmolested trade currency would need any of those things, but if so, someone will provide them.  The point of a charter city is a modern recreation of what made Hong Kong into a world class business city prior to it's loss of lease.  Mostly that the Brits didn't really care what the people did, so long as they paid their due and didn't give them trouble.  For much of that time, sectors of Hong Kong were effectively self-governing precients, with noticablely varying degrees of success.  I have, for some time now, planned on leaving the US upon my successful retirement (meaning with my pension intact) and have investigated many expat retirement communities in Mexico and Argentina; as well as the possibility of simply moving onto a sailboat and renting a slip at a cheap marina in New Hampshire due to the Free State Project. (I'm not willing to live in New Hampshire between November and April)  I can honestly say I've never considered Honduras before now.   I misunderstood your point, then.  Sorry.Yes and no, the official working hours of employed Americans has, indeed, gone up somewhat.  Last I heard it was around 44 hours per week before the downturn.  However, such a metric fails on many fronts.  Such as not considering the amount of real work that a housewife contributed to the family due to real 'home econoomic' activities around 1950 that are uncommon in the modern two income household; such as cooking everything from scratch, canning & other forms of common food preservation, and just regular home maintaince that the "employed" husband did not participate in then, but does today.  Those tasks are still required, but are often shared among two working spouses.  Of course, there is also less of that housework to be done today due to modern appliances such as a dishwasher and a Roomba, as well as the economic accessability of resturants tothe modern middle class family, or even Cambel's Soup Company doing your canning.  There is also the little fact that modern employment is physically less demanding, on average, than it used to be, so Americans are more willing to spend time at work.  And the fact that, moreso in the past, even the fullly employed American often did work external to his official employment, such as freinds helping each other build an outbuiling or repair a car/boat.Credit is not money.  Credit is a money substitute by it's definition. While true, so is water.  And tablesalt.  And probably just about anything at a "mega-dose" level.  That's pretty much what "mega-dose" means, a dosage that couldn't reasonablely be encountered unless intentional.  Caffine will kill you too, if you take it straight.  Hell, pure oxygen is toxic. The term 'libertarian' was a made up word in the 1960's to replace the already corrupted word 'liberal', which used to refer to people like Thomas Jefferson, who beleived that mankind should be able to largely govern themselves and had equal rights under God.  (as opposed to a soverign ruling class with a divine right to rule)  I have yet to see any evidence that those who created and adopted the term early on were anything like socialists. Except for the tiny issue of fredom of speech, sure you're free.  Just don't say anything about the monarch that could be construded as unflatoring, een if you are an American citizen in America when you do it. Sure, by liberals who desire to prove their own superiority. We really overused DDT in the US during the 50's & 60's, and yes it's toxic.  But no, mosquitoes are not immune to DDT, and modern applications of it use orders of magnitude less actuall DDT to great effect.  One great use of it is to apply it to the inside walls and ceiling of homes, (or tent fabric) which doesn't actually kill mosquitoes, but they stay away from it to such a degree that they wont enter into a home that is coated with it, thus providing a safe haven for children.  There remain video of Americans spraying DDT on schoolchildren while eating their lunch but there remains no conclusive evidence that DDT is particularly toxic to humans, or animals in general, despite being very toxic to mosquitoes.  In fact, it doesn't actually kill adult mosquitoes, it prevents mosquito eggs from developing a fully formed shell.The article I referenced is highly biased, it's just an example of one that I could find quickly via google.  Yet there is much evidence to support it's conclusions.  The motivation mentioned above is a widely stated goal of the author of the book itself, and the book has since been scientificly debunked by dozens of actual scientists. This is a very biased perspective, and those metrics are highly subjective.  You can't honestly tell me that people today would be happier if thier tech was banned from civil life, now that they have it.  You're more likely to start a riot among the OWS'ers by blocking Internet access on their phones than by razing the park.  If they didn't prefer their technological lifestyles, they wouldn't adopt them in the first place.This is total bullshit.  Modern societies are much better at managing the environment today than in the past, mostly because we are commonly aware of the problem.  There was a time, within living memory, that an American river not only caught on fire, but we were incapable of putting it out!  Just think about that for a minute, the water was so polluted, it was freaking flammable!  And this wasn't even an accidental spill!http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cuyahoga_RiverTo this day, there are many local events and groups that mark the event with names like "Burning River Park".Also total bullshit!  Where do you people come up with this crap!  It's people like you who murdered hundreds of thousands of African children over the 'Silent Spring' scam!http://www.orthodoxytoday.org/blog/2010/02/the-green-death-the-silent-spring-legacy/Honestly, how do you people sleep at night?Money doesn't 'fuel' anything, regardless if the world's work is unsustainable or not. @jim618I reiterate that an android client that can communicate 'directly' to another such client using wifi, via a piratebox or any other form of mutually accessible wifi hotspot, can be accomplished right now using a multicast/broadcast client-server setup.  If both phones can connect to the same access point, it doesn't even matter if the access point has Internet access (or does, but blocks ports) because one phone can set itself up as a 'server' and announce itself across IP broadcast so that the second phone can see it, connect to it via it's temporary, local IP number and send the data.  There are android apps that use this trick very effectively for transfering files to and from a home pc over a home wifi network by letting the pc log into the phone as if it was an ftp server.Of course, a piratebox with a local bitcoind would make this trivial for clients that don't have this capability also, even if the local bitcoind cannot or does not have a blockchain. Real scientists are always sceptics, but nor am I very sceptical that climate change exists.  The climate is always changing.  The part that is sceptical is the role of human activity in the matter.  Is humanity to blame for the catastrophy that has been known as the 'Medieval Warm Period'?  What about the 'Littile Ice Age'?  As a professional meterologist, certainly you studied these historic periods of relatively rapid changes in worldwide climate?  In either case, it took about a century to change at the inflection points.  We're beyond a century since the dawn of the Industrial Age (age of oil), and the most credible of negative 'worst case' models take another century to rise global temps to a point that the poles actually do melt.  The melting of said poles doesn't even necessarily imply a net negative impact upon humanity or life in general, since this also implies the associated expansion of agricultural land in the northern latitides, the increase in growing seasons in all lower latitudes and the productive increases that can be expected from increases in ambiant CO2 available to agricultural plantlife.  That's not even considering the vast energy savings in winter heating among the entire population beyond the 75th parrallel.  The official records concerning the MWP imply that we crossed the average global temps in 1990's, but last I checked wine vineyards are still not viable in Northern Britian like they were for 400 years during the MWP.  If anyone is growing wine grapes in Scotland without a glasshouse and we still have economicly viable fossil fuels left, I might have something to worry about, but I doubt it.  I've literally seen wealthy people buy lakefront property around the Great Lakes on the potential that global warming would make such areas more valuable for their grandchildren.  There are always things that real people can do to mitigate the risks of change.Food shortages, as a result from climate change, isn't a credible threat.  Far more likely is the rapid expansion of agriculture for the above noted reasons.  Whoever tells you such things is trying to scare you, or are simply scared themselves.  As a trained meterologist, I think that you know this is so on some deep, rational level.  Food shortages in places where food is already difficult to grow, now that can get worse.  Fresh water sources could become a real issue with an expanding population and expanding agricultureal base, since is already is (but not as a consequence of climate change, but poor resource management with an expanding population).  This is, ironicly, one of the reasons that I choose to live in this city of Louisville, Kentucky.  I live 26 feet over the top of one of the largest replenishing known in the US.  I have both the legal, and pyisical, capability of driving a wellpoint in my own backyard if I choose to do so.Define 'close enough'.  I live 8.5 miles form work.ironicly, public transport isn't normally going to reduce your carbon footprint by any non-neglible degree in most US cities.  New York or LA, yes.  Cincinnati or Indianapolis, no.  The reason for this is because public transport must run whether or not you are using it, public transit's average ridership is too low to compete with a modern compact car.  Such public transit might make you feel good about it, but it exists as a transit subsidy for the poor; and no other reason is historicly or scientificly accurate. You now know more about it than I do. More, since NFC devices today can't actually communicate to each other in any kind of ad-hoc fashion, and thus require the kind of infrastructure that is to be found at a retail point-of-sale.  That, and my phone has a speaker and a mic, but not a NFC transceiver.  It's not that NFC is incapable of ad-hoc, just that (much like wifi in smartphones) such direct  communications require root access even if the hardware is capable of doing so.  I wonder, considering all of the people who are willing to 'bump' if stacking your cell phone would become as reasonable an activity for those who wish to transfer bitcoins directly.  I still consider a Dash7 transceiver a more viable long term solution, but this is certainly a workable one with current hardware. Well, this is also false.  It's possible for a free transaction with all inputs very deep in the blockchain to have a higher priority than a transaction that pays the minimum fee with very recent input transactions. This is pretty much what all the serious research and academic publications say, it's the media and the political class that turns these research papers into something that they are not.  There are very few academics (in the fields that are relevent to the topic) that will state that either the Earth is not warming as a whole or that necessarily means that such warming will continue in the future.  The exceptions are provablely biased by political ideologies.  Honest scientists can't reliablely predict the weather 20 days from now, and they will be the frist to say that the long term climate models (all of them) are based upon many assumptions about how certain varirables affect the outcome or even what those variables' values are with any precision.Yes, it does.  If it takes three generations for the worst case scenario (+4 degrees C) that the models predict to occur, it can hardly be considered a catastrophe can it?  IT's not like humanity ats a whole won't have time to adapt to a (potential) 1.2 meter high rise in the ocean's median level.  Even the worst of the poor could walk away from such areas long before that.  Nearly every sandy beach in the world would be under low tide, but that's only a catastrophe to sunbathers and surfers.And I don't own an SUV.  I've ridden a 21 speed bicycle to work 250+ days per year to work since May 2nd, 2008.  I'm doing my part, but for my health and my checkbook.  What are you doing? No, because there is a minimum priority level for a transaction to be included into a block at all.  In practice, this means that a fee paying transaction gets a much higher priority than a free transaction, and a free transaction must have inputs of a certain age in order to be processed.  This not only limits spam, it encourages senders to add a small fee to the transaction for speed, particularly if the inputs used are very recent.True, miners are not required to honor the priority system to process otherwise valid transactions.False, I think.  I'm pretty sure that the priority number is something along the lines of ((number of confirmations for the newest input transaction included in the present transaction) + (transaction fee in BTC * arbitrary priority multiplier)) in which case, the higher the fee paid, the higher the priority number. The whitepaper describes a rudimentary scripting system, wherein transactions are requesting that the miners run a simple script.  This scripting mechanism allows many other forms of complex transactions to occur, such as coins that can be claimed by more than one party, or that require signatures from more than one party, in order to be valid.  Conditional transactions that can be delayed until such-n-such block number, and can be revoked or replaced prior to that block number; or even coins that can be claimed by any address that can produce the right keycode.  Such transactions just languish in the transaction queue until they can be satisfied as valid by their own internal script.  Currently, this scripting mechanism isn't implimented in the current client, and it doesn't look like it will be for some time. I'l take it for 20 BTC shipped to an American address. What you intend to do is possible with the scripting mechanism, but that is not presently implimented.  Creating a client that does not favor the fork branch with the longest proof of work is very dangerous, and is more likely to introduce another attack vector than solve any perceived problem with the basic proof of work problem.  There exist more security checks in the protocol (some in the present client, others only proposed) than just the proof-of-work itself, so it's unlikely that your concerns are not already addressed.  However, I don't really understand your concern.
There is a clear indication that the climate is trending warmer, and has been since the end of the 'little ice age'.  There is also a clear indication that CO2 is a greenhouse gas.  There is not a clear connection between the two.  The environment is a very complex system and the concentration of CO2 a very small part of it.  Both the climate and the level of atmospheric CO2 are in constant flux over millienia, but the CO2 concentration tends to be a lagging indicator; implying that the increases of CO2 in the atmosphere are an effect of a warming global climate, not a cause.  Although it's certainly possible that CO2 is, itself, a feedback loop.  There is no indication, nor any logical reason to assume, that even a tripling of the amount of carbon in the air would result in a catastrophic degree of climate change.  Even a 4 degree global change would take at least a century to materialize. Interested in a Steam code for the Humble Introversion Bundle. That's funny, but not only do I have no corporate interest in the topic, I actually understand much of the underlying science.  At the politcal level, particularly surrounding the UN, understanding of the science and thus the real risks are lacking.  Of course, the real risks are beside the point, since the real goals of most of those political agents is to use the fear of an unknown (possible climate catastrophy) to consolidate political power at the UN level.The best answer to what the real science says about the future of global climate is basicly "we don't really know yet". That's going to be a real problem for audio, because PSK's strength is in the ability to produce a coherent data stream that is below the threshhold of human hearing, so anyone talking out even in the mall's promenade is going to trip the sqelch anyway.  If the sqelch limit is set high enough to exclude such nearby talk, the effective range of communication might be too limited.  More than a squelch, there needs to be a DSP filter code that simply excludes anything beyond it's assigned frequency range. No, because the loose analogies are presented as such. Wow, wrong right from the start..."Bitcoin uses public-key cryptography for signing transactions. In the Bitcoin marketplace, coins are transferred between users via an exchange of keys."EDIT:And again right after that...The public key serves as an address to which Bitcoins can be sent,"(the address contains a hash of the public key, and a checksum of that hash, but not the public key itself, which is not disclosed until funds are sent away from that address.  I'm sure someone will correct me if I wrong here.) I meant, generally, with regard to fossil fuels.  The drop from 7K in the Cambrian is likely due to the rise and spread of multicellular plantlife, which maintains a certain level of sequesterd carbon in the cycle of life. Could you be more specific about what you are talking about?  From what I know, the Swiss Franc has been debased as much as the rest of the world.  There are a lot of things that happen that have little to do with the relative quality of the currency.As for what can happen to a bitcoin economy, honestly we don't know.  The bitcoin economy is truly global, there is no 'currency friction' from floating exchange rates that businesses have to be aware of, at least if they stick to bitcoin.  This is not so for the Swiss Franc, for there must always be exchange into other currencies for trade.  In a world of floating fiat currencies, a rapid change in relative quality is generally undesirable because it upsets international trade.  This is the primary reason that the Swiss Franc is being devalued along with the Euro.  Bitcoin is sounder currency, but again, does not necessarily need to be exchanged for other currencies in an international trade setting. Assuming that chart is correct, and not just some made up bs, then that implies that the level of CO2 in the air before sequesteration was about 3K ppm, and that all of the fossil fuels were created during the Teritary.  So relatively recently.  Humanity might actually be able to notice 3K ppm directly, because we use the concentration of CO2 in our lungs and bloodstream to tell us when to exhale.  A level so high might trigger the sensation of suffocation in some people.  Regardless, if a CO2 feedback mechanism exists in nature, a level anywhere near 3K ppm would have destroyed all life; so obviously one cannot exist. First off, it's not a one-way media.  Every smartphone has both a speaker and a microphone.  Second, using psk500 or something similar to transmit complete blocks into a specific shortwave frequency would allow specialized devices that don't have or need direct Internet access to collect a blockchain on a continuous basis. That's an interesting graph, but there are no scales to make comparisons. And since it's already java based, an Android app should be trivial.  Okay, I have to admit, that's just slick.  Sortof like NFC by sound alone.  But how long would it take to transmit an entire transaction at psk250?  Could the carrier be set so that it's all below human hearing?  Or would that even be desireable?  Certainly don't want it set too high, for if it can be heard the higher pitches are annoying. Why not?  The concentration of CO2 in the air would still be less than 700 parts per million in the atmosphere if we could consume it all, which we can't.  Most of the climate models for the worst case are based on us being able to hit less than 500 parts per million.  We wouldn't even notice that directly, although even trees would grow like weeds.  The only way we notice is if the heat feedback cycles are true, but as I have pointed out, that carbon was in the air before and there is no evidence that the Earth was ever so hot in the past as to threaten life or suggest that a negative feedback exists.  There have been trees growing on islands North of the North-West Passageway, which is north of Canada's Northern Territories and is presently permafrost.  That alone implies that the Earth can be much warmer than it is presently and not be catastrophic.EDIT:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ellesmere_Island#Paleontology No, not quite.  I'm saying that all of the carbon locked up into fossil fuels, and thus available to humanity to put into the atmosphere, was already there at one point before the plantlife that sequestered it put it into the ground.  Therefore the burning of fossil fuels alone, even if it were possible for us to get all of it, could not logicly lead to a catastrophic 'negative feedback' of climate events, as is imagined by a great many of the models used by those who argue for dramatic geo-political changes to prevent such disasters.  An Inconvient Truth is an example of taking such a dramtic view of the possible outcomes, without considering the fact that I present above.  I can find no evidence that geologists disagree with the above statement, that the carbon sequestered into the Earth was put there by plantlife and thus was present in the atmosphere at the time.  Feel free to prove me wrong on that point, or any other.  But my point was, plantlife evolved in this environment, so it's logically inconsistant to present AGW worst case as being able to destroy life of this planet.  I don't even think that it could destroy human life, although it could become difficult for the present number of human beings to live here.  If AGW is correct (or maybe if it isn't, and we still overheat) the greater part of humanity is either going to have to leave or perish, but if the worst case is unlikely (which it is fairly unlikely in any case, by definition) and we get 2 degrees C or less of worldwide warming, that would actually be a net gain for humanity at large, due to the large expanses of agricultural land opened up in the Northern latitudes.  People who live on Islands or right on the coast might be screwed, however. It doesn't matter how cheap the hardware is, for whatever the attacker can buy the honest nodes can buy.  The difficulty simply adjusts to whatever is being used. Right off the bat you undermine yourself.  The carbon found in the ocean is dissolved CO2.  It doesn't change a thing, for if enough of it were dissolved in to the oceans in order to permit plantlife to evolve, there is no reason that the same wouldn't occur now.  Actually, it's more likely that the ocean can hold more CO2 today, because the ability of water to hold CO2 in a stable state goes down as the temp rises.  This is one of the negative feedback cycles that the worst of the climate models depend upon.Now this is a good point.  The first form of life to use photosysthisis, whatever you want to call them, were single celled and lived in water.  I can't see how that alters the point, but feel free to expound on that.Yes, it would have been an alien world, but I'm not making assumptions.  The premises that I base this thought experiment upon are accepted facts among just about anyone concerned about climate change.  (Since most creationists are not concerned about climate change, I'm leaving them out of the conversation for simplicity).  The givens are...The Earth is a closed system, thus there cannot be any more or less carbon or oxygen (nominally) than there was when life arose on this planet.The Earth is assumed to have been molten hot, and cooled down over a very long period of time, primarily via net infrared radiation.  (more heat was lost to the dark side of the planet than was gained on the Sun side)There is, and therefore was, much more oxygen available in this hot environment than carbon; thus most of the carbon that was not already in a very stable molecule (such as minerals) would have been consumed by the oxygen.  Therefore, any hydrocarbons (not stable in a hot environment in the presence of oxygen) that arose in any non-organic fashion would have been burned.So I'm excluding the carbon sequestered before the dawn of life in, say, diamonds.  If you can show that diamonds and the like can be burned, then this argument might not hold up.So, generally speaking, all of the hydrocarbons that were sequestered in the Earth's crust before the Industrial Age led to humanity drawing them out to burn them and let them enter the atmosphere was already there at the dawn of life on this planet.  Yet the Earth not only cooled to it's current state, it's been much colder.  And it's been much warmer, also.  Neither condition implies that a catastrophic level of climate change is possible, at least not catastrophic to humanity on the Earth as a whole.  It does imply that there is a balancing mechanism at play that we don't fully understand, that permits these long cycles between a warm planet overall and an Ice Age.  It does not imply that CO2 is the primary driver for these cycles, although it's almost certainly contributing.  Keep in mind that any increase in the ambient CO2 in the air has been proven to promote plant growth, all other factors kept the same.  So increases in the level of CO2 in the atmosphere is almost certainly beneficial for plantlife.  For that matter, so would a general increase in the climate temps along the higher latitudes. Ah, no.  Then you don't understand the argument.  At some point in the history of the  planet, life did not exist and effectively all of the carbon locked up into fossil fuels was in the atmosphere; because elemental carbon is unstable and the presence of significantly more oxygen and a molten hot planet means that any hydrocarbons would have been burned up anyway.  Logicly, plant life had to form in this environment in order for the carbon to be sequestered in the first place, so at one point all of the carbon present in fossil fuels was in the atmosphere first.  That's the worst case scenario and yet we exist.Carbon is not normally elemental.  It's either found in hydrocarbons or afixed to oxygen in some fashion.  CO2 is carbon's most stable form, and since oxygen is significantly more likely to occur in nature than carbon, finding carbon in a natural state of CO2 is, in fact, quite normal.Not relevant.  There has always been orders of magnitude more free oxygen available in the atmosphere, both before and after the rise of plantlife. Generally, yes.I don't know, but it's irrelevent to the point.  It was all there before life came to exist, (excluding that which was in the mantle, core and crust; but that's still there and will continue to be even if we burn every scrap of fossil fuels in the world, which is also not practially possible) so the concept that putting a portion of it back wince it came would result in a ELE is rediculous on it's face.Yes, to a degree.  But that's the point I'm trying to make.  It was multicellular life that became oil, natural gas and coal.  It is probable that a single celled form of life was important in the chemical changes that resulted in their present forms, but the vast majority of the carbon sequestration occured by multicellular plant life.That is, in fact, exactly what I wrote. Okay, so what is to prevent the current presence of plants from doing the same in the future?  What I'm asking is, under what basis is the assumption that carbon dioxide, even though it's a greenhouse gas, that CO2 doubling in the atmosphere is catastrophic for life?  After all, as you have pointed out, before life evolved the Earth was far hotter until the magma on the surface cooled.  Since the Earth is a closed system, the amount of oxygen present then is roughly the same as it is now, just like the amount of carbon dioxide.  Under such conditions, it's practially impossible for any significant amount of the carbon to have been sequestered in any other form than CO2.  So practically speaking, all of the carbon was part of the atmosphere in Earth's own history, and yet the Earth still cooled and life still came to dominate the surface of the Earth.  If it's all a matter of speculation, then it's just as likely, if not moreso, that consuming all of the fossil fuels available to us (which wouldn't come close to putting all of the carbon back into the atmosphere) would result in a warmed climate only comparable to the Medivel Warm Period, which was far from catastrophic for humankind.Could be, but based upon what?  After all, by many respects humanity is far more resilient a species than any of the dinosaurs were; because our human intelligence permits us to develop clothing and housing that permits us to live in the harshest of conditions found on Earth if we desire to.  There is an entire town in Australia that is underground in the outback to escape the heat, while there are semi-permanent encampments in Antartica for scientific research teams.  The Vikings lived in areas of the world that didn't see a sunrise for 5 months at at time, much less a spring thaw.  I contend that even a truly catastrophic degree of global warming, to the worst case scenario, isn't a threat to the majority of human life of this planet; althought it could be to a great many.  I also contend that a much more mild degree of warming is more likely, on the order of 1 to 1.5 degree C, and would be a net improvement for human life on this planet.  After all, such a more moderate form of climate warming would result in the warming of the majority of the land mass that remains uninhabitable on Earth; most of which is the Canadian Northern Territories, Siberia in Russia and Greenland.  Greenland could literally be green, and the loss of coastal landmass would be neglible compared to that expansion of habitable space and agricultural landmass.  And at less than +2 degrees C, even the worst case climate models don't result in a statisticly significant increase in major weather patterns.  Nor would the change in climate become too hot near the equator, since the majority of the warming occurs in the higher latitudes.  (This is largely because the greenhouse effect occurs from long wave infrared bouncing off of CO2 in the upper atmosphere, and the general scatter of reflected light spreads in all directs evenly; if the heat then returns to Earth at the equator, it's a net zero change in heat at the equator, but if it returns at the northern latitudes, it's a net gain for the northern latitudes while a net loss for the equator)
Because the perfect is the enemy of the good. I find this kind of debate amusing.  The question about whether or not global warming is caused by human industrial activities or not is an irrelevent one with regards to the outcomes.  Either an increase in the CO2 in the atmosphere will cause catastrophic warming or it will not, that is the only detail that matters.  So I ask the partisans on this thread the following questions...Where did the carbon encased into fossil fuels come from?  My understanding is that they originally came from dead plant material, but if so, where did the plants get it?  The obvious answer is the air, but I'm open to speculation about alternatives.  If the carbon came from the air, and we presently live on this planet, how could a closed carbon cycle with a finite amount of carbon in it possibly cause a catastrophic warming trend when it didn't do that when the plants were alive?So far, I've posed this same quandry to a great many people that I have met, and the most credible alternative that I've yet been presented with came from a fundamentalist Christian conservative, who responded that the carbon wasn't in the air before because God created the Earth with the oil in the ground.  I've literally seen dyed-in-the-wool tree huggers distort their own faces with the cognative dissonance. I can see how that might be upsetting.Since you are in the know, do you mind explaining what advantages you think that Solidcoin has over Bitcoin? It would be a fine way for that very same coffe shop to provide customer internet, but most of around here do that already for free.  Even McDonald's around here offer free wifi, even though it's throttled.  I leave my home wifi open by default, on purpose.  If anyone is outside downloading p0rn, I've reduced transmitter power so that they would literallly have to stand on my lawn to do it; but my neighbors could use my signal if they needed to, just as I have used theirs in the past when my router was down.Offline mobile to mobile bitcoin transactions have a real use case, particularly in the event of a widespread service outage, say caused by a power outage.  Any bitcoin vendor that had an access point set up something along the lines of a piratebox with a local bitcoind could still transact without power in a similar manner that they can transact cash only without power.  The corner store might not have power to run the milk reefer, but a battery backed access point that had Internet up to the point of the power failure can still use bitcoin to sell milk and butter at half-off.  I think that if bitcoin ever starts to grow, we will see such piratebox-like devices show up at the local Farmers' Market and the craft show.  The vendors that wish to sell products via bitcoin will make sure it happens. http://canyoucrackit.co.uk/A novel way for a cybersecurity company to find qualified applicants.  If you live in the UK, and need a job, give it a go. If you have a question, then ask it here.  We will see it regardless of which thread you wish to ask it in. Indeed, seems like we are trying to do too many things at once here.  The anonymous renting of bandwidth is a completely different problem than mobile meatspace bitcoin transactions.  The latter is actually easy with bluetooth or QR codes.  I presented the piratebox point only as an example of widely useful supporting infrastructure, which would allow customers to update their wallets.  But updating the wallets are not a requirement for a simple transaction.  Would be in the interests of the bitcoin accepting vendors, however, since a lightweight phone client can have more than enough actual BTC to make more than one transaction; but depending upon how those BTC are stored on the lightweight client, a user might not be able to spend all of his phone wallet without updating in order to get the block that has his change from previous transactions. Okay, but that is a different use case then you presented.  And this one is satisfied easily by a modified Serval app.  The problem is that most people don't let their wifi radio say on, because it eats power, and bluetooth is too short ranged to even do this across a relatively small restraunt.  Blutooth is practially limited to a range of about 10 feet with a direct line of sight, less if one or both phones are in a pocket next to the human body, which kills the band that Bluetooth uses (along with wifi) because of the water in the human body.  This would work incrediblely well with a running Dash7 radio in phones, but we would have to wait until those became common.  I don't even know if they ever will, Zigbee sure didn't.  Furthermore, it takes up to 2 seconds just to negotiate a new Bluetooth session, and that's before the clients can negotiate a bitcoin for forwarding access transaction.  It takes even longer for bluetooth to determine that a connected device has left range, so when you walk out of the room, it would take at least 10 seconds for your friends' phones to reconnect to anything else.  And then you have the same problem with this as you do with a fake piratebox setup, anyone can write an app that pretends to accept those automatic payments and then serves a 401 page. Or even an app that keeps disconnecting and reconnecting under another spoofed name, draining your budgeted wallet. IMHO trying to mesh with Bluetooth is doomed to failure.  It's practical range is too short, and it's session connect time too long.  Users sitting next to each other in a conference seminar would be able to mesh, but not users sitting on opposite ends of a single row of seats.  Users would have to deliberately stay in range to transact, which is fine for one-to-one transacting, but it doesn't allow for opprotunistic propagation of transactions.  Something along the lines of Forban might work, but it would be clunky. (http://www.foo.be/forban/) Setting your smartphone to autoconnect to a piratebox set up in the vendor's room for the purpose at the beginning of the convention would be about as automatic as I imagine that you can get.EDIT:If you're headed to a bitcoin convention, I can't imagine why the convention itself wouldn't sponsor the piratebox + bitcoind, connect the piratebox to a wired lan, port forward the local bitcoind and maybe all bitcoin traffic, and block everything else.  Then set up signs in the space chosen for this to inform attendees that this is the place to take your smartphone to bootstrap if you don't have Internet access. You seem to have two conflicting goals here.  You want a seamless & automatic system, but also want to do it without considering supporting infrastructure.  I don't think that's possible, but if it is, something like Serval is what you wish to emulate...http://www.servalproject.org/Unfortunately, serval requires root access for at least some of the serval phones, which then function in exactly the same manner that a piratebox + Internet access point would.This is a piratebox...http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBoxThe two techs could be combined as well.  A single piratebox is cheaper than a single smartphone capable of running as a serval 'batphone'.  I've tried it on my Samsung Intercept, and it doesn't have the moxy to run as a batphone, but my android is on the slow end of smartphones these days. Say, as an example, you wanted to set up a piratebox like wifi access point that you could take with you anywhere, and sell short term shared Internet access for a bitcoin fee.  This is how I would do it.I'd add a full bitcoind to the piratebox, with it's own dedicated drive space as well as a small squid space.  I'd set it up like a capture point, to direct new connections to my capture page with instructions and a bitcoin payment address.  This could be static and local, but if it was neither then I could have more than one such pirate box that users could move from one to another.  I would charge for the day/event not by volume, but also redirect bitcoin ports so that they lead back to the local bitcoind, and only allow that bitcoind outside access.  This prevents a new user from trying to bootstrap over my connection, he can get all the blocks he needs from the bitcoind.  I'd then block ports such as bittorrent, etc.  I'd take it with me to the game/convention/Burning Man/whatever so that the non-local crowd can pay me to share my unlimited 4G/WiMax plan, but limit the number of connected users to some rational shared Internet amount, say 32 connections.  If a connection is idle for more than 5 minutes, boot it to let another connect.  Make these conditions known, and then charge a rational fee for access for the entire event, say 1 BTC for the day/concert or 2 BTC for the entire convention, whatever.  Not much.That's how I'd handle resaling internet.  But just a disconnected piratebox with a high connection limit and a running bitcoind would be fine to just allow people to transact without also sharing Internet.  This setup fits into a lunchbox and can run off a battery for hours.  Still kick connections if they are idle too long, to limit the number of connections and when people need to transact, they just connect again.  A convention hall could sport a number of these disconnected devices without the need for them to even be connected to each other, so long as the owner was willing and able to update their blockchain at least once each day.  A specialized app for this purpose could be developed to allow the owner to update a piratebox without it's own Internet connection via his smartphone's data plan.  Just download the most recent static image of the blockchain, upload to the piratebox, reboot and restart bitcoind.This isn't the same use case as my Jabber + Dash7 + Bitcoin idea, however. I let him know how I felt about him too.  +1 on the morning-daily-check thread. You guys are really overthinking this use case.  In the use case of mobile bitcoin at a confrence or any other close locality, all that is needed to support local bitcoin payments for those without direct Internet access is a single piratebox within line of sight of both parties, running a bitcoind with a fairly current blockchain, that both users can connect to.  It's always in the interest of the receiver to get the transaction to the network, so that's not really an issue.  It'll happen.  But the piratebox would permit any number of connected devices to share transactions among themselves regardless of whether they were bluetooth capable or ad-hoc aware devices or not.  Payments to the piratebox owner isn't necessary either, because it's likely going to be owned by one or more of the vendors there who desire to trade in bitcoin.  If the business is good enough, it's also in the interest of the router owner/vendor to connect the piratebox to the Internet to keep the bitcoind updated directly, or possiblely to offer Internet access via the piratebox for a bitcoin payment. Scripted transactions would be able to pay for intermediaries, but micropayments would still likely require a parrallel system.  I don't have the details worked out, but both Dash7 and the Jabber protocol are inherently location aware.  A modified jabber protocol that permits forwarding routers to add an address to the end of the text would allow the receiver to save up such addresses and then create a send-to-many transaction to micropay hundreds of routers.  Routers would either forward on the faith of payment, or simply not participate.  Alternatively, an echo text from the receiver back to the sender could tally the addresses for the sender to make the payment, which would also function as a confirmation of receipt of message, but would double the traffic, costs and number of addresses.  I'm open for suggestions, but even a modified Jabber client that can use the Dash7 network or the Internet at will would be a huge boon even if it's all voluntary and unpaid.  You can set your Dash7 radio to forward messages, or not, and the receiver can choose to tip, or not; at a later time.  Of course there will be many free riders, but there will also be many people who don't mind forwarding Dash7 frames so long as it doesn't drain the battery on their own phone, which it shouldn't.  Dash7 is so energy efficient that the hardware that allows your cell phone to turn off and on it's wifi radio via software would require more power.  But then, it's also slow by comparison.  Texting and bitcoin transactions to the local space (not forwarded, necessarily) would be okay, but downloading whole blocks would become oppressive in a successful bitcoin future.  More likely, the Dash7 radio would be always on, and the Bitcoin client could turn on and off the wifi radio for ad-hoc networking when it knows that a source of newer blocks came into wifi range.  If wifi access points started having Dash7 radios as well, your cell client would know it's relative position, any access issues, and it's relative vector (and thus an estimate of how long it would be in range) long before it was actually in range.  The same for other cell phones.  You could have a smartphone like device without a service, go to a ball game, and entirely bootstrap the device from zero without thinking about the device at all simply by letting the device use both Dash7 and wifi at it's own will to gather up the blocks it needs.  Transactions that travel over Dash7 would likewise be unstoppable, even though they could be delayed.  You could use such a serviceless device to board the commuter train, but on your way you walk past two blocks of other people,  unknown to you, your device passively gathers up a half dozen transactions from within listening range before you hit the train terminal.  The train has to have the infrastructure required to support bitcoin devices, so it has at least a wifi router that permits open access to bitcoin's port number.  When you connect to that in order to pay your fare, the device forwards the rest of the transactions to the network at large. Yes and no.  The versioning of a delayed transaction is only possible with the scripting mech, which doesn't actually exist in the mainline client yet.  So at present, the answer is no.  Also, scripting won't ever be free, becase you are asking miners to actually process something for you personally.  Expect higher fees for scripted transactions, but once implimented, scripted transactions will be able to do a great many cool things, many of which don't really have any direct equivilant in the real world.  Multiplely addressed coins is one of them.  You will be able to send the same coins to more than one address, and dictate to the future network that those coins can only be used again under your stated conditions.  For example, you could send them to a set of addresses, and require that the claiming address have an additional keycode; so it's like you are putting up a prize for a compatition.  Or you could require that more than one of the addresses must sign the next transaction, requiring that more than one of the recipents have to get together to spend the coins.  There are a number of ways that this scripting mech can be used to create escrowed transactions. As far as using soundcard modes to encode data into an actual audiostream, the number of mics and speakers (and people who talk) is counterproductive, as it basicly all creates a high level of background static for the signal to overcome, and PSK31 doesn't exactly promote a pleasant feeling in human listeners.  And it's also obvious to anyone who has heard it before.  433mhz is a relatively quiet band, and can mesh well over useful ranges, unlike wifi bands.  I consider the success of Dash7 devices in smartphones to be the greatest possibility for Bitcoin, and a Dash7 specific p2p texting app to be the killer bitcoin app there.  Imagine that even a small percentage of smartphones had dash7 radios in an urban area such as NYC, and you wanted to send an encrypted text to your friend.  You know your friend's dash7 id (or rather your phone does) and you use bitcoin to pay very small amounts to the smartphones of those who "hop" the text to it's destination (or forwards it across the Internet on your behalf, if that is more efficient) and your text could cross up to 7 or so kilometers without any infrastructure in place at all, or you having a service plan.  This would also work very well as an unstoppable communications medium in the event of a power outage (or Internet outage) for emergency communications.  It would make efforts like Serval look downright primitive in comparison.  What if, instead of smartphones with a monthly service fee, someone starts making smartphone sized android tablets (already done) with wifi & dash7 radios (not done) and young people start using them to communicate directly using texting & bitcoin in a modern version of the CB radio craze of the 1970's. I admit that a moonbounce transaction would be just geek chic for the hell of it, but from a practical standpoint, using an amateur radio sat to do the same thing would be at least as location anonymous, which is to say not very much from any nation-state entity that has sats of their own.  And the location anonimity is exactly why we have to transmit our callsigns regularly, anonymouns transmissions are not permitted, and neither are business transactions.  Either of these would get my license suspended in a heartbeat.  I've had mine suspended for forgetting to update the FCC when I moved two miles away.  Bitcoin transactions over ham gear on ham bands could actually violate international treaties, and then get me arrested.  I don't like the risks there.  It's not like it used to be, it's technically quite easy to triangulate a transmitter broadcasting in the frequency ranges capable of exiting the troposphere to make a moonbounce or sat repeat.  It's the very low bands that remain location non-specific, simply because their wavelength is so long that a hidden antenna in an urban environment wouldn't implicate anyone in particular.  Which is also why numbers stations use the shortwave radio bands.  And soundcard encoding type modes, such as psk31, don't really do well with either moonbounce or a polar propogation path, because both forms of indirect (non-line-of-sight) propogation can arbitrarily reverse the orientation of the signal, the practical effect being that the signal changes because phase shift keying involves the intentional reversal of the orientation of the signal.   Which means that you paid for them indirectly through your electric bill, I suppose. Not for me.  My children are homeschooled.  Try it, it's way easier to teach them then to fix them. Probably because you likely bought over $17.  I haven't bought any more since they were 6.5 cents, yet.  Getting kinda thin though, so I'm going to have to buy some more soon.Maybe that's why it's rising, early buyers are running out of old funds and need to order Christmas gifts online?  If so, then the rise will be short lived and fall back some after Xmas.
I question that, and apparently so does the market.  It is literally impossible for the market price to go over $3 if there was no question that it should be lower. Of course, that would take nothing less than a constitutional amendment, and there are way too many people who take advantage of the system that would be unwilling to risk losing any perceived advantage to let it go easily.  And to what end, then?  Parlimentary systems such as a  common in Europe are easily just as easily screwed with.  A direct vote would actually be worse for voter fraud in the US than is common today, and a great many people would still agree with the original reasons for having an electoral college, namely as a means for the political class to insure against an ignorant electorate making a horrible choice. I can't imagine how even an ultrasonic chat system would be worthwhile even in a crowd.  A piratebox (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox) would serve this function better in that use case, and when Dash7 radios (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DASH7) are half as common in smartphones as wifi, I could text chat across a crowed city block or two, with a building in the path.  And PSK31 is so slow for this, that it would take many seconds to transmit even a single bitcoin address, and a lot can change in the signal in that time unless the two parties are close enough to each other to just simply talk like real people.(I'm a ham too, BTW) So sorta like how gas shoots up and everyone gets mad, then drops back halfway and everyone beleives that that is a value? Ironicly, less than 1% actually do have a vote.  The ritutual of voting for president every four years is an official poll, not a vote.  Nor is it 'democracy' in any direct sense.  The citizen casts his vote for his choice, then electors are gathered together to vote on who is president.  It's called the electoral system, and it usually has the same results, but it hasn't always and doesn't have to.  Most states bind their electors to the majority will of the state's citizenry for the first vote, but if there isn't a majority winner the first go, the electors can then vote for whomever they wish.  Very few states bind their electors for as many as three votes, but none beyond that.  Even so, the consequences for voting contrary (it's not a secret vote, btw) are not all that huge. This is an old idea that was connected to the concept that landowners were those in society most closely associated with the local area, because the 'mobility' (where we get the term 'the mob' from) are able to move away from areas that the political environment is hostile.  This principle didn't really work then, and is even less true today.  That said, I understand the sentiment.  If voting were just in modern democracies, only those who have contributed a net-positive amount of money to the government should have any say in how it is directed.  Of course, requiring that voters prove that they paid more in taxes to the government than they received in direct benefits is likely impossible, and the idea is also probably unconsitutional. Anyone who claims to be able to answer this title question with any certainty should not be trusted. Not any more than you can via an encrypted chat over Tor.  Less so, even because I can find your numbers station with the right gear. What good is this?  If you were working on a way that hams could transact over radio links without Internet access, I could see the value in it, even though actual hams couldn't ever use it due to the prohibition on business transactions.  I still can't imagine a use case, though.  But to encode a bitcoin address, URI or even an entire transaction into a modulated audio stream seems entirely useless to me.   Do you really think that a few days rise in the exchange rate is suddenly going to alter the overall opinions of anyone, much less the most outspoken detractors of Bitcoin? No, because they have nothing invested into Bitcoin to eat, short or otherwise.  Trolls never have any 'skin in the game'. Oh, yes you will.  Because if you ever become a father, you will have to come to terms with the concept that it is your responsibility to educate your child so that they can assume their rights.  Your own shortcomings are irrelevent, you must do the best you can.  Dictating to the child what to read is an easy example of that. As a parent, I have the "right" to act and make decisions on behalf of my children, as a caretaker of my child's rights up until the point that he is rationally capable of taking those rights for himself.  In most places, that point is usually defined by an arbitrary birthdate; but in reality most children hit the "age of reason" sometime between 11 and 14.  This also means that, as caretaker of my child's rights, I have the authority to use those rights, or obstain from using those rights, in whatever way I feel is best; the immediate opinions of the child in question are actually irrelevent.  So if I decide that my two year old needs dicipline, he gets 'incarcerated' into the corner against his own will, and that is not a violation of his rights even though to do something similar to a 19 year old certainly would be, because the two year old's rights are held by myself and his mother. That is one of the problems with the dismal science, Keynes was a great and intelligent guy in his own right, and very well might be accurate in everything that he intended to communicate about what he understood about Economics; but then the failures of his students to understand (and therefore implement) his ideas are still Keynes own failures.  It's like saying that the Bible is the perfect word of God, and it's humans that screw it up; although it could be true taken alone it makes no difference for the outcomes.  Praxeology (and thus Austrian economic theory) views human interactions (including economic ones) to be a social science, and studies it from that perspective/paradigm.  It makes few promises about predictions, because humans are too complex to break down their actions into mathmatical algos, there is always going to be data that cannot be represented in such simulations.  It's like those 3D computer simulations of flocks of birds.  Sure we can model the mathmatics to mimic such behavior in a computer simulation, what we cannot do is use those mathmatics to predict how real flocks of birds would actually act in the real world.  The reason for this is that the simulations are simply mimicry of real birds, and must make numerous assumptions about the decision making processes of any given flock of birds.  Just as this decision making process is a complex and rapid group communications process that we can't come close to gathering enough data to model, the collective decisions that millions of independent human beings make each day can't be simulated either, for the simple fact that it's impossible for the observer to know all the data that all of the individuals know.  Austrians tend to refer to this principle as a 'fatal conceit'. Are you sure that you intended to say his predecessors? Since the root purpose of any scientific theory, economic or otherwise, is to be able to model the observed into a paradiem that permits the scientist to make accurate predictions; they were terribilely wrong.  The 1970's 'stagflation' was regarded as coincidentally impossible by Keyes's general economic theory.  That is where and why Austrian economic theory shines, by making predictions of long term outcomes.  That is the "one lesson" from the book by Hazlitt, Economics in one Lesson.  To quote the lesson, "The art of economics consists in looking not merely at the immediate but at the longer effects of any act or policy; it consists in tracing the consequences of that policy not merely for one group but for all groups."That's the macro in a nutshell.  If an economic theory cannot predict the long term effects of national monetary policies have on everybody then it's a false idol.  Keynesism in all it's forms should have been abandoned as false by 1979.  That's exactly why Ron Paul and Peter Schiff have been so prophetic in their warnings about where this country was headed for the past decade or more, and exactly why Austrian investors like Mish Shedlock and Rich Maybury make a killing while investing into what amounts to the ineffectivenesses of Keynesian and Monetarist theories.  These theories persist because they favor government with the idea that economies can actually be controlled by reason of altering one of the variable in the calculations, but in reality an economy is just a huge set of independent actors (generally) doing what (from their own perspectives) is in their own best interests.  At root, then, Economics is a social science, and is therefore not subject to the rigid rules that apply to hard sciences. I know a guy who was born and raised in NYC, and moved to my present city of Louisville, Kentucky because he is a chef's assistant and now works for General Electric in the appliances testing division, presumedly testing kitchen appliances.  He was both shocked and a little taken aback to learn that there existed so many firearms in the city, and that it was legal for citizens to walk around with them concealed.  What shocked him most was to learn that no one got hurt.  I believe in twenty years, there is only one case of a concealed carry license holder committing a gun crime in the entire state, and that wasn't here.  I've literally seen grown men with "assault" rifles slung over their backs downtown in Jefferson Park (for one of the earlier Tea Party events, before the movement was co-opted by the Republicans; best of luck staying independent OWS).  Cops around here don't get sideways with whomever they wish, like in NYC, and they damn well don't do 'no knock' home entries after dark.  That would be an exceedingly hazardous occupational risk, particularly if they got the address wrong.This same guy couldn't get a license to drive in NYC; not only does he drive here, he owns a firearm.  As far as I know, he doesn't carry though.  This is one of the safest cities in America. Ah, no.  That's not remotely accurate.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/More_Guns,_Less_CrimeThis is the largest study on the subject ever done, anywhere in the world.  The conclusion isn't even in contest, the results of states passing carry permits for any citizen are overwhelmingly in favor of the title of the book.  More guns in society results in less violent crime overall.  We can argue all day over why this is so, but not about the empirical facts. Kentucky has open carry for just about anything, but no one really does because Kentucky also has citizens' concealed carry laws as well.  By some polls, roughly 10% of adults in Kentucky are armed whenever they leave their house.  Kentucky also sports the highest per capita rate of Class II and Class III weapons owned by civilians in the US, and one of only a few public firing ranges approved for such weaponry.  I live within a 30 minute drive of that range, Knob Creek Gun Range. Wow, this prediction is based upon a particularly error filled view of economics.  So if the Euro begins to really collapse, the European "1%" are just going to throw up their hands and say, "Well, it was good while it lasted"?  Of course not, they are going to scramble to do whatever they can to save as much of their wealth as they can in any fashion that they can.  I find it unlikely that Bitcoin will benefit in any significant way, but the US $ certianly would.  Gold would.  Silver might.  Bitcoin just isn't a large enough of an economy to absorb even a small portion of the needs of Europe at this time, and anyone with enough money to bother would be able to understand that up front.
European peace and cooperation has a short history, and the collapse of this monetary union, even in the absence of the actual destruction of the currency itself, historical animosities are very likely to return to the surface of public discourse.  It's already happened between Greece and Germany, with some Germans calling for Greece to sell off some of their prized islands and Greeks referencing the looting of Greece during WWII.  Fringe political parties, with strong 'nationalistic' platforms have also been receiving more attention, and winning more seats, across all of Europe.  Mish has predicted that the first polititian to openly declare the Machiart (sp?) treaty a dead letter will win in a landslide, no matter which country he hails from. This provablely not so.  US manufacturing output by inflation adjusted nominal values peaked only four years ago.  We still make a crapload of stuff, most of it is of higher quality that can generally be produced in China for competitive rates.  Germany's industrial base is similar only moreso, as German factories produce some of the highest quality machined parts in the world.  Machined parts that manufactures consider critical for life safety are not made in China, as a rule, they are made in the US or in Germany.  Usually in Germany.  China makes lots of low end refrigerators, but the Sub-Zero is made in California. Bah!  Wealth is relative.  The US has a long way to fall before the average middle class Chinese citizen lives in a wealthier society than an average middle class American.  Expats living in China don't count, they are wealthy by definition. I was thinking more along these lines, and wondering if a passphrase plus a salt created by a standardized questionaire of usually secret personal info could be used, of the kind of questions that don't change.  For example, one such question could be "How old were you when you lost your virginity?" with multiple choice answers including each age from 12 to 24, and an option like "does not apply/refuse to answer" so that the multiple choice questionaire could take all such answers, as well as the numbers of the answers that users refuse to answer, and create a salt that could produce a unique.  The questions would have to be high in number, and of a standardized order so that a user could concievablely reproduce the wallet.dat while be unique enough that it won't produce wallets that could collide.  It would have a bias, as all such questionaires do, but it should a long enough of a questionaire that such a bias isn't predictable and of such personal info that users aren't going to answer such a questionaire outside of the context of the client. Oh, sorry. I see a potential problem with any phase based deterministic wallet.  It reduces the namespace of an attacker trying to force an address collision by searching for English phrases in the same way that a dictionary attack works against common passwords.  It's more than conceivable to have an accidental collision as well, if two fans of classical lit both choose "Call me Ishmael" or more than one Tolkien fan chooses the same quote from TLOTR.  Hell, an attacker who was just using the King James version of the Bible would get quite a few hits from Christians using their favorite verses.  It would be better to do it in reverse, by having the client generate a random number sequence and translating that into a set of English words that can be printed, saved as an encrypted file to be stored elsewhere, or memorized. That is not at all incompatible with the current network, that is exactly how it was designed.  There is a limit to the "free" space in a block allocated transactions with a fee of less than the minimum standard, which I believe is currently 15Kb.  Any miner that includes more than that limit of free (low fee) transactions will get his block rejected, but a miner that refuses free (or low fee) transactions will not.  There is an increasing scale of minimum fees to unlock increasing size limits on the block, up to the hard max limit.  So as the size of the network grows, and transaction rates across the network increase, the average time for a transaction to get included into a block will increase due to the scarcity in blockspace.  Increasing the fee above the market median would incentivize miners to include your transaction over another with a lower fee, thus transactions that need rapid confirmations will command a higher fee while free transactions could take some time to get included. There exists a forked client that does exactly this, allowing the user to probably recreate a damaged or lost wallet.dat file based upon a secret passphrase used as the seed for new addresses, but I can't remember the name of it nor could I vouch for it's trustworthyness otherwise. More people in India have access to a cell phone than a "proper" toilet.  Half of the planet live in cultures that do not value Western concepts of hygiene.  Your statement above is irrelevant. All kinds of things, from online services to game licenses to cell service to rocks to a handmade necklace from Etsy. Over the course of the years, as the bitcoin economy grows, there will develop a premium on near-term transaction processing.  People who desire to have their transactions processed quickly will pay a transaction fee over the average rate, in order to incentize miners to include that transaction over one with a lower or zero fee.  Long before the last new bitcoin is created, the block reward will be so vanishingly small as to be insignificant.  If the bitcoin economy isn't large enough by 2025 or so, it never will be.  The last bitcoin won't be created until around 2130.There is a common misconseption here, I think.  A bitcoin is simply a unit, it doesn't actually exist even as a digital artifact; like an email or an mp3 file.  There is only the transaction entries in the blockchain.  The blockchain functions as a massive, collective ledger system.  Amounts are deducted from an existing address in the blockchain and added to another (new or existing) address in the blockchain.  There is a size limit on a block, but that is a agreed convention between miners who all use the 'conventional' codebase.  That limit can be raised, or removed altogether.  Standard clients have no size limitations on blocks or wallet.dat files. Do you mind if I post this on some homeschooling lists? By what reasoning were you supposed to get 22 btc for 50$?  That would have been quite a deal. My own opinion (as a member, not a mod) is that the little animation of a dick waving at a photo of a gay forum member who has, for good or bad, set himself up as a self-declared representative of the Bitcoin community at large is probably safe enough for most peoples' workplaces.  If that little avatar is not safe for your workplace, then nothing outside of AOL would qualfity.  If it's a problem, you can turn off images or don't surf the forum at work.   If you were to donate said bitquarter to the needs of the forum, I'm sure that is as good a reason to have you whitelisted as any, but I'm not the person to talk to about that. I can't give you a reference, because I'm no more inclined to use the search function than you seem to be.  A modified client could only flood the network to a point, because there is a limit to the number of unique transactions any given client could produce from any given wallet.dat before it was forced to attempt to double-spend (which an honest client will not even try to do) and any transaction that attempts to spend coins that another transaction before it has legitimately tried to spend will be rejected as invalid, and not forwarded for that reason.  Since even a modified client can't send coins to himself that he has already sent to himself without the first transaction being included into a block, the 'spamming' of the network can only proceed at a pace dictated by the rate at which blocks are created and miners include free transactions into blocks.  Since free transactions generally require aging, such costless spamming is severely restricted.  A fee paying transaction would likely be included in each block, but the costs of spamming would be born by the spammer, and eventually he would run out of funds. Yes, but that set of features is based upon the transaction 'scripting' which is not implimented yet.  And even when it is, I can't imagine that miners are going to be willing to process a scripted transaction without a fee. The current vanilla client doesn't refuse to forward the transaction, but most miners are not going to include the transaction until it's old enough to qualify as a free transaction.  I believe that the current client defaults to a transaction fee, but that can be changed in the settings.  The vanilla client will refuse to create a transaction based upon an input transaction that is newer than 6 confirmations old. No you don't.  There is no democracy as a national political structure anywhere on Earth.  The US is a federated republic, and nearly all of Europe are parlimentary republics.   Why?  Just request that Steam take Bitcoin as a payment method. This ^^A zero confirm transaction in real life is just like cash in this way.  The vendor can instantly confirm that the coins that you are sending them both exist and that, at that moment, they are legitimately yours. (And without needing to verify your identity for the majority of transaction events)  This is far better than even what the retail vendor can do to verify that a $20 bill is not counterfit, which is largely limited to the use of a pH marker and going on faith that their cashier isn't a complete idiot.  The fact that it's possible to defraud someone who accepts zero-confirm transactions doesn't equate to that being an unacceptable business risk, particularly when compared to the risks of not only counterfit cash, but credit card fraud and check fraud that vendors are notrequired by legal tender laws to accept as a condition of doing business.  Confirmations would only be required for high value items on the order of a motor vehicle, or online digtial products that 1) are instantaneous and irreversable and 2) do not require that the user provide their identity in some fashion.  For example, Valve could accept bitcoin through Steam with zero confirms because they 1) can reverse the purchase of a license or virtual item if the customer's coins never arrive, whether that is intentional or not and 2) Valve knows who their customers are, even if they don't know what their real names or home addresses might be, because they know their IP addressses.  Any online vendor that sells physical products, say via dropshipping, can simply confirm the deal at the end of the session and only approve the shipments to the dropshipping company once a few confirms have occurred, or cancel said shipments with an email notice if the confirmations never materialize within a rational time frame.  This practice, once common, will be as acceptable to the online shopping public as the practice of providing an unknown server your name, addresss, CC number and date of birth; in addition to being significantly safer and more convient for the customer.  It would also have the side benefit of protecting the vendor from the possibility of long confirmation delays because the customer was unwilling to add a transaction fee, for if there is no transaction fee and the transaction languishes in the queue, the deal will simply expire and if the customer was legitimately trying to buy something, he won't be so inclined to try to save .01 BTC.
Easy to say, but how would you define that wager?  You can't identify how many use it now, you would have to make guesses.  How many users do you think there are? That's true, but garbage posts that can usually tell us if you are a bot or not.   They still represent an average difficulty to find one, which is why they are used as a standard unit in the probability calculations to start with.  Just because someone could get lucky and find a block on the first try doesn't mean that the odds of an attacker have improved, nor does it mean that the block represents just what work one node preforms to create the block.  It represents the, often unknown, average amount of work that the whole honest network must perform to produce a block.  The point that the percentages of hashing power still apply regardless of the block interval is true, for if an attacker can produce 51% of the hashing power of the network it doesn't matter what the target interval actually is. It likely doesn't change the risks of a Finney attack in any meaningful way, either good or bad.  Such an attack requires 1) a large minority percentage of the hashing power 2) excellent timing and 3) luck.  It's also very easy for the party that has been defrauded to know what happened, even if the transaction is a fairly anonymous in-person transaction.  It's extremely unlikely that such an attack would even be attempted for anything except a highly portable and high value item, and there are not many that fit that bill that an anonymous buyer can just walk into a store and buy with cash and walk out.  Certainly not without  being on video.  There is literally no single item in a Wal-Mart store that would qualify.  Maybe a gold coin dealer, but those guys don't even assume that the cash is genuine.  I know of no case of anything that you could buy for cash and carry that would remotely justify the resources required to even attempt such an attack.  Although a finney attack can theoretically reduce the percentage of network hashing power to perform a double spend to less than a majority, the risks of such an attack are IMHO remote.  Anyone selling such a high value item is just going to insist upon confirmations, and you will get used to the idea.  We wait a half hour or more to buy a new car while they check our credit, why would it be different with bitcoin?  The topic of workable instant POS solutions for bitcoin have been worked to death on this forum.  I've participated in many of those threads.  Is the search function, I'm not the one obligated to make the case that anything needs to change, nor that I'm wrong about the security model.  The math presented in this thread is incomplete, IMHO.  All a block is in this regard is a unit of measurable proof-of-work performed.  Just because such proof-of-work can be conveiently modeled around the unit, doesn't mean that the unit doesn't still represent the work that is done to create a block; and the work done is a continuous stream of proof-of-work.As far as a POS system, there are a number of workable models that have been proposed by myself and others.  The most likely future solution, IMHO, is a side-channel network that allows bitcoin 'banks' such as more sophisticated online wallet services to securely communicate with each other in real time, verifying to each other that the client does have such a balance with much the same result as how an electronic check is processed today.  No, this would not be terriblely anonymous; but still more so than using a credit card for purchases today.  The vast majority of people don't need anoninimty in every little daily transaction anyway. That's not at all what I said.  And no, simply switching the target interval from 10 to 2 does not mean that the confirmations are as secure after any particular number of blocks.  At two minutes, 30 confirmations are roughly as secure as 6 are now.  The confirmations themselves are not magic, they only represent an amount of time passed since your transaction was recorded.  It's the time(multiplied by the difficulty) that creates the security.Maybe, maybe not.  The interval is still arbitrary and the logic for 10 minutes remains as sound as it would be for 2 minutes.  IT would certainly be much longer for edge of network solo miners.  Keep in mind, at a Visa level of transaction processing, each block would be around 10 gigs.  At 2 minutes, each block would still be around 2 gigs, but the multi-connection thing multiplies the burden  upon the nodes.It's not a myth. Which is fine, such institutions don't actually produce anything.  They will continue to exist to whatever extent the market requires them, which would likely be a fraction of the current need. Yup, that's the point.  And nor is the newbie section unwatched.  If you have an unanswered question, ask it. The global hash rate is important, it's just assumed to be static in the comparisons because there is no way to know what the proper hash rate should be or would be.  But if one assumes that the pool of honest hashing power is the same regardless of the target interval, a 2 minute block does represent roughly one-fifth the brute force security of a 10 minute block.  The statistical analysis of a confirmed block does matter somewhat, but isn't the most important factor in the security of the blockchain, the difficulty of reversing the honest block is.  No matter how you look at it, the difficulty of reversing a confirmed 10 minute block is about 5 times harder than reversing a confirmed 2 minute block.  The choice of a 10 minute target interval is certainly arbitrary, but a 2 minute target is no less arbitrary; and the rational for choosing 10 minutes is sound.  Latency will matter if Bitcoin is ever successful enough to process significant numbers of transactions comparable to Visa or Paypal, particularly for the sole miners and end user nodes on the edges of the network.  The core miners (and pools) will probably be very well connected to one another, but the edges is where the latency will be greatest. Even theft of real property isn't always aggression, it's theft.  A 'cat burgler' is a sneek thief, but does not threaten anyone in doing so.  Copying of copyrighted data isn't theft, it's copyright infringement.  Theft is taking something that belongs to another, and thus denying them the ability to utilize their own property.  Copying of copyrighted data does not prevent the copyright holder from utilizing the data in exactly the manner originally intended. Yes. Yes.  My Voip provider is very proud about being entirely a debt free corporation. The last thing that we want to happen is the bankers gain access to the legalized force of the state even more directly than is presently so. We've had this discussion, and several like it, many times on this forum over the past two years.  I can assure you, the answer is no the target interval will not be changed.  For all the reasons already presented to you and others as well. This would only work once, because it would be evident that such an event has occurred after the fact.  It would be fraud, and easily provable, and thus carries the same legal risks; and would immediately crash your "credit" with those affected vendors.  If this happens enough, those vendors will not accept bitcoin so easily without identifying information; but anonimity was never a certainty.  I have no anonimity with any of the vendors that I have traded with, it's just that no one else outside of the transaction has that data like is necessary with Paypal or Visa transactions.  Said another way, the transaction isn't tied to my identity in records except those that the vendor may keep.  Don't count on being anonymous to your vendors. I think you might be thinking of the supernode being spoofed in Solidcoin, which was a different event.  Bitcoin doesn't use supernodes for this exact reason. If such a method exists, sure.  But once that method is known, there will be countermeasures.  The double-spend attack is defensible, even with zero confirms, if the vendor has good connectivity.That's not true, it's just that the current client doesn't presently offer sidechannel checks.  For example, a vendor's client could accept a zero confirm transaction at face value with very little risk by doing the following...1) check that the transactions presently have the funds according to the client's own copy of the blockchain (presently done)2) send the transaction out to all of it's peers except one, and wait until it returns to itself via the final peer.  (not presently done)  If the saved peer returns the transaction, or no double spends are discovered from this peer in ten seconds, then assume that the transaction is valid and give the guy his Big Mac.  If there is a double spend attack underway, then either the saved peer will return the transaction that your client sent, or another one.  If it sends another one, deny the purchause.  If it sends back your transaction, it doesn't likely matter that there could be another transaction out there, because your's dominates the network.  The finney attack alters the picture somewhat, but unless you're trying to sell a new car via a drive up window, the values justify the (small) risks of accepting that transaction.  If you are selling stuff online, you can accept the transaction tenatively; and cancel the shipment of goods if the transaction fails.  If you are selling something digital in nature, such as an mp3, simply use delayed redirection for the download to allow the above ten second checks to occur. There are numerous reasons for not reducing the target interval, both present and future.  No network would be able to handle the propagation delays with a target of two minutes and a transaction volume anywhere near what Paypal processes on average.  There have been numerous threads in the past about how to process real time bitcoin transactions via channels external to the bitcoin network, as well as simply gauge the risks of accepting an unconfirmed transaction at face value for lower value transactions.In short, no. This might be a good time to bring up Bitcoin as an alternative payment method for Steam.  I've brought it up before, but they just ask me to put it up on their forum to gauge interest, and I don't have a forum account at all.  I play games, but I don't talk there. He did, but forgot to mention that the QR code must also include the bitcoin address for the change.  If a private key, a bitcoin address, and perhaps a small checksum of the first two, can be included on a qr code that fits onto a cell phone screen, this is a doable solution.Dash7 would still be better, though.
The problem with Tor is that the connections are identifiable for anyone with the ability to oversee large portions of the monitered section of the Internet, such as the government of China.  So even if a bridge node is established, it can be identified prettly easily.  Also, China itself could establish a bridge node, and record connections, then kill the bridge and track down the IP's that it has recorded. Ah, no.  Of course not.  It's your idea.  Build it and we shall come. Thanks for volunteering.  Keep us updated on your progress. That chart likely wouldn't record my own 'shy' client, and I'm sure that there are more than just mine. What do you base this statement upon? I have personally offered advice in the past, including but not limited to the "that won't work" type.  A polite refusal to consider is still a rejection of opinion, so my point stands. Mostly likely connections are being blocked by a firewall. Although an interesting read, that article was far from conclusive on the topic of wages.  Seems pretty comparable to me. Speculation provides working capital for producers, as well as signals for allocation of resources.  It's a necessary part of the free market system, and the very fact that the Soviet Union would punish it with the death penalty should be indicative of that.  It also has the net effect of suppressing drastic price changes with regard to forseeable economic events.  Do I need to remind you that the history of your own nation is circumstantial evidence that top-down control of economic resources (i.e. soviet style communism) is a failed political ideology? Except that your pursuit of monetary policy opinions tend to filter out those whom you disagree with.  Not that there is necessarily anything wrong with this, as it has to be done in some fashion; but the end result is the same as Satoshi's. That is, in fact, not the case.  My wife also applied to Target, and their offer was lower. They have done that for a long time.  There are many advantages to this, as Walmart is a large enough company with a large enough retail product base to provide a large portion of their own employees' needs.  Rarely did my wife ever leave with a paycheck, as when she worked there, an employee could pick up their check and cash it right there, then she would go shopping.  It closes the loop on a great many things, removing some taxation from the benefit in the same way that other major corporations can offer an employee discount, such as Ford's A plan.  Bitcoin would be a huge boon for Wal-Mart, if they were willing to accept it against the wishes of states; but would be a bigger boon for Bitcoin.  The amount of money that crosses from the US into Mexico due to families sending money to other family members is huge, and quite a source of funds for Wal-Mart as it is.  If they started accepting bitcoin in exchange for store credit, as well as selling bitcoin at the money services desk, they could completely cut the banks out of the loop.The bankers won't be happy, though. Then change the laws, but as it stands, these people are already eligible for these programs.  The legal aid simply increases awareness of these programs, to the benefit of their employees and their dependents, and helps them with the processes.  Target's employee base is likely just as eligible, they just aren't aware of them. I used to believe this kind of propoganda, coming from my union, but after my wife got a job there (in part, out of spite) I came to understand that WalMart isn't union mostly because those who work there don't want to be.  WalMart's benefits package, although sparse in certain areas that families might consider crucial, are incredible in other areas.  I've written about this particular topic repeatedly on this forum.  On example is that WalMart has a legal aid department, that will help "associates" to uncover and apply for government programs targeted towards their situations.  This is the primary reason that there happen to be almost twice as many WalMart employees on government assistance (per capita?) in the US than Walmart's primary competitors such as Target.  They also function, to an extent, the same way that a city supported legal aid department is supposed to work, helping employees to understand how to plea down traffic violations, file motions, etc in their own legal issues.  But they don't provide a lawyer, as far as I know. That has exactly zero to do with it. In both the cases of Taiwan and Singapore, the 'seeds' of innovation came decades ago from the adoption of Western culture and economic concepts.  Japan to some degree as well, but there has definitely been some cultural resistance that inhibits the encouragement of 'innovative' types.  I will oversimplify it by saying that it's related to the cultural drive to conform that suppresses whatever leads to 'innovative' types.  Certainly, this is a generalization, and there are always exceptions; but Western cultures tend to value individualility more than China or Japan, the US the most in that respect.  I believe that this is the core element, but I can't really know.  But just think about it, the Western cultures continue to produce the majority of well known innovators such as Steve Jobs, and tends to be more likely to place those same types of people into positions of authority, able to leverage that innovative "quality" into a final product. There is a strong cultural component to innovation, and the dominat culture that is China doesn't really have it.  That is not to say that it can't happen, if the powers that be in China can recongnize that fact, but odds are high that innovation in China will long be connected to Western companies.  Japan, for that matter, doesn't innovate very well, but both cultures are particularly good at productive efficiency. Not for the British Empire, it never really collapsed, but simply transferred primary dominance from Britain to the US sometime during WWII. Empire maintaince and expansion, and the cost of a military of worldwide reach and scope. There is an internal fallback list, as well as a history list after the first connection.  Connected peers can also share the addresses of peers that it is aware of as well.
Whether a title is 'bad' or not is a subjective opinion, not a fact.Only by yourself, who held such an opinion.It was literally impossible for me to have acted quickly enough to have satisfied you.  If I agreed that I had done something wrong, I would apologize for it.  I simply changed to title to reflect my impressions of the thread as concisely as I could think of.  And I still believe that it was an accurate assessment of your perspectives, even if you never literally said as much. I doubt you could create a thread title that would upset me, that wouldn't get deleted by some other mod first.  I would either refute the title, or ignore you.  It's not easy to upset me, so I can't really relate to those who are easily offended. Okay, whatever Serge, I've lost interest in you. I didn't make a judgement call based upon my personal disagreement with you, or anyone else.  I can think that you are full of crap and still not hold it against you.  I'm not emotionly invested in this thread even now, but you get one (factually supportable) 'hipocrite' and you're bent.  I hotlinked this tread into the staff/mod section hours ago, and no one has come to your defense.  I'm not entirely sure why you believe that you have a grievence, nor do I believe that the title that I chose misrepresents this thread.  This has been going on all day now, and you still have not offered an alternative title, nor apparently were willing (or able, perhaps) to get another mod to change/delete anything.EDIT: Well, somebody did change the title, to a particularly relevant one at that. Some have, but one of the reason that porn sites exist is to harvest credit card data, for the exact reason that some of the user's are unlikely to file charges against them for fear of their spouse finding out about it.  Instead, they will just close the account and pay the false charges. Honestly, both porn and gambling exist as borderline socially acceptable enterprises online.  Would you trust your CC data (and thus your identity) to an anonymous online drug site, even if it claimed to be legit? I thought it was implied, considering I assumed that you were responding to me.  If I was in error, I apologize for my arrogance.This is actually backwards.  The rising purchausing power of a deflationary currency tends to suppress interest rates in the absence of fractional reserve lending.You do not understand the 'post-global' economic history.Just thought I might through that little bit in there to enlighten you. I've got many more. There was no lending before fractional reserve banking?  There is much history that is going to have to be updated!  Even the Bible must have been mistranslated!BTW, what you call a 'dollar', isn't.  It's a federal reserve bank note.  A 'dollar' is historicly, and legally, defined as a particular weight in pure silver.  Roughly a troy ounce.  A 'bit' was a silver coin cut into 8 pieces, which is why 'two bits' is a quarter.  The term 'dollar' was an American distortion of the word "Thaler" (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thaler) and is still very much, legally, a reference to a silver coin. For most, no.  The credit cards also have the advantage that consumers are used to the system, and thus demand that system from vendors.  Which is why vendors use credit cards despite hating them.  But Bitcoin doesn't need most, only some.  As it chips away at the online market share of PayPal and Visa, it will become ever less obscure to the common consumer, and savvy vendors are going to start offering discounts for bitcoin.  Success need not be defined by the destruction of credit card companies, and likely couldn't anyway.  The advantages of credit cards could literally be added to bitcoin by those same credit card companies, if they so choose.Some will try, undoutedly.  But try to undercut Walmart.com without a high level of trust from an established customer base.Why?  Do you send your CC data to vendors online that you wouldn't trust to deliver on their promise?  If so, why would you trust them with your CC data?  There is more criminal profit to be had from selling or using the list of customers' data than from taking your bitcoin purchause and never sending you anything.  This is also why Ebay has vendor feedback, because you can still be screwed by a trickster.  Keep extending your trust online when it's unwarranted, and eventually you are going to have a real consequence.  Perhaps you are always protected by your CC company, but if you're gulible enough, eventually they will drop you like any other insurance company.Bitcoin is already a currency, what you ask for is a complete banking structure.  That will come, eventually, to whatever extent the market may demand.  As I mentioned, there is literally noting stopping Visa form issuing Bitcoin credit.Not that I will present, but I'm sure that you could find enough for yourself if you thought about it for a minute. Actually, EW doesn't explain anything.  It's just a pattern recongnition algo, really.  It's us humans that try to provide the explaining. The 5000 years of history preceeding 1913 is a glaring contradiction to your premise here.  And even if not all 5000, the preceding 137 years of American experiences with a gold standard and two prior national banks certainly does. See, this is a perfect example.  The term 'deflationary spiral' implies a negative feedback loop occurred, which was true on it's face.  But that same feedback loop would not have occured if not for the monetary intervention of the Federal Reserve, which officially exists to temper the ridgidity of the gold standard.  The depression of 1929-1930 occurred as a correction to the bubble of the 'roaring twenties', which was a bubble, in part, because of loose monetary policy by the Federal Reserve.  It then became "Great" because of misguided fiscal & trade policies of Congress, with the added bad luck of a concurrent famine known as the "dustbowl".  In short, if we were really on a gold standard (without fractional reserve lending to add 'flexibility') then the Great Depression wouldn't have been so great. Bitcoin is not based upon irc, but there is a channel dedicated to announcing peer addresses so that a new client install can find peers in the network quickly and 'bootstrap' itself.  However, the current client uses several parrallel methods of doing this, so that it's not dependent upon the irc channel. Visa is not a money. I'm educated in both.  (Actually, I'm educated in Praxeology, Economics is a subset)  There is no such thing as an expert in either discipline, because they are both social sciences.  Trustworthy Economists don't call themselves "experts", other people do.  It's like the "guru" word among unix programmers, it's a title that you earn, not one you claim.As the the question, "what do you think will motivate a consumer to use an irreversible method like Bitcoins to buy something online instead of their Visa card?" the answer is very simple.  Lower transaction fees over the Internet, and eventually merchant discounts.  Once upon a time, cash was cheaper than using a credit card, until the credit card companies got wise and started demanding vendors sign contracts to not advertise prices lower than the credit card prices.  This is why the dual price displays on gas pumps disappeared in the 1980's.  But you can still get a cash discount from such vendors on larger items, such as a new tv, if you know who it is in the store you have to talk to.  Online vendors, for the most part, don't sign such agreements; and even if they did, they could be undercut by another website selling the exact same products for bitcoin only.  Trying investing in Solidcoin, and you'll have a pretty good idea. I'm actually laughing, now.  This is akin to some rich guy complaining about a cop who pulls him over for swerving, because he pays his salary.Keep impuning my integrity, and see what kind of "justice" you get from the other mods.  I'm just going to watch. The intent was sarcasm. I'm regularly amused by members who do no comprehend Praxeology or Economics telling me how consumers should act. Just because you have mentioned that you believe that you have been treated unfairly, does not make it so.  The principle in question is accountability.  If I deleted it, there would be no evidence either way.  I don't mind being questioned.And there are few things that I'll censor you over faster than use of vulgar language on the publicly viewable sections of this forum.  Tread lightly. Why don't you just ask another mod to delete the thread?  I going to leave it here as a matter of principle.
Serge, I just realized that you have done it again.  You completely highjacked this thread so that the title doesn't reflect the topic.  Since you seem so sensitive about titles, this time I'll ask your opinon.How about "Serge says MoonShadow is a dick" or perhaps "Serge picks fight he cannot win"?"Serge chooses knife for gunfight"?Too cryptic."MoonShadow in battle of wits with an unarmed Serge"?Too cliche."Serge doesn't understand that Bitcoin is copyrighted"?Too easy."Serge's limited English leads him to believe that Americans are talking about him"?  Too wordy.Hey Serge, you give it a try. Fortunately for myself, I don't require your respect.  Fortunately for you, neither do you. Wait, we're the one's blinded by ideology? I didn't have any interest in attacking you when I changed the title, but I'm starting to reconsider.  If I intended to attack you, I have much better, and much less subtle, methods available to me.  If I should ever choose to go on any kind of verbal attack against you, it would be unmistakable to anyone.  Except, perhaps, yourself.  I'm beginning to suspect that you're trying to start a battle of wits while unarmed.The 'report to moderator' button isn't private.  It is sent out to every mod on this forum.  I just found it amusing, because I suspect that you didn't realize that I'd get one.EDIT: And complaining about my choice of title without offering an alternative after one has been requested suggests that you're just offended that you're on a forum with a different etiquite than you are accustomed to.Put another way, you're butthurt and think that I was the guy behind you. More than my eight track & turntable?  The turntable still works. This is not my board.  I enforce the rules, what few that there are, and I do not make new ones.  I have no intention of banning you, for I'm no more interested in being surrounded by "plus one" echos than I am in debating yourself in the topic of appropriate copyright law.It's been a long time since someone called me young, thanks. It is my, admittedly biased, opinion that the content of this thread was no longer, if ever, reflected by it's title nor the OP's intent.  I simply changed the title to reflect my impressions of the thread as siccinctly as I could.  Do you wish to offer an alternative?  If you honestly feel that I have treated yourself 'unfairly' then I recommend that you contact Theymos and annoy him.  I'm certain that if you pester him long enough, you are bound to get one of us banned. The following post, "Re: Serge says we're pirates (was:Congress Declares War onInternet)" by MoonShadow has been reported by Serge on a board youmoderate:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=50796.msg606804#msg606804The reporter has made the following comment:this is unfair use of moderator powers.This is, I believe, the first time I've ever been reported for trolling, to myself.EDIT: Does anyone else have a better title suggestion? Split from https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=50796.0This has gone way off topic.  If anyone wishes to continue this debate, please feel free to start a new thread.EDIT: nevermind, this topic has turtles all the way down.  I'll just change the name. No way to know.  It's pretty dark in there. 7200 The laws of economics are not going to be kind to your desires. I'd heat my garage. Doesn't make it wrong either.It's not 'technically' anything.  Copying is not theft.  It might be infringement, but then the question becomes "infringement of what?"  Infringement of a government enforced monopoly on the dissimination of useful information.  That's what it boils down to.   http://questioncopyright.org/minute_memes/copying_is_not_theft Don't waste that time, read up about the topic at hand.  Four hours is not enough to grok Bitcoin, it took me two weeks. I can't believe I overlooked this gem.The Census Bureau gets it's data from polling US households.  Randomly on a yearly basis, and all that they can every 10 years.  It's often a paper poll, as opposed to a phone poll, but that also introduces self-selection bias because Americans don't have to respond to the random annual poll at all and can simply return the decadal poll with their name and number of household members while leaving the rest blank, and many do out of principle.  I have every time I have received the poll.  Make all the assumption you want about the demographics of those who refuse to reply, but no matter how you spin it, it's still just another poll. Fair enough.My google-fu could not produce anything official from the Canadian government, but according to this article (http://www.americanthinker.com/blog/2011/08/infant_mortality_figures_for_us_are_misleading.html) Canadian stats, as well as some European stats, don't consider a baby born with a birthweight of less than 500 grams as ever have been alive, whereas I have already mentioned, US stats would have if there were no direct evidence that that same fetus was already dead before labor began."Low birth weight infants are not counted against the "live birth" statistics for many countries reporting low infant mortality rates.According to the way statistics are calculated in Canada, Germany, and Austria, a premature baby weighing <500g is not considered a living child.But in the U.S., such very low birth weight babies are considered live births. The mortality rate of such babies - considered "unsalvageable" outside of the U.S. and therefore never alive - is extraordinarily high; up to 869 per 1,000 in the first month of life alone. This skews U.S. infant mortality statistics.[...]Some of the countries reporting infant mortality rates lower than the U.S. classify babies as "stillborn" if they survive less than 24 hours whether or not such babies breathe, move, or have a beating heart at birth.Forty percent of all infant deaths occur in the first 24 hours of life.In the United States, all infants who show signs of life at birth (take a breath, move voluntarily, have a heartbeat) are considered alive.If a child in Hong Kong or Japan is born alive but dies within the first 24 hours of birth, he or she is reported as a "miscarriage" and does not affect the country's reported infant mortality rates.[...]Too short to count?In Switzerland and other parts of Europe, a baby born who is less than 30 centimeters long is not counted as a live birth. Therefore, unlike in the U.S., such high-risk infants cannot affect Swiss infant mortality rates.Efforts to salvage these tiny babies reflect this classification. Since 2000, 42 of the world's 52 surviving babies weighing less than 400g (0.9 lbs.) were born in the United States."That is a quote from another article (http://pjmedia.com/blog/the-doctor-is-in-infant-mortality-comparisons-a-statistical-miscarriage/?singlepage=true) which also contains these two gems..."Norway boasts one of the lowest infant mortality rates in the world. But when the main determinant of mortality  weight at birth  is factored in, Norway has no better survival rates than the United States.Pregnancies in very young first-time mothers carry a high risk of delivering low birth weight infants. In 2002, the average age of first-time mothers in Canada was 27.7 years. During the same year, the same statistic for U.S. mothers was 25.1  an all-time high."Unfortunately the author of the second article doesn't provide references that I can find, so I can't follow her any farther down the rabbit hole.  She also happens to be this woman (http://www.lindahalderman.com/) so you can discount her opinon on the matter considering she is one of those evil conservative doctors who hate life and thus are drawn to public service instead.Does this adaquately asnwer your question?EDIT: And there is also this comment from another doctor on the first article..."As a physician it is common knowledge that the U.S. healthcare system is unrivaled in the care delivered to high risk pregnancies. This country also has (by far) the most advanced neonatal ICU's in the world as well as the best neonatologists. It is annoying to read WHO (World Health Organization) statistics which continue to suggest realtively high infant mortality rates in the US, when it is just the opposite." Nothing.  That is the optional transaction fee, and has zero to do with downloading the blockchain or receiving funds. What?
You need to deterimine what is blocking incoming connections to port 8333.  Outbound connections are obviously not blocked, because you have 8 connections.  Most likely you have a broadband router that functions as a firewall, or settings in Mac OSX that block all non-standard ports over 1000 or so.  It's not a Bitcoin client issue. You are limited to 8 outbound connections without opening up of port 8333, so that's normal.  Slow is normal also, because of the work that the client is doing while bootstrapping the blockchain is significant.  The network speed is often not the primary limiting factor.  Since you are connecting through your school's firewall, your odds of getting them to open 8333 for you are almost zero, so if you start getting more than 8 connections then it's because your client has found another client running on the school's side of the network.  If you are at a large university, this is almost certain to occur eventually.  Just have patience, go down to the student center and let the thing run.  Playing games on the computer is just going to slow everything down that much more. All?  No.  Some, maybe.  I don't use IRC at all, personally.  It's not necessary anymore, even for a fresh install. Not really enough details.  Are you using the standard windows client?  What version?  Are you behind a firewall?  Do you use AT&T broadband?Before port forwarding, try this...Shut down your client in the normal way, give it about three minutes to completely shut down, and then restart it.  Do nothing to it for an hour.  If when you come back you still have 0 connections and your block number is still in the 130's, come back and ask again. Hmm, not exactly an unbiased source, but certainly more trustworthy than taking Cuba's government statistics at face value.  I'll accept that number, but what would the number be otherwise?  The implication of the study is that those 45K people wouldn't have died otherwise, but realisticly speaking some percentage of them would have, if for no other reason than some percentage of people that are uninsured are in such a situtation because of their own life decisions, and thus some percentage of them aren't going to get the care that would have saved them even if it were free.  People still die unnecessarily in the best of European style health care systems, and not all because they are delayed or denied care.I will assume that you are a straight, white male then.  Nonsmoker?  Do you have a particular religion or political ideology (but I repeat myself) you are willing to share?  Where your parents married until you were 18?  Where did/do you attend college?  If you have never gone to college, what is the nearest public university and how old are you?  Would you be willing to consider signing up as a weekend military reservist or national guardsman; or have you ever been a military "brat"?  Or had a parent who was a member of the armed services, even before you were born?  Are any of your ancestors verfiablely of the American Indian tribes, as far back as your great-grandparents?  Did you grow up any urban districts that could have been "federal enterprise zones" (basicly poor enough to get federal funds for small businesses)?  Were either of your parents 'naturalized' citizens?  What state are we talking about?I'm sure that isn't even an exaustive set of questions, for I'm sure that there are programs that I'm not aware of  http://georgedonnelly.com/libertarian/how-to-bootstrap-mutual-aid-societyNot a new article, but I havn't seen it before.  It's not about Bitcoin per se, but mentions it."We need a MAS model that is resilient before we start risking peoples precious funds. Were wise to take hints from bitcoin, open source software projects, anarchism, leaderless resistance and the whole peer-to-peer concept (P2P) (egalitarianism). If funds and lists arent stored centrally, they cant easily be seized. If there is no bureaucracy and no company president or board, they cant be indicted or compromised. The key to a resilient MAS is that simple: decentralize." Maybe, maybe not.  Neither of us could ever know until it's tried.You keep mentioning the 45K people per year thing.  Where do you come up with that number?  You keep calling me a liar, even when I present support for the position, but you just leave that number hanging out there like it's an accepted fact.  I don't even know where it comes from.I doubt it.  What state do you live in, how much do you make, and who is your employer?  My wife worked for Wal-Mart for years, after quitting Proctor & Gamble.  She loved the job.  The pay sucked, but strangely enough P&G's pay scale wasn't exactly stellar, even though she had a BS in Biology and worked in her field as a microbiology lab tech.  The health care offered wasn't exactly great either, but their legal aid support (something that I've yet to see from any employer I've ever had since the USMC) was outstanding.  The primary reason that Wal-Mart employees are twice as likely to get public assistance (over competitors such as Target), is because Wal-Mart's associate legal aid will help them get it.Give me some details, and I will show you that you are wrong. I didn't say that they never had such support, but they aren't generally aware of it.  So a phone poll asking if you have insurance coverage isn't going to get a yes out of such people.  I don't know anyone who considers patients rights to be insurance coverage anyway.  You are talking about different things. No, not really.  'Proactive' care, which I assume means preventative care, isn't easy to come by for free if you are an adult under normal circumstances.  Every major city that I've ever lived in has some kind of public clinic system that one can go to to get such care for free, but it's usually funded (primarily) by a charity organization and tends to be continuously overworked.  However, if you have some kind of established condition that the state considers a disability, such as visual impairment, you can generally get get preventative care coverage via the state's Medicaid block grant programs, but those vary by state.  The statement that only 'emergency care' can't be denied is mostly true, but loses details.  The laws that govern this vary by state, but basicly result in the same end.  Every hospital, in order to be considered a 'public' hospital and receive the many legal and tax benefits of being a public hospital (as opposed to a private corporation, such as the Mayo Clinic) must have and maintain an "emergency room" with a minimum set of equipment, medical staff and 24/7 operations.  These emergency rooms cannot deny service to those who enter the emergency room based upon ability to pay nor, for the most part, the nature of the medical condition.  The only thing that can to discourage the use of the emergency room is to triage the low priority cases, but if you can wait long enough, you will be seen even for simple things that aren't remotely life threatening.  These emergency rooms are a significant operating cost for the hospitals, but less than the legal benefits that they usually receive.  So, as a means of controlling costs, the hospitals will often band together to sponsor the free clinics (in order to offload much of the demand) in major urban areas while encouraging the inclined employees to volunteer some of their time there; while also charging insurance companies enormous markups for emergency room visits, thus resulting in insurance companies sponsoring 'urgent care' clinics with late hours and engaging in publicity campaigns among their covered clients to encourage them to choose the urgent care clinics for "less than emergency" immediate care needs.  The point I making is that, even though care is often not funded by government structures, access to care exists even for the poorest Americans.  It just comes in  variety of forms which are often not widely known.  Another such example are religious aid networks such as Medi-Share (www.medi-share.org) which is a mutual aid/cost sharing network that most people wouldn't consider to be insurance, even though that would be it's net effect.  My mother-in-law is blind, and thus receives coverage under medicaid rules, but those rules don't cover heart surgery.  Yet she received a triple bypass two years ago for next to nothing, because her surgeon was in a charity based cost sharing network.  She knew nothing about such a network, and as such couldn't have applied for the aid unless her doctor had told her about it.  Americans, as a rule, really do tend to care about one another; it's just that Americans, as a rule, don't consider such care a right.  We consider it charity. Same to you. While I will concede that it's very likely higher than 3 million since the economy crashed, this poll hides some very important details.  First, I said adults & citizens.  This poll includes children of uncovered adults as being uncovered as well.  Being uncovered by your own choice or the lack of action by your parents doesn't really count, because there isn't a single child of a US citizen that isn't eligible for state subsidized coverage.  Not one.  The poll states that they only consider 18+, but by extending their population percentages to the entire population they assume children as well.  A deeper look at the source will also support this position.  Nor does the poll exclude non-citizens from the polled pool, for there is no credible way to do so.  Something that is bound to skew those numbers.  I wouldn't be shocked at all to learn that there were more than 3 million uninsured illegal aliens alone in the US who also happened to have a cell or landline, but not insurance.  If they are citizens, then they also likely have access to subsidized insurance coverage; depending upon the state and the particulars of their situation and/or medical conditions.  Lack of knowledge of such programs isn't anyone else's fault either.  Perhaps I should have been clear that I was talking about adult citizens who were either not eligible period or have explicitly chosen to not pursue such subsidies.  This is akin to the crap about Americans on food assistance (http://hotair.com/archives/2011/11/02/food-stamp-use-reaches-record-45-8-million/), sure the rising trend is evidence of rising need, but it also indicates rising eligibility.  For example, my household is eligible for WIC (woman and infant children) and several of my kids are eligible for state sponsored health insurance, and my household income now pushes six figures.  Why are we eligible?  Because we are also agents of the state, because we are state certified foster parents, and wards of the state live within my household.  Which is also why I know a great deal about those kinds of state subsidized programs.  I literally cannot refuse those programs for these kids, because they are not my kids.  The state is their legal guardian, and I'm the employee.  I can't reject the WIC or Passport (the child health insurance plan) for those kids any more than I can refuse their scheduled vaccines, whether I have a religious objection or not.  I'm bound by contract to abide by the state's policies, and one of them is that the state supports foster children through such programs.Further, this poll also includes a great many working adults who have access to an employer's plan, but choose not to participate for whatever reason, which skews the low income and younger than 30 brackets.  As well as including those over 65 who don't consider themselves insured, despite the fact that anyone over 65 that isn't eligible for Medicare didn't pay at least 10 years of (payroll) taxes nor a spouse that paid such taxes. (https://questions.medicare.gov/app/answers/detail/a_id/10/~/who-is-eligible-for-medicare%3F)  The only people that such is true are those who are wealthy enough to not need to work at all or those who were not productive citizens long enough to count.  There are so many things wrong with this for me to pick at, I'll stop there for brevity. Again, not contest.  But so what?  They are amoral corporations seeking profits.  They still have to 'innovate' continuously in order to do so.  Pharma patents die in the US after 15 years, after which the company loses it's profit advantage to generics manufacturers.  They cost too much, yes.  But they have produced the largest volume of advancements in the history of the world in pursuit of that gob of cash.  Your own society has benefitted unmeasurablely from the inefficiency of the American medical system.I challenge you to remove every medical advancement that your own nation pays for, but that was created by a for-profit corporation in the United States, and then try to judge how high the quality of your care is then.  You are more dependent upon the US than you care to acknowledge.And Cuba isn't known for skewing the stats for PR reasons, either; right?  You choose to trust the CUban government that they are better than the US on this?  IS that credible?  Chile is more trustworthy, but how many babies are born without records in either nation?  IF a baby is born in Chile in the slum andit dies, is it recorded?  I doubt it, but it sure will be here.You quote articles that depend upon government stats from Cuba, but complain that the link that I provide has been produced by a gropup with an obvious bias?  Really?  Why am I even talking to you?  Because they admit to bias, they are falsifying the stats, is that what you believe?I didn't make the claim that Americans live longer.  There are many other factors that contribute to that, including cultural and racial influences.  Is the gun crime that kills young black men in Chicago a sign of a dysfunctional health care system?"The primary cause of the disparities between racial and geographic groups is early death from chronic disease and injuries, an analysis of data from the Census Bureau and the National Center for Health Statistics showed."http://health.dailynewscentral.com/content/view/0002418/42/And then there is the dramatic range in life expecancies between racially identified sub-cultures..."Asian-American women living in Bergen County, NJ, enjoy the greatest life expectancy in the US, at 91 years. American Indians in South Dakota have the worst, at 58 years"And then, what about locale?  The states with the highest life expecancy also happen to be those with the greatest population concentrations, implying that proximity to urban medical centers plays a significant role in life expecancy as well.  Europe is much more densely populated than the US, is it not?http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_U.S._states_by_life_expectancy You do realize that noting the fact that Americans are, on average, much wealthier than other nations tempers some of the differences in actual monetary costs, right?  For example, if I make the American median income (around $31K per year, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Median_household_income) even a rate of 3 times the cost of care means that, as a realtive percentage of my income, my health care costs less of my income than literally half or more of the planet, even if I had no insurance at all and paid every dime from my own pocket.  New Zealand rings in at about $20K per year, while the Netherlands rings in at about $24K.The median income of the entire planet is only about $7K per year (http://www.boston.com/news/world/articles/2007/10/07/average_earnings_worldwide/) and that includes Americans.  That means that Americans near the poverty level (In 2009, in the United States of America, the poverty threshold for a single person under 65 was US$11,161; -http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poverty_threshold) earn almost twice as much as half the population on Earth, while also being with public transit distance of some of the best hospitals on Earth.  As has already been noted, they get 'mandatory' treatment whether they can pay for it or not.  You can't honestly expect that the lower half of the rest of the world could have access to nearly the same care, even if they could tax their own citizenship to pay for it at a third the cost that the US pays for. So I have to support my claims while others do not? Um, nothing explicitly stated such, but an implication was certainly present.  Is English a second languge?  Perhaps you don't understand what the word "implies" correctly means?And don't call me Dick, Mister Cheney.  By and large, by non-Greeks. No contest there, the question then is why is it so inefficient?  I may be too close to see the big picture, but from where I stand it's because of government regulations into the medical industries, not despite them.The "worse quality" meme is provablely false.  The vast majority of medical advancements over the past 50 years or so came from American doctors and scientists working for companies with a profit motive, whether the doctors themselves were motivated by money or not.  There is literally nothing that you can get medically that I don't have access to, even if you can get it cheaper.  Your high quality care is a direct result of our highly inefficient system.We do way better than Cuba, too; on average.  Even Casto's health has benefited from American capitalistic medicine.  Which is, itself, and irony; considering that our federal representatives have repeatedly tried to kill him.Have you bothered to follow this thread?  I addressed this already.  The methods of record keeping is different.  For example, if an infant is born dead, but there was no evidence that the fetus was dead before labor began, that baby is counted as a infant in the US, but not in many other nations until it survives for several minutes outside the womb.  Many other stats are skewed in similar ways, because the standard methods of record keeping is different between countries.  In the US, if a pregant mother is murdered, it's recorded as a double homicide.You're happy with it because you're ignorant of what the costs are, and I'm not talking about monetary costs.  Pray you never have to find out.http://www.ncpa.org/pub/ba596 "Underinsured" is not remotely uninsured.  It's also a vague term.  In the case of this report, it means that 25 million Americans "had inadequate health insurance to cover their medical expenses".  In other words, 25 million Americans no longer have insurance that pays for all their medical costs.  I have no doubt that I will soon be added to this metric, since I will be switching to a health savings account soon.  By my own will, BTW.  My prior health insurance falls under the 'cadillac plan' tax in Obama's health care law, so the company can't afford the costs anymore.  This past year, the average plan value was just under $16K per employee.  Thanks for that promise that I wouldn't have to change plans if I liked mine, Obama! Not a student of history, are you?  "The bankers" have been doing this for hundreds of years. Where did you find that bs?  We have roughly 3 million adult citizens that are uninsured, half of which still have access to subsidized health insurance.  That's about 1% of the population.  There is not a single child citizen that doesn't have access to subsidized health care, including those not born in the states themselves, such as Puerto Rico.  For that matter, all US citizens have access to subsidized health care, regardless of age, including felons; for anything immediately threatening.  Illegal immigrants don't, but you weren't counting them, were you?  After all, I wouldn't have a right to your taxpayer funded health care simply by traveling there, would I?  Are you saying that all those funds that I pay for international health coverage while out of country is a waste of my money?  Great!  If I get brain cancer, a plane ticket is far cheaper than health insurance anyway!  I can drop my coverage altogether!  Hey, can I stay with you?
That's kinda funny.  You have basicly an annual deductable, like so many Americans.  Yours is just a tad higher than my family deductable.  A notable fact that I find incrediblely amusing.  What country is this, anyway? Doubtful. They have a higher life expectancy because they have a lower infant mortality rate.  They have a lower infant mortality rate because they record infant deaths differently.  In the US, if a fetus is delivered naturally, and was not known to already be dead before labor began, it's counted as an infant death instead of a late term miscarriage.  Thus skewing the life expectancy stats compared to nations that don't include infants that die during or shortly following birth.  I'm not sure how Canada does it, but it's still apples to oranges.  There is also the differences in a higher likelyhood of a US citizen dying as a young adult due to risker lifestyles.  Extreme sports have participants from everywhere, but they are almost invariablely invented here for a reason.  Also, Canada doesn't have nearly the minority population that the US has, and blacks are prone to heart disease for genetic reasons, just as an example.  There are so many things affecting the overly simple metric of life expectancy that comparing two different nations like that is apples to oranges.Those aren't facts, they're statistics.  Numbers never lie, but the polled sure as hell do.  What kind of result would you have expected? It's much too late for that. That's it exactly. They get thrown out. Irony is that this comes back to my comment about access being more important than provision.  There are some great hospitals in Havana, Cuba.  It's also likely that a poor citizen who can get to said hospital is going to get care so long as the hospital isn't already at capacity with citizens with a higher political value.  It's not true that it matters how good the hospitals in downtown Havana might be, if you can't get transportation to said hospital when you need to. Because they are not solutions to the underlying social problems that begot the debt to begin with.  It's akin to a middle class family that can't pay the rent because of their oppressive credit card debt payments choosing to apply for another credit card to pay the rent.  Eventually the creditors are going to get wise.  Considering that Greek debt on the secondary market hit an effective interest rate of 205% today, I think that those creditors have already done so in Greece's case.http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2011/11/greek-1-year-bond-yield-hits-205.html Taxpayer funded healthcare isn't the answer to that either.  There are many Canadians who cross the border just to be able to get timely health care.  Like any other public good, health care will be rationed in some fashion.  The US system is broken because it's partially socialized care, and thus has many of the problems that plague social systems (deferred care, lengthy waits, poor service) as well as issues that drive the public want for such social systems (incompatible compensation networks, varied service models, uncovered populations).The question is this, is provision of health care a right?  No, it's not.  For if it's a right, then you and I have a claim to the skilled labors of medical professionals, and that is as close to slavery as our modern societies will tolerate.  I say that access to health care is a right, and it is in the US but not in many other places.  I have the literal right to be seen by any specialist without discrimination, provided that I can pay his wages as well as anyone else.  That is not the case in Britain, which can deny such access to medicine as a means of controlling the public cost of health care.Given a choice between the two perspectives; the right to access versus the right of provision, I'll choose access.The US has been the market for medical innovation for decades.  Without the high potential profits that such a market represents, many of those great health care services that you can get for less elsewhere wouldn't be available at all.  And teh Cuba reference is rediculous.  Again, it's a matter of access.  Sure the political class has access to free & high quality health care in Cuba.  The ruling classes have such access in every nation on Earth.  This is nothing new.  Yet, even the politicos in Cuba would not have such access if the US's semi-free market in advanced medicine did not exist.I can solve the debate in ten minutes.  If there must be taxpayer funded health care in the US, then it should be simply defined and never require a new government agency to manage it.  Simple enough rule, if a medical procedure, prescription medicine or device was available to the wealthest American 50 years prior to the current year, then the state should have no problem providing such a service through a public clinic.  But if there is a preferred modern procedure, over the counter alternative, or more advanced medical device; pay for it yourself.  In this way, anyone could go to the public clinic, staffed by government employees, to have a bone set and cast or get a polio vaccine.  As an aside, I work for a major international corporation founded by some guy who invented a light bulb.  Where I work there is a clinic that is sponsored by the company itself, staffed by salaried employees of the company, using modern medical devices invented by the company, that charges nothing for the use of their services during normal business hours.  At the turn of the year, this clinic will be able to handle full 'primary care' for employees (as opposed to just work like a walk-in urgent care clinic, like it presently does) and plans to open up primary care services to all employees and their dependents regardless of which company sponsored health care plan (traditional, HMO) or unsponsored (Health savings account) that said employee has chosen.  At present, the clinic intends to remain at it's current cost point for all services.  This is a model that existed due to 'mutual aid societies' that were very common in the US prior to FDR, and were the model that American trade unions developed around in the 30's & 40's.Considering that at least some of those same employees have chosen to not use the company sponsored plans, one might just wonder what motive that a souless company only after the pursuit of profit might have to pay the salary of such a clinic staff.1) Happy employees with healthy children are productive employees and...2) company sponsored access to affordable health care (not just health insurance) is a kind of goodwill that promotes loyalty among management salarymen and unonized wage earners alike, even when those who are being manipulated know the motive of the company.  There is a silver lining to employer based health insurance that you might not recognize in a nation that taxpayers fund medical needs.  Another is that, in order to be adequately covered, one actually must be a productive member of society or otherwise be able to pay for care yourself.  Socially darwinistic, perhaps, but true nonetheless. While this is true, look at Argentina now.  That was less than a decade ago.  If they had chosen to pay, they would still have people dying on the streets.  (On some level, they still do, and every other nation on Earth as well; but on a relative level, Argentina would still be laboring under the weight of the IMF if they had accepted the terms)  This is pretty much the same conditions that Greece is in now, with the additional problem that Greece does not have control over it's own fiat currency and the other EU countries that use the Euro are going to suffer some significant knock-on effects regardless of what Greece does next. That actually depends upon who we are talking about.  The Greek people are no more a homongenous whole than any other society.  If the Greeks repudiate the government's debts, and form a new government quickly, it's just as likely to be beneficial in the near to middle term (5-10 years) for the Greek middle class.  If they go with the plan as it is, even if it works (which is extremely unlikely), it will be at least a decade of austerity.  The time frame matters in the same way that a length of a criminal sentence matters. Greece will default eventually.  It was inevitable two years ago.  We are just watching the stages of civil collapse occur on a modern timescale.http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/2008/02/five-stages-of-collapse.htmlShortly after it becomes obvious to the majority of the European public that Greece will collapse, it will likewise become obvious that so will Poland, Ireland and perhaps Spain.If Spain fails, the EMU fails.  If the EMU fails, the Euro fails; and europe will likely collapse into a renewed state of nationalism and distrust of each other.  Likely also followed by a hot war as long repressed tribal greivences return to the surface of public discourse.  It is far too late for this to be an orderly or civil form of contraction, as far as the European Union is concerned.  I'm not sure about the United States. If it's unified, it is by default, not voluntary.  Even Bitcoin wouldn't be voluntary anymore if the nations of the Earth all decided to abolish their own currencies and use it as legal tender.  I don't think that would actually be worse than the current conditions, but it wouldn't be a choice if the choice is between Bitcoin and nothing at all. He might at that, but the word has differnet meanings to different people.  There can never be any agreement about what 'socialism' does or should mean because there can never be much more agreement about what Karl Marx intended in his magnum opus 'das kapital'.  It can be interpreted in many different ways, but he was most likely responding to the obvious poverty in the wealthiest city on Earth at that time, London, England.  He never lived long enough to see the fruits of the industrial revolution come to pass, and thus that same abject poverty alieviated by capitalists' own self-serving greed.  Who knows how he would have been changed by that.  As for myself, any society that actively aggresses against a citizen for the simple act of opting out isn't a free society, even if the vast majority of the middle class can reasonablely be considered the privilaged class.http://www.panarchy.org/spencer/ignore.state.1851.htmlIf you don't have the right to ignore the state without that same state grabbing you and throwing you into a cage, then you are not really free no matter how much liberty the state permits. Although they mention Bitcoin, what they want is a unified fiat currency system like a super Euro or "Amero".  I don't know that this is good publicity. Ah, the Ancient Aliens series is the only one I'm aware of.  Their documentaries on the early presidents are great, but lengthy. And why is it unaccessible? No. This is where the old maxium "what goes up (the hill) must come down again" applies.  Eventually, it will be heat, even if that car sits at the top of that hill until the heat death of the universe.  Probably. Well, they used to.  And they still have some great documentaries.  The aliens thing annoys me too, but I know it's just marketing.  They don't really buy it either, but do those shows that way to present the history to those who wouldn't otherwise be interested in a documentary of how the Great Pyramid in Egypt was similar to structures of South America.  As for the sharpshooter competition, I love that show!  My whole family watchs that series religiously, and it's one of only a few shows my son will watch.  The winner of Top Shot season 3 was a 28 year old summer camp counselor who was and entirely self-taught natural talent who creamed an entire set of experienced professionals and world class champions using weapons that he had neve seen before.  It was awesome.  He made shots the Marine snipers would have been proud of, after first shooting the Barret 50 that same day.
There is a lot of truth in that, but a degree isn't the only way to demonstrate such a skill. Yes it will, just not in any place or form that is usable.  In the case of the electric car, heat will be produced in the batteries, wiring, motor and braking system. It can, certainly.  It's no more limiting than a law degree, a history degree, or a sciences degree is likely to limit the holder to be a lawyer or an academic, though.  A good book on this topic is Rich Dad, Poor Dad.I don't know, and neither do you.  The basic abilties of literacy and athrimatic are useful skills for most people, I don't contest that.  The few that I've met that were illiterate were certainly limited in many respects, but every one of them attended a public school until eighth grade at least.  The public educational system failed them.  Their parents didn't and neither did they do it to themselves.  All but one of those illiterate men were either black or hispanic, BTW.  The one that was white was quite obviously dislexic and still working in his 60's.  He is likely dead by now, since I met him at 20.  As for those who couldn't do math beyond addition and subtraction, there exist little pocket reference books for tradesmen.  Called "Uglies" books, for whatever reason I know not.  The one for electritians had common trig shortcuts and examples for the accurate bending of conduit, as well as pre-calculated tables for wire capacity selections and such.  Somewhere along the line, an educated electritian decided to write that little book, and have aided his brothers in ways unmeasurable.Still, if the blocklayer can read, he can get another job if he loses his.  And in my experience, if he is fairly intelligent, he is either going to be running his own company/crew in short order or find a less physically demanding career anyway.It's always been a myth.  The average career has been only seven years for at least a generation.  I've had many careers, only loosely related to one another.Really?  Your own parents didn't stick with their degree subject and yet you ask how a blocklayer is going to be able to maintain his standard of living because he isn't as well educated as his peers?  If he has the desire to educate himself, he will.  If he does not, he won't.  He's an adult, he can make his own choices.  If your parents traded a career they enjoyed for one that they did not but with higher incomes, that's their choice.  Americans generally don't define themselves based upon their occupation.  I work to live, not live to work.  I once knew this electritian who would work every week diligently, but never show up on Fridays.  I asked him, "why do you only work four days a week?" and his response was something like "because I can't make in on three!"How did you ever find Bitcoin?  Did your economic instructor give you the link?  No, you either surfed here by following your own interests or because someone you know referred you here.While I agree that this is useful knowledge, even the biggest rock I've ever known had the sense to seek advice from a doctor for medical issues.  That is not necessary information for anyone in modern society.  People in third world villiges need to knwo that kind of stuff, adn even then there are books dedicated to that subject targeted at those people.  See Where there is no Doctor by Dr David Werner.Wait, how did I know that such a book existed!?  I never had that in school!Again, I agre that it's beneficial; but to say that everyone must is provablely false.  You don't need math to adjust your recepies, you find it useful.  You could just use a recepie book at it's stated values; or use Recepies.com to make those conversions for you.  Someone needs to maintain those skills for society to function, but to claim that everyone does is patently false.REally?  You don't think that my blocklayer could manage to get a truck out of a ditch without a formal education in the scientific method?Great idea, but that is not what public education is for, and doesn't do that.  They barely teach history at all.  You could get a much better mastery of US history by watching the History Channel on cable than by attending a public school in just about any city in America.  That might not be true in Russia, but not everyone lives in Russia.Okay, so don't associate with such people.  They don't represent myself or anyone that I know. Then you are the exception.  Not many factory workers or construction types in your graduating class, I take it?  I've literally met great, hard working and very skilled adult men who couldn't even read, but were some of the best blocklayers, millwrights and pipefitters you could find.  I've met dozens who couldn't do simple algebra if their life depended upon it.  It's patently false that everyone needs the same kind of education, or an education at all in the modern sense, to succeed and live happy and productive lives.  I was once sheltered about these kinds of things too, believing that these people were condemed to hard and short lives.  Their educations were just different.No, I don't.  In part because "homeschooling" is a misnomer.  They don't stay home.  I've met homeschooled children that study music with the Louisville Symphony (http://www.louisvilleorchestra.org/?page_id=320), acting with the Louisville Shakespeare-in-the-Park (http://www.kyshakespeare.com/Kentucky_Shakespeare/Camp_Shakespeare.html) and technical skills with the Louisvlle Makerspace club (http://www.lvl1.org/).  My daughter could do Juliet's major lines at seven years old.  Institutional education, whether public or private, takes vastly more scheduled time than a comparable homeschooled education.  Putting 30 kids into a single math class is time efficient for the teacher and cost effective for the school, but it is not effective for the individual student.  This is why the national spelling bee is regularly dominated by homeschooled children.  Not because they are smarter than their privately or publicly educated peers in the competition; but because their form of education permits more time to be dedicated to the study of spelling for the purpose of competition.My children are tested each year.  My 11 year old could easily pass the GED right now, testing at a second semester freshmen in college across the tested subjects.  My son, 8, rings in as an average junior in high school in the subjects of math and reading comprehention, but sucks at actuall reading speed.  He was born without irises, and the public schools would have put him in the Kentucky School for the Blind, where he would have learned to only be dependent upon others.And yes, he can actually read, with the aid of very expensive perscription glasses that correct & tint to light levels and a set of fresnal lenses to enlarge teh text.  I'm considering a Kindle for him.  He's visicous on TF2, using a monitor that is 35 inches wide.  What does that teach?  Hand-eye coordination, situational awareness, rapid assesment and decision making.Supposedly games like that are also good for future surgens as well.That's just a guess, but how does a tech cert limit you, if that is the field that you want to pursue?  I never finished college either, while my wife did with a BS in Biology.  I work for a major international corporation for a brutal 6 figure income, while my wife home educates the kids.  She was pre-vet, but never becasme a vet.  Didn't want to become an MD, because she likes animals more than people.  A wide based education is right for some people, while a more focused education is better for others, and a vocational trainig course best for yet others.  There is no "correct" educational system, so the publicly defined curriculum is always wrong for someone.Do you believe that homeschooled children don't have access to broad educational resources?  I can cite many more such professionally provided educational resources besides those I already have, that students of institutional schools don't have access to due to schedualing conflicts. Such as?  And as for your personal interests, doesn't reading unto itself constitute language practice?  Never discovered a new word in your private reading that was not covered by your teacher?  I've got a great list of fiction works that teach economics, history and civics accidentally.They can try, but everyone has gaps in their education.  Absolutely everyone.  It's only those who think otherwise who are truely educated fools.Care to guess what the "generally accepted required subjects" are in my home state, as defined by the educational laws?Math, English (reading & writing) and Civics.  Homeschoolers have to document these subjects every year, everything else is elective which is equally true for the private schools and the public school districts.  If a parent feels the need to have their children tutored on the weekends, then they are just privately educating them by following the direction of the school while they are baby-sat during the school week.  There are many kids who would literally do better entirely on their own, and many have.  It's called child directed education, and is usually called "unschooling" to differentiate from "standard" homeschooling.I was wasting my time playing on Qlink, too.  Of course, I also ended up knowing more about html v.1 when it hit the public than literally anyone else I have ever met in person.My children waste time on Portal, which I bought specificly for the problem solving and critical thinking involved.  I plan to buy my toddlers a copy of the games Spy Fox and Freddie Fish for similar reasons.  Can't learn from play?  Bullsh*t.  That's all I ever did learn from.  I literally studied for precisely one test as a child, and that was the first didterm I had in high school.  I went to private schools my eintire life, and I can honestly say that the best things that they did for me is introduce me to new interests and interesting  people, two things that happen quite often for homeschoolers and rarely occur in public schools.  My children use a curiculum calle Sonlight.com, which has the motto "The way you siwh you had been taught" and it's true.  I've learned huge amounts about my world from reading their school books, and since it's a Charloote Mason derivitive (lit based education, no textbooks except for the hard sciences) they are all fiction stories.  And I haven't the time to read half of them.  My kids eat them up. Then you have never spent any time around homeschoolers, unschoolers, or montessori students.  Their lust for subjects that interest them is often palatable.You are conflating education with schooling.  You were learning while reading and playing video games.  BS.  How many of your classmates went on to a career that required such discipline?  Very few, indeed.  Yourself included.  Even the teachers' cert is just a hoop to jump through.  You can't honestly tell me that four years of post-secondary education prepared you to be a school teacher, because I know what it entails.  When you finally had your degree, you had to spend a year or so either with a mentor teacher or subbing, did you not?  Or co-oping while still in school yourself.  Otherwise you wouldn't have been prepared to teach.Maybe it is the culture.  It would then still not be the wisdom of the educators then, would it?You differentiate.  That doesn't meant it's different.  Reality doesn't much care how you differentiate.There is in many disciplines that don't require a master's or doctorate path.  Those are not trivial details. That's called "sight words" in the US, and was also a freaking disaster. Although this is true enough, it is not the responsibility of the successful to make up for the inequalities of birth, nor the place of government to act as equalizer.  That said, as a modern compromise to the "social responsibility to the least able" versus the anarchistic "blame your parents if your childhood sucks" question; I would not be opposed to the idea that every child (born to provable, net tax paying, citizens) be allocated a 'defined benefit' social net at birth, to be used as necessary until depleted.  For example, the cost of childhood health care could be subsidized in this manner by granting each newborn a (as an example) $15K Health Savings Account when they are issued a social security number.  (It's really difficult to fake out the SSA and get a new SSN)  The SSA would be in charge of tracking the funds, and parents (or adult account holders) couldn't access those funds directly, but only as a tax fileing reimbursement with evidence that 1) the expenses were real 2) for the child in question and 3) the parents really didn't have the resources to pay for it.  Even if the parents are denied recompensation, the fund remains the asset of the child, forever.  And I can solve the 'Universal health care' debate in two minutes.  A state block-grant fund wherein any procedure or prescription drug that was medically available to the richest American 50 years prior to the current year could be paid for in it's entirety, regardless of who is asking for it.  Excluding prescriptions that are now over the counter.  And the procedure cannot have an updated version, either.  So no heart surgery, no brain surgery, and very little cancer treatments for the destitute (pretty much exactly like it is now by default, with the 'obligation to treat' emergency room laws) but break a bone and you can go to any emergency room or urgent care center and have it set and cast without so much as the question "are you a US citizen".These are certainly not libertarian viewpoints, but I think that they would be preferable to even the most hardcore libs to what we have now.Publicly funded education does not incentivize laziness, by itself.  But add in compulsory schooling, which both forces kids who have no interest in education to attend a public school and also forces the schools to accept them, and you have a condition of devolving morale.  Both for the teachers that must attempt to educate, or at least control, the children who do not wish to be there; as well as the other children who do, but cannot afford a private education to escape the influences of proximity to the other children.History doesn't bear out your assumptions.  There was enither compuslory education nor publicly funded education in the majority of the United States prior to 1890, and was not nationwide until 1910.  The population of the United States of America was more literate and better educated, on aggragate, in 1780 than in 1930, or 1970; if you account for advances in sciences.Then you are simply for homeschooling and private education, because that is what they are doing.You don't, and can't.  Evidence enought that the professional education establishments the world around do not, and cannot, know the best kind of education for all children is the fact that such educators are constatnly trying to 'reform' a broken system.  If the professionals cannot agree what the best kind of education is, you as an idividual teacher cannot honestly claim to have a monopoly on such information. I'm looking for Mac disks for games by Humongous Entertainment, such a the Spy Fox  and Freddie Fish  series.   1)  It wouldn't be your software alone, your prof would have a claim.2)  Why should I trust you and3)  Why should I trust your software?  What will your client do differently that the current one does not? Yes, but I'm talking about an organized criminal with the same tooling available to himself as Casascius passing off spent coins as unspent by putting a new hologram sticker on them.  Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to belittle his acheivement.  I'm just concerned that there will eventually be a determined criminal element that will undermine the trust in bitcoin in general if they can create distrust in physical bitcoins.  It's not like doing so would actually be illegal in most places, since bitcoin isn't an official currency anywhere. No, I'm not.  I'm not one to believe that the absence of government is a stable or desirable condition.  Nor am I under any illusions about the downsides.Government creates the concentration of wealth and power that attracts that 'profit driven need'.  Every one of the most profitable corporations on Earth have very cozy relationships with large Western governments.  Including Apple, despite Steve Jobs well hidden contempt for politicos. Are you really so ideologically blinded to not see the collusion of corporate and government power that has greatly contributed to that very same stat you're referring to? For the same exact reasons, a CFL light bulb isn't nearly as cost effective as is advertised.  An regular bulb takes about 5 times as much energy to light up a room, but it only costs about a quarter; while a single CFL can cost $6.  And they don't have nearly the longevity that is claimed on the package, either. "Send it back in and have it reloaded and restickered as new  - just 25.5 BTC plus return shipping."Wait, what?  It can be 'restickered'?  There needs to be images on the website that show how the sticker should look if good, and how it might look if bad.  I assume that unauthorized reproductions of the hologram sticker is very hard to fake, but if I (as a general user) don't know how the hologram is supposed to look like, how hard would it be for someone to find a hologram sticker to defraud someone with? Ironicly, I got the phishing email but not the warning.  Which I thought to be odd, since I've never given Casascius my address.  But the phishing site is very well done, and I would have been fooled if not for that detail, and the nagging desire to search this forum.  I must say, the physical bitcoins seem very well done, and I would consider buying some but for one nagging issue in the back of my mind.What prevents a scammer from removing the hologram to get at the private key, glueing it back on, spending it and then nabbing the bitcoin value a month later?  Is the hologram obviously destroyed by the process?EDIT:  I missed the part on the website about the hologram leaving behind a honeycomb pattern if peeled.  Does that mean that the peeled hologram is now honeycombed? http://c4ss.org/content/8683Relevant to this topic. Under current governments, big business routinely commits crimes with the aid of governments.  A corporation is a legal entity that could not exist without the support of governments.  That is what they were invented for.And the "state so small" that I advocate for is the very kind of state that the US had at the federal level post civil war and pre-1913.  Discounting the civil war and the first and second central banks (which were both relatively short lived), that "state so small" was pretty close to the ideal that the framers had intended.  Far closer, anyway, than what it looks like today.  Bear in mind that the 'robber barons' of the early part of the last century held fortunes rooted in monopolies originally granted by the federal government such as the railroad barons and oil tycoons. both of you are conflating libertarianism and anarchism.  A "libertopia" wouldn't be stateless, and damn well wouldn't be lacking in an organized collective defense force that is normally called and "army".  Rainingbitcoins, the vast majority of libertarians, myself included, do no make the argument that a stateless society could long exist, nor that any social ills external to government itself could be solved by such a stateless society in any sustainable way.  Please don't take the idealistic extreme positions of a few vocal fellow travelers as authoritative of the majority position. So is representation without taxation, if you think about it.
It worked fine before public funded education took over the religious imperative to educate children.  Still would, if the government would get out of the way.  Public education isn't about education, it's about social indoctrination.  Always has been, and the early proponents were pretty open about that.  They were, predominately, pro-eugenics fascists; before those were "bad".  They honestly believed that the lower classes needed to be 'indoctrinated' and acclimatized to the industrial factory work.  They can and will, if that is what is left to them.  Some will fail, obviously; or be failed by their parents.  There is nought that public education is going to do to stop such trend, if the US is in long term decline.  For that matter, they have been trying to do exactly that since truancy laws were introduced to the US; and moreso since the Department of Education was established, and have always failed.  Try as they (and you) might, with the best of intentions, you cannot educate those who do not see value in it.  I attended a private school my entire childhood, at great expense to my parents, because of the sorry state of publicly funded education; yet the private schools are still modeled after the public institutions.  They end up that way because of efficiency.  My children are homeschooled, mostly by my wife who has a BS in Biology.  They make me look ignorant.  The major difference is that they don't spend hours each day in educational theater, surrounded by peers who do not wish to participate in the soul-crushing day-prison.  Ever wonder how a well behaved child can be a discipline nightmare at school?  It's often a direct result of the educational environment itself.Good for you, but don't delude yourself about their education.  Your efforts would be fruitless if not for their own efforts and the desires of their parents.  The average homeschooled child spends only 2-3 hours each day actually working on intentionally educational work.  So if you think about it, the truly successful students who are institutionally educated (public or private) are being homeschooled by their involved parents anyway.  It's just under the direction of the institution. The "Hidden Wiki" that they refer to is on Tor, which means that they able to identify the actual servers that host the Hidden Wiki, as well as the servers that host the CP sites noted.  This is supposed to be so difficult as to be practially impossible to do, and according to the author, this feat took only a few minutes.   Is that right?  So the "cyber" defense contractor that they humiliated to the point of the CEO publicly asking for their mercy just a couple of months ago, they were just a bunch of stupid contractors working for an even more stupid federal government willing to pay them? That's not exactly fair, is it?  That was a civil war based upon tribal differences, but one tribe had a complete lock on government, and thus is was also an ethnic cleaning by a government.  That fact gave one tribe an unacceptable force advantage over the other. The wars would be reduced in scope, but a fued between large family clans (hatfields and McCoys?) is still a war of sorts.  However, the scale of the conflict does matter.  The other people who live in the area are likely to intercede.  A lightweight client that only uses block headers would simply have to choose three different sources at random, download the block headers from all three sources, and check them against each other to make certain that they agree.  If they don't dump all data collected from that set of three and start over with another set.  Change your set of three every couple thousand blocks, and you're pretty well protected.  This is similar to what the full client does when accepting a new block. The government did not invent the Internet.  At most, the Defense budget paid for it. You would be wrong. It'd be hilarious if "Lolita City" was a honeypot op set up by one federal agency, only to be largely populated by undercover CP investigators busilly trading in CP already captured in previous cases, while desperately trying to make a case against each other.In fact, "Lolita City" does seem kind of rediculously obvious, and Tor itself was developed by Navy Intelligence.That would make a great plotline to Hackers 2. No, the comment is only internal to your logs unless you are directly connected to the receiving client daemon, which is only likely using the -sendtoipaddress flag that is deprecated due to other security issues. Yes, but only after the scripting function is enabled, which will allow you to associate a particular transaction to an external document on the web, among many other complex things. atlas is the screenname of a teenaged forum member, who recently changed his screenname due to gaining a rep that was attracting constant attacks from a subset of the forum membership. I believe that she softened later in life, and this quote came from this period.  If you have ever read her magnum opus, Atlas Shrugged and recognized it for what it really is, a philosophy book wrapped up as a work of fiction, it's pretty obvious that she didn't feel this way when the book was written.  The main character has many famous lines, not the least of which, involves John Galt telling another character to lead a moral life by never letting the word "give" cross her lips. The process of transfering funds around the Internet is a service that the bitcoin network performs with near zero cost, but that service is neither an inherent feature of the currency that is bitcoin, nor is it possible for a service to also be a consumable with an alternative use than it's monetary intent.Thus, back as square one.  Bitcoin is a currency, and only a currency, because it's intended to be used as such and cannot serve in any other capacity.And the words money and currency are not interchangable. I doubt it.  Atlas was a hardcore objectivist.  Ayn Rand's root premise regarding charity was that it always did more harm than good, and that (as an atheist) she believed that the Judeo-Christian tradition of aiding the poor was BS. What do you get when you combine a sociopath and a narcisist?A congressman. The day that I can take a bitcoin and hammer it into a virtual salad bowl is the day that I will agree that bitcoin is a commodity. No, I won't.We likely will.  The great disagreement between sides in this thread thus far is the definition of property and whether or not 'products of the mind' qualify as property.  The framers of the US Constittution considered that question, and soundly rejected the notion that such 'products' were property of their creators, and with that the concept that copyright is a 'natural right' that can be inherited or even transfered.  However, they also recognized the social value in 'patronage' of artists and thinkers.  They encoded copyright into the constitution as an intentionally limited term monopoly on commercial copying of works in order to promote the arts, but this monopoly was not only limited to 15 years originally, it wasn't absolute either.  It didn't apply to the average man in any real sense, it applied to copying for personal gain.  Anyone not in the business of publication could copy any book that he could get his hands on, by hand or otherwise, for his own needs or the education of others, but just couldn't sell the end result for 15 years.  This kind of exception also applied to libraries and educational institutions, and largely still does.  A library can copy any work in their possession, no matter how they came to possess it (including inter-library loan) and lend it out to valid membership without risk of getting sideways with copyright laws.  I've seen it done with music CDs, as well as lending out of self-made copies of reference only books.  The key differences in approach are important, because in order to balance the net effect of copyright, the Constitution also explicitly established the Library of Congress, which has the privilage under the law to receive a copy of every published work without cost to itself, and to do with it whatever they wish.  This was to allow a citizen access to culturally significant works even if they didn't have the means, as well as provide for an archive of works.Certainly at the time, but that's now debatable.  It would take quite a large hard drive, but it's now possible for an individual to own a computer with every book, movie and music ever produced in the US saved onto it's drive.  The Internet has largely made archives such as the Library of Congress redundant.  Also, the Constitution is a social contract that predates all of us.  Thomas Jefferson openly questioned whether it was even proper for one generation to establish such a social contract to be imposed upon following generations by default, and without their explicit consent, but he couldn't offer a better solution either.  And neither can I, since unlike our more anarchist membership, I recognize that there really are a small minority of the population that (even with a proper and functioning educational system) cannot be trusted to govern themselves, even though the vast majority of the population undoubtedly can do exactly that. I guess you could say that my issue is with representative democracy, but since this is a federated republic and not a democracy, is such a complaint unfair? Ironicly, they do suck.  And it's not that I'm arguing that IP is akin to slavery.  I'm arguing that their support for IP laws are forced upon a wider public that did not agree to the terms; and like slavery and (more recently) segregation, society will eventually look upon such laws as fundamentally immoral favoritism of one group of people over another.I shall address the reasons why copyright exists in the Constitution, and why it's there in another post.
While not mutually exclusive, they each have characteristics that make them each.  A currency is anything that is intended to be, or by defacto use is, traded as a unit of exchange value.  While a commodity is anything that has a general or consumptive use besides, or in addition to, it's uses as a unit of exchange and storage of value.  Oil can be burned, and copper made into wires.  Both have trade and storage of value uses, but that is not their only useful function.  Bitcoin has no other function than as it's intended use in exchange or storage of value, thus cannot be a commodity. Whenever minted into distinct units of weight, yes it is. At it's core, a union is just a group of people getting together to act collectively in mutual self interest.  No more moral or immoral than a corporation or political action committee.  I've been a member of two different unions in my life.  Unions aren't the problem, per se; it's when collective bargining is permitted for government workers.  It the private sector, government operates as the arbitrator between unions and businesses.  When the employer is the taxpayer, and the unions are able to contribute to the election of people who negotiate on the behalf of the taxpayer, the balance of powers are all screwed up.  Can't really blame unions for taking advantage of the situation, it's what they exist for.  But we shouldn't allow it to happen to start with, any more than we should allow corporations to donate unlimited amounts of campaign support to those who might regulate them or decide on their government contract bids. No, because it's not a commodity.  Bitcoin is a currency, by definition, and cannot be a commodity, also by definition.  If you disagree, then you don't know what these words mean.  Even if we all agreed to start calling it something that it isn't, that wouldn't change a thing; certainly not France or any other entity considering it a currency. Yes, and no.  There is an internal scripting mechanism that permits complex transactions to be processed, for a fee, but that scripting mechanism is not presently in use.  Mostly because it's not complete & not vetted for security.  Once it goes live, you will be able to do some very creative things.  The torn dollar pseudo-escrow thing is one of the very creative things considered early on, along with (off the top of my head) multi-user signatures to send or claim funds (like on a corporate check that requires two officer signatures to be valid, or a cashier's check made out to to receipients that must both sign) or transactions that can be claimed by one of several different addresses (first to claim) or to no particular address at all but can only be claimed by satisfying a scripting rule, such as knowledge of an encryption key.  Also, transactions that cannot be claimed until after a certain time has passed, such as a postdated check; and transactions that can be revoked before that time period has passed.  I believe that you can presently send to many (like a business would make payroll) different addresses already using a single transaction, but the vanilla client doesn't have access to this feature. Almost the entire incarcerated population of the United States would qualify as sociopaths.  So would almost all of Congress.  So I'm not sure that there would be a distinct difference between a sociopath and a parasite. Useful for whom?  Sure, some people are going to try to treat data as property, but that doesn't make it so. (insert slavery property reference here)  Others will treat data as data, and you have no right to use force against them to prevent it.  I can get as self-righteous as I like.  Your great-grandchildren are going to be as embarassed to know how you "earned" an income as white southerners today are about how they came to inherit a Georgia plantation.  Nobody.  Who says that the elected represent society?  I don't.  You still haven't even tried to define 'society'.  Probably because you intuitively know that you can't define society in a way that is inclusive and still doesn't result in IP laws pitting one class of society against another.  We would hammer you down with that one too, no matter how you do it.  Because 'society' is an intangible concept; it is both real and false at the same time.  Certainly you know many people that you can identify with that you would consider part of your 'society', as well as many people that would completely reject being included by yourself.And again, just because harm to one class within society can be demonstrated with the repeal of IP laws, does not mean that there is not harm caused to another class within society by the existance of IP laws.  I could sum it up in one sentence.You are the 1%.Guess who the 99% are? Of course it does.  The main point is that people are not property, and neither is data.  Those states went to war over the right of seccession, not slavery per se.  And they were wrong about the slavery issue, just as you are wrong about the IP issue.  The US Constitution was flawed in that it maintained the practice of slavery in order to maintain peace among the states, and it didn't work anyway.  The Constitution is just as flawed in permitting Congress to establish copyright monopolies, and someday that will come to a head as well.  Copyright is a monopoly privilege granted by the king/goverment.  It was a common practice well before the foundation of the United States, and was regarded as about as legitimate as an inherited title or a land grant.  The early US didn't recognize copyrights issued by any foreign government for many decades, and never did recognize copyrights of anyone that date prior to 1776.  Still don't, not that it should matter.  Anything that requires the organized force of government to exist isn't a natural right.  Rights are negative in nature, meaning that to exist, they need only that others (and particularly governments) do nothing to inhibit their free exercise.  IP doesn't fit that model, since the 'right' of the producer to limit the free distribution of their work via IP laws require that agents of government do something to those who would freely distribute that data in order to prevent or limit same.  If you really can't see the distinction, I pity your children more than you; for your education has failed you, and will likewise fail your children because of you. Blocks will not become more scarce, only the reward for the block.  Blocks will continue to be added to the blockchain roughly every 10 minutes or so until every bitcoin client on Earth stops 'mining' or the Sun goes supernova, whichever comes first.Yes and no.  Every full client is also capable of mining, but only if you tell it to do so.  Thin and light clients don't mine, however.There are, but I can't really direct you to such a script.  They wouldn't tell you much, either, as scripts would only do a small part of the transaction handling. I think I get it now, so you are sharing a single private key with the QR code, and trusting the vendor to give you back your change to a change address, then?  Much like one trusts the cashier at Starbucks to give back the change of the $20 bill.  The full client at home that you got the change return address from would have to be able to send your phone a text when it saw the change, so that you knew that it happened, but that would be trivial if the need was there.  You can't walk away from the POS, not get your change, and come back expecting anyone is going to believe you if there is a failure.  I can see how this could work with small amounts and trusted vendors. Then what does the vendor use to accept the QR code and bitcoin transaction, if he isn't willing to set up any bitcoin infrastructure at all?  A single wifi access point, whether connected to the POS computer, directly to the Internet, or stand alone in a piratebox setup (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox) is still cheaper infrastructure than even the smartphone capable of running bitcoin.  And such a access point could serve the entire store.  If it's just two people with smartphones selling/buying something on Craigslist, one person with a piratebox and zero connectivity would still be workable.  If smartphones were to commonly have Dash7 radios in the future, even the piratebox would be unnecessary.  But no matter how you do it, there has to be some kind of bitcoin infrastructure at the vendor's POS, even if it's just a QR payment address sticker on the back of the POS register connected to an online wallet system. Not really, but that doesn't make the NAP any worse for a mentally handicapped adult than any other base principle of law.  The same can be said for an infant.  Even if s/he could harm you, you can't rationally hold that against the child, for they don't really know what they are doing.  The only thing that you can do, since you are still bound by the NAP as a rational adult, is to take steps to prevent or avoid harm caused by the child, such as keep the matches in a high cupboard.  The same is generally true for the mentally handicapped adult, no rational person would argue that any adult that can be demonstrated to a reasonable person to be incapable of rational thought has an inalienable right to 'keep and bear arms'.  The theory of 'natural rights' assumes the rightholder in question has the capacity to understand what such a right actually is.EDIT: I completely read that question wrong. I wonder if he is sitting at his computer right now, with a response box open, trying to figure out what just happened. What won't work?  The cumberson process part is mostly automated, much like it is with credit cards today, just different.  In person & off network transactions might never come to pass, but it won't be because the process is cumbersome.  Stop and think about what you have to do to buy a Big Mac with a credit or debit card.  Nifty commericals aside, it's significantly less cumbersome for a customer to pay in cash than use a CC at McD's, yet people do it daily. I would be impressed.  So would the Humble Bundle guys. If you mean that the QR code scanned is a transaction itself, then there isn't enough screenspace to produce a QR code large enough to reliablely hold a transaction.  But nor would it be necessary, if an android client were developed with my original specs for the bounty.  Namely the ability to directly commune with another client; such as by multicast over a shared open hotspot (internet connection helpful, but not necessary), bluetooth or (ideally) Dash7. Let me guess, because slaves are property right? I can accept that you believe that you have refuted them, but you have done nothing of the sort.  Most of your readership is either amused by you, or agrieved.  I doubt that even those who agree with your positions would agree that you have 'refuted' much of note. Wit a wiffle bah bat!
Maybe.It's still immoral, also. Just stop and read that again.Wait, is there someone else in this thread that I can't see? No, patience.And I think that your humor bone is broken.  Mockery is a high form of wit.  The lowest form of humor is either fart sounds or lawyers.  Hard to say.BTW, he was definately mocking you. Ah, you are a lawyer, then.A copyright lawyer, no less.  No wonder you refuse to listen.  It's impossible to get a educated person to see the truth when his income is dependent upon him not seeing it. Because, apparently, you don't get it.Or you do, and simply don't wish to hurt your head with arguments & logic you cannot refute. You're projecting.  What business are you in, again? And your kidding yourself if you think that they depend upon copyright to protect their data.  They might swing that stick if that is the only option, but it's a pretty small stick relatively speaking.   Bradley Manning had direct access to that data, because he had direct access to a secure network node.  While you're asking him about how he did it, ask him how it worked out for him. For the last time, no they can't!  I'd like to see you try to get a movie theater quality file from the Internet, or anywhere else, without paying for it.  You can't even get a movie theater quality video of B-rate horror movies from the 30's from the internet.  If they could, why wouldn't theaters in Cuba show the first run movies?  Do you think that Cuban communists give a crap about what a capitalist pig company such as Warner Brothers might do?  Do you think that 'international law' crap on the FBI warning has any real force in Cuba (or anywhere else)?  It would be hard for a hacker in China to get even a VHS quality copy of a first run movie before opening weekend.  That is because the production companies use contract law to bind the distributors to tight security rules, and punish them severely if they fail.  Which, BTW, is incrediblely rare. She has the copyright, she is not elliblge for royalties.  The copyrights of dead artists prevent her from claiming any royalties.  She spent years of her life and more than $50K to produce the movie, and couldn't charge a dime for the finished work because the royalty payments to the holding companies that bought the copyrights to the works of dead artists would have exceeded the total cost of production by a significant margin.  Due to fair use law, she was able to release the work for free, but can never accept a dime in royalties.  How does that encourage artists to create new works?  Are holding companies contributing to the body of work?  If so, how?It was a pretty good movie, BTW, and she takes donations in bitcoin. You're right, they wouldn't sue the non-contracted movie theater.  They would sue the party responsible for either the movie's release, claim it against their insurance as a loss, or suck it up.Which is pretty much what happens now.  The consequences to a movie theater if an employee were to leak the movie are pretty harsh, and only because of contract law.  I can think of only one case in the past 20 years that a first run movie was leaked to the Internet (before it's release on DVD) in any format worthy of watching, and that was due to a pre-release production version being taken home by an employee of the editing company under contract to the production company.  That editing company doesn't exist anymore, and I doubt that editor could even find work in the porn industry.  Theaters are under contract to prevent attendees from bringing in recording devices to even produce those crappy versions that sometimes appear after the opening weekend.Here it is...http://news.softpedia.com/news/X-Men-Origins-Wolverine-Torrent-Still-Available-108408.shtmlWait, a DVD quality movie hits the Internet before opening weekend?  And the movie only managed to pull in $87 million for opening weekend!   However will Warner Brothers ever survive!  Oh, the humanity!""X-Men Origins: Wolverine" reaped an estimated $87 million, scoring number one at the box office this weekend, according to audience trackers Nielsen EDI. The films totals mark the second-highest opening of the four X-Men films, behind 2006's "X-Men: The Last Stand". Despite having the best weekend of any film released, the film did not meet industry projections." http://www.ticketnews.com/news/X-Men-Origins-Wolverine-has-solid-opening-weekend-at-the-box-office05904066 https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=38854.msg585369#msg585369I'm still waiting for a response, Hawker. No, I'm talking about how courts can exist without explicit state support, and can coexist with it.  Your incomplete knowledge of history notwithstanding, there are a couple dozen other examples of the same in human history.  The history of the tweleve tribes of Israel is another well documented case.  The history of the five tribes of the Iroquois Confederacy is another well documented case.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iroquois#Government)  Neither of these actual historical examples consisted of a government (or even a definable state) as we would define one today.(Iroquois political and diplomatic decisions are made on the local level, and are based on assessments of community consensus. A central government that develops policy and implements it for the people at large is not the Iroquois model of government.)Yet both had semi-formal courts with judges, appointed by no one at all, unless you consider the Book of Judges to be authoritative in understanding and recording the will of God.  They came to exist, because people had real disputes, and in the absence of a formal resolution (and considering combat is not in the best interests of either party) would agree to seek out a third party trusted by both parties.  This is what is now known as arbitration and is a major part of what courts actually do for "society" or the "free market".  There is a natural human desire for "justice", and it can be seen in children not even old enough to talk.  If you feel that you have been wronged by your sibling, what do you do first?  Do you tell mommy, hit your sibling & take back your toy, or try to argue that you have been wronged?  Surely some will do each of these things, but both running to tell mommy and arguing with your sibling are examples that humans are born with an innate sense of property right, for if we were not then every dispute over a toy would invariablely lead to a fight.  It's this sense of, shall we call it "natural law", that leads a three year old to complain that the other kid took the toy out of his hands, as there is a natural expectation that everyone else should understand the basic law as well, even if they can't express it as such.  Neither courts, nor governments, make this stuff up.  At best, they discover it and encode it into their statutes.  But statutes that don't make sense to the common man are not laws, but simply the deliberate and discriminate use of force to favor one group of citizens over another. They can't! And that fact has zero to do with IP laws!  Take away every copyright law protecting movies, and it won't change a thing about how first run theaters operate!  Nor would it have much affect on how any other theater operates! Not for the sake of it.  You seem to believe that because you can't imagine how such films would be paid for, that they couldn't exist.  We have repeatedly pointed out your errors of both logic and fact.  The cognative dissonance must be excrutiating. You have a real problem with observational evidence, don't you?  Are you a defense lawyer? Well, wikipedia isn't the end all, but it's right there in the section that you linked to, in the preamble..."The term "common law" originally derives from the reign of Henry II of England, in the 1150s and 1160s. The "common law" was the law that emerged as "common" throughout the realm (as distinct from the various legal codes that preceded it, such as Mercian law, the Danelaw and the law of Wessex)[29] as the king's judges followed each other's decisions to create a unified common law throughout England. The doctrine of precedent developed during the 12th and 13th centuries,[30] as the collective judicial decisions that were based in tradition, custom and precedent.[31]And there is this..."In 1154, Henry II became the first Plantagenet king. Among many achievements, Henry institutionalized common law by creating a unified system of law "common" to the country through incorporating and elevating local custom to the national, ending local control and peculiarities,"Granted Henry II gets much credit for acting as a unifying force, but Common law was derived from local customary laws that developed independently of the crown, due mostly to a vacuum of judges in the preceding couple centuries.  At most, however, he established the intent to unify the law, he didn't do it.  There were judges that existed before Henry II, that had no backing whatever from the crown.  It is from these local judges that common law received it's base.I've not the time nor inclination to educate you, so if you really would like to enlighten yourself, I suggest you start with Whatever Happened to Justice by Rich Maybury and The Path of the Lawby Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. I agree with the conclusion if the premise is correct, but it's not.  The producers get paid because of contract law not copyright law.  The same is true for each and every one of the actors.  Not a single major production company depends upon copyright law to do anything for a first run major motion picture.  How the hell do you think that Showtime produces movies and shows that subscribers pay nothing for?  How does Hallmark produce direct-to-cable/direct-to-video tearjerkers?  How does SciFi produce hours upon hours of B-rate movies?  Not one of these producers depends upon copyright law to get paid, they damn near give it all away free. Ah, no.  That's not my definition of educated.You're projecting now.  Do you know how many libertarians went through a liberal phase in high school?  (I don't know anyone who went through a conservative "phase" to become anything else)  As for myself, I was a dyed in the wool Green until at least 22.  I was anti-gasoline, and tried to build an electric Doran kit car in high schoo (of course, the lead acid batteries were great for the environment!)l; I was anti-nuclear, and railed against fears and threats that I didn't understand; and I was anti-corporate, because I didn't understand economics.  Now that I understand these subjects, I know that I was full of shit as a kid.  Ask yourself, why do we try to teach math to students, but not economics? Some of those bounties have mutually exclusive goals, so they cannot all be claimed for the same client.
The risk of a double spend isn't always of greatest concern.  It would still be quite technically difficult to double spend even in this situation, kinda stupid to risk it for half priced milk. Actually, your history is bullshit.  British common law was not developed by the crown nor the courts established by the crown.  The crown didn't give it any credence at all up almost until the Magna Carta, which itself was law developed against the will of the crown.  And there is plenty of existing examples of competing systems of law that coexist.  One such example is the International Business Court, which had (has?) zero government backing. And I'm still waiting for a response to this question...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=38854.msg585369#msg585369 You say something, assume it's so, and then believe it's settled?  What is wrong with you?  None of us agree with your assessment.  You have changed no one's mind, neither have we.  That's a far cry from 'settled'. Yes, but the gain would be small.Yes to both, but then it becomes a trust issue.  At least on some level. Nothing at all.  This is actually on of the 'lightweight' client models that have been proposed. Then you're doing it wrong.  You're supposed to keep using it, so that you're just groggy, not hung over. Not necessarily all the powers of a government, as this was not the case for British common law, which was developed as case law over generations without much interaction or support from the British crown.  However, I do see your point.  You assume that any consolidation of judicial (or perhaps otherwise) power will eventually become indistingishable from a deliberate government structure, so we might as well keep the devil we know, right?  This is a rational point, but not necessarily a correct one.  The ongoing consolidation of such powers assumes that the public does nothing to contradict it, for which we have a real example of a society that actively avoids majority concentrations of power despite the very real advantages to consolidation of power.  Namely the Bitcoin pools, which are not permitted to exceed (or even dramaticly approach) a 50% total network hashrate.  Users don't attack the pools to prevent it (well, most don't) they either switch pools or drop into solo mining to prevent individual pools from hitting that mark. You guys do understand that there is no bitcoin 'token' to transfer, don't you? I have been in the past on this very topic thread, but much deeper.  Basicly everything has been implimented except for off network transactions, and direct (ad hoc wifi) or semi-direct (two android phones using an open wifi access point as a bridge) client connections to both trade transaction data and blocks.  The later could be accomplished by utilizing broadcast/multicast features of wifi & a "piratebox" as the bridge (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox) and Andreas has created another program for networking android devices into a complex screen that uses multicast to coordinate, so I know it's within his abilities to do so.  I just think that he doesn't consider off-network ad-hoc transactions to be a worthwhile goal.  I wan't to be able to use my phone wallet, for in person transactions, even during a power/network outage. (or beyond wireless service range, camping perhaps?)  Otherwise a remote control app for my home bitcoind is just as powerful.  If I can't use it to buy half-priced milk at the corner store because the store owner doesn't have power to run his refrigeration units (or his register to process credit card transactions) than it's not "cashlike". Mmmmm... Soma.... No I don't.  Monetary incentives are the easy part. 1)  Second life is a game, and cannot have the kind of real incentives to have any real meaning to political philosphophies.2)  Secon life is, from what I understand, already almost an anarchy. Beam antenna on the roof?  If you have a line of sight, a decent yagi antenna mounted on a roof antenna mount (the kind Radio Shack sells for tv antennas) and a couple hours of work on a Saturday and you can have Verizon's 4G/WiMax data rates, which although not cheap, would offer a fine alternative path for a multi-homed setup.  Won't be attractive, though.  Wife might object. Oh, sorry.  I was looking at the post above yours, which might be the post behind yours for yourself because I have the forum set to read in reverse. Same here.  I've used it for many legal purchases.  The hard part about bitcoin commerce is getting the bitcoins in the first place.  Everything else is easy.I don't doubt the former, but I do doubt the latter.  Certainly users and vendors will occasionally screw up and break their autonomy, but users have to be fairly tech and privacy savvy just to get onto Silk Road.  These guys are certainly not the "low hanging fruit" of the illicit drug trade.  Most of them would be as hard to prosecute as to locate.  How often do you hear of some rich, educated kid getting busted with drugs?  It's not like they don't buy it, they just deal with a smarter class of criminal. Simplistic?  You don't understand libertarian principles.  They are simple only taken out of context, taken together they are incrediblely complex.  Which is often why I find that many people cannot wrap their heads around them.  I've never met an uneducated lib.  Ever.  I've met plenty of Dems and Repubs that are only so because they were raised that way.  I also don't think I've ever met a lib that was raised as a lib, either; so I guess that could mean many things. No offense to yourself, nor to Andreas; but his app never met my own bounty requirements.  I've conversed with him about this in the past via email, and have received some interest in finishing those requirements; but apparently mine are too few to be of significant interest. All this talk about unanswered posts are BS.  I've personally answered half of them, and my responses have gone ignored.  I shall now ask a simple question, for at least the fourth time in this topic alone...Does Nina Paley have the right to earn a living off of her magnum opus, Sita Sings the Blues?  Does she have the right to ask for any sum of money in exchange for this work?http://blog.ninapaley.com/http://sitasingstheblues.com/ Wait, what?  That was a serious post?  Do you have issues with the multiple meanings of English words?
The above paragraph is an obvious contradiction.  The enforcement of IP laws implies the use of force.  The NAP is in direct contradition of the initiation of use of force.  Harm avoidance is a practical goal, it is not a principle.  The use of government force to avoid harm to a subset of the population necessarily increases harm on some other subset of the population.  So the question then becomes, who is initiating force in this 'harm avoidance' situation?  Does the teenager who downloads a bootleg copy of a film via bittorrent threaten or attack the copyright owner in any meaningful way?  Obviously not.  He doesn't even prevent the copyright owner from doing with the data what he intended to in the first place, nor is he likely to spend money that he doesn't have on a copy, so he can't even be causing the copyright holder a loss of revenue.  So who is initiating the use of force?What is society?  Is it the entire population that  resides within a particular set of imaginarly lines on a map? No. It doesn't matter why, because the motives are personal.  It's provablely true that a large number of people will pay money for a game available free of charge, legally and without consequence.  The Humble Bundle series are evidence enough that people will contribute millions of dollars toward quality, independent game development without even an expected minimum donation. No, seriously, I'm asking.  There may be alternatives for which you are not aware.  If nothing else, a multi-homed service via a linux machine might be able to provide the speed that you need most of the time while providing some connection all of the time.  I have family members that made a mint by establishing the first ISP in a small town, even though they wouldn't let me near their business because I had a rep as a 'hacker', so I might be able to offer you some alternatives.  If you have a line of sight to any cell tower, odds are good that you can get some pretty good burstable speed to handle the higher bandwidth times. Flawed, but that's irrelevent.  The pruning of the blockchain would not need to keep anything earlier than H anyway, and would immediately prune H once M was verified.  That's assuming that those transactions were older than the minimum block depth/age required by the pruning algo that the user has chosen.  Honestly, if J was deeper than 4000 blocks, there's no reason to even keep I once L has been verified and is 6 blocks deep. You would end up killing someone. Really?  In this modern age?  What backwards city do you live in? I can't say, directly, because I refuse to do business with AT&T for personal reasons.  But based upon the experiences of others, the notice is automaticly generated after so much traffic that looks like botnet traffic.  The first tier support personel will have no idea what you are talking about anyway, and couldn't do anything to help regardless.  You need the real tech support desk, usually third tier.  Personally, I run the client in a 'quiet' mode that neither announces my IP address on the IRC channel, nor accepts incoming connections from IP addresses that are not in my whitelist.  I run the client with the '-connect' flag to only connect to a set number of trusted nodes.  Only the truly talented would be able to find my node. By definition, as sociopath is a person without a conscience who happens to be very good at hiding that fact.  Atlas is terrible at faking social agreement with statists. This comes up on a regular basis.  AT&T uses a traffic monitoring program intended to identify botnet command & control traffic, which regularly false positives on the IRC traffic that the standard bitcoin client produces to 'bootstrap' peer nodes upon startup.  You could just ignore it, and set the client to not annouce your IP address on the IRC channel, and the client will use the saved list of IP addresses to startup; or you could call AT&T support and have your address whitelisted for this.  They are aware of the bitcoin false positives by now, as many times as this has come up. As I have twice pointed out, you stated it as a fact, which implies that you have sufficent data to support that postion.  I then pointed out that it's impossible for you to have such data, an actual fact that you do not contest.  So now you claim that it's a "likely" conclusion and a "hypothesis".  My own hypothesis is that you are either a troll, or a child who cannot accept when he has made an error in logic.  I suggest that you enlighten me as to which is true, before I make an arbitrary decision as to how I shall proceed. Taken from your own post...FYI, most people would consider the above excerpt to be an assertion by the author that the words following "Also the fact" to be a fact, not an assertion of likelyhood. Thank you for your honesty.  I, for one, don't believe that reality gives much credence to what you (or I) might believe; but at least we know where you stand.  I won't be considering you for any investment advice, BTW. Please edit your topic title to reflect the meaning, without using those last two words.  I understand that anyone can have a hot moment, but this is an open forum and we would very much like to keep the language nazis from noticing us.  Thank you. First, I did that.  Second, you have done nothing of the sort.  It may, or may not be, a rational assumption to state that there in an investor that has left the game.  But to state that assumption as anything more than your own belief is an obvious falsehood.That is not equivalant to the assumption that actual investors are leaving bitcoin. Which is exactly the point I was trying to make.  You don't have any evidence that any "original investors who felt most strongly" are actually leaving the community in any fashion whatever.  You're simply making an assumption based upon projection of your own perspectives.  That's an opinion, not a fact, as you implied. That's not a moral question, and I think that you know it.  Whether or not a particular law causes harm or not, is not the moral question.  It's a practical question.  But a corrolary to the question, "would repeal of IP laws cause harm" is "do IP laws cause harm now?"  The answer to both questions is, provablely, yes.  So which is the moral cause?  Neither.  Harm avoidance is not a principle to decide laws upon. I challenge you to find one person who held bitcoins a year ago who has sold out and left the community behind.  Accused fraudsters excepted, of course.And no, Satoshi has not sold out. In hindsight, I agree with this assessment.  It sure didn't feel like it on the way up, though.  I, for one, could not tell that it was in a bubble above $10 until it was well over $20.  These things are not clear except in retrospect. How should I celebrate, then?
It's harder to write a script to post things that don't identify the script as a bot, then it is to write a script to surf around the forum for four hours.  Harder, not impossible.  Every now and again, a spam bot does make it through.  It also encourages real people to ask questions about bitcoin that they don't understand, before they have a chance to dive into the deeper forums and post stuff based on ignorance.As this post should prove well enough, we are still paying attention to the newbie section, even if we don't respond often.  If you have a question, start a newbie topic and you will get an answer. I was speaking to anyone, really.  Thanks for the honesty.  Ultimately, the morality of IP laws are an irrelevant argument then?  The 'greater good' of the general public is of no concern, even though that is exactly the (official) reason that IP laws presently exist.This is exactly why I called this entire topic an intellectual circle jerk.  I'm not going to change my opinion, unless you can demonstrate a moral foundation for their support, which I believe to be impossible.  And you're not going to change your position unless I, do what exactly? But if it's defensible, then it's just as defensible as a licensing contract.  If it requires the use of a government monopoly supported business model to exist, it's not defensible.  If copyrights ended after 15 years following the first publication (or patents 15 years after the first product in production or demonstration) then we wouldn't likely be having this debate, simply because it wouldn't be a worthwhile issue.  There would be much more important issues to fight about than the morality of a 15 year long monopoly on copying of published works.  The problem isn't so much that immoral and inconsistant laws exist, nor that there are businesses that exist to take advantage of those laws; but what those laws, when their immorality is left unchallenged, become over time.  Legal weapons to be wielded and expanded by and for the benefit of entrenched businesses.  At the core, this is the reality that you support when you argue in favor of IP laws, of any sort and for any reason. I can prove, without much difficulty, that the abrogation of copyright laws would be in the best interests of the public, just based upon the educational aspect of popular culture alone.  There are few, if any, educated supporters of copyright that would contest this position; and most of their arguments are based upon the 'property rights' aspect of considering data to be equal under the law to real physical property.If I go to the trouble, would you even consider changing your position?  Be honest, now. From what I can tell, it never has been, although there has been a concerted effort to produce the image that it's either down or gone.  Intentional digital camo, I suspect.  Many of the early outrage that came about due to the public articles has dispersed, in part, based on the belief by the TOR ignorant public (including a couple of senators) that Silk Road had been run off.  I've never bought anything on Silk Road, but everytime I tried to access it, due to trying to verify reports of it's destruction, I found that the reports of it's untimely demise to be exagerated. By what logic must I address any particular film?  What makes any particular film worthy of support contrary to principles?  Would Spielberg have created E.T., or even developed the wealth and prestige to do so?  Probably not.  Is the particular movie that we know as E.T. worthy of special consideration under the law?  No.  Spielberg's wealth is predicated upon a monopoly on distribution of works, a monopoly enforced by government agency.  This is pretty much what the OWS protestors are protesting, the unjust favor of government of one group over the remainder of the people for unjustifiable (according to the remainder, anyway) special treatment under the law.I'm not denying them compensation at all.  That's a fallacy.  I, personally, would pay the asking price or simply not see the film.  It's the idea that the producers have the right (in addition to the monopoly provided ability) to deny that others can see the film, or produce derivitive works based upon the film, 70 years after the original copyright holder has died.  As already pointed out, current films don't really depend upon copyright laws for their revenue stream; they largely depend upon contracts.  Steam doesn't even depend upon that, only on the technical difficulty in subverting their system compared to the cost of convience of voluntary participation of users.  Copyright law doesn't substantially affect the first run profitability of a major motion picture, but does on the 'long tail', which limits who can see the film or produce derivitive works of the film, including upon the decendents of the copyright holders themselves who may not have even been born yet.  You never did address Nina Paley's right to freely sell her own magnum opus, which just happened to included modern versions of old blues songs.  Does she not have the right to earn a living as well?Your concept of IP is narrow.  You assume it comes down to simply copying.  Oftentimes it's not about a direct copy at all, but simply a similarity.  The band that recorded "Under Pressure" sued over five notes that were substantially similar to five notes in "Ice Ice Baby".  They won that suit, even though it came down to five notes.  They did not contend that the songwriter could not have come up with five notes on his own, nor did they contend that his song was substantially similar to theirs, only that they had a copyright on the song, including 'samples'.  Parodies are protected under free speech, and thus are considered exempt, but producers of parodies get sued under IP laws all the time.  What about all those artists?  Do they not have a right to an honest living?Nor is it possible to parody pop culture that does not exist.  Again, your concept of IP is narrow. 103 pages of mental masterbation as two ideological sides talk past each other, neither side willing to consider the position of the other, because they have mutually exclusive principles. Because you can't seem to wrap your head around the idea that data isn't property, so that any business model based upon the use of force to treat data as property is fundamentally unjust. It's a recent development.  It's based on the idea that the cow has some kind of control over it's world, however small, and so the cow is generally happier.  It doesn't seem to alter the productivity of the individual cow significantly, but the incidence of any particular cow going bonkers and harming themselves inside their own pen has been reduced. I'm still up over 500%. There is no accepted theory of gravity, only mathmatical models that describe and predict it, generally.  We actually know that those models are wrong at the galaxy scale, because galaxies don't rotate at a rate that is consistant with our models.  There is, in fact, no generally accepted theory as to what gravity actually is yet that doesn't detract from our acceptance that such a force of nature exists, because we can all easily observe it's effects as well as predict it's results.I know that you guys might consider that semantics, but I bet you all have heard a general explaination of how evolutionary theory works; but if you had any credible explaination of what gravity is (as opposed to how it acts) then I'd be very impressed.  The truth is, that even Darwin stated that his theory of evolution was based upon several assumptions that couldn't be demonstrated in his day, one in particular that has been proven incorrect.  That premise was that natural selection (which is a process that can be proven to exist) is the only process by which new species are created.  This has never been demostrated, and likely cannot, even though natural selection is undoubtedly the dominate process of species change.  The proof is in the details of "irreducible complexity".  Said simply, if there is any species with any features that couldn't be developed by natural selection (within any reasonable probability of mutations occuring in the same individual organism) then Evolutionary theory is disproven.  There exist hundreds of such examples, a couple dozen of which are bluntly obvious.  But first, a link that smacks of a quote here....http://www.uncommondescent.com/intelligent-design/natural-selection-defies-the-odds/<snip>Natural selection is, of course, a real force of nature, as demonstrated by the development of drug resistance by the malaria microbe through purely Darwinian processes. But, as Michael Behe​ has convincingly demonstrated, the power of natural selection is limited. Natural selection can provide a selective advantage by degrading a genome, as it does in the malaria example. But its power to BUILD a complex genome has never been demonstrated in the laboratory. In fact, the laboratory has shown as that over countless trillions of reproductive events, natural selection has NOT created complex new additions to the genome.When Darwin observed the beaks of Galapagos finches, he was observing small changes in an organisms phenotype (i.e., the organisms body plan) that gave the organism a selective advantage and thereby increased its predominance in the population. From this observation Darwin made an inference that has literally changed the world. He inferred that the same process was responsible for creating finches in the first place. Obviously, Darwin did not observe this process create finches. He reasoned, however, that a process that could create one small change in a population of organisms could create other small changes, and over time, those changes would accumulate, and when sufficient changes had accumulated over a long enough time, an entirely new species would emerge. This entirely natural process, Darwin reasoned, was responsible for the creation of all life, from the first single-celled organism on though to human beings themselves.The important thing always to keep in mind is this: Darwin inferred . . . Again, Darwin did not observe one species morphing into another through the process of natural selection. The finches remained finches. They did not change into another kind of bird, much less another kind of species altogether. Nor has anyone since Darwin observed a species morph into another.The main point is that the power of natural selection to create large, as opposed to small, changes in the genotype and the phenotype of organisms remains, to this day, an inference from the data, not the data itself. If any NDE proponent commenting on this post disputes this assertion, I invite him or her to cite a single example of one species being observed changing into another since Origin of Species​ was published in 1859.This gets me back to our discussion of probability. As I said, NDE proponents assume that natural selection has the power to beat the odds and create, for example, highly complex and specified strands of DNA, the creation of which is beyond the power of mere chance. But since no one has ever observed natural selection create complex changes in a strand of DNA (much less create the strand of DNA from scratch in the first place), how can NDE proponents be so dead certain of the staggering, almost God-like powers of creation they attribute to natural selection? One would think they would be more modest in their claims for a process that has never actually been observed. Instead, they bombastically assert that their theory has the same epistemological standing as the theory of gravity.<snip>The Theory of Evolution, despite teh provable existance of a process of natural selection, is not equatable with theories of physics that describe gravity.Dr. Jobe Martin is a former devotee to Evolutionary Theory, who was challenged by his students to prove that it was correct, and by attempting to do so and failing, began to be convinced of the alternative.  He has produced a number of videos that document species that have irreduciblely complex features that could not have arisen by natural selction (that is, could not have aided the organism in surviving to reproduce) unless those features could have arisen simultaniously, an event that is roughly comparable to an address collision in bitcoin.  (not impossible, but astronomicly unlikely given the time frame).  His most famous subject is the cuddlefish, whose active camo is so advanced that it uses it to put it's prey, literally, into a trance.  Yet, if it's camo wasn't almost as advanced as it is, then it's prey wouldn't have been dazzeled.  Since the cuddlefish is neither fast enough to catch it's prey, nor it's prey being defenseless otherwise, the cuddlefish would have starved to death or pursued easier prey.  Neither path leads to the present condition under natural selcetion alone, thus evolutionary theory is either incomplete or completely inaccurate.  Other such examples include the girraffe, a mussle that requires the intervention of a particular species of minnow to reproduce, and a species of cave insect that only exists in the Mammoth Cave system with no apparent relatives anywhere else.  Now this doesnt' p[rove anything either, and Dr. Martin has chosen ID as his alternative theory, which certainly can be wrong.  But to assume that the current state of science is correct, in the face of history, is simply assurting another ideology. 1)  Bitcoin is already successful, it's just not widely reported yet.  As I have already pointed out, I have used it to buy many things online, both digital and physical.  Many others have as well, both within this forum and external to it.2) You're excused.  If you think that it's even possible for every exchange to be shut down, even if every nation on Earth were to cowtow to the US government, you seriously lack understanding about how the exchanges work, or even how exchange works in general.  I've literally bought bitcoins for cash, in person.  I've never used MtGox or any other centralized currency exchange to get bitcoins, nor have I ever mined a single block (as I already mentioned and you ignored).  I've only dealt with individuals to buy more bitcoins.  I've speculated on MtGox, but I deposited in bitcoin and withdrew in bitcoin.  Never have I done so in any form of fiat currency, US FRN's or otherwise.We are all early adopters, it's still early.No, never.  Never even tried to mine.  Difficulty was low, only relatively.  It was never cost effective for me to mine.I understand your point, I'm trying to show you your error, but you're ignoring the realities I'm presenting.  I've neither mined, nor bought a single bitcoin on any exchange for a dollar that I had to deposit.  Considering that, and the fact that I actually have some to spend, how the hell did I get them if they are inconvenient to get?  Maybe if you live on a farm in Kansas, but if you live in any major urban area in the US, you can buy bitcoins from someone in the next week.  You just might not like the markup.  If you live in NYC, Seattle or Chicago; you can buy some in person today without much trouble.Apparently not yourself.  You're a troll, and the very reason that we have a 'newbie hell' section.  If you had asked a single question about how bitcoin works, I'd have been happy to explain it to you.  But you come in our house and sh*t on our dinner table and expect me to treat you with kindness?  There are 10K forums on the Internet for you to talk bad about bitcoins, but this is our home.  Guests come in here to learn about the system, and to trade and talk in peace.  Not to have some newbie jerk tell them all how bad everything is, that money laundering is what they are engaged it, or tell them that they are reporting them to the IRS.  Most of the good trolls have the sense to act respectablely until they make it out of newbie hell, before they go off on their missions to destroy all things bitcoin.  Some of them actually post things worth reading, even funny, and manage to stay here despite being trolls; after all, it's no fun listening to your echo.  But you couldn't even manage that.I have, always.  I know what it is, which is why I'm here.  Since you don't really seem to want to know what it is, or how it works, don't count on a long stay. Wow, that's incredible.  You've registered today and have it all figured out don't you?  I use bitcoins to buy things on a regular basis, exactly like I would if I were using cash to buy something in person, such as at a yard sale or via craigslist.  I've bought handmade jewlry off of Etsy, small hardware such as thumbdrives, sd cards and even a cell phone, as well as pre-paid cell phone service cards and online game licenses.  I've paid for server rentals.  I've never bought anything remotely illegal, and have never even connected to Silk Road.  The IRS isn't going to shut down MtGox, and even if that were possible, there are a dozen more such exchanges ready to snatch up their market share across the planet in as many different countries that don't care what the US IRS wants.My nephew has mined two blocks on his computer, he's a child.  I didn't show him how to do it, either.  I actually have never done so, or even tried. The non-savvy will pay the savvy to create convenient systems for them.  This will just take time.  I'm not particularly computer savvy myself, but the main client isnt' all that complicated.Inflation is, always and everywhere, the expansion of the base money supply; either in absolute terms or relative to the growth of the economy that it represents.  Deflation is the opposite.  FRB, lacking the capacity to "print" more currency (the primary function of the central bank) can only do this in a limited time frame, but that same expansion of supply must eventually contract to the same degree.  If it happens because loans are paid off, it's business as usual and occurs so slowly and smoothly as to not be noticed.  If it happens because of the bank collapses, then deflation is rapid and catastrophic, but only to those who have had direct dealings with that bank. A wallet service is not a bank.  At least not like what you are describing here.  A wallet service cannot issue it's own currency as an alternative for bitcoin, because the users are still sending actual bitcoins.  The network will accept nothing less.  It's not possible for a wallet service, no matter how large, to fake a bitcoin or to 'float' a transaction like one would a check.  A particularly large service might be able to get away with short term loans of user's funds, so long as there is never a "run", but it's not really possible to create more funds. Well, yes and no.  The key difference being that gold was held in deposit because it wasn't as convient to carry as warehouse receipts.  It is unlikely that a true bitcoin bank could ever issue a bitcoin backed credit currency of it's own, because the convience of bitcoin itself is a pretty high mark for an online currency.  Even if it does happen, the risks of such a thing rest solely upon the bank, it's investors and depositors.  No one that does not do business with that bank is at risk of loss of value as a result of either that bank's failure or it's success. You would fail.  Public schooling has never been about education. This is a myth, taught to you by a dysfunctional educational system.  Almost no one believed that the Earth was flat in Middle Europe, certainly not anyone who sailed on the ocean or lived near a coast.  The curvature of the Earth was easily demostrated.  Likewise, the belief that Columbus was trying to prove that the Earth was round was bs.  He was trying to prove that it was smaller than the majority of educated people in Europe believed it to be.  He was wrong and they were right, but he got lucky.  From all of the game keys I see on offer from so many people on these forums, it's terriblely obvious that there is much overlap between the bitcoin community and gamers who use Steam.  I therefore suggest that current Steam account holders politely request that VALVe & Steam add bitcoin payments to their list of accepted forms of payment.  They already use quite a few, and I'm sure that they would pursue the issue if they were made aware of the demand. I don't know how to even get a copy of the wallet.dat off of the phone, I've left it untouched for two months taking up phone space.
Wow, I can't even imagine how that is possible. If I have agreed to these terms, then that's fine.  But I haven't.  I paid for the black box with the functionality of the white box, and did not agree to your terms concerning the white box.  Or, alternatively, I did but the guy I sold it to second hand certainly did not.  If I agreed not to resell it, or to only resale it under the same terms, then you have a contract beef with me; but not with the next owner.  Your business secret is gone.  IP is the attempt to assert control on the next guy, which is the problem because he had no arrangement with you and whatever agreement you had between yourself and me is our problem.  You can claim that the idea is your property all you like, but it's not.  It's just data, information that allows the black box device to operate in a particular manner.  If the next guy has the means to replicate the white box, you have no honest claim on what he does.  IP is all about creating a monopoly on that data, but it cannot exist without the force of government.  What you refuse to acknowledge is the gun that is in the room, and that it may grant you the ability to compel others to your will but it cannot grant you the right. http://www.sott.net/articles/show/236218-Cash-Transactions-Banned-by-Louisiana-Government-Takes-Private-Property-Without-Due-ProcessI see a growing bitcoin niche in Louisiana. We are going about this all wrong..."It is error alone which needs the support of government. Truth can stand by itself. ~ Thomas JeffersonWhenever speaking of free and voluntary societies Im often asked, What would we do about this, or, who would take care of that.  I used to rattle off answers to these questions that were supplied by minds sharper than mine without even examining the questions. Then I realized I was focusing on the wrong part of the question. I was simply explaining how a different system would work, and hoping the ones asking the question would be won over with the clever and well thought out answers I had either memorized, or thought of myself. I have been trying to persuade people away from their system using the promise of a new and improved system. I realized I was no different than any other philosophical political peddler, and I would no longer tempt people with our system.The truth is no one knows what we will do in a completely voluntary society, there is just no way of knowing. Any answer that is given to questions pertaining to the problems that individuals would face in such a society are purely speculation. I cannot tell you what we would do, I can only tell you what I would do. I would honor my contracts; I would defend myself; I would choose to help others in need; I would expect no one to support me; and I would plan accordingly. I want to be very clear here, I do not disagree with the theory that is being presented on how the logistics of society would be handled. There is no doubt that these organizations and such would arise and be needed in a voluntary society. I disagree with the fact that these theories are being pushed as answers before addressing the only real and true problem; collectivist thought. When those who are curious about voluntarism ask the we questions, the underlying collectivist philosophy is still there, and this is what needs to be addressed first before any practical questions can or should be answered. Otherwise, you are just trying to get them to abandon their system for your system."http://zerogov.com/?p=2334 Basicly, old Testament slavery was closer to indentured servitude, wherein some people were indentured because they lost a battle. The concept of prisoners of war as presented in the old Hebrew law, although commonly translated as slavery, isn't comparable to modern slavery.  First off, the Hebrew law makes it plain that such prisoners of war have rights under God that must be respected.  They also must be released after 7 years of faithful servitude, and offered a daughter of their 'master' in marriage.  Slavery of the modern context is highly dependent upon distinct class division, by race or otherwise, that prohibited intermarriage.  The offering of a daughter to the faithful servant undermined the cultural and racial distinctions between the conquering tribe and those of the losing tribe, which is the point of such marriage arrangements, until there is no discernable differences between one tribe and the other.  The Hebrew tribes didn't really have much of a concept of "owning" a slave like one owned a sheep, although this was common enough in nearby cultures such as the Egyptions.  Perhaps this was a reflex against the generations of true slavery in Egypt, perhaps just a means of preventing the Hebrews that came after from the temptations of claiming prisoners of war, for the risks of actually having to follow through with making this prisoner your next son-in-law. DOSing the major pools isn't what I think of as a "51% attack", but whatever.  Whether or not the pools are under attack or not is of little concern to myself.  The overall security of the network is not really under threat, since 10 Terahashes per second isn't a mark reachable by any known network or supercomputer.  This does highlight the risks to the bitcoin network at large associated with pool mining.  Concentrating the mining to a single server for the purpose of income stability also creates central points of failure/attack.  I don't mine in pools for this exact reason, and don't think anyone with any substantial hashing ability should do so.  10K small lights are harder to shoot out than a dozen really big ones. Damn, I wish I had thought of that one! Actually, it is.  Perhaps if you had bothered to read the well thought out and written blog post that was presented to yourself, you'd now see the association.  The differences between a "positive right" and a slavemaster's priviliages are simply a matter of degree.  It is your claim that you have a right to an income at my expense based solely on my possession of a particular set of data that you may have created.  Very recently a Democratic candidate for the US Senate was quoted as saying that no one gets rich alone, which is actually true.  But it is at least as accurate to say that no one makes art alone, or science, or anything else.  Your programs would be useless without the inventors who applied the sciences of earlier peers to build computers.  Do they have a claim on your income as well?  How far down the rabbit hole does this lead? http://www.amazon.com/H-J-Wijsman-Canned-Butter-Holland/dp/B005IPV42U/ref=sr_1_16?ie=UTF8&qid=1318453289&sr=8-16 Not to mention the obvious bias I hold against Wiccans, Druids and other related Anglosaxon pagen religions. No.  The 'other' category is all the blocks produced by miners not known to be associated to a pool, including all of the pools that bitcoinwatch is not yet aware of.  It doesn't, in fact, mean anything at all other than that more than 50% of the current hashing power is anonymous. Once upon a time, dozens of little girls said that dozens of adults in the area were bewitching them in their sleep.  The town's elders and local judge felt the same way you do.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salem_witch_trials Mostly likely a latent cultural influence of Anglican moral code.  I'm sure he'll see the error of his ways once Sharia law dominates in the UK.  After all, The Prophet married an eight year old in his 50's; what right does he have to intervene when the law says that a man of the Koran can take the child daughter of an infidel such as himself?(I have no doubt that the sarcasm will be entirely missed by Hawker, the cognative dissonance must be terrrible.) That's not an answer, it's a link.  Even if you believed it word for word, there are at least three different definitions of that one term in that article, which are all loose definitions and generally mutuall exclusive.  If society gets to decide, how does one decide what society actually is?  If it is the voting public, then children are not part of society?  If it is parliment, then are you part of society?  If society is defined by established national borders, do you still think you have a valid opinion about anything in mine? Hawker, please define the term "society" in this context. The United Kingdom isn't a democracy either, it's a parlimentary republic superimposed upon a constitutional monarchy.  And it's still a constitutional monarchy.  After all, where do the royals get their income? Yes, and so is projection.   Mine did, at three.  "Stay away from that blue flame, son, it's hot and it will hurt you."  Worked fine the first time.   As I am sure that you are already aware, this is what grown ups say to teens when they are losing an argument due to being unable to respond to a rational and thought out position.  They likely think that you are nieve, but if you asked them if they believed as you do when they were your age, they will invariablely say no.
I have no idea.  As for the shipping costs, it depends on how much it would be.  I can get a can shipped, its just that it  would cost a fortune.  If these are available locally to you, and are willing to pick up a can retail, I'm willing to pay for it's retail price & parcel post costs plus 10%.  I'm not sure that I'm willing to have a single can shipped twice. This thread has seriously wandered off topic, and has entered deep into Valley Creepy. Would a bounty help to encourage your efforts? Not from the kind of law that you are talking about, and that is the center of your misconception. The addition of salt to the gallon jug leaves less room for water, and the lower freezing point means that the temperature difference across the insulation is a greater span.  I.E. keeping food below 40 degrees is about a 35 degree span to maintain, but keeping the frozen foods frozen needs to be around 15 degrees to be certain that all of it stays frozen, so the span is a 55 degree difference.  That's my theory, anyway.  I didn't expect the salt ice performance to be so poor.I have a pretty big cooler, so I can fit four gallon jugs (one at each corner) at about 32 pounds of ice and another 20 pounds or so of loose ice cubes; this will keep the food below 40 degrees for at least 4 days in 75-80 degree weather, out of the sun.  I have a large deep freezer, so I can keep much more than that.Considered it.  Can't stand it.  Won't even bother to ask my wife to try it. Japan also treats underage drinking in like manner. Not quite, just trying to stock my pantry for my own comfort for the next power outage.  In the Fall of 2008 there was a huge windstorm that ripped across my area, knocking out power to half the city and littering the entire city with debris.  I didn't have power for 4 days, and I live in an urban area.  Others didn't have power for two weeks, out beyond the suburbs.  I'm using that four day mark as my target.  We managed okay on peanut butter and crackers, but if canned butter can generally live up to expectations, it would be a great addition.  I just have to show my wife that it actually tastes and cooks like butter, and without the metallic taste that some canned foods have.  In order to do so, I need a can to test.  During the outage, I came to realize that what we needed most was refrigeration, since we just read by candlelight rather than stare at the tv.  I bought a Colman brand Xtreme cooler, and have taken to filling the spare space in our deep freezer with old milk jugs filled with tapwater.  I've used a refrigerator thermometer to test the cooler to see if it can live up to the hype and keep the inside of the cooler below 40 degrees F. for four days with less than half the internal volume as ice.  It can, but barely.  I also tried doping the jugs of water with salt of different measured amounts, in order to see if I could do the same thing with frozen items, and thus use two coolers; one to keep things refrigerator cold, another to keep frozen things frozen.  The salt doped jugs couldn't seem to keep the inside of the cooler below freezing form more than a full day even at one cup salt per gallon jug, and salt doping reduced the cooling power of the jug to such a degree that at one quarter cup salt per gallon jug couldn't quite keep the same cooler under 40 degrees for two days, all other conditions being equal to the freshwater experiment. Any possibility that this recovery tool can be used to scan an Android phone for the keys of an android client that no longer will properly update? I need one small can of H.J. Wijsman & Zonen brand canned butter, for a small taste test.  I can not find it locally in the US, although I can buy it by the case online.  Please post or PM if you can ship me one can of this that won't cost me a fortune. If VALVe would only start accepting bitcoin directly in Steam... I'm looking for Red Feather brand canned butter, in small cans.  I can get it by the case via several sites online, but have not been able to find it locally.  I want to buy one small can, for a taste test.  I'm trying to compare some canned butters, for my long term pantry, that my wife won't reject; and I've found some high reviews for Red Feather.   That's your opinion.  I'm sure that we can both present historical examples of small local militias either running in abject fear or standing their ground, both before and after the US Revolutionary War.  Again, I've served.  I doubt that you have.  You speak as one who has book knowledge of the military, not direct experience.  And many, if not most, of the kind of person that considers himself a 'militiaman" is the same kind of person that volunteers for military service during an active national conflict.  My eight year old son has no irises, (acute bioccular anaridia, can't adjust to light at all, wears self-tinting eyeglasses to compensate) and can barely see his targets in full sun, but could thread an eye socket with his 22lr bolt action from across the backyard in moonlight.  It's entirely different when your targets are shooting back at you, though, and there is really no way to judge that until it were to occur.  No military plan of action ever survives contact with the enemy. Ah, the Whiskey Rebellion.  Washington did not impose that tax.  The POTUS does not have the power to tax, only Congress.  Congress passed a law, and then expected the executive branch to enforce it.  Sure, he could have vetoed it, but he also understood the nature of government, and that if he neutered it they would be right back to the interstate bickering that dominated under the Articles.  The rebels believed, correctly, that they were being singled out for their way of life and means of income.  They lost, it doesn't mean that they were incorrect. It seems that you don't know the copyright laws too well, either.  The Millinium Copyright Act made the, knowing or unknowing, redistribution of copyrighted materials on encrypted media a crime.  It also makes the circumvention of said encryption a crime.  DVD's had a rudimentary encryption scheme, that proved trival for a talented 13 year old to defeat using three line of C code.  The act of buying a DVD, and then lending it to your buddy for the night without you (the owner) being present at the viewing is redistribution under the act.  Libraries have exceptions under fair use, and individuals used to as well, but no longer.  You can sell the DVD used, even though they don't like that and tried to make that illegal as well, but then the license travels with ownership.The same thing applies to installing a game that you legally purchased on more than one computer, it's now a crime punishishable by federal prison time, even if you personally own both computers and are the only person intended to use either installation.How many times have you committed a federal crime in the past year? No, I don't care to address it.  I'll assume that you are correct in whole, since you seem much more versed in this particular topic than I.  It's still irrelevent.  Even if Toy Story couldn't have ever been made, the pragmatic argument does not change the fact of the matter that IP is not property, and thus IP laws are violations of real property rights.  If you sell me a DVD of your latest work, and we do not have any agreement otherwise, you have no right to prevent me from doing whatever I wish to my property.  My property is the physical DVD, your animations are just data.  If we have an agreement that I won't buy the DVD and then share your data, I'm bound by different laws and different principles.  But there is no such thing as an agreement that I'm bound to simply reason of opening a package. http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0EIN/is_1995_Dec_4/ai_17812444/It should be obvious that the cost savings of current hardware compared to a 100 node Sun workstation cluster would be significant, but also the vast amount of highly skilled labor required in both the construction of the cluster itself, and of the custom rendering software, would be entirely unnecessary today.  Sure, Renderman might not exist, but alternatives likely would, such as VALVe's own game rendering engine.  Renderman was created for that movie, and once created was available for all such followup CGI movies.  Yet, if the movie had not been made, CGI rendering software would likely still currently exist due to first person gaming.  So if the script had been shelved, and someone were to dust it off today, the production budget would be lower by an order of magnitude if the voice actors didn't have to be Tom Hanks and Tim Allen.   Granted, it still wouldn't be cheap, but it still would have been a winner on the direct-to-video path.As noted, however, it still wouldn't have any bearing on the principles of the matter even if I'm completely full of bovine fecal matter. Are you serious? I can't argue against that point.  Still doesn't explain how our world is better off with huge nation-state militaries versus locally funded and concerned militias.Sure, but I didn't claim that future was will only involve force on force.  I simply stated that is the primary design of those pricey weapons systems.  If they don't have such targets, then they don't justify their pricetags.  Yes.  I am, as a point in fact, willing to take the risk that free men will be unwilling to contribute to a collective defense if the alternative choice is that I must trust that commanders of nation-state, taxpayer funded militaries will continue to not simply take over by coup.  Must I point out the historical fact is that during the course of the last century, more people were killed (unnaturally) by the agents of their own governments than by all other (unnatural) causes?If you believe that real militias in America are, generally speaking, either poorly equipt or poorly trained you are sorely mistaken.  Sure, they don't have predator drones (yet, look at diydrones.com) but if you were to compare the self-funded gear of a real militia unit versus the "made by the lowest bidder" gear of a comparable light infantry unit of the US Army, the militia is likely to have both better quality gear and a more diverse set of gear, because they bought it themselves and many can afford much more than is ever issued to a infantryman.  As for training, at least half of real militias are comprised of military veterans.  The public image of such things is not reality, the militia units that actually exist are well organized and disciplined; and not remotely similar to the crazy survivalist/white supremist/Neo-Nazi BS that pervades the entertainment industry. I probably am, since I wasn't talking about anyone in particular.  If you have concrete examples to share, I'll consider whomever you intend to highlight. I disagree.  The modern weapons systems are geared towards the destruction of other capital weapons of war, and thus other nation-states.  They serve little tactial value against groups of motivated militiamen who have little or no loyalty to any particular nation-state, lines on a map or strategic plot of land.  Afganistan, holding the well-earned reputation of being the place where empires invade to die, should be a case in point.  There have been almost as many US military personelle in that country as there are armed adult males of the local civilian population, and we still can't get a handle on the situation.  Such modern weapons systems would hold nearly zero tactical value for a privately defended city-state, except perhaps for the deterent effect of WMD'sWould that be a bad thing?
Actually, it does.  Private merc contracts were called "Letters of Marque" in the day, and that exact language is used in the Constitution.Actually, the opposite is true.  Thomas Jefferson, among others, regarded standing armies as a continous threat to the republic.  Militias were, and are, privately organized military units by definition, whose membership do not answer to any direct chain of command.  The US Army and Marine Corps are not, in point of fact, continously commissioned institutions from their founding dates.  Both were dispanded for a few years following the Revolution, in part, because the Articles of Confederation did not provide any collective funding for a national military.  We didn't even have a Navy, in the modern sense anyway.  John Paul Jones is credited with being the first Naval commander during the Revolution, but at the time he was more like a merc in the modern context.Sorry, but as I have already noted, mercs have been a part of the US defense forces since the beginning.  You were born (censored).This is a valid argument, but the debate between private and public defense forces is a question of stragedies that the POTUS has always had the constitutional right to decide.  The fact that almost all of them has strongly favored a professional & government 'regulated' military does not alter that fact.BTW, please watch your language. http://www.wlsam.com/Article.asp?id=2306265&spid=At least this city has found a way to undercut the market rate for fire protection services, they are doing the same thing that the Roman Empire did, they use slaves! I don't think that you understand the point.  To answer your question directly, it won't, ever.  An ignorant irritant of a member has exactly the same rights to say stupid things as anyone else does, so long as s/he continues to do so in a civil manner.  We will not favor any one group of the membership over any other, no matter how you might look at it. Well, that's not entirely true, as the best flicks retain their "suggested retail price" point pretty well while the mediocre flicks start off in the 20% discount section and fall from there.  But a lot of that is that IP laws actually function as price support that decends with time since release.  You can see this in how movies move from the first run theater, to the discount theater, to DVD release, to group DVD's (the package deals that you can get more than one movie in a single retail package, either on the same disk or more than one disk in a single case/package) a few years down the line.  Fallacies aside, if IP laws are repealed this process (that the market value of information tends towards zero) would proceed much faster than it does at present. I didn't make that argument.  I said that the guy who tries to get by cheap without any protection and his house burns down (and his homeowners' insurance policy drops him because he is an idiot, what kind of guy would keep his homeowners and not his fire protection anyway?) would serve as a warning to others in the area to the great risk that they would be taking by cutting liabilites in this area. It would appear that Steam has plans to make a movie or two using their rendering engine....http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_Fortress_2#Marketing"The "Meet the Team" videos are based on the audition scripts used for the voice actors for each of the classes; the "Meet the Heavy" scripts is nearly word-for-word a copy of the Heavy's script. More recent videos, such as "Meet the Sniper", contain more original material.[86] The videos have been used by Valve to help improve the technology for the game, specifically improving the facial animations, as well as a source of new gameplay elements, such as the Heavy's "Sandvich" or the Sniper's "Jarate".[86] Newell has stated that Valve is using the "Meet the Team" shorts as a means of exploring the possibilities of making feature film movies themselves. Newell believed that only game developers themselves have the ability to bring the interesting parts of a game to a film, and suggested that this would be the only manner through which a Half-Life-based movie would be made."(Emphasis mine)So, will it take millions to make a movie from a VALVe game?  Will fans of the game pay to see it?  I understand that this doesn't actually contradict your claim that IP laws are necessary, but it does put the error to your claim that major motion pictures must continue to be produced in the manner that presently dominates.  Nor must they cost a fortune to be truely entertaining.  As an aside, when the original Toy Story was produced, it required a custom built Belwolf cluster to render the CGI graphics.  Today VALVe's rendering engine produces comparable quality CGI video, in real time, on a not-too-recent home PC or iMac.  And it does this while connected to a game server across the Internet which manages the interaction of up to 36 rendering engines at the same time.If Toy Story hadn't already been produced, the exact same movie could have been produced by a creative team using three or four consumer desktops networked together.Just because you can't (or we can't) imagine how such entertainment would be produced sans IP; or even what form that it would take, it doesn't logically follow that such entertainment will not be produced nor that the market will fail to fund it's production.  VAVLe apparently understands this, regardless of their view on IP laws in general.  Their management and marketing team does not depend upon the continuing enforcablity of copyright laws (or even licensing contracts, for that matter) in order to create great art that a great many people are willing to contribute money for.  Hell, they still make money off of a free-to-play game such as TF2 by selling virtual hats inside the game.And it's an awesome game.  I heard about it on this very forum last year or so, and downloaded it a couple of weeks ago for free.  It's also free to join most game host servers, although they will tend to advertise to you or solicit donations.  Steam (whatever that program actually is) logs my game time, and I've burned over 60 hours of time.  At tjhe original sale price that would already be less than a dollar per hour, which is way better entertainment value that a two hour movie at the movie theater. I cannot contradict this observation.  In my own experience, half of the tea parties people are libs and half are neo-con fodder.  Kinda like a dead split between Ron Paul and Sarah Palin.  I have no direct experience with the OWS crowd, so I can't comment on that.  However, if they really are the liberal far left's version of the 'Tea Party' they are their own worst enemy.  The tea party types that showed up for Glenn Beck's 9/12 rally last year left the grounds at least as clean as it was when they arrived, and that was property of the very government that they want downsized.  The OWS crowd are camped out on private property that is managed by a trust that does not have the authority from the donator to evict peaceful patrons, and they are defiling the grounds. If the best argument for maintaining the status quo is simplicity at the cost of consumer choice; then well, I guess your pragmatism trumps our principle (*cough*).  However, that problem has long been solved.  It's called the 'free market' and it is that big grey animal in the middle of the room you keep ignoring.  You can't even argue that private fire protection has never been attempted, it has and does fine.  You just don't notice because it's successful. They didn't elect to have such burdens placed upon them so that you can have a privilege of an income.  And the irony of your choice of words is not lost on myself. Really?  What if only 99% of homeowners participated, whould the system fail for lack of funding?  What if only 95%?  At was point is an urban "free rider" problem really a problem?  What if that free rider has a fire, is the fire company obligated to put the fire out, because both his neighbors paid the fees?  Or simply obligated to keep his neighbors' homes wet while his burns to the ground?  What happens to that free rider then?  Everyone has a purpose in this great world.  For some, that purpose is to serve as a warning to others. And that changes the argument, how?  Even if I accepted that your view was correct, and that the only way to improve the lives of the ignorant was to do so by imposing force upon them as a group, how does that change the argument that you don't have the right to do so? http://cafehayek.com/2011/10/a-note-on-commenting.htmlI saw this today, and I believe that it pretty well sums up the common moderation policy on this forum.  For those of you who read this post (which is about the comment section for Cafe Hayek, not this forum) and don't know who are the people that they are talking about, then you are the people they are talking about.  We tolerate your presence and ignore your ignorance, so long as you are neither unforgivablely rude nor vulgar.  No one should take our silence (moderators) as consent or approval of their opinions. If it ever is, it won't be called that by it's proponents, only it's opposition.  I might be called something cryptic like "Organic Property" and require dozens of laws establishing different aspects of privilages for certain citizens over the free will and existing propery law of the remainder of citizens.  Over a period of time, these same laws become entrenched into certain industries where they are adopted first, and proponents insist that those monopoly privileges established and enforced by government are "rights" dispite the fact that the average 8 year old has a decent understanding of what is actually right and wrong, yet these laws don't make sense to the average adult.Ask an 8 year old if he takes his neighbors bicycle without permission is wrong, and then ask that same child if borrowing a (legitimate) copy of his best friend's latest Xbox game with the owner's permission is wrong; and take note of the differences in response.  Just because you consider copyright to be your right, doesn't mean that it's actually right.  I'd be willing to bet that the average adult, if polled, has no idea that there are laws that criminalize sharing.   So do high tension linemen, but their job isn't paid for by taxes.  Who's job is more dangerous on average, a NYC cop or a NYC cabbie?  Risk is part of life, I ask, so what?Is a new truck a requirement?  Is a pumper truck at all?  Obviously not, since firemen have been around pretty much since the Roman age.  Can a company of volunteer firemen without a brand new pumper truck compete against a fully outfitted company?  Probably not, but again so what?  Should they not have a right to try?  And besides, a $400K pumper truck is actually a pretty small venture capital business plan.  The greater cost of currently employed fire suppresssion plans is the real estate and the labor costs.  If your local town has only one firehouse, it's almost certainly already paid for and the firemen are local volunteers.  Do you think that a few of those volunteers could start a private company, should the city stop providing funds, with the help and fees of the town's wealthiest?  Or even just to cover the businesses and banks on Main Street.  Again, a terminal lack of imagination.Any proposal that I make is irrelevent.  As is your view of reality, or what consitutes such accommodation.   I don't wish to change society.  I wish to change government.  If you believe that a pair of $400K firetrucks is the only way to provide for fire protection, or even if it is that taxation is the only way to pay for it, then you suffer from a terminal lack of imagination.  There is nothing that I can say that is going to help you to reevaluate your premises, because first you would have to accept that at least one of them is wrong.If if you really thought that I was flaming you, first I apologize, for I was just playing around; and second, now I'm certain your are a Boomer. How was I uncivil?  Hawker has a history of ignoring the solutions presented to him, I was just being jovial about it.  I'm guessing he is at least as old as I, and I'll admit that I've walked into a room and then stopped and asked myself, "Why did I come in here?"  It's simply the process of life, and it would somewhat explain his propensity to ignore certain posts.Then again, maybe he simply has half the libs on 'ignore'. There is no free rider problem.  That has already been addressed in this very thread.  Do you have memory issues, Hawker?  Doubtless you are a boomer, IMHO, due to your use of language; are you now having trouble remembering where you left your keys, too?  Why did you go into that room, anyway? Not one that is not currently struggling under the "legitimte" system.  After all, grocery stores that have to remove their out of date product can write that off their taxes as a corporate loss but then must throw the stuff out.  Giving away to a local soup kitchen for near term use is out of the question.  If they should do it before the date expires, it's only a donation deduction and not a full loss write off.  The people who dive into the dumpster after audit day, however, are the kind of people willing to take the risks; but I don't think that things are quite so bad in America for that to be widespread. You might be right about urban areas becoming a natural monopoly situation, regardless of direct support via city government.  And, generally speaking, libs don't have a problem with natural monopolies so long as they do not become artificial ones.  If a single fire protection company gains a natural monopoly on a given cityscape, so long as no one starts getting it in their heads that, when that monopoly situation changes, said single fire protection company is 'too big to fail' then so be it.   That's okay.  Someone else will.  Anyone without a job, but with a minivan that can hold a couple of large coolers, get going.  Make your own job.
http://www.chicagoresourceexpo.com/It's free, but obviously limited in attendance.  If you're local, register now. Drugs are a high value item, wherein privacy is a requirement.  It's Silk Road that needs Bitcoin, not the other way around.  The reason it looks like it's the only successful model is because, for the time being, shopping online for legal items that are otherwise high value and easy to ship works just fine with credit cards.  The only thing that's going to undermine that is if the currency they use loses their trust or the credit card companies lose their trust.  A local model that you might pursue is the 'foodie movement' such as raw milk and local honey.  With the FDA coming down on raw milk suppliers and contract arrangements, there is room for a revival of the "milk man" who delivers the milk to the foodies from an undisclosed farm. This happened informally in my city after a major windstorm tore through the area.  The debris was so extensive, and the city otherwise too busy with power and life safety, that the garbage wasn't getting picked up.  mostly because the garbage men have two routes each day, one before and one after lunch.  But if the truck gets full, they abandon the end of the route.  Apparently my street was near the end of that route, and garbage was getting out of hand, but the city said that they would cover the drop-off fees for city residents and then a couple of guys came buy and said that they would take all I had piled up (over three weeks) for $15.  I said "deal", and paid them cash.  They just took the bags of trash and tossed them into the bed of an old ford pickup along with what looked like half my street. It's pretty obvious that neither one of you have ever actually attended a Tea Party rally to find out for yourself what they are about.  I have, and at least in my area of the country, freedom from government (and oppressive taxation) is pretty much the major undercurrent.  There are many libertarian leaning groups there, both young and old.  I shouldn't have to say this, but don't depend upon the observations of others for your opinions, particularly not people that listen to the media much.  I think that both of you would likely find that you have much in common with both the Tea Party people and the Wall Street occupiers if you took either event first hand. the magstripe? Toronto is a big city, with a completely differnet market dynamic.  You can't even know how much cheaper a mature & competitive private fire protection market could be.  You can't know if it might be $8 monthy for a home.  I'd bet that the relative costs of fire protection in NYC are vanishingly small.  It's a city of concrete and steel.  Toronto is pretty much likewise, is it not? This is a perfect example of the level of sense these people have.."Emissions from this one reactor exceeded a hundred-fold the radioactive contamination of the bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki." Anyone with any rational sense would have to ask, "how could that be?" for those bombs were intended to be released into the immediate environment completely while not all, not even a lot, of the core of Chernobyl escaped into the air via the graphite fire.  Almost none would have even then if they hadn't used graphite as their moderator.  One of the reactors at Chernobyl was still producing power 10 years later, which also means that there were plant workers still at the site.   Sorry, but that's simply not true.  Those numbers are based upon the assumption that anyone who dies from any form of cancer who lived within 100 or so miles downwind of the plant during the disaster, and likewise anyone who died from any other complication even loosely associated with radiation poisoning, died because of exposure to the radioactive material released.  It's intelectually dishonest to assume that all such deaths were related, the cancer rates were slightly elevated in the monitored population.  It probably is the root cause of thousands of deaths, but even so most of those people didn't lose very much off the average lifespan taken on aggregate.  It was still a horrible disaster made worse by politics and poor engineering and technical response training, but the actual reduction of lifespan was far less than feared.It's probably that high right now.  Asbestos is far more dangerous for human life at that concentration than airborne iodine (which is what is the real threat) of the same concentration.  The solar wind produces more radioactive oxygen than that.You're speaking of iodine.  We do have a simple defense such relatively low concentrations.  Iodine pills.  If the body doesn't need iodine, it won't try to assimulate more from food or any other source, and it will be ejected via urine.  The risks of radioactive iodine is the length of time in close proximity to tissue.  Moving iodine doesn't damage nearby tissues fast enough to trigger cancer.And seaweed tofu.  It was a regular breakfast ration for the Japanese doctors and nurses in the humanitarian effort following the bombing of Japan.  Knowing nothing about radiation poisoning at the time, logic would have suggested that their rate of cancers would be significantly elevated in the following years, but it was not. "Daniel Bartels, of the Columbia Business School, found that those who endorse actions consistent with an ethic of utilitarianism  the view that what is the morally right thing to do is whatever produces the best overall consequences  tend to possess psychopathic and Machiavellian personality traits.http://www.strike-the-root.com/prohibition-did-work-sort-ofThis stuff is too easy. Why would they use it?  The QR codes are to receive funds from someone else, not pay for them.  It's completely backwards of how a credit card currently works.  Who is going to add magstripe readers to their cell phone so that they can scan the vendor's card when the camera can scan a QR sticker affixed to the register at least as well? Not that I consider the Guardian a trustworthy source, but in the absence of counter-evidence, I shall consider myself duely corrected. Actually there is.  Search Wikipedia for the terms "thorium fuel cycle" and "energy amp".  You will learn much.  When you finish, consider the question, "In light of what is known and how Europe handles fission waste products, why does the US wish to establish the long term repository in Nevada?" I thought that there was one case of an overexposed plant employee who died after trying to help put out the coolant pool fire.  I might be wrong, or he simply died of something other than radiation exposure. Well, he never claimed to compare a coal plant running normally to that of a nuke plant in catastrophic breakdown of containment.  It's rational enough to assume that he was comparing the average coal plant running normally to an average nuke plant running normally, and it's true.  I've worked at both types of power plants in my career, and even without knowing that a coal plant releases more radioactive material into the environment in a year than a nuke plant (which I did know, as it's pretty common knowledge in the industry) I wouldn't want to live near a coal plant.  Nothing grows within a quarter mile of the stack of Beckjord Powerhouse in SE Ohio, as it is the oldest running coal plant in America.  And even if I lived in sight of a nuke plant, these days one can get a rapid warning alert for an android phone that would inform you immediately if the nuke plant were to ever enter into forced shutdown, etc.That said, if you take all of the radioactive material released by coal plants the world over, it's somewhat worse than a Chernobyl each year, it's just not so concentrated.  People died from both the Chernobyl event and the Fukushima event due to the concentrations of lethal exposure.  There were other effects from Chernobyl that could be debated, but the rates of cancer and birth defects were much lower than expected.  You likely get more dosage from the concrete blocks of buildings that you work in and from medical screening than you would have simply because you lived 10 or 20 miles from either of these events.  And no matter how the media presents it, Chernobyl was still a much worse environmental catastrophe than Fukushima. To what end?  Who would use it? "Fascism is the system of government that cartelizes the private sector, centrally plans the economy to subsidize producers, exalts the police state as the source of order, denies fundamental rights and liberties to individuals and makes the executive state the unlimited master of society."http://whiskeyandgunpowder.com/how-fascism-kills-the-american-dream/Is there any objection to this casual definition? I'm saying that I may or may not agree, depending upon what you actually mean by that.   It's a vague statement standing alone. Still not an argument. Try requiring that dog owners pay a $300 'license' to fund an anti-dog torturing task force and see how much majority you have left. Thanks for doing the research.
Then, as another already stated, don't open a door you cannot close.  And don't refer to your oppositions' arguments as "silly" sans a counter-argument. Limiting the freedoms of the rare few as a direct consequence of their own actions is entirely a different topic than limiting the freedoms of the majority because of what could be done by the rare few. It's not impossible, it's just not ideal.  It's like the old argument of the Soviets to the masses when they complained about want.  "When we reach a perfect communism, then we will all have enough".  But it is the process to the prefect that is the issue.  I've pointed this out to you repeatedly before.It's a silly argument for an entirely different reason.  A child cannot consent, thus sex with children is sex slavery.  Your attempt at equating the argument for freedom for it's own sake with the wish of a predator to force his will upon another human being is not only an epic fail, it's also dishonest.  And trollish.  If we were to stoop to that level, it would be trivial to compare your desires to enforce IP laws for your own gains to taking the food out of a child's mouth because his father couldn't pay the fee you demand for his 'hunting license'.  Do you believe that a government has the right to require permission for subsistance hunting?  After all, if they don't then there is a risk that there won't be any game left for the wealthy hunters who can pay for the game warden's salary.  What if instead of food, it was a generic medicine that said child required to live.  What right do you have, as the patent holder, to deny the child the medicine even if it's made by your competitor in a nation that doesn't honor your pantents?  You try to make the argument that movies wouldn't be made without IP laws, an assertion that I find rediculous, and you never even make an argument as to why this would be the case beyond "some people would get a movie for free, therefore all people would get their movies free".  It doesn't follow.  Regardless, the business model of the entertainment industries is not a valid argument for the injustice of IP laws.  Even if it didn't exist as we now know it, something else would exist.  And even if it didn't, it's entertainment.  Why do you hate the children? I'm more or less on the fence, but I can guess as to what he is refering to.  Most people here are libertarian leaning, to some degree or another.  Such a political ideology, whether we agree with their greviences or not, doesn't tend to view groupthink, mob action, or popular group identity politics with much respect. Can you support the statement in bold?  Do you have any evidence that it is so? You should have responded like this..."If we agree with the generally accepted definition of self-evident truths  those which do not require hard evidence in order to evince acceptance  we run into two problems. The first is that at some time there surely must have been some evidence that caused universal acceptance of these truths; as in, it is self-evident that the Sun rises in the east every morning because the ancients and we have seen it there; as in, every human being has material needs to stay alive because the ancients and we have gotten hungry and cold and awkward at nakedness; as in, all things are subject to the laws of cause and effect, except for the uncaused cause, whom believers call God and our secular colleagues call Nature. These observations of the Sun and realizations of our own self-needs are, in fact, evidence for their universal acceptance. But the universality of these "truisms" (another way of saying self-evident truths) allows us to dispense with the need to provide scientific evidence in support of them whenever we articulate them. Stated differently, no rational person can seriously challenge truisms when we use them as building blocks for our arguments."-Judge NeopolitanoBut as soon as you had, I would have been inclined to point out that this is one truism, and economics is a set of same.  A set of natural laws that cannot be denied without a "cost" in some other aspect of the economy.  So just as no one gets out of life alive, nor do you get to ignore economics without a cost to yourself, whether you are aware of the loss or not.Seriously, you kids are slow. http://lewrockwell.com/napolitano/napolitano25.1.html You're going to have to be more specific.  Regardless, you must not spend much time on the Internet. Did you really write this?  Are you being serious?Be wary of what you read.  I won't argue that artillery can kill more people, particularly in a war of attritian.  They are a force advantage, but you still require a target.  It's hard to target the enemy discriminately, when they are a minority mixed into the general population.  As for your courts in mortal conflict example, it depends.  If those civilians outnumber the trained professional force by any significant margin, and half or more of those civilians are either former military themselves, or graduates of 'Appleseed' your mercs are going to have much to consider concerning their loyalties after contact with the enemy.  Don't expect that books, even history textbooks that focus on military history, are going to make up for your lack of direct experience in this field.  I served 8 years in the USMC.  There is nothing more frightening than a civilian with a rifle who doesn't have anything left to lose. What puzzles me is why you keep assuming that when I state the obvious, that you jump to the conclusion that I find that reality preferable.  This side-track was all started when you tried to claim that a group of men with guns was just a lawless rabble, and I pointed out that is exactly what government boils down to.  Regardless of how fair, or "democratic" or otherwise justifiable you (or I) might consider any particular goverment structure to be; governments always boils down to the set of rought men willing to do violence against others on the command of a perceived superior.  Government IS force.  There is no way around this.  Likewise, there is no way around the fact that IP laws are specific applications of said force (and threat of force) against one group of citizens to the benefit of another group of citizens. The great irony of this statement is that we understand this far greater than you do, and despite knowing this is true, you regard the defense of freedom for it's own sake to be a "silly argument". Tanks, artillery and aircraft are weapons of war that are effective against other weapons of war, such as other tanks, artillery and aircraft.  They are not particularly useful for subduing a rebellion.  Your statements make it obvious that you never served in the military.  The basic unit of a military is the single person with a rifle.  This hasn't changed despite hundreds of years of technical advancements in the field.  The most demoralizing and dangerous opponent to go up against is a talented sniper.  During WWII, the Soviets invaded Finland in what they called the "Winter War", and the Soviets would carpet bomb entire sections of the Finish countryside to kill one farmer turned sniper who had become known as the "White Ghost" and the "White Death" to the Soviet troops.  He was the most successful single sniper in recorded history, and very likely was a significant factor in the Finns successful defense of country.  The proliferation of the privately owned rifle was a major factor in the Soviets never actually invading the US.  After the Soviet Union broke apart, and we gained access to old Soviet military documents, there was a case study done on the feasibility of a military invasion of the US.  They focused upon Chicago, and despite the level of gun control in that city, the Soviet military planners estimated that it would take at least a full battalion to capture and occupy just this one city.Unless your goal is the absolute destruction of a population, 300 tanks are of small value against 10,000 armed and upset adults, particularly if they are not organized into a collective unit.  4th Generation warfare, look it up. Another term for such an organized group is a government.  From what I can find on the internet, it looks to me that the media is focusing on particular groups within the protests, intentionally or otherwise.  It doesn't look like there is any single group, but some groups make more news than others.  Unless your employment contract is of a defined term, then it's ongoing and can be voided by either party at will.  This is why you can quit McDonalds without being sued and they can fire you so long as they still pay you for the time that you were there.  No matter how you try to spin it, yes it is fair enough in the standard conditions that I have presented.  However, if you signed a term contract, you can't change the terms of the employment until the term of the contract is complete.  So unions have no vector for organizing the US military, as an example. BTW, no one can prove that "no one makes it out of life alive" because, although it's pretty obvious that it's close enough to be true, you can't prove a negative absolute.   Almost all human history that we in the modern age consider to be factual is based upon independent documented references.  The New Testament references itself, which is not trustworthy, but there are literally dozens of independent documents that claim that Jesus of Nazareth was a real person who was executed by a Roman official.  There is more evidence that Jesus was not a work of fiction than there is that Homer was more than a pseudonym or that, excluding his own written texts, that Plato was a real person and not a pseudonym for a collection of students of Socrates.  Yet I have encountered many who doubt that Jesus lived at all who wouldn't question that Plato was a real and singular person.  Do you really think that you get to exclude the perspectives of those who disagree with you, based primarily on your personal assessments of the quality of references?  Do you think that, because you have a particular belief, that those who do not share your belief are to be discounted or derided?  If you make a statement, you have the obligation to support the statement.   And yet, he didn't assert any such emprical evidence.  He stated it as a given, but didn't mention that it was a given on his part, and used it as a comparision of his correctness.  You can't make such an argument if there are dissenters, and at least all Catholics would dissent from the claim that "no one has gotten out of life alive, yet" would they not?  Which is which?  I certainly made no claims at all, simply highlighted an example of a document that portends to dispute his position.  Since your the one who claimed that Hitler's head was alive, I assume that your's were the outrageous claims that you refer to?I really don't think that you understand what's going on here, and I find it rather depressing to imagine that you could be an educated adult.Both of you, as far as I am concerned.  Again, he presented no evidence at all, and neither did you.  I've made no claims to support, I expect the author to support his position, not the reader.Of course I know that you were attempting to mock me, and that is part of what makes your statements both sad and amusing.  You assumed that my referencing a document that contradicts his (and your's, presumedly) premise means that I was trying to argue that either position was correct.  I was not.  I was highlighting that there exists a large percentage of people who would disagree with his assertion, and that he left said assertion unsupported as if everyone would naturally agree that he was correct.Please tell me you are still in high school.That's just it, 100% of historical sources do not confirm any such theory.  There are many historical documents besides the one that I referenced that have referred to such things.  Myths or not, not all sources support such a theorm.  You don't get to just dismiss those documents as myth, that's not your call.  It's also an intellectual cop-out. I wonder if the unions and fellow travelers who are trying to co-opt the Occupy Wall Street realize that they already are in the midst of the Tea Party?http://oathkeepers.org/oath/2011/10/05/oath-keepers-and-the-wayseers-to-occupy-the-occupation/ No idea, but there was no clean solution.  Oftentimes that grantee didn't even take possession of the property.Yes, and that is why the heirs actually got to keep a clean title to the portion of the property that they were granted in the will, so long as all of their siblings got roughly the same.  The property just couldn't be transfered to a single heir.  If there was only one heir, or if there was only one heir that the grantee actually liked, a portion of it could be donated to an intitution.  I'm not positive, but I believe that MIT got it's land grant like that; Yale, maybe.Because the grantee didn't own the property, because the king of England didn't own the property.  The king of England never had the right to grant a deed to begin with.  It was unowned property, as far as the young US was concerned.  Again, it was a compromise in a situation that couldn't be resolved within the normal case law or British Common Law in any clean manner.  They literally did the best that they could.Not at all, but the giver must honestly own the gift.  You can't steal a pie from your neighbor and then give half to your girlfriend, it's still theft of a whole pie.  The argument that this land was stolen/claimed by the king, and taken from illiterate American Indian tribes was never presented in that time, but it's true enough even though most of those tribes were long gone or long dead by the time that it was an issue for the young republic.  Do you understand that the heirs actually did get to keep the property?
Honestly, I don't know enough of the details of how things played out.  I don't know if anyone tried it or not.  You see, the argument was that the property wasn't legitimately owned by the grantee, but the compromise was that the heirs would actually get to keep the property as their own, (having the greatest claim towards homesteading because they grew up there) thus making that part their own legitimately, so long as the property was divided roughly evenly among the grantee's/living owner's children.  In Europe, legacies were maintained by granting all land to the oldest living son.  In any agricultral society, land ownership was political power.  In early America, it was the right to vote as well.  There were many social pressures besides this one law to not follow the European standard.   Sure.  They could be benchmarking.Any effect?  Of course.  Not detrimentally, though. Not enough details for the straw to burn.Let's assume that the organing group honestly represents a majority of employees, and that they work in a normal factory on a production line.  Then whatever agreement that they had before can be boiled down to so much pay for being present and following directions for an hour at a time.  Your basic hourly wage earner.  Does that mean that said non-union employee has implicitly agreed to sell said employer his time indefinately?  Or is it an ongoing agreement that continues so long as both parties continue to agree?  I'd say the latter.  In such a case, the employee is not bound to not strike unless he has otherwise already agreed to such terms.  If he chooses to honor his agreement with the union brotherhood, and walk out at a particular time, the terms just changed.  So far, that particular union member has not violated the two laws as far as I can see.  If he is obligated to continue to work against his will, in the absence of his free and willful agreement to do so, it's slavery; which would put the employer in violation of the two laws. In the long run, we're all dead, right? That's quite a claim.  Notice I didn't make any such claim.  I just asked him to prove his assertion, as if the reader should just take it on faith that what he says is so.  I make the same charge to you, since you seem to think you understand what I'm doing.  Prove the statement that the Easter Bunny is real.  I'm the reader, I am under no obligation to disprove it.No, I don't.  I looks to me like you have a lot to prove.  Get started, you've just cut yourself quite a lot of work.And I would recommend you try not to make claims that are not supportable in the future. Not necessarily.  It depends upon the details.  Furthermore, it's very easy to end up violating one law while honoring the other.  One such example is the job of the tax collector in the New Testament, or the IRS agent today.  One one hand, acceptance of the position is an implicit agreement to obey the written edicts of government; while on the other one is literally taking the fruits of labors from citizens of that government, many of whom have never done you any personal harm, nor likely even the government or society at large.   Indeed. I guess I don't understand the question. Zoning laws are government statutes, not real laws.The two laws of civilizations are closer to an enumeration of 'natural laws' of social science.  Like a base moral code that all societies must, in general, honor in some fashion or another in order to prosper.  They were coined by Richard Mayberry, author of a series of children's books that taught an introduction to Praxeology called The Uncle Eric Series under titles such as Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?  Whatever Happened to Justice? and The Clipper Ship Stragedy.  You can boil down the moral codes of every religion on Earth to these who common concepts, even though every religious moral code has numerous exceptions and much greater details.  Any society whose population generally obeys these two laws, local social particulars aside, and imposes a fair and evenly applied consequence against those who do not obey these two laws, will prosper.  Every society whose population generally does not obey these two laws, or fails to evenly apply consequences to those who violate them, will decline. Whatever real, physical wealth that the artist was able to trade his information for during his lifetime can logically be willed to his heirs.  Originally, the term for copyright protection was 15 years.  I consider that to be a good compromise even in the modern world.  Patents generally are still only 15 years, and society benefits both by the initial research paid for by the sick wealthy (and middle class with old school health coverage) and then all of society then benefits forevermore once the patent expires and generics can legally be marketed.  It's not a libertarian ideal, and wouldn't function without the explicit force of government, but from a practical standpoint it's one of the last injustices of government that I would be inclined to worry about.  It's logically inarguable that it's an injustice to deny the dying an effective medicine simply because s/he can't afford more than the cost of production, but in the grand scheme of injustices that result from government edicts, I can think of many greater and more widespread injustices. What did you misunderstand?  There are three live assentions claimed in the KJV of the Bible alone.  Disprove them. In the case of this thread, the topic drifted away after the first post, and the first post wasn't terriblely on topic either. Isn't this thread about the two laws in my signature?  Do you guys think it has anything to do with zoning? You're caught in a mental loop.  Information isn't property, and doesn't act like property in the absence of monopoly force.  By definition, force or the threat of same distorts the free market, so it's no longer free.  It is impossible for a free market in information to exist in the presence of IP monopoly laws.  Can an artist contract for the exclusive rights of distribution?  Sure, so long as he can maintain the "business secret" without it getting out.  That's not impossible beyond his death, if he should choose to never release his art.  If he releases it in any form, his fans owe the distribution company no loyalty. Try and prove that statement. That's a world that can never be, no matter how hard you wish it to be so. And they have.  In the first 30 years or so of the United States, to pass on real estate owned to only one child was a will that was unenforceble.  The idea was that, massive land grants to former agents of the British crown would be honored within the lifetime of the living owner, but the grants themselves were 'unearned' and thus the living owners didn't get to decide how the land was dispersed after their death.  The idea of spreading it equally among heirs would prevent it from becoming a 'legacy' similar to a dukedom, and that the property would disperse to the society over a generation or two.  It worked, and is the primary reason that decendents of colony governors don't own half of Vermont or Louisiana.  They could have siezed the property outright under the same logic, but then they would be screwing over natural born decendents of the grantee who honestly had never done anything to deserve it.  It was a compromise, just like copyright law & fair use laws were intended to be a compromise between the desire to encourage cultural works and the needs of the society to have access to the cultural works that have shaped their societies.  But IP laws no longer respect that compromise, and treat cultural works as literal "intelectual property". I shot down this idea back in Feb.  What has changed, Suggester?  Have the laws of economics been repealed since I last posted?  Do you have a new plan to peg the value of the bitcoin to a commodity service/product that doesn't break anonimity?   Maybe, maybe not.  You're still arguing from the perspective that a particular business model has a right to exist, just because it presently does and is generally a net positive for society.  Even if I were to accept the position that major motion picture production companies have a right to exist by continuing under the present copyright monopoly business model, (which I don't, and neither does the free market) it still wouldn't have any bearing on the legitimacy of the copyright laws themselves.  Why doesn't Nina Paley have the right to profit from her life's work, just because some company bought the rights to a blues song from 1938 from the grandchild of a long dead artist?  Even if information (such as the arrangement of notes and words to make a blues song) were the real 'intellectual property' of the singer/songwriter by reason of his work within his own lifetime (or 15 years, as was the original copyright term, plently long enough for movies, software and music), what right does the company (or even the grandchild) have to profit from the labors of the dead artist?  He can't sell his mind, nor is it useful to anyone else if he could.  The best arguement for copyright isn't that IP is actually property, but that a limited term legal monopoly on reproduction encourages the talented artists to produce more.  The modern take on copyrights, that they can be sold like a tangible property, does nothing at all to encourage the further production of such art after the death of the artists involved; and thus can only be a net negative for society at large, preventing the lower classes from access to established popular culture in favor of the royalties of a surviving adult child or for the recording company. That's just it, there are many ways to get capital costs back.  As I have already mentioned, copyright is relatively weak law, and no rational production company is going to depend  upon it for their revenue.  They go to great lengths to keep advance copies from getting out, and they have contractural agreements with distributers to honor their "ownership".  That's also why software comes with 'swrink wrap' policies, as an attempt to shore up copyrights with contract law; pity it doesn't really fly unless the customer actually agrees to the terms in advance.  Why hasn't the shrink wrap licenses been challenged more in court?  Because most people buy the product and have no interest in sharing it online for no personal gain.  They respect the production company's 'ownership' of their work, even without the threat of legal action.  
Where do "starving artists" fit into your view of free markets?  Do fans of quality entertainment never pay for the convience, fun and details of the original product?  You do realize that DVD extras are normal fare on movie disks now because of the general availability of VHS quality video on the Internet, right?  You will never consider the counter position seriously, because as you have already noted, you make your income by the direct influence of copyright protections.  At least, you believe that you do. Ah, I see.  You assume that without copyright law, movie house owners won't bother with such contracts and simply wait until a copy shows up on the internet.  Under what assumptions do you come to such a conclusion?  You can't get a (decent) bootleg from the internet now until the movie is released onto DVD, so why would you assume that distribution contracts would be any less of a deterent without copyright?  Or any less of an advantage for the movie houses that play ball?  A 'dollar theater' might be able to do something along these lines without blowback, but not a first run theater.  Movies make 80%+ of every nickel in the first two weeks of a major release, for the production company anyway. Nonsense.  First run movie houses are generally bound by contract to 1) not show the movie for less than a certain amount and 2) not show the movie to the general public before release date.  Copyright says nothing about selling a legitimate DVD before it's release date, and employees would get fired for renting a new DVD before release dates when Blockbuster was still around.  Those companies are bound more by their commercial distribution agreements than copyright law.  Copyright is relatively weak, and has many exceptions.  Not the least of which is 'fair use', which is how Nina Paley can release her full length movie for free but not for any profit. I have to admit, I still don't know what they stand for. Order complete.  One bitcoin sent. That's not even one example.  Major motion picture companies don't actually depend upon IP monopolies for their base revenue.  They would be fools to do so.  They depend upon operational security and contract law to prevent the early release of their movies.  They make most of their money off of those movie-goers who just can't wait to see the next blockbuster, because once it hits DVD I can legally head down to the local library and check it out for free.  Sure they will swing that big stick if things get out of hand, such as a counterfitter in Hong Kong is mass producing DVD knock-offs or a cinemia employee is selling pre-release copies of the film before the movie debuts; but their business model isn't dependent upon the IP monopoly for the base revenue of a new major motion picture.  Try again. And, again, you completely failed to present a counter example.  Why are you here? How?  Because you believe you would lose a sale?  The reverse is likely true, young people share copies of all kinds of media, but tend to grow loyal to the media companies that don't treat them like criminals.  You don't have to make it easy, no one has anything against charging a fee for the convience of, for example, VALVe's Steam software.  And Steam is a beautiful example of a company that does not treat their customers like criminals.  Team Fortress 2 was about $50 two years ago.  Two months ago it was $10.  Today it's free, if you are getting it directly via Steam servers.  Why?  Because it's a very popular game, and in order for young adults to get it free, they have to install (also free) Steam on their machine.  And then VALVe gets to advertise directly to your Steam account.  When you get a job, and finally have money to spend, where are you going to get your PC games then?  Are you going to trudge down to the store and buy a retail CD box set, or walk into your living room and order it through the Steam interface that you already have?  If you are dependent upon the monopoly for your revenue, your business model is wrong.  VALVe isn't dependent upon IP protection for revenue, although I'm sure that they would swing that stick if some major operation were to pop up making profits off of their work.  That short video that I linked to was produced by an independent film maker who used to believe that copyright laws protected artists, until she independently produced a full-length cartoon movie, and couldn't release it for sale because the basket of licenses required would have cost her $50K more than what it cost to produce the movie to begin with.  In the end, she released the movie several years after it was finished, but for no charge.  She can never charge any money for that magnum opus, yet she still manages to earn a living releasing her art as copyleft licensed work.That is an unproven claim. You don't get to state it as a given.  I've already provided two real world and current examples of business models that can and do work sans a copyright monopoly, without even trying.  You need to at least match that to be taken seriously. Sure I do, start a co-op with my neighbors.  If their service sucks, someone is going to come along and eat their lunch. IP aren't rights, they are a protected monopoly.  Explain how, in the absence of that explict force of government, I do you harm by copying your ideas?  Do I prevent you from using your own ideas, like I do if I take your bike? http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&sqi=2&ved=0CB0QtwIwAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.youtube.com%2Fwatch%3Fv%3DIeTybKL1pM4&ei=5ceMTtnCOaXJsQLnsOSaBA&usg=AFQjCNEDg7_ap8otqvRJxjUWZn4Bw2kP7g If the current 64 bit integer model remains intact until 2133 (very unlikely) than no, the reward will actually cease.  If the integer is either switched to a 128 bit integer or some other method of recognizing additional bits is devised, then the halving could continue, but the reward will continue to dwindle as it approaches the 21 million bitcoin limit.  It can never reach it, no matter how long the block reward continues. It would give a premium to the grace freicoins.  It will not give them their base value.Okay.  A rational perspective.  I'm not entirely in agreement, as I think that it's more complicated than that, but the above statement isn't wrong.But this one is.If there is an established, accessible and liquid market; then you can exchange them for another currency.  But this is not an easy target.  Again referring to Bitcoin, it took almost two years for the first market exchange to appear, and even now bitcoins aren't very liquid.  As a vendor, I could now set up an account with MtGox to exchange bitcoins received immediately, and can generally expect that exchange to process within an hour if I price it right.  However, if every vendor who accepted bitcoins were to do this, bitcoins would have no value.  In order for anything to have value, someone must be willing to save something in it, even if that amount is relatively small and simply amounts to a spending account.  Otherwise, the currency is simply a transfer mechanism and cannot rise above a nominal zero value, and thus never attract vendors willing to go to the trouble of accepting a new currency to begin with.  It's a chicken and egg problem that bitcoin took more than two years to solve, even though there were hundreds of people willing to save in the currency during those first two years (at great risk of losing all investment if a flaw was discovered or it never took off).Not true.  Your credit cards are transfer mechanisms, but do not have any market value in themselves.  The digits that represent currencies do.  Same with bit-pay, it's not the transfer mechanism that holds value, it's the currency used by the mechanism.  And the currency must be able to hold value at least as well as comparable methods.  If (small) demurrage were part of the original design of bitcoin, then freicoin might stand a chance (although it would then be redundent) but because bitcoin is now the benchmark against which derivatives will be judged, vendors are not just going to accept freicoin because a few customers prefer it.  It would require that a significant number of their customers prefer it, and since bitcoin exists, most of them aren't going to ever favor a currency that generally buys less in two weeks than one that generally does not.But then you pay nothing for the same exact functionality with bitcoin.  Again, you misunderstand that the market is now different that bitcoin exists and is established.  The market always favors the first (functional) solution that reaches the market, and will remain hostile to new competitors unless they offer an obvious advantage to the customer.  Unavoidable demurrage might be an advantage for the economy at large, but it's not an obvious advantage to the individual consumer.  Quite the opposite.Not really.  If the value of freicoins is increasing faster than the demurrage rate, then some people (vendors who accept payments in freicoin, perhaps) will be hording it as a speculation play.  Once that trend reverses, these same speculators will have no expectation that holding what they have will rally further latter, so most will dump.  If anything, demurrage could make voltility greater percentage wise.  There is no reason that it would reduce voltility.But not advantages that they can enjoy with any certainty.  The certainty is much higher with bitcoin, and that is why you will fail. The grace period will influence the premium, but in the same way that the period chosen influences the interest rate metric.  If the grace were a full year, the premium should reflect the "basic interest" (assuming that it exists) as expressed as an APR.  If the grace period is a month, a quarter or half a year; the premium should be adjustable.  As for not being (quite) fungible, that's a temporary condition.  Nothing at all needs to be done for those same coins to become completely fungible in time.  Too many things. Because some capacity for value storage is a market requirement for a currency not backed by the force of law.  There will always be someone who is holding the coins, it's unavoidable.  Taken to an extreme, your plan to increase velocity in this manner, if there is no alternative while holding the coins themselves, is likely to backfire.  A high velocity is also a sign of a collapsing currency value.  The velocity of the mark in the Reimar Republic was huge.Again, there would always be someone holding the coin, it's unavoidable.  If you were the business, would you prefer to hold your slush fund in a currency that automaticly dropped in value or one that did not, all things else equal?  That is the difference between Bitcoin and Freicoin as it is presented.  So given a choice, the business would prefer to hold the slush fund in bitcoin, and the value of those bitcoin would be higher (due, in part to the thousands of such vendors holding slush funds) and the business would prefer to accept payments in bitcoin, because they have some place to put it and won't have to seek out a buyer quickly.  However, if it's possible to avoid the demurrage, than vendors might be willing to hold some of their slush fund in Freicoin, and thus be willing to accept payment in same.  It's a vicious circle. <sigh>  I resign.  This conversation is futile. "Beware the ides of October" just doesn't roll quite as well. That's a lot of work, and I gain nothing by the efforts.  We have Google and Wikipedia now, use the modern technology.The FAA could just as easily be a privately provided pay-for-use service, because it largely is.  The federal government pays for federal burecrats in Washington that private airports have to respond to, but the federal government does not pay for the wages of the air traffic controllers.  Those wages are, generally speaking, provided for via the per-seat airport fees that the airports charge the airlines; not via taxation.  The rules of air traffic were largely settled by hobbyist pilots back in the early 'barnstormer' days, as a matter of self preservation; so there is plenty of evidence that a federal agency isn't necessary for the development of new public safety rules.  The pilots and airlines can work out those issues effectively enough amongst themselves.  BTW, my aunt was the first female flight instructor in the city of Louisville, Kentucky.  Photos of her in her mid 20's hang in the lobby of Bowman Field.  If the same rules existed back then for the qualification of pilots as exist today, she would likely never have been able to get a pilot's license.  Most of those rules don't make you safer, most just create an artificial scarcity of experienced pilots, supporting wages.  This may or may not be in the best interests of public safety, but generally speaking they are only in the best interests of the pilots' union.The same artificial scarcity of skilled labor exists in the medical field as well, but in that case government is more of a tool, not an active co-conspiritor.  The AMA sets the standards for medical practitioners, and states merely back them up with force of law. You are projecting your experiences with an anticilliry institution (a residents company) to that of a protection service with a real, and significant, natural consequence for failure to pay.  Avoiding paying the homeowners' association membership fee is free interest, if there is little or no risk of adverse consequences for delay.  Large corporations do this kind of thing all of the time.  It's why they still wait to the following Friday to pay for last week's wages despite owning computerized payment systems that could literally pay you daily for today's wages.  They don't delay with payments to their own insurance companies.  Certainly some homeowners would forget or delay, but it would likely be high on the priority list for anyone who actually owned property. That's not what I'm saying, either.  I'm saying that regulation is okay if it actually is the best option, but that you have no way of knowing that because you are unwilling to consider alternatives. You assume that dynamic is sustainable.  I say that if the value of tenebrix ever comes near the value of bitcoin, the miners that jump in won't be so limited and won't be concerned about the needs of those previous miners.  There is no garrantee that you will have any warning that the algo needs to be expanded, either.  At one time, ArtForz had the only known GPU cluster mining bitcoin, and he alone represented roughly 30% of the "vote".  Twice as much investment in hardware without advance warning, and you won't be able to change the algo.ASICs are just stupidly un-economical and carry additional bonus of being (Unlike GPUs and FPGAs) pretty truly dedicated[/quote]Yes, and that is the point.  If only dedicated hardware, in mass production runs, is more cost effective than the widely availble generic hardware; then only professional mining clusters will be able to afford them in the early stages.  By the time the average guy can afford a mining card, you will have long lost majority control over the algo, and you will be committed to it because none of the professional miners who have invested in dedicated hardware are going to even consider a change in the algo.No, I don't.  Asics have been developed for bitcoin, they just don't (yet) matter because they cost more than GPU mining, not because they aren't more cost effective than CPU mining.  If GPU mining were not ever realisticly possible, asics would be dominating bitcoin mining already and CPU's would still be a losing effort.  However, the overall security of bitcoin would be lower, because it would mean that a well heeled attacker could actually attack bitcoin while the bitcoin blockchain would be dependent upon the professional miners for the vast majority of the hashrate.  Which without GPU mining would be much lower than it is today. Did you have an argument to refute my 'mortgage & homeowners insurance' response to the "free rider problem"?  Or are you just musing about the difficulties that some people will impose upon a bill collector?
I'm not being irrational.  Irrational would be to assume that regulation is the best option, without due consideration of other avenues.  Irrational would be to assume that seeking a middle ground compromise with a statist is going to result in an improvement in individual liberties, when it never has before.  You don't have to be a statist yourself in order to advocate for statist goals.  It's the default position in the modern world, perhaps throughout history.  It takes a lot of work to convince a single, rational and educated individual that libertarian social theories are even possible, much less the better method, as you are an example.  This is partly due to the fact that many of the libertarian social theories seem counter-intuitive at a casual overview, and partly due to the fact that the modern adult citizen has been educated within a government institution for at least tweleve years, and has a lot of cognative programming to overcome.It is my experience that, given time to consider the arguments, and a real willingness to consider the arguments, almost everyone is a libertarian in most areas of their life.  They just don't know it.  Most have their little 'core issues' that they believe cannot be handled effectively without a government monopoly on force, despite eventually accepting that it their issue is not logically different than any other.  Your's seems to be the prevention of low-tech terroristic bombings.  I've seen others argue that only a government can regulate air traffic to prevent collisions, or that only governments can regulate drug or medical safety standards, or the electromagnetic spectrum as a commons, or scientific inquiry of various forms, usually outer space.  None of these almost-libs can ever quite get past the idea that these very pet issues of theirs are already regulated by organizations other than governments in many direct or indirect ways.  They are just set in their viewpoints on these particular issues.   The solution to the free rider problem is that of homeowners' insurance.  No mortgage officer in their right mind is going to approve a home mortgage without homeowners' insurance, and no insurance company is going to approve a policy that doesn't require that fire protection is paid and current.  So if your mortgage is paid off, and you live between two homes on a suburban cul-de-sac, and you choose to drop your fire protection fee (and thus your homeowners' insurance policy, for even if you pay them, they will refuse to pay out if you have an event) and a fire starts in your house, your outta luck.  But your neighbors are protected from your negligence via their own homeowners' insurance policies and their fire protection fees.  The fire company could show up to protect the other homes from your blaze, and charge you anything on the spot to put your home out, or simply let it burn while dousing your neighbors.  Do this once, and the free rider problem disappears. It's still a 'no' because your default position, and the default position of most every statist on Earth, is that if regulations (enforced by government agents) are possible, we will try that first.  If it works okay, we aren't going to "fix what ain't broken" in order to consider any other alternative; whether it would increase freedom or not, or whether it could increase effectiveness or not.  Do the Irish people have a right to regulate themselves?  Yes.  Does the Irish parliment have the right to regulate the Irish people on their behalf?  Not necessarily.  Do the Irish people have the right to regulate my business relationships with an Irish importer?  An unqualified no.   How?  Do you think that you are going to get 51% of the miners to accept such an update, once the first hardware implementation is available and any significant minority of miners have already invested into same?I'm not limiting hardware implimentations to GPU's and FPGA's; and the entire argo doesn't need to be implimented in order for the use of hardware to be cost effective.  If there is a way for it to be accelerated in hardware, someone is eventually going to figure out how to do it.  The more exotic the hardware that is required to do this, the more centralized that mining becomes.  GPU's are no longer uncommon hardware, even if there are still many consumer desktops still in service that don't have suitable ones.  You can't really buy a modern destkop that doesn't have a CUDA capable GPU, unless you shoot for the cheap.  If it's an iMac, you quite literally cannot buy a new desktop without a CUDA GPU.  And even though FPGA's are expensive and somewhat exotic hardware today, their general purpose usefulness pretty much garrantees that many consumer desktops are going to have intergrated FPGA's on the mainboard in another ten years.  However, if you succeed in making it uneconomical to mine with these forms of commodity hardware, only the truely exotic hardware will be able to do so, and you will become dependent upon the purchase of PCI cards with such exotic hardware in order to expect to compete cost effectively for mining once major operations start using these purpose made devices. I've already answered it three times.  The answer is a qualified no.  For many of the principled and practical reasons that have been presented to you, that apparently you have failed or willfully refused to consider.  For some it would be an unqualified no, but I'm not willing to undermine the 'good' in pursuit of the 'perfect'.  But I'm also openly stating that, by compromising my own priciples for a pragmatic victory, I'm still compromising my principles.On the other hand, statists don't really have any principles to compromise as far as I can tell, so I'm not willing to meet in the middle either.  You're going to have to come a lot farther to my side with checks and balances against government abuse before I am willing to concede that the benefits to public safety outweigh the risks of future government "mission creep" or deliberate government corruption. In some way, publicly funded fire stations do have a form of competition, even in urban areas.  The technology of automated fire suppression that just about every insurance company in America now requires of commercial or industrial new construction.  It makes their insurance premiums much lower to have these systems, and this is because fire companies are less necessary and over time are reduced across urban areas, for a modern fire company can 'cover' a larger area effectively and the fires that do occur are much reduced in magnitute on average.  Most commercially manufactured furniture are 'fire resistant' as compared to a couple of decades ago for similar reasons, because insurance companies demanded same.  Homeowners are still free to have a private furniture maker, such as an old Amish carpenter, to make their couch; but importers cannot import a couch that doesn't meet the UL standards for fire resistance.And before you ask, UL is a private testing company, funded by the insurance companies themselves.  The building code just requires that manufactured (and imported) products be 'listed' by such a testing company, and the import regs make an end run around the code that much more difficult, so you could buy any random new couch and set a lit cigerette upon the cushion and it's significantly less likely (i.e. not impossible) for it to catch the whole couch (and thus the house) on fire than the fabrics that were available for couches just two decades ago. Really?  You have over 800 forum posts and still don't understand how bitcoin's encentives work? Then it would just be a deed restriction of the condo complex, and you are just back to where you are now with one fire suppression company that holds a monopoly on the condo block that you live in.  So you have lost nothing, and if the condo association ever gets sideways with that suppression company, they can vote to amend that clause to another company.Fire suppression & trash collection are the easy one's for libertarians.  Public safety and road maintaince are the hard ones.  As for the issue about power companies holding monopolies, that's fixable also and some areas actually do have power company choices.  Same for cable tv providers.  It's possible, it's just not allowed in some locales.  After all, do you only have one choice in your Internet services, even if you choose to use a government monopoly such as the phone company to provide it?  I know that I have numerous choices for Internet services, it's just that the monopoly supported companies tend to have cheaper rates because the network was largely already paid for long before the broadband Internet boom. And the same would happen in a libertarian society, despite the objections of an absolutist minority.  I'm not going to say that b2c or Fred are wrong, because they are not wrong from a principled perspective.  They are just not pragmatic.  A mostly libertarian society is still much more free than what exists, and is one major reason that the framers of the US Constitution advocated for that document despite it being a relative centralization of political power as compared to the Articles of Confederation.  Precisely because under the Articles the states bickered like EU member states are now bickering over the sovereign debt crisis over there.  They both seek a perfect libertarian society, wherein the state is actually small enough to drown in a bathtub should the need arise.  Much more realisticly is that the drive towards more individual freedom and personal responsibility begins to approach a condition of diminishing returns.  At which point, most practical libertarians are satisfied with the achievements and leave the perfectionists to battle with the "social democrats" in the political realm while the vast majority returns to simply ignoring politics and pursuing their own personal interests.  That really is the end goal.You have cited this before, but corrolation still isn't causation, even in Ireland.  The subject is too complex to attribute to a single regulation, and without even checking, I'm pretty sure that the political issues that motivated much of the IRA were resolved around that same time, were they not?No one has the power to stop you, which is not the same thing.  The framers recognized the need to incentivize creative works, and established both the 'authority' of Congress to establish a term limited copyright monopoly but also the Library of Congress (and thus the exceptions that libraries and schools enjoy) as well as explicitly rejecting the notion that copyright was a natural right. I've had similar experiences with PayPal.  I'm inclined to believe his version of events.  Evidence simply doesn't pop up eight years later of guilt, Occum's Razor suggests that PayPal has decided that it doesn't like what this guy is doing, and wishes to distance themselves from his activities without it looking like another Wikileaks debaucle.  That certainly has cost PayPal much international business.  Good plan. Whether or not an algo can be devised that is too large to fit in current hardware, it is likely to only be an impediment for a few years.  Bitcoin itself was CPU hardware for two years before a GPU client could be reasonablely developed.  No matter the complexity of the algo, there is no way to avoid the advantages of hardware excelleration for at least some portions of the algo.  Thus, there is no practical way to avoid the advantages that those who can bring a hardware excelleration solution to market will have over general purpose hardware. Not only am I interested, I've an old thread that actully calls for exactly this.  Alternatively, a set of command line POSIX tools that can replicate functions of the bitcoind itself are desired.  For example, a CL tool that can create a transaction from a local wallet.dat and then pipe that transaction to a file, another that can pipe in that file and interact with the bitcoin p2p network, another that can pipe received blocks to a file, and another that can pipe those block files into a local bitcoind as if it was connected to a network node directly.  These are the minimum tools necessary to build a completely network isolated bitcoind, unreachable from the Internet by any other method than a USB-drive sneakernet.  This is one lower tech way of ensuring a secure bitcoin savings account that doesn't touch the Internet ever. I've considered this more, and still think that a partially avoidable demurrage fee is ideal for your goals, even if that is more difficult to impliment.  Perhaps there should be a grace period for recently mined Freicoins, but not one dependent upon the velocity, such as a grace period after a transaction like I proposed some months ago.  Say that the freicoin blockchain can identify coins that are less than 6 months old, even after transactions mix and divide them.  I don't even know if this could be done, at the scale that the blockchain would have to track them.  But imagine that a miner gets a standard block reward plus demurrage reward.  The demurrage reward isn't graced, but the standard block reward (as the currency is increasing) gets to avoid demurrage.  Perhaps it would work like this...The miner either provides two different addresses to keep the two rewards from mixing, or one with the intent of mixing those rewards.  Once mixed with other coins inside of an address, the grace period is 'dilluted'.  There are two ways that this could be done.  One, by reducing the time period of the grace by a ratio directly relative to the percentage of graced coins to old coins within the address.  Two by a similar ratio to the actual percentage of demurrage.  I don't know which method would be easier to impliment, but the results would be similar.  The graced coins would be preferred by savers, but not by those who simply desire to spend.  Thus there would be a method for savers to partially avoid demurrage fees against their savings, by either personally operating a mining cluster or by contract arrangements with miners.  There would likely be a small premium for graced coins on exchanges, and that premium (adjusted for the mixing of coins and their age) must (if I understand the logic correctly) represent the best market metric for "basic interest" that exists, thus informing all market players as to what that "basic interest" actuall is.  Once the transactions of graced coins occur, the mixing of graced and ungraced coins then becomes complicated.  If the addresses can, by default, be considered to send all ungraced coins first; it then becomes possible for address holders to keep graced coins "pure" and benefit from the market "base interest".  I can't imagine how the grace period discount could be implimented in software, but then I'm not either a programmer nor a math expert. It was never a simple "no".  It's always a complex topic, and a common attack vector for others to 'box in' libertarian ideology.  The core principle is that, even though one can show that the risks are greater that any particular group of people could aquire a WMD, the current state of international meddling in other culture's affairs contributes to the growth of those same groupls.  Al Qadia wouldn't even exist if the US military didn't have bases in Saudia Arabia.  That is their founding cause, as they literally (and correctly) view the station of foreign military (ours, from their own perspectives) as an occcupation force.  Although it may be a "soft" occupation force, with the consent of the House of Saud, it maintains the US miltary's capacity to strike any target we wish within a few hundred miles of those bases.  All of that territory is inhabited by people that they identify with, and they don't identify with Americans.  It's a simple concept to understand, for if the role was ever reversed, Americans wouldn't suffer the foreign military to exist to start with, whether they had the welcome of Washington or not.  Which is one reason that UN blue helmets will never station on US soil (although pass through US protectorate bases overseas), even though a large minority percentage of UN forces are, in fact, American born.Thus, even if regulation can be proven to prevent harm to real people, it can never be proven to be the overall safest path; for enforcements of such regulations and treaties necessarily involve national militaries violating the local soverignties of other nations.  There is no way to avoid this.  This also doesn't even consider the concept that only a national government can actually enforce such a regulation upon the movements of WMD, but legitimate governments (and only governments) are responsible for the greatest loss of life across the past two centuries.  Over the past century, most of that loss of life was not the result of wars, but the direct result of legitimate governments being overtaken by murderous madmen who proceeded to destroy civilians within the society that created the government in question and/or nearby nations.  Why oon Earth, considering that kind of history, would any rational person wish to grant any government (particularly their own) an exclusive monopoly on the use of force? I'm going to play the Devil's Advocate a bit here...Central banking control of the monetary base, yes; deflationary spiral, no.  Assuming that an imaginary construct that is commonly described as a "deflationary spiral" actually exists, that it is a real and significant threat to a major economy, and that it's not simply the aggregate effect of many market players changing their financial stragedies to fit the new economic conditions (and therefore in their own best interests and that of the economy at large); there remains no evidence that Bitcoin, nor it's many derivitives, are immune from such a deflationary spiral.More specificly, there is no evidence that demurrage would insulate Freicoin from this aggregate effect, either.I have already brought this up, and he quite literally can make an educated guess as the best demurrage rate to set, and let it run.  If it's impossible to change, the currency will either succeed or fail entirely on it's own.I tried to argue an internal ruleset that would allow the active saver to partially avoid the demurrage, which would have had similar effects as to what I believe you are arguing for.  However, he is unconvienced of the value of an avoidable demurrage fee.  I'm willing to check. Well, you are entitled to feel that way, but it should prove exactly the opposite.  That a truly libertarian society doesn't actually function significantly different than how it already does in practice.  In fact, the Internet at large is about as close to a functioning anarchy as this world has yet seen; but is limited by agreed upon rules and physical limitations on distance.  One could call those limitations the 'natural laws' of the venue, for if we could never have such heated conversations as we have all seen in person; for it we did, they would inevitablely led to violence.  "Fighting words" are an established defense against the charge of assault, as long established by the SCOTUS; for the uttering of "fighting words" is considered the first strike.  At least as long as a jury would agree that the words used are actually offensive enough in context to have reasonablely enraged the average person.And it's not like I didn't repeatedly warn him about his use of language.  I didn't lobby for his banishment because of his opinions, for there would be many others on this forum who would have to go with him.  I, as a lib, am accustomed to holding a minority opinion; even on a forum that is established by and policed by libertarian leaning administrators.  My ideology prohibits me from discriminating against those who disagree with me, civilly.  I, in fact, have been lobbying for some form of administrative action against AyeYo for weeks; for mods don't have the power to act alone in the censorship or banishment of forum members on this forum.   I have been doing so because of his aggressive and offensive language, not because of his ideologies.  If I held the opinions of those who disagree with me against them, I would be a sad, bitter and lonely old man.  My wife has never agreed with me, and in fact views my opinions in a similar light as yourself or AyeYo.  However, my wife might view my opinions with contempt; but she doesn't view me with contempt for the crime of holding them.Furthermore, if you could see some of the mod section forums concerning banning of errant members; you would see that I had to lobby for quite some time about AyeYo, for the very reason that the administration is very libertarian at core and did not wish to take action against AyeYo because his outbursts were viewed as borderline and/or occasional; thus not systemic, and some didn't want to be too aggressive in enforcement of civil discourse.  A few openly expressed the desire to err on the side of under-enforcement, rather than censor a contributing member even if he has a history of outbursts.  All of this is very consistent with a libertarian sense of order and enforcement of same; but in the end, eventually a line is crossed that justifies enforcement even within a libertarian society.  I noticed how much more civil, and quiet, these political threads seem to have become since AyeYo has been absent.  A single troll can turn an otherwise civil discourse between peers into a caustic argument among many former friends.
Another real world example of a terrorist that couldn't have been in a libertarian society."The public was never in danger from any of the explosives, various news sources tell us, because the explosives were at all times under the control of the FBI. It was the bureau who delivered the explosives to Ferdausor at least what the patsy believed to be C-4 plastic explosives, six fully automatic AK-47 machine guns and grenades.It was (once again) the FBI that through one of its 15,000 or so informants goaded Ferdaus along, essentially double-daring him to blow something up.The FBI has led another Muslim into making the bureau look like its effectively stopping terrorist acts.Are we mad? Are we protesting the arrest of a man who clearly wanted to harm innocents?Far from it. We merely question how dangerous this man would have been considered if he hadnt been prodded along and supplied by federal cops trying to look useful in the war on terrorism."http://whiskeyandgunpowder.com/more-terrorism-theatre-from-the-fbi/ Huston Texas has exactly zero zoning laws. I was upset, I apologize.Actually I don't.  I think that your belief that you can have a separate store of value and medium of exchange is not only correct, but the default condition under all fiat currencies.  What I object to is the idea that, even if I agreed that you can guess what the proper demurrage rate should be to suppress market interest rates and built a currency around that assumption, the conditions would be different in ways that cannot be predicted in a relatively short period of time.  Said another way, even if your general assumptions are correct, you cannot possiblely know how to arrive at the 'proper' rate.  No one knows this stuff, that is the root of the errors of central banking in general.We agree.He is arguing for the medium of exchange power of a fiat currency, backed by an implicit or explict threat of force.  This is called 'legal tender' law in the US.  It is not about money.Why is that a contradiction?  A public transit ticket has monetary value, but isn't money or even currency.It's a provable statement that money isn't necessary, but it's also proven that mediums of exchange are more efficient forms of trade over barter, and thus will always arise in some form.I think of it more of a feedback loop, but I think I see your point.Those tears might be yours.By saying that it will never rise about zero value, I mean that it can never rise above a nominal zero.  A condition that Bitcoin suffered under for over two years, and only got up to half a cent due to the large fanbase that was willing to lose all of their investements on a very risky idea.  My point is that you don't have that dedicated fanbase, and I can't see how you can attract it.  I actually might be wiling to mine your freicoin, just to see how it can work out, but I'm not willing to risk any of my own.  I do wish you better luck than Bitcoin has had, though. Military conscription is slavery, volunteering to serve is not.  So yes, you can actually accept the dominion of a "superior" by voluntary contract. http://www.agaidi.com/dash7-mode2-opentag-development-kit/Let the bitcoin hardware hacking event begin! Perhaps so.  But the right to self-terminate is one that is recognized in a few nations these days, after judicial review.  If you are terminal, and can show a court that you're not simply depressed, there are things that can be done.  Regardless, it's a matter of reality that most any adult has self-ownership under the concept of 'right to destroy', because no one is held responsible should you kill yourself.  And most everyone has both the chance and resources to do themselves in, and there isn't usually much a law against suicide can do about that.   Slavery is not allowed under libertarian ideals, because no one can own you but you.  However, you can sell yourself, lease your time, or even kill yourself; because the fundamental concept of ownership is the right to destroy, not to utilize. Let's look at it from a smaller scale.  If your neighbor packs heat, whether or not you are aware of it, it should not be a threat to yourself; until the day comes that he either actually threatens you, or he pulls out his weapon in your presence with the pretense of pointing it at you.  If he has ever threatened you before buying a gun, it would be reasonable for you to appeal to your neighbors (or elected reps, or local sherriff, whatever) that his aquiring a gun, in light of his prior inclinations towards violence, constitutes a threat upon yourself.  The same can be said for nukes or the materials and expertise to produce them at the nation-state level.  I'm not making up anything novel here, this is the way it actually is presently.  The only difference in how a lib looks at the situation is that there is no inherent difference between an individual and a group of people large enough to be considered an independent and soverign nation.  Groups don't have rights that individuals do not have. I don't think anyone in this tread even understands those two laws.  What gives you the idea that I'm anti-government? Coca Cola Company, no I didn't look it up.Dude, that was related to the cultivation of cocaine, which is and was much moreso in the past, a fundamental ingredient in Coke Classic.  EDIT:  Well, it was and educated guess; but if I got it wrong it's only because of the vast number of choices.  Or perhaps I got it right the first time, so you chose to find another example.  Doesn't matter much, though; none of you guys have bothered to look up where these laws come from.  I didn't make them up.  And they have little to do with statutory laws.And keep insulting myself or your other opposition, AyeYo, and you will find that your stuck in newbie hell with non-existent post history.  Worse, if I can swing it. You are most certainly a physical object.  Human history suggests that the concept of ownership of particular humans is deeply ingrained in humanity, for good or bad.So you don't own you, then.  So who does?  As noted above, someone owns you.  Either you own you, or society does; so which is it?  Are you your own, or are you slave to the collective?  It pretty much answers itself, because there can be no middle ground.  Haven't seen it.  It was probably trolling anyway. We'll get there, but we have to start somewhere.  Do you own your own person?  Is your life wholely your own?  If so, can you give it away, like you can a physical object that you rightly own?  Can someone else rightly take it from you against your will, if you have caused neither them, nor anyone that they might represent, any real harm? You didn't even attempt to address any of the questions that I asked.  Where do you get the idea that libs don't know that our actions affect others? Apparently I had an older client, despite downloading it after wallet encryption was announced.  I downloaded the new one, and it saw my wallet.dat just fine, and encrypted it just fine.Thanks guys. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-aggression_principleExcerpts..."DefinitionLibertarians typically claim that the non-aggression principle includes property and freedom of contract as a part of self-ownership, and that any interference is equivalent with aggression. The basis for this extension of self-ownership to one's property is John Locke's argument (also called the homestead principle) that mixing of labor with an unowned resource makes that resource part of one's self. Subsequent exchange of such property (e.g. sale, rental) simply transfers this right. Hence, the argument goes, to aggress against, or in more neutral terms interfere with, someone's property is the exact equivalent to aggressing against, or interfering with, the individual's physical body. As for freedom of contract, the right of self-ownership is held to imply freedom of action in the absence of aggression (e.g. in the absence of false or duress contracts, and the absence of contracts stipulating aggression against third-parties).JustificationThe principle has been derived by various philosophical approaches, including:Argumentation ethics. Hans-Hermann Hoppe has argued that rights are presumed by the very act of arguing with another person;Natural law. Some derive non-aggression from self-ownership or sovereignty of the individual, such as Josiah Warren and Lysander Spooner in the 19th century, and Murray Rothbard in modern times;Contractarianism as described by Jan Narveson and David Friedman;[3]Objectivism. Ayn Rand has made efforts in deriving the principle from the right to life.Universally preferable behavior. Stefan Molyneux of Freedomain Radio has argued that non-aggression is valid because it is the only rule that meets the logical requirement for moral universality."http://common-law.net/nap.html"To paraphrase, the Non-Aggression Principle (NAP) is usually stated as "do not initiate force or fraud", or "if it harms none, do what you will", or "treat others as you'd like to be treated", or "live and let live". In more detail, Do not initiate force or fraud against anyone elses person or property." In other words, except for self-defense, dont harm others, dont harm or steal their property, dont break your word, dont try to coerce anyone by threatening to do any of these things, and dont delegate or encourage anyone to do any of these things.  The Equal Rights Principle (ERP) states that everyone has equal inherent rights, there should be no special privileged class, no "divine right of kings". This also implies that a group of people, no matter how many, can't have more rights than any individual. You cannot delegate a right to another individual or group if you do not have that right in the first place.  The Individual Sovereignty Principle (ISP) is that we, as individual sentient human beings with free will, each have the right to do anything we want as long as we do not violate NAP or ERP; and that we create organizations (including governments) and we grant specific, limited, enumerated privileges to them, not the other way around; they have no inherent rights of their own  (this latter point is further discussed here). These 3 principles (ISP/NAP/ERP) form the tripod upon which any viable and just civilization must be founded, but for simplicity, we shall hereinafter refer to them collectively as NAP.<snip>The term "Common Law" has several meanings or derivations. In one sense, it means the informal body of law (in effect) consisting of customary behaviors and practices of civilizations over millenia. In America, that tends to mean English Common Law. In another sense, it means what are the most common or universal laws all over the world despite the different laws in different countries or the different laws and rules that different religions impose on their followers. This is why Common Law must be secular to be truly neutral, universal, and common. These can all be considered imperfect examples of trying to figure out what are the minimum universal common principles that people must live by in order to have a functioning civilization, without the extra laws and customs that are specific to particular countries or religions or cultures. If you've read this entire web page so far, it should be quite obvious that the answer is NAP. Thus, throughout the rest of this web site, the phrase "Common Law" (or more specifically "Universal Common Law") will be considered to mean NAP. This is what Common Law should really mean, and the world would be much better off if was truly the common (and only) law of the whole world." http://www.lewrockwell.com/block/block26.html"The non-aggression axiom is the lynchpin of the philosophy of libertarianism. It states, simply, that it shall be legal for anyone to do anything he wants, provided only that he not initiate (or threaten) violence against the person or legitimately owned property of another. That is, in the free society, one has the right to manufacture, buy or sell any good or service at any mutually agreeable terms. Thus, there would be no victimless crime prohibitions, price controls, government regulation of the economy, etc.If the non-aggression axiom is the basic building block of libertarianism, private property rights based on (Lockean and Rothbardian) homesteading principles are the foundation. For if A reaches into B's pocket, pulls out his wallet and runs away with it, we cannot know that A is the aggressor and B the victim. It may be that A is merely repossessing his own wallet, the one B stole from him yesterday. But given a correct grounding in property rights, the non-aggression axiom is a very powerful tool in the war of ideas. For most individuals believe, and fervently so, that it is wrong to invade other people or their property. Who, after all, favors theft, murder or rape? With this as an entering wedge, libertarians are free to apply this axiom to all of human action, including, radically, to unions, taxes, and even government itself.<snip>Second case. You are lost in the woods, freezing, with no food. You will die without shelter and a meal. Fortunately, you come upon a warm cabin stocked with staples. You intend to eat, stay the night, leave your business card, and pay double any reasonable price that could be asked. Unfortunately, the cabin has a sign posted on the door: "Warning. Private Property. No Trespassing." Do you tamely go off into the woods and die?<snip>There are several grave problems with these critiques of the non-aggression axiom.1. They misunderstand the nature of libertarianism. These arguments implicitly assume that libertarianism is a moral philosophy, a guide to proper behavior, as it were. Should the flagpole hanger let go? Should the hiker go off and die? But libertarianism is a theory concerned with the justified use of aggression, or violence, based on property rights, not morality. Therefore, the only proper questions which can be addressed in this philosophy are of the sort, if the flagpole hanger attempts to come in to the apartment, and the occupant shoots him for trespassing, Would the forces of law and order punish the home owner? Or, if the owner of the cabin in the woods sets up a booby trap, such that when someone forces his way into his property he gets a face full of buckshot, Would he be guilty of a law violation? When put in this way, the answer is clear. The owner in each case is in the right, and the trespasser in the wrong. If force is used to protect property rights, even deadly force, the owner is not guilty of the violation of any licit law.2. These examples purposefully try to place us in the mind of the criminal perpetrator of the crime of trespass. We are invited, that is, to empathize with the flag pole hanger, and the hiker, not the respective property owners. But let us reverse this perspective. Suppose the owner of the apartment on the 15th floor has recently been victimized by a rape, perpetrated upon her by a member of the same ethnic or racial group as the person now hand walking his way down her flag pole, soon to uninvitedly enter her apartment. May she not shoot him in self-defense before he enters her premises? Or, suppose that the owner of the cabin in the woods has been victimized by several break-ins in the past few months, and has finally decided to do something in defense of his property. Or, suppose that the owner, himself, views his cabin as his own life preserver. Then, may he not take steps to safeguard his property? To ask these questions is to answer them, at least for the consistent libertarian.3. The criticisms of libertarian property rights theory base their views on the philosophy of emergencies. The non-aggression axiom is all well and good in ordinary circumstances, but when there are life boat situations, all bets are off. The problem, however, with violating libertarian law for special exigencies is that these occurrences are more commonplace than supposed. Right now, there are numerous people dying of starvation in poor parts of the world. Some are suffering from illnesses which could be cured cheaply, e.g., by penicillin. We have all read those advertisements placed by aid agencies: "Here is little Maria. You can save her, and her entire village, by sending us some modest amount of money each month." Maybe I shouldn't have used that particular link.  I posted it because of the video about Electrical Cosmology Theory, not the water part. No, it's relevant.  You just either didn't understand his point, or are willfully ignorant of the implications.   I'll admit that the Saturn thing is a bit beyond my suspension of disbelief, I was referring to the Electrical Cosmology theory that it's based upon.  However, I'm no more convinced that the collapsing nebula theory is actually more accurate.   @Hawker,I would like to take this discussion in a slightly different direction, perhaps to illustrate a point.I will assume that you own some kind of property, that you bought using funds that you honestly earned.  This kind of property doesn't need to be anything contriversial, let's say that you own a video game machine.  The common kind that can be bought at any toy store.  You own a video game, of a non-contriversial type; say Mario Kart.You enjoy your game, and like to play it often.  You invite friends over to play with you.  When the night is over, one of your friends declares that he's taking your game with him.  He doesn't ask, he just states it as a fact.  I say it's obvious enough that you are within your rights to object, as it's your property and it's thus your's to do with what you like.  Even so far as to destroy it, if you so wish.  If you don't agree with this statement, then we have a greater chasm to cross than I presently assume.So I will continue with the assumption that you agree with the above.In light of this, here are my questions.Who own's you?  Who own's your spouse?  Who own's your children?
But that statement doesn't hold up to scrutiny.  There might very well be mad and bad guys who work as groups who hold ill will towards myself, but how is that your responsibility?  And if you are responsible for my protection, to what extent are you responsible?  These aren't just bs questions that I'm making up as I go, they are intended to guide you to think along a pattern.Actually, quite the reverse is true.  Laws tend to be written as generalities, and the details are finalized by judicial precedent.  And there are plenty of such laws that have been interpreted to the very end that you claim doesn't occur, namely that we don't protect kids from a smacked ass. Good, good.  We've had wonderful progress this session.Sure, but where is the limit?  Can you cause harm, based upon the belief that your neighbor intends to do harm to youself, your property, or your family; in order to prevent your neighbor from doing harm?  Can you do the same, if your neighbor intends you no harm, but you believe that he is a threat to others?  How can you make such a determination?You think that I need protection, or do you think that you need protection? Um, no.  Sorry.  Certain officials are exempt from possession, because they are the cops that persue this kind of crime, and must have a base reference that the court has previously declared defines the crime.  Also so that they can actually posses evidence.  Certain professionals have legitimate access to such things, so that they can assess the impact of the crime on both the victims and the pedafile accussed, as well as understand pedafiles and their psycological dysfunctions.  Medical professionals have exemptions, because otherwise some medical photos would fall into the catagory of child porn. I think we have progress, then.  So, whether the subject is 'child porn' or 'spells' or simply 'thought crime'; in your opinion what has actually gone wrong with the system?  Is there some kind of rational distinction between justifiable prevention of harm to children and thought crime based upon same?  Or is it all just an arbitrary line that we must all respect, once some government body has negotiated the line? You assume incorrectly.  Child porn is possessible by authorized agents of the government as well as certain psycologists, medical doctors and other such professionals.  It's also admissible in court, and a jury would be expected to endure the horror of it.  He is describing a general pretext, which can be used to convict any enemy of the state at will.  Once upon a time, a charge of witchcraft was one such type of knowledge.  EDIT:  Child porn is officially illegal, not because of it's content, but because of the assumption that possesion of it implies that the holder either 1) produced it himself, thus is directly violating a child or 2) purchased it from someone who did, and thus was suppporting a market based upon harming children.  If you understood the NAP, and the logic that supports it, you would understand that child porn is just as much a violation of the NAP by the same exact logic. And that is one of the main errors.  I don't even expect you to make any effort, AyeYo, because you're just here for the entertainment value. I'll even make it simplier.  What principles are your politcal ideologies based upon, if any?  Among that set of principles, which are in conflict with libertarian principles and how? Wow, that was quick!  So, in your own words, how would you sum up your new understanding of where libs get the NAP from? Yes, something.  Come back when you have figured out where the NAP is derived from.  Here's a small clue to get you started, where do I get my signature quote from? No, you don't.This fact becomes more apparent the more of your posts that I read.  Perhaps you should enrich yourself by extending your breadth of understanding concerning libertarian thought by reading a few articles by better philosophers than can be found on an open Internet forum.Yes, and I have repeatedly referred to those forms of prevention.  You just don't understand or accept them.  I'm not interested in a circle jerk.   Who?  I don't know, is his definition of money the same as Aristotle's?"The Greek philosopher Aristotle (384-322 BC) was a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great. He discovered, formulated, and analyzed the problem of "commensurability", or how different things can be measured in the same units. He wondered how ratios for a fair exchange of different things could be set. He searched for a principle that makes it possible to equate what is apparently unequal and non-comparable.Aristotle found that money, as a common measure of everything, makes things commensurable and makes it possible to equalize them. In the form of money, he says, a substance has a telos, a purpose, and that in creating money individuals have devised a unit of measure on whose basis fair and just exchange can take place. Aristotle thus maintains that everything can be expressed in the universal equivalent of money, and argues that money was introduced to satisfy the requirement that all items exchanged must be comparable in some way.Within such a frame work, Aristotle defined the characteristics of a good form of money  which must be:Durable: Money must stand the test of time and the elements. It must not fade, corrode, or change through time;Portable: Good money needs to hold a high amount of 'worth' relative to its weight and size;Divisible: Money should be relatively easy to separate and re-combine without affecting its fundamental characteristics. An extension of this idea is that the item should be "fungible", defined as "being freely exchangeable or replaceable, in whole or in part, for another of like nature or kind."Intrinsically Valuable: This value of money should be independent of any other object and contained in the money itself, starting with rarity."http://goldnews.bullionvault.com/money_aristotle_050120092Only commodities can solve the final characteristic requirement to any degree, and neither Bitcoin nor the US $ can do so.  Currencies are standard units, widely agreed upon by either convention or fiat.  So a coin minted from a defined amount of silver, and so stated upon it's face, is both a currency and a money.  A melted lump of an unassayed volume of pure gold is money, but it's not a currency.  I don't like how this particular article explains "intrinsically valuable", because I think that it's flawed.  I don't agree that gold or silver have any value "contained in the money itself" as such.  Value is always subjective, but the value of gold is not rooted in what a person could trade for it, but in what it was useful for (beyond a trade medium), whether or not the person who held it actually intended to do so.Okay.Your assumptions are destroyed by actual human history.  In some markets, salt was nearly as valuable as gold by weight, and was oftentimes traded as a medium of exchange independently of gold or silver.  You trade in salt exacltly the same way that you would have traded in gold, by weight.Raity is a secondary issue to the ability of trade.  Rarity contributes to the portability problem, since less weight implies more value, however rarity also contributes to a lack of recognition.  Platinum was considered a usless byproduct of silver mining for hundreds of years, because it was too rare for it to be useful as a medium of exchange.  The Spanish famously made cannons out of platinum in order to protect their gold shipments, because they had no other use for it. I was referring to your expectation that I was trying to prove time preferences.  You jsut lost a little more respect.That's not een a good dodge.  I ask again, by what reason (logic) to you make such a claim?  Because you think so, because someone you listen to thinks so?  Do you even have a reason, or is it just anouther form of religious belief?Why?  Why should they be zero?Why should htey be any particular number?I don't agree, but it's still illrelevant.  Why is suppressing the interestes rate or the time preference ideal?  Why isn't natrual money ideal?  Why wouldn't establishment of a cryptocurrency that mimics natural money be ideal?  You ahve no support.Honestly I don't know.  And neither do you, and that is my point here.  It is a fatal conceit to believe that you can design an economy.  You might just luck into a partial success, but I think that your errors of though are predictable, and will lead to a great many tears. And he didn't have any more ability to assemble or deploy a nuclear weapon than you do, and the government regulations on such materials has nearly zero to do with either of you. No, I don't.  You really don't understand what's going on here, do you? I'm proposing no such thing.  Treaties are simply agreements between actors within an anarchy, they have no direct force upon Osama or his fellow travelers.  They could have mined and refined their own U235, but they didn't.  Why?  Because it was beyond their expertise and resources.  I did not propose that those who can refine U235 (mostly major corporations in Western nations, and a few Western governments) sell Osama weapons grade materials.  But if they did, they would be accountable to their treaty peers (anarchist rules, remember?).  Any government agency or corporate entity would be liable for the results of selling finished products to customers that they do not know.  This is the very reason that fuel grade U235 isn't refined to greater than 20% by mass, as a rule (but not an absolute); because there are few reactor designs that require greater than that level of refinement while there are zero nuclear weapons designs that could even theoretically work at less than 50%, most require 95% or greater.  Thus, as I mentioned, weapons grade u235 has no established legitimate civil use; and persuit of it is thus a rational reason for society to be suspect without your explaination.  If a legitmate civil use of 50%+ U235 fuel assemblies were to be established, then you might have a point.  But that isn't the case now, so you don't. I'll try to find settings, but I coundn't find it when I tried.Thanks. Then I don't know how to enable it. I'm not infringing upon his free speech by censoring him within this forum.  He is free to leave and start any forum he likes. The present system that you speak of is simply the laws of nature.  Osama was not limited by Western governments' intent. The current model assumes incorrectly, at least with regard to the specific question of the nuke.  I couldn't do it, even if I had the resources, but if I could, I wouldn't live long enough to finish even if my neighbors didn't kill me first.  If you think that the data on the Interent is enough, I'd like to see you try it.  Only a few people alive today have been able to even sustain a chain reaction entirely based upon what data they could aquire outside of a nuclear physics program, and all of them are exceptional.  Search for the "nuclear boy scout" as an example, and he couldn't have made an actual nuclear bomb.  A dirty bomb, maybe.  But he wasn't crazy, and he exceeded his lifetime exposure limit despite his precausions.  A catastrophic, super-critical chain reaction is incrediblely difficult to produce, requiring the purest of materials, and nearly impossible to reproduce on a small scale without significant tale-tell emissions detectable from orbit.  Iran is a nation state with dozens of nuclear engineers on payroll, and they can't even manage to refine the materials given a decade.  How much success do you expect a single nutter to have?Yes. Can someone please update the Mac client to include native wallet.dat encryption?  I'm hanging in limbo here, and I don't have the skillset to do it.
No.Units of account, by definition, are currencies.  Money is something a bit different.It would not have been better than salt, if 5% were to vanish from the monetary base by it's nature.  In such a case, silver would have been the dominate form of money in human history.There is no 'proof' of anything, as such.  But an ideal money is one that holds value, as well as is fungible, divisable, portable and difficult to fake.  That is not to say that a commodity that rots a little can't be a money, since silver corrodes.  But it doesn't corrode quickly, if stored in the proper conditions.I don't contest the above paragraph, but so what?  By what logic do you conclude that short term thinking is contrary to the best needs of the market, or of the market players?  How do you determine what kind of 'thinking' is ideal?  We're back into 'fatal conceit' territory again.No, I say that the miracle came from a temporary stimulus effect.  And it was doomed to reverse itself whether or not the central bank ended the experiment or not.  Done correctly, the reversal would have taken as long as the terms of the loans.  Probably.  Done wrong and we wouldn't be discussing the miracle, but instead the folly of Worgl.Probably so.Why the central bank didn't just demanded to keep the "cover" of these new currencies in a suspense account?[/quote]Again, because they protect the banks, not the public.  They were simply not interested in competining with an experimental monetary model. AyeYo is just trolling again, and has no intention of actually debating these issues.  Please don't feed the troll. I should follow my own advice, and just ignore you.  I wish that I could just hit the 'ignore' button on you altogether, but that would be shirking my responsibilites as moderator.  How does it make you feel when your posts disappear?  Most of that is me, BTW. That's the core of the disconnect, isn't it?  You assume that the primary reason that those who might wish to do you harm cannot get a nuke is the result of some act of government.  In fact, the primary deterents are not governments at all, but natural limitations.  First off, much of the threats of the modern world wouldn't even exist without governments venturing off into other places searching for monsters to destroy; so by hamstringing governments down to their core functions as servants of civil society, we would be preventing future 'blowback'.  Of course, this does not address the truly insane loner; but how, then, would an insane loner actually aquire a working nuclear weapon?  If it is not the government in America that prevents the (previously unknown) psycopath from aquiring a nuke, or even a common bomb, why are such things so rare in the US?  Every case of a bombing in the US involves the bomber receiving outside help and financing, with the intent of causing harm to the US via a nutjob.  In a libertarain society, it's reasonable to assume that foreigners wouldn't have a grievence to motivate supporting a local extremist.  So the crazy person is left to his own devices.  Would Tim McVey had the resources or the knowledge to follow through with his plan, if he had to do it without external support?  Certainly he had accesss to all of the materials, since he did anyway.  This is still true, and yet such bombings remain uncommon in the US, putting the lie to the idea that regulations on bomb making materials in the UK are directly responsible for the reduction of such events in the UK.  To this day, I can go buy dynamite with an instant background check; but if I were to use that dynamite in a crime, they would be on my ass in hours.  I can buy two part explosives such as this...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermite...in an unmixed and unfinished format exactly the same way.  Literally with no questions asked beyond "Can I see your ID?".  They are commonly used to make reactive targets, like the kind seen on the cable TV reality show Top Shot.  Likewise, I can go buy all the materials Tim McVey (and company) used to make the fertilizer bombs without any kind of background check or limitations whatever, if I have the money.  But I don't, and neither would have Jared Laughner.  The scope of his crime was limited to what he could aquire with his own resources.  A satchel nuke is out of the question. They were effectively lending out at a negative interest rate, but they were lending out funds that were not their own and for which they did not have to pay anything to utilize.  This had the practical effect of nearly doubling the monetary base, because the Austrian Shillings used to back the local currency were not held in reserve at all, but themselves loaned out into local circulation.  This doubling of the monetary base would reverse itself as soon as the currency was recalled or the loans paid without issuing of new loans.  So the 'miracle' was, in part, a result of a local "stimulas" injection effect, that could be unwound by simply allowing the loans to mature and thus retract the reserve shillings back into the actual reserve fund.  It was a pretty good plan, for what it was, but I wager that the doubling of the monetary base was unintentional. Sorry, I fell into a lack of sematic precision error.  It's a common error, but not one that I should have stumbled into.  Money is the commodity, currency is the standardized unit of valuation.  The two terms are not quite interchangable.  Neither Bitcoin nor Freicoin are money, they are only (somewhat arbitrary) units of valuation, agreed to implicitly by the community that may use them.  Regression theorm is what you need to overcome, that I don't think that you can unless you can establish a backreference to Bitcoin's valuation (perhaps by an explicit bitcoin reserve, much like what that Austrian town did) or by the explicit support of a trusted institution.  These are two bootstrapping techniques that Bitcoin could not utilize.  I don't know how you do it, however.Money is a common commodity that has as many of the features as an ideal money as possible, one of which is that it does not rot.  It's one reason that gold is historically money, and why pork futures are not.I'm indifferent to it.  It simply is, and I don't think that you can change that perspective even if you are successful in suppressing the market interest rate in freicoin.  If nothing else, the growth of your currency, even if it takes off, will be suppressed at an equal rate as you suppress the market interest rate because those who would lend never bother to invest in your currency to begin with.  Consumers have a short term thinking, and even investors don't have very long term thinking.  Both generally intend to enjoy the fruits of their own labors within their own lifetimes.  Very few people invest on their grandchildrens' behalf, and those that do only do so with excess income.  There really isn't a way to invest into projects that exceed a lifetime in their ROI. Short answer; no, of course not.Longer answer, not unless he had the skills to build it himself and the trust of his neighbors in his abilities to contain the risks.  If he had the skills, even the current model doesn't prevent such an event anyway.  The materials required to build such a device are expensive, difficult to handle, and require much expertise to utilize; but have legitimate civil uses.  Thus the materials should be available to anyone without a need to seek community permission to anyone without a history of misbehavior. Yes, and even under a gold standard, credit can expand excessively due to the mood of the loan officers and their employers.  The manipulation of the free market interest rate, commonly practiced by central banks today, make this effect worse but are not the cause of it.  The business cycle did, and would still, exist within a sound/hard monetary system.  It just tends to not reach the same level of malinvestment nor persist for as long before the correction phase.  The correction phases prior to the establishment of the Federal Reserve were called "panics" and the booms were called "manias", but usually only in retrospect.  A quick google search and it will become quite obvious that the business cycle exists in every monetary system ever devised, and will continue to do so.  Bitcoin isn't immune either. Asked and answered.  Did you not bother to read what I wrote.  Classic troll behavior, simply not interested in what I write, only interested in responding to what you think that I might write and burning straw. I don't agree with this.  Basicly national government act as individuals of different levels of wealth, resources and trustworthyness within an anarchy, not a libertarian model.  It's an anarchy because 1) there can be no higher appeal to authority and 2) individuals don't have any common agreement on the rights of individials and thus 3) conflicts that cannot be resolved by reason or politics can only be resolved by violence. No, I didn't.  This is another way to look at the Austrian Economic theory of the business cycle.  Most of the time Keynes is given no credit, however he wasn't just some hack. Because there was an unfilled niche, for which Bitcoin was well suited; and it still took over 2 years for Bitcoin to overcome it.  I'm not sure that it completely has, but it has a nearly three year head start on all derivitives and the first-to-market advantage over those same derivitives.  Any currency that expects to compete with Bitcoin has to either solve a problem that Bitcoin cannot, or find it's own little niche.  Sorry, my error.This is factually incorrect."He issued numbered 'labour certificates' to the value of 32,000 schillings, in denominations of 1, 5 and 10 schillings, respectively. These became valid only after being stamped at the town hall, and depreciated monthly by 1 per cent of their nominal value.It was possible for the holders to 'revalue' them by the purchase, before the end of each month, of stamps from the town hall, in the process creating a relief fund....The depreciation not only encouraged rapid circulation, but also the payment of taxes, past, current and upcoming. These taxes were used to provide social and public services.At the end of each year, it was required that the notes be turned in for new ones. No charge was made for the transaction if the required stamps had been affixed.  Subject to a 2 per cent deduction, the town also undertook to convert the labour notes into Austrian schillings."http://www.globalideasbank.org/site/bank/idea.php?ideaId=904Emphis added.  Although it was not possible to completely avoid all demurrage by monthly stamp seeking trips to city hall, it was possible to avoid some of it, which would have otherwise ecome a kind of end of year transaction fee/fine for anyone who failed to have all twelve stamps on their script.BINGO!He can be taught!I dont have time to critique every example of a local currency, and compare that to your proposal.  I'm just trying to point out where I think your error resides.  If you still disagree, go ahead an try it.  If you fail, please consider my words.  If you don't fail, I'll eat mine.It actually has some implicit community backing, by reason of the fact that it filled a niche that could not reasonablely be filled by fiat currencies over the Inbternet and the large and growing group of people who had taken the time to understand how it worked and came to believe that it could.  Now that niche is filled, and ther is no such advantage for Freicoin.Also fctually incorrect..." Subject to a 2 per cent deduction, the town also undertook to convert the labour notes into Austrian schillings.To facilitate this conversion at any time - and thereby provide a cover for the relief certificates - the trustees deposited at the local Raiffeisen Bank (credit union) an amount in Austrian currency equivalent to the issued local currency.The money was loaned out to trustworthy wholesalers at 6 per cent interest. Interest thereby flowed back into the town treasury, yet further facilitating transactions with the 'outside' world.Emphasis added.Employment isn't really the mission of a central bank, then or now.  The mission of a central bank is to serve the member banks and protect them from the risks involved in fractional reserve banking.  Employment talk is secondary, at best.True, but both those examples fill important niches and both have an existing history that Freicoin does not while attempting to break into the same niche as Bitcoin.Yes you do.  In fact you likely know of several, you just don't recognize the demurrage as such.  Gold is, by definition, the original example.  The storage fees for gold is demmurage.  If a national currency is gold backed, then the storage fees are borne by the nation, not the indivicual gold saver.Call it circular if you like, but it remains true.  For any currencyto be accepted, there must be a pricipal and common reason why it's a better medium of exchange than what is already available.  This was true with Bitcoin, because there was nothing quite like it online beofre it.  This is not so anymore, so for Freicoin to stand a chance at pulling itself up by it's own bootstraps (without institutional backing of some kind) it would have to either fill a niche that Bitcoin does not do wel or solve a flaw with Bticoin.Then it's just a dollar substitute.Fair enough. I repeat my arguments against the time-preference theory on interest:It's not false that money is simply a barter commodiety, and thus has no special rules withregards to time preferences.  You example of 500 fish or 500 moneies is a false choice, because it may not be the only choice for the individual. I don't have the  By definition, a LETS system is a mutual credit system, of course you could establish one intended to be used within Ripple.  But it's still not Ripple.  The distiction isn't semantics.I'm not confusing currency with unit, because you can't seperate them.  All currencies are, by their very nature, units of measurement (of abstract value).  I can't get them confused because they are one in the same.  Some monetary systems have additional features, but the unit is the currency.Yes to all.The difference here is trust.  Do your ripple neighbors trust that you can honor your currency, and not manipulate or devalue it's future value.  McD's has a reputation to uphold, which implictily backs their Bigmacs currency.That doesn't mean that every person can sustain the trust a currency requires.  That's the magic of Bitcoin, the trust is vested in the blockchain, it's security model, and the accuracy of it's collective ledger system.  There need not be a trust in individuals to that level.  I must be able to trust that vendors I deal with will send my my orders once paid, but if they issue currencies, I have to trust that they will be honored (at near to their present value) into an indefinate future. Consumers will borrow in bitcoin because they will be able to spend in bitcoin, and sellers will price in bitcoin because they can get paid in bitcoin.  Neither will happen for freicoin now that bitcoin has the market advantage so long as the value rots, and there is nothing that a user can do to reduce or avoid the fees.[/quote]Ok, so you accept that if other people accept it as payment, you as merchant would accept them, as a consumer you would spend them first and as entrepreneur you would prefer to borrow them (at a lower interest rate), you just don't think any merchant would ever accept them.That's something.[/quote]It's a chicken and egg problem, further complicated by the fact that Bitcoin has already overcome it.Although Worgl Shillings did have a monthly demurrage of 1%, it was also possible to avoid that devaluation by returning to city hall to have that month's stamp impossed upon the Shillings.  This is exactly what I'm talking about, there must be a way to avoid the devalution, or at least part of it, in order to encourage a particular behavior.  In this case, it encouraged citizens to come to city hall once each month, if they have enough value to justify the trip.  While there, they had to pay any taxes that they owed, if they wished to have their money stamped.  Also, Shillings could be used to pay local taxes, and local government clerks were paid in shillings; two important features that functionally made shillings a local legal tender.  Freicoin cannot have such explicit and official support.  Freicoin might work anyway, if some major company/bank/institution established a backing ratio, publicly announced same, and had enough public trust and resources to be able to support such a backing.Also, If I recall correctly, shillings were directly useful on the local public transit system without additional transactions.  A tactic used by some local governments in America to get locally unemployed people to show up at city make work projects.   For the same reason that they feel threatened by any alternative legal tender; should there ever be a major monetary crisis in the future, people would shift quickly to the local legal tender, pushing up it's value and velocity while the national fiat crashed in both.Most of them are backed, explicitly by an institution or implictly by community agreement.  Some of them also have alternative methods of avoiding demurrage, by doing something particular that is preferred by the issuing institution; as in the above example.  Again, this isn't presently or realisticly possible for Freicoin or Bitcoin.I din't say drop to zero.  I implied that it would never acrue above zero, without backing, in the presence of a functioning and continuingly trusted Bitcoin.I had to look that one up, but offhand I would guess that it survives due to an implict community backing form the HUb Culture community.I have no evidence that your beief is incorrect, nor any to support it.  Yet, I still do not agree that intentional reduction of intrest rates or the intentional support of stablility of velocity are neccessarily befefits.  I have no way to know what is the proper interest rate nor any way to judge teh proper velocity at any given time.quote]I understand that, what I don't understand is why you call crap another theory that you know for a few days. And why can't you explain what is wrong with it if you're that confident that is crap.[/quote]Sorry, I'm just not interested in going down that rabbit hole.  I don't have that much free time.  If you wish to defend it, I'll listen, but I don't consider myself to be the one with the burden of proof here.   <sigh>  No, a LETS system establishes the value by common agreement, usually by pegging it to some ratio against a national fiat currency, thus becoming subject to manipulations of said currency and not really an independent currency itself.  A LETS based upon an agreement concerning the relative value of labor hours, such as the Ithica Hour, is an independent currency as such.  Certainly you can establish a commonly accepted LETS within Ripple, just as you can do the same with gold ounces or a national fiat currency.  Ripple doesn't affect that in any way, it only establishes a web of trust credit system.  If you try to establish a LETS system that is CENTERED around Ripple, and derives it's value only from the Ripple community, it will fail.  There is nothing within Ripple itself that can support such a currency unattached from an external valuation.  Any kind of internal valuation WILL fail. Okay, I'll try to define it, as I see it.  Basicly, a device that has no other legitimate use beyond mass destruction is verboten.  This is because, if it has a legitimate use, then we have no right to prohibit or even substantially burden that legitimate use.  This, of course, means that WMD of any form are out.  Nuclear weapons fall into this catagory, but nuclear fuels do not.  Yet, this applies to governments as well as citizens; for it is citizens that actually run governments.  People are fallible, and if a citizen cannot be trusted to own such a weapon (due to it's enourmous threat potential) then no one can be rationally trusted to have command control over a government's arsenal either.  Back on topic, if your neighbor has a history of mental illness or a strong propensity towards violence; it is within the right of the community to collectively choose to restrict that neighbor's property rights so long as he continues to choose to live within the community.  This is why one would have to go to a court.  This is a form of government, but it's community specific.  If you don't like the community's restrictions, move.  As I see it, the individial should have the right to own a certain class of weapons without asking for permission from either the government or the community (so long as he has no history of misbehavior).  This class of weapons, in my view, can reasonablely be limited to weapons that can be borne (held and operated) by a single person, are sufficiently accurate (in practiced hands) as to no be a realistic threat to bystanders simply by reason of their presence.  I.E. an "assault" rifle; be it semi-auto, burstable or automatic, should qualify because in the right hands it is a very precise weapon.  However, a grenade launcher would justify a review by the community (or government, if you prefer) because, even though it can be borne by a single person, it is not possible to be a precise weapon when in use.  It is quite plausible to hit one's target (or attacker) in as precise a manner as the weapon allows and still cause great harm or death to bystanders.  Likewise, although a machine gun designed to be "crew served" and thus it is not reasonablely possible to be born by a singe individual, can be very accurate; it still might justify review because it's not possible for a single person to be responsible for the results of the weapon being utilized.  A fictional description would be the 'sentry gun' in TF2.There is a bit of a disconnect here that has not been well addressed.  I'm a true libertarian, and hit the max position on every one of those 2D political quizes, but the question that is never asked is "should government exist?".  I am not a anarchist, although I can agree that from a philisophical perspective that anarchy is the logical end conclusion, taken to it's extreme.  But most libertarians are not anarchists, even though many here seem to be. Working fine for me. That doesn't follow at all.  Ripple works by consolodating the many small amounts of credit that people who know you personally are willing to extend to you, and permitting someone that you don't know to trust you because, should you default, all your friends (for which a direct chain of trust can be shown by the Ripple system) are now on the hook for up to whatever amount of credit that they said you were good for.  It's like a distributed version of getting your Dad to cosign a loan for your first car.  If you were to die, or some other lesser event to occur, your credit would fall.  To zero if you died.  There is no storage of value there, for if there was any kind of real asset (beyond a good credit rating, for those who consider a good credit rating a social asset) it would be inheritable by your heirs.  Credit isn't inheritable.That is exactly what I was trying to say.  That Ripple requires an externally valued benchmark, which is usually called a currency, in order to function.  There is no practical way that Ripple, itself, can serve as that valuation. I tried to warn you all, and yet I can see that many of you still got sucked in. Just like Newtonian physics had to take a back seat to General and Special Relativity theory on the macro scale of physics, and quantum theory was developed to explain and thus predict the events at the nano scale; I think that, perhaps, we are going to witness the fall of another class of deep assumptions about how the universe actually works over the next couple of years.http://www.libertariannews.org/2011/09/21/how-the-earth-got-its-water/The water theory notwithstanding, the video is an excellent primer on Electrical Cosmology Theory.  And in light of the recent accidental (potential, but yet unverified) events as CERN; with particular regard to their neutrino beam experiments apparently exceeding the speed of light, Einstein's own "dissatisfation" with Special Relativity might just require an update to physics textbooks everywhere.
Only under a fractional reserve system is the debt contraction ever 'catastrophic' for the economy at large.  Your confusing a symtom with the cause. Oh, I do.  Ripple isn't comparable to a LETS.  Ripple cannot function without a common currency with an external valuation, be it a fiat dollar or dollar equivilent, or bitcoin or silver or gold or Ithica Hours.  Ripple is not currency, it's a distributed web-of-trust credit system.If you try to use an unestablished or uncommon currency over Ripple, you will fail. I've gardened on land that I never owned, and never paid a cent to use.  And I did have permission.  City gardening can be done on vacant lots, simply by locating the owner and asking for written permission to do so.  Perhaps as a rep of a local urban gardening group, or with the backing of a food charity.  Most of the time, the owners don't care if a garden is started on their property, as long as they are not responsible for it and they can reserve the right to tear it up should the property be sold or developed.  Most such lots sit empty and idle for years before a development plan is funded, so that isn't much of a risk.  The only time that I ever tried this and was denied was when I was trying to do it on a lot next to an airport, that was legally owned by the FAA.  It was in a sound abatement zone, but it turned out that it was already slated to be leased to FedEx as an overflow parking lot for their extra trailer trucks.  It was no longer empty one year later. The nuke thing is an extreme case.  It doesn't say anything really.  How about a cannon?  Can a citizen own a cannon?  If not, why not?  What about dynamite?  Black powder?  How large of a firearm is too large, and why?  You never really did address this before. What defines 'enough' in this context?  The private markets and the free market pricing mechanism is what tells the investor how much power is needed, and he takes all the risks on behalf of his customer base (society) so that they don't have to.   If he judges the future needs accurately, he is well rewarded by the profit that success should bring.  However, if he is a poor judge of what is 'enough' then he either over invests and loses his ass, or under invests and other investors eat his market share.  How does a government judge how much electric service, or anything else, is the right amount?  They have never been able to do this in the past, and that is exactly what ultimately led to the economic (and then political) collapse of the Soviet Union.  Central economic planning was a core function within the Soviet Union. I don't think that the state handles stuff anyone needs very well.  I shutter to think what would happen if they actually handled water in scarce environments.  Some of the most unjust things happen in Nevada and California over government granted "water rights".  The government doesn't really 'manage' water in areas of abundance, because there isn't really a need to manage it beyond preventing people or companies from contaminating it.  I can, quite literally, drill straight down into one of the largest replenishing freshwater aquifiers in the US from my back yard.  The state expects a "permit" to be filed, so that they know where it is and can add it's presumed value to my property taxes next year; but that doesn't stop me or anyone else from actually doing the drilling should there be a crisis of water issues around here.  And this helps to keep water rates low, because the water utility knows that, even though they hold a state provided monopoly on water distribution, if they tick off their customer base too much they might just find that their customers suddenly don't need quite so much water.Only if that can practically be done.  Just because it makes more sense from a certain perspective, doesn't mean that it's a problem that can be accomplished in a collective manner.Every decision making model is unfair to some person or group at some time.  Expecially democracy.By what metric do you judge this?  IT's long been established that the US feeral governemnt and state and local governments are, by a wide margin, the worst cronic pollutors in the history of mankind.  The entire fleet of vehicles owned and operated by the US military are now and forever exempt from EPA regulations.  There is not a single humvee in the fleet that has a catalitic convertor, and they run convoys across the US freeway system regularly.  The USPS's mail truck fleet is also exempt, BTW; although many of them has pollution controls on them only because they are often built from regular SUV's these days.  The older trapazoidal, right hand drive mail trucks never had such controls, and is one reason that they couldn't be sold to the public.Dude, you don't know how things happen do you?  The government doesn't build the communications infrastructure in the United States.  And unlike the public roads, the government doesn't even plan for, nor pay for, the public communication infrastructure.  That is done entirely by private industries, whether they hold a state monopoly or not. No solution is going to be feasible for everyone.  But it's still a good idea to know how to tend a garden, even if you live in a high rise condo.  You might not always.  Some skills are life skills, that parents need to teach children as insurance against the worst possible futures that child might face.  An example is learning to swim, even if you live in a city many miles from any accessible body of water.  I was in the USMC, and in boot camp I encountered people from big cities that have never learned to swim.  I was shocked.  Really, you grew up and never event went to a pool?  And then the joined the US Marine Corps.  Common sense would say that boot camp isn't going to be the ideal enviroment to learn to swim.  I (actually mostly my wife) teach my homeschooled children to swim before they are 5 (currently my 2 year old, who is a natural born swimmer, and I mean that literally.  He has zero fear of deep water, and is such a strong swimmer he probably doesn't need to.) and continue to teach this as a 'life skill' for ten years.  Odds are against them ever turning pro, but if they are ever in a flood, or take a cruise on the Titanic II, their odds of survival are vastly higher knowing how to actually swim.  Likewise, knowing how to plan, plant and tend a simple garden might prove to be useful life skill someday.  Ever hear of urban gardening? This thread has devolved into two ideological camps, neither of which is willing to concede that the other has a point.  Nor does either side seem to wish to acknowledge that the contrived situations presented to argue over have little bearing on reality.  I'm sorry, but not only is a libertarian not going to really sit idle should some knife juggler stand up in the inflatable life raft; but nor does the concept that liberty should trump consequences rationally lead to a crazy little old lady buying a sachel nuke on her retirement savings in order to go commit a suicide bombing of the Upper West Side.  I'm most certainly libertarian, and thus lean to one side in the debate, but both sides have run to the absurd.And as I have already noted, trolls don't argue for the sake of enlightening others nor of self enrichment.  And too many of those members who are still here posting have let the caged troll out to play.  Anyone who would follow AyeYo to a new venue is asking to get hurt, because he does so because he knows that the stated rules at the other forum either are notoriously underenforced, or simply don't apply to himself for whatever reason.  Added to that, the open knowledge that I'm watching him in particular (which is what brought me to this thread, for I'm not keen on debating IP with anyone) means that he is at an advantage anywhere else, no matter to what length I may be willing to let him go.  He can go farther if he isn't insulting actual moderators.  I know I'm picking on AyeYo here, but there are many others in this thread who have been acting likewise.  And yes, I'm including members who agree with myself idealogically in that group.  I'm the first to admit that I have allowed myself to get pulled into this kind of intellectual gutter in the past, so I'm not innocent either.  But you guys need to pull yourselves out of the sewage, climb back out of the gutter and mentally step back from each other.  To sum it up, stop it.  Everybody find a corner to stand in for a time out. Corrolation is not causation, so I don't think that you can prove any such thing; but it would still depend upon how it's regulated.  It's not an all or nothing question. Fjord! That may or may not be so.  Your statement only afirms the general principle that everyone considers himself to be the 'moderate', and assumes that most people believe as he does.  Most people also assume that a popular opinion is evidence for it's validity.  This has often been proven in error in the past. By alien lifeform, do you mean UK teenagers wearing black suits and pushing handheld turf rollers in the dark? QR crop circles?  Well, crop squares. That's just it, not all such expressions are arbitrary.  There really are differences between a weapon held in the hand, such as a knife or a handgun, and controlled by a single person and the kind of weapon that is not held in the hand, and is automatic.  The distiction is the precision of use.  The rifle and handgun are valid uses of force only under particular circumstances.  Circumstances that an automatic weapon such as a trap or a mine can't reasonablely determine, because they are just machines.  The trap cannot identify if the intruder is a rapist or a firefighter.  The bomb cannot kill only the target while leaving the bystanders unharmed.  The user of the weapon is responsible for it's actions, regardless of his own intent, and this is why a rocket launcher is tightly regulated in the US while the rifle much less so.  Notice that I didn't say that a rocket launcher was prohibited, because they are not.  Nor are machine guns, tanks, silencers or even explosives.  These dangerous items are regulated, but not to the same degree that you seem to believe is neccessary.  Regulation isn't all or nothing, how it's done also matters.  For example, any citizen can buy a silencer, but must apply for a federal 'stamp' first.  In doing so, they submit to the ATF doing background checks on their character.  If any history or mental illness or violent criminal tendencies show up, they get denigned.  But they don't get denied because they don't belong to the right political group, race, religion or class.  They only get denied based on what they have actually done.  Likewise, anyone who could buy the silencer could by a rocket launcher, with the additional cavet that he has to be willing to show that he has a place to store it that, should it detonate unintentionally, there will be no harm to bystanders or neighbors.  If the person lives alone on a farm, that's easy enough.  If he lives in a city or suburb, he has to have a explosion rated arms locker, something that costs much more to own then the rocket launcher.  But these kinds of collectors actually exist, and they love to show off their collections.  There is a gun range, near Fort Knox in Kentucky, that is rated for destructive devices, and twice a year hosts the largest machine gun and explosives show in America.  Anyone can go there and rent a GE minigun to shoot for a few minutes, if you can afford it.  Flamethrowers and TOW missles are available, for the right price.  And ATF agents are walking everywhere.  No one has ever been shot or killed.  After dark, tracer rounds are fired into the dark at the rate of thousands per minute; and barrels of petrol are lit and vault flames into the night sky.  It's a great time.  Is there any compeling reason that these collectors shouldn't be able to engage in their hobby?  Do they honestly constitute a threat, considering the weapons that they possess cost a small fortune to aquire and use?  Do they deserve to be automaticly treated as potential terrorists for the expressed desire to engage in a risky form of entertainment?  Who are you to decide, particularly arbitrarily?  Shouldn't even the government be expected to follow some kind of principle, and not permitted to regulate personal activities and purchases based on someone's arbitrary decisions?  That would be the rule by law, not the rule of law.ou presuem correctly.Well, sure.  Of course it's contradictory.  All ideologies are contradictory if they are taken as absolutes, as are yours.  One can agree that libertariansism is ideal without also believeing theat the ideal is achiveable, or even prefered.  It's iedeal compared to the other ideologies.  In the real world, a tempered ideal is always the result.  The inability to accept and process subtities and contradictions, withut rejection of the concepts being presented, is a sign of inmaturity. Of course.  Religion an politics are two subjects that are never debated in polite company, because they are unresolvable and invariablely lead to ill feelings among soon-to-be estranged friends.  Trolls love these topics, partly because they are unresolveable.  Never try to engage the trolls into a civil debate, because you are the one who abides by rules of debate and they do not.  A seasoned troll will never acknowledge your valid points, and simply crop them out and ignore them or replace them with strawmen, ad hominim attacks, or simply insults.  While you, with logic and reason on your side, are obliged to acknowledge his valid points, no matter how relevent to the topic.  This is what they live for, it makes them believe that they are "winning".  Any experienced troll will bludgeon you with attacks and burning strawmen, while never admitting their own limited understanding of the topic.  Enlightenment and self-improvement was never the intent.  It's a kind of coping mechanism, I believe.  A deep seeded lack of self-confidence in one's own mental caliber, combined with a primal need to feel superior, leads these kinds of people to engage in online forums where they can get away with such anti-social behavior.  Only the Internet permits it, and they are likely very meek people IRL.  I think it's some kind of, apparently very common, form of sociopathy.  This is AyeYo in a nutshell.  I can count the number of posts that he has made that were relevant to the topic, civil in discource and valuable in content on one hand; and I mean ever.  He is certainly not the only trollish member that is attracted to topics such as this one, but he is my own pet project, that aparently I've been neglecting to check up on for too long.  Ultimately, these trolls are sick in the head, and thus deserve a little patience from the rational adults; which is why they tend to be tolerated far longer on this forum than most.  And much like the guy with turrets syndrome sitting behind you at a football game, it's just best to politely pretend that you can't hear the obcenities. Present your facts, or they didn't happen. This from a completely un-biased view, lacking any preconceptions about what libertarianism is, what it represents or who might best represent it; of course. Okay, now we are getting somewhere.  So human powered melee weapons are valid, whether they are small enough to hide on one's own person or not?  And human powered projectile weapons are questionable, but what about the pump-type pellet rifles? Is there a limit to the size of a human pumped air rifle?  What is the principle that you make this determination upon, or is it simply an arbitrary decision based upon your own opinons?  I assume that a saber or a foil would be acceptable?  What about a hand cranked taser? Then determined bombers will make deals with like-minded farmers, or organize a group of like-minded persons to buy smaller quantites across many vendors and time periods so as to avoid raising the red flags.  It is a fatal conceit to assume that this is the reason that car bombs have reduced in the UK.  It may, or may not, be a contributing factor.  Much more likely is that the effectiveness of UK police in undercover operations has identified those who would pursue such tactics and delt with them already or that the grievences against the UK have either been resolved (in the case of the Irish independence movement) or overshadowed by the grievences against the US and Israel. (as might be the case of Islamic motives)  Or just simply that the population of would be bombers still free and alive to do such things has been reduced.  Most likely a combination of all these factors, but corrolation is not causation. If none of your peers will request the data you announced, then they are all light clients and your node needs to connect to more or different nodes.  It is not optimal, but it is anonymous.  There are attacks that can be used more effectively if the malicious node knows the limitations of his peers or the peers of a target node.  There are good reasons for sharing this data, and good reasons for keeping it mum, so the option rests with the node and is not forced.  I'm not even sure if announcement of node facilities is even emplemented.A light client & trusted node pairing, then.  This has been discussed in much detail.  Use your search-fu and you will find much more than I can offer.  The bitcoinJ clients are of the semi-independent headers only type.  I suggest you start with understanding how they manage things. What evidence do you have that my desire to buy a half ton of fertilizer will lead to any other result than a beautiful fall harvest?  Who are you to increase my costs, or restrict my options in my persuit of legitimate uses of my funds.  Why must I prove to you that I'm a gardener and not a terrorist?  
Did you shoot me in the head by accident?  Or are you some kind of mentally challenged person that I was stupid enough to hand my shotgun?  Watch the straw burn, isn't it pretty.If a four year old finds his dad's pistol, already loaded, and shoots his brother in the head, he wasn't agressing him.  It's tragic, and a terrible breech of adult responsibility; but no, it's not aggression.Burn, baby burn.  Straw makes such a pretty glow.You've been treading this line again, as of late.  Don't forget our prior conversations on this topic.  I will only suffer your breeches of civil speech for so long.And you may be able to predict some outcomes, but you are not a prophet.  If I disagree with your rules that say that I can't have fertilizer because I might make a bomb, you lose the argument.  If there can be any dissent, you lose.  The real world isn't so black and white as your strawmen. You are not wrong.  I, for one, have never harmed any living thing with thousands of fired rounds, excluding plantlife and the occasional earthworm in my target background.You avoided the question completely.  Where does a civil society draw the line?  Is it arbitrary, or is there some kind of natural principle that defines the differences between a weapon such as a shotgun and a home defense system that involves lethal & automatic traps, such as a miltary grade anti-personnel mine?  If you say that bombs that are made for that purpose are prohibited, such as the above mine; what about materials that hold the potential to make make-shift bombs?   Can such things be reasonablely regulated?  Would doing so actually prevent bombmakers from obtaining said materials?  Has the prohibition on handguns in the UK actually prevented criminals in the UK from obtaining them?  Has it prevented criminals from committing violent crimes, or have those same criminals just switched to other weapons such as blugeons and knives?  Would a prohibition on (nitrogen based) fertilizer in the UK prevent car bombs, or just lead to their construction from other available materials?  Should high school chemistry (where anyone paying enough attention can learn how to make a bomb from many common materials) be prohibited?  Would it help? I'm not a programmer, so I can't help on the specifics, but there generally isn't any reason to identify the node.  My understanding is that nodes operate on an announce then pull-request kind of model.  Your client simply would never announce transactions or blocks being available via it, and would only request data that concerns itself.What I'm asking is are you trying to make a light client with a full blockchain that doesn't participate, a headers only blockchain, or no blockchain that keeps only blocks that concern itself?  The three models operate entirely differently. Only if you do something that is intended to result in deaths.  Intent matters.  It may, or may not, be predictable.  But if the person doing the action of opting out does not do it with the intent of causing harm, and does not agree with your opinion that people will be killed as a direct consequence, it's not aggression. Oh, I wasn't.  I didn't really know what the topic was, other than legitimate consumer products that have the potential to be used as ingredients in a bomb.  I was just noting that it came to mind.But the extreme case of the privately owned nuke obscures a valid concern for any civil society.  Namely, where do we, collectively, draw the line between a weapon that can be 'borne' a la the 2nd Amendment and a weapon (or hazardous device/material whether or not it is already intended to be a weapon by design) of such great destructive power that the mere ownership of one constitutes a threat to those around you?I have my own answer to this, but I'm curious, among the following list of items, which should be regulated or completely prohibited from civilian ownership?  Which do you believe already are or are not prohibited in the US?a shotgun shorter than 16 inchesAutomatic pistoldetachable handgun silencerA rifle with a permantly afixed silencer, too long to hide on one's person.a concealed pistol.a military grade anti-personnel mine.a hand grenade.a rocket launcher and ammo.a rifle capable of lethal power at distances over three miles.a fully automatic machine gun.explosivesa tanka hand crank 'gatling' type gun, whether or not it's modern or an antique.  Opting out is never aggression, no matter what risks that creates for others.  You have a strange concept of the term. This reminded me of an article I read once, had to search for it..."Human beings only have two ways to deal with one another: reason and force. If you want me to do something for you, you have a choice of either convincing me via argument, or force me to do your bidding under threat of force. Every human interaction falls into one of those two categories, without exception. Reason or force, that's it. In a truly civilized society, people interact through persuasion. Force has no place as a valid method of social interaction, and the only thing that removes force from the menu is the firearm, as crazy as it may sound to some. When I carry my gun, you cannot deal with me by force. You have to use reason and persuade me, because I have a way to negate your threat or employment of force. The gun is the only personal weapon that puts a 100-pound woman on equal footing with a 220-pound mugger, a 75-year old retiree on equal footing with a 19-year old gang banger, and a single guy on equal footing with a carload of drunk guys with baseball bats. The gun removes the disparity in physical strength, size, or numbers between a potential attacker and a defender. There are plenty of people who consider the gun as the source of bad force equations. These are the people who think that we'd be more civilized if all guns were removed from society, because a firearm makes it easier for a [armed] mugger to do his job. That, of course, is only true if the mugger's potential victims are mostly disarmed either by choice or by legislative fiat--it has no validity when most of a mugger's potential marks are armed. People who argue for the banning of arms ask for automatic rule by the young, the strong, and the many, and that's the exact opposite of a civilized society. A mugger, even an armed one, can only make a successful living in a society where the state has granted him a force monopoly. Then there's the argument that the gun makes confrontations lethal that otherwise would only result in injury. This argument is fallacious in several ways. Without guns involved, confrontations are won by the physically superior party inflicting overwhelming injury on the loser. People who think that fists, bats, sticks, or stones don't constitute lethal force watch too much TV, where people take beatings and come out of it with a bloody lip at worst. The fact that the gun makes lethal force easier works solely in favor of the weaker defender, not the stronger attacker. If both are armed, the field is level. The gun is the only weapon that's as lethal in the hands of an octogenarian as it is in the hands of a weight lifter. It simply wouldn't work as well as a force equalizer if it wasn't both lethal and easily employable. When I carry a gun, I don't do so because I am looking for a fight, but because I'm looking to be left alone. The gun at my side means that I cannot be forced, only persuaded. I don't carry it because I'm afraid, but because it enables me to be unafraid. It doesn't limit the actions of those who would interact with me through reason, only the actions of those who would do so by force. It removes force from the equation... and that's why carrying a gun is a civilized act. "- Author Unknown  I don't understand what you are trying to do here.  There are a couple of levels of "lightweight" nodes that have been detailed on this forum that are compatible with the Bitcoin network.  Which are you shooting for?  What is the use case that you are aiming to satisfy? It would work as long as the bus was sitting still when a pedestrian tried to scan it.  It takes a couple seconds for the scanner to lock on.  A moving bus, no way.  A stationary billboard or poster works great.  I've lately found them on the backs of resturant ketchup bottles and magazine ads. I didn't say that central banks were selling gold, I said that they were an example of a different type of gold buyer than most commodities, as a support for the concept that gold doesn't act quite like other commodites.  Fund managers, and similar investment vehicles, are most likely who is selling gold right now. You just keep telling yourself that it's all a flash in the pan, AyeYo, and that MoonShadow doesn't know jack.http://whiskeyandgunpowder.com/the-attack-on-accidental-americans/"The IRS is making a worldwide push to squeeze money from Americans living abroad and from anyone who holds dual citizenship, whether they know it or not. It doesnt matter if the duals want U.S. status, have never set foot on U.S. soil or never conducted business with an American. It doesnt matter if those targeted owe a single cent to the IRS. Unlike almost every other nation in the world, the United States requires citizens living abroad to file tax forms on the money they do not owe as well as to report foreign bank accounts or holdings such as stocks or RSSPs. The possible penalty for not reporting is $10,000 per disclosed asset per year.Thus, Americans and dual citizens living in Canada (or elsewhere) who do not disclose their local checking account  now labeled by the IRS as an illegal offshore account  are liable for fines that stretch back 10 years and might amount to $100,000. A family, like the Knolls, in which there are two American parents and two dual-citizen children, might be collectively liable for $400,000.Approximately 7 million Americans live abroad. According to the IRS, they received upward of 400,000 tax returns from expatriates last year  a compliance rate of approximately 6%. Presumably, the compliance of dual-citizen children is far lower. Customs and Immigration is now sharing information with the IRS and, should any of 94% expats or their accidentally American offspring set foot on U.S. soil, they are vulnerable to arrest." Well, I don't disagree.  It's just a matter of degree.  There are much bigger issues to be delt with than the minimum wage.  And unions in bed with governments, which isn't all of them btw, will continue to lose influence as the governments that they depend upon continue to lose authority.  Thus, if you wish to make them your pet issues, feel free.  But they are both issues that will lose relevence in their own time. Gold, and somewhat for silver, acts a bit differently than other commodities because of it's history as base money.  Obviously, some investors want to hold gold for reasons of capital preservation; but the largest gold holders (central banks, soverign wealth funds, etc) do so mostly as a liquid investment.  Intended to be sold in times of fiscal stress on other fronts.  For an example, mutual funds have to have some cash to buffer the many trades in and out of the fund on a daily basis; but some of the largest funds will also have a small percentage of the fund in physical gold.  They do this should there be a 'run' on the fund by spooked investors, but the managers don't want to sell equities assets in order to pay out to the panicing retirees heading for the exit.  Holding some small amount of gold allows the fund managers of actively managed funds the option of selling the fund's gold without being forced to sell the fund's equity assets into a falling market.  I think that this is what we have been seeing for the past two days with both gold & silver dropping so much.  I don't think that gold bugs are selling, nor individuals who hold gold as a personal 'insurance' against fiscal policy uncertainty.  This also implies that such fund managers don't believe that the drop in the stock market is more than a panic, otherwise some of them would be selling equities into the market and buying the gold sold by others, and thus there would be a tempered balance. Ending minimum wage laws or unions is unneccessary.  Minimum wage laws really don't have a huge effect upon employment, except for the lowest skilled labor pool.  And unions are a valid use of the right to assemble and engage in contract.  What might need to change is the laws that compel individuals (who own companies) to engage in contracts that they do not wish to participate in.  Corporations, however, are not people; and thus have no rights, only legal privilages.  If the governments that establish limited liability corporations as 'legal entities' independent of their investors wish to impose rules such as required recongnition of collective bargining representatives; then those are the rules. War is a natural state of mankind, regardless.  It's a peaceful civil society that requires effort on the part of people.  If you don't consider the riots happening in Europe a form of war, you will.  That said, I'm not advocating eugenics.  I'm just pointing out that there is a third option of simply letting things take their course.  That is the most likely possibility in any event.  Sometimes these things just have to follow through.  And if we are heading towards a Hobbesian limit (I don't know that we are, I don't know that we're not) would rather risk death in conflict, or simply watch your children starve?  If you're not continueously educating yourself and your children, your complacency is going to be your undoing one way or another.  At a minimum, learn how to grow a garden.  You don't need a job for that, just a backyard. I don't need it to justify my beliefs.  I posted it so that others, including yourself, might benefit a little by a small breakdown in your cognative dissonance.  If you believe that you can just leave the US and renounce your citizenship and then you will be left alone, you are deluding yourself.  That might happen, but the US government meddles in the affairs of foreign citizens who have never set foot on US soil.  What on Earth makes you think that you would be immune whether or not there is a legal justification for it?  The only way for you to be certain that they will never come to tax you in a foreign land, is to never have anything worth the trip. https://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/opinions/opinion/help-im-on-the-irs-hit-list/article2171697/"Brian and his wife are from the States. He took out Canadian citizenship years ago. Theyve lived and worked in Canada for decades. They have no U.S. income or assets. They are 100-per-cent tax compliant  in Canada. Forget about it, I advised. What could they possibly do to you? Were about to find out. Im on the IRS hit list, too. I came here at 13, and Ive been a citizen since 1979. I dont have a U.S. passport or any U.S. earnings. But the IRS wants to confiscate a large chunk of my retirement savings. Many of my friends are in the same fix. They send me e-mails saying things like, Have you filled out the FBAR [Report of Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts] yet? The amnesty deadline has come and gone, and we still have no idea what to do. Its not the back taxes that will kill you, Brian told me. Its the penalties. It turns out the IRS can fine you for every unreported bank account, mutual fund and RRSP  at a rate of $10,000 per offence per year. It can also confiscate as much as 25 per cent of the maximum amount youve held in each account. This is so absurd it cant possibly be true. But it is. " This is off topic.That said, what info that I can find is light on details.  What I can find doesn't fill me with confidence.If fees are destroyed, how are miners encentivized to mine?And why destroy them?  This isn't clear.What is the point? Be thankful that you're not a mod, then.  Whenever someone clicks, "Report to Moderator" I get a copy of this crap in my email. Oh, good God!  Not the "the war pulled us out of the depression" BS again!  You learned this economic "theory" in public school, didn't you?  War doesn't improve economies any more than a rock throwing vandal improves the GDP when a glazer has to fix the baker's shop window.  The US pulled out of the depression because, 1) the busybodies in Washington were too preoccupied with war issues to worry about "regulating" industry to death and 2) we bombed our biggest industrial competitors back 10 years or more all across Europe & Japan.  
Okay, I read your link.  And if this guy is representative of the "Free Money theory of interest" then I'm calling that theory bunk.  I'm not even going to bother to break it down.  If you wish to try to defend that crap, feel free, but otherwise don't refer to this crank as the basis for any more of your ideas.  I'll just lose more respect for your mind than I just did. Well, as I already said, I don't consider interest a flaw (if indeed a flaw) of gold because it's not a feature of gold at all, but a product of contracts.  Bitcoin is likewise.  Even Freicoin, for that matter.  All of these currencies are independent of the interest rates that individual users charge.  I can see now how you intend to suppress the general interest rate, but I don't agree that is an advantage worthy of a new fork.  You certainly cannot force the market interest rate to below 0%, otherwise the user base of freicoin will flee to any alternative, the relative value of Freicoin would crash, and your fork would fail.  So even a 4% demurrage is dangerously high.  I wouldn't invest in any cryptocurrency with more than 1% APR demurrage.  Probably 0.5% would be high enough for the other advantages of demurrage; i.e. rotting away the value of lost addresses as an example.I'm aware of how ripple works.  It's a web-of-trust mutual credit system.  It's well done, for what it is.  But it's a credit network, not a currency.  It cannot work at all without a commonly established currency, whether that is US$, silver ounces or pounds of wheat berries.  Ripple doesn't have a metric, which is what currencies are at root.  Ripple only records, and consolodates, the trust that people will put in people that they know on behalf of other people that they know, and expresses that consolodated trust as credit available.I'll try to read your link when I get a chance.I see.  But if demurrage fees are unavoidable, then you are limiting how the system can encourage users to use the currency.  For example, this reduces the incentive to consolidate multiple transactions into a single transaction.  If the users have a grace peroid, say three months, that security is considered paid for by the transaction fees, then some will make an effort to avoind transactions growing older than three months so long as the cost of consolidating into a new transaction is cheaper than just taking the demurrage hit.  This encourages old transactions to update and also encourages miners into improving security buy participation.  If thedemurrage fee is a flat fee applied to each transaction in the blockchain, then users with many transactions are further encourages to freshen their holdings and reducing the blockchain load.  I really don't think that a ridgid percentage is really demurrage.  Demurrae is a cost of security in real currencies such as gold.  Literally the cost of renting a saftey deposit bos to hold the gold, which still costs the same no matter how much is eing kept.  Percentage fees aren't demurrage.No, but not because of some theoretical 'basic interest' that you are trying to avoid.  Because of arbritrage.  I'm not likely to be lending in freicoin if I never bother to buy any, due to the losses that I can forsee.  Really, you can't see the problem with this plan?That is a amaturish view on velocity. There is simply too many variables to make such a blanket statement.  I can't een say if this is true or false in general, but I'd guess that it's likely false. There is an obvious third solution.Educate yourself and/or your children to be able to compete in a rapidly advancing economy; or die off and make room on this planet for those who can.It's called evolution, and it's one reason that ethnic Jews are the most intelligent race on average.  Because for hundreds of years, ethic Jews had neither a nation of their own, nor the basic right to own property in either Old Christiandom (Europe) or anywhere in the Middle East.  If you couldn't farm to feed your family, you and your children would have had to become the best businessmen around just to be able to feed your family as well.Artifical support of those who cannot support themselves in the human race is counter evolutionary, and sooner or later nature is going to revert to the mean.  And it will be 'mean' in every sense.  When the USSR broke apart, leading directly into the collapse of the Russian economy, the life expecency of a Russian male was already much shorter than in the US and many "Western" democracies.  But it still dropped significantly in the next two years. Building a road requires that the property be owned by whatever agency that intends to build it.  Eminent domain is only a legal process established by governments in order to short cut the difficulties of aquiring said property.  Again, many private roads and highways have been built in America in the past; even though most of them have been taken as public property, they were still built privately.   There isn't much evidence either way, but I'd say that no one in either of these two photos actually work directly for CalTrans.  They are all almost certainly employees of private contractors.  And those machines are not likely to be either owned, nor leased, by CalTrans or any other goverment agency of the State of California.So thank you for proving the point so well. It's not a trivial detail.  The post that I was responding to questioned how public infrastructure, and particularly public roads, could exist in a libertarian government model.  A model that doesn't support the concept of taxpayer funded infrastructure, and the question "what about the roads?" is the one that every detractor always comes up with thinking that they can paint libs into an ideological corner.  I was just pointing out that the libertarian model abhores public funding of infrastructure, but that doesn't neccessarily lead to the conclusion that such infrastructure wouldn't exist.  Many privately highways have existed in the US in the past, and a few still exist in this modern world.  The question of funding isn't trivial either, but if it can be solved; and there is no reason to believe that it cannot under a libertarian form of governance, then the rest really is trivial because the vast majority of publicly funded infrastructure isn't publicly constructed at present.  That was my entire point, and it still is.  No matter how someone might wish to attack my perspectives, it's still true that most public projects are privately implemented. It's more like this..Me:  "Customers don't run grocery stores, they only pay for them."Youe: "Uhhh, sure they do, the customer is always in charge!"The government is the customer.  The private contractor is the grocery store, and the privately employed skilled laborer is the cashier.Uh, yes.  Of course.  The funding is just funding.  The actual people who do the work really are the most important factor.No, I'm not.  You're big with burning straw, but not particularly good at it.  Again, the government is the customer in this deal, operating as the representative of the taxpayers (hopefully).  It's like the customer decided that a road needed to be built, and hired ACME Engineering to design it, present it's project for approval, and then build it once funding was present.Actually, it's not like that at all.  It's exactly that.I what throwback city do you live in?  I haven't seen an actual public works vehicle in over a decade, and even that was just a passenger van moving laborers with sidewalk brooms.It was another comparison. I disagree already.I consider a perishable trade currency a bug, not a feature; and ripple is a p2p credit system, it's only as abundant as users are credit worthy. I don't understand your explaination here.  And I don't agree that 'basic interest' is not trivial, or even always a postive number.But how?  I mean how is that actually enforced?  Is it taken as a fee once the funds are spent, or is there some other mechanism?  Can a miner chose to ignore it, like a miner can presently choose to favor a transaction dispite a higher fee offered by another, or is there some mechanism that requires the miner to enforce demurrage for all transactions?Does this mean that miners cannot waive the demurrage fee?  A universal demurrage fee isn't useful for encouraging desired behaviors either.  In order for the desired effects to occur, there has to be an alternative to paying full costs.I question this assertion.  At least, I question that it's effects on the market interest rate is not negligble.I question this as well, velocity is effected by so many variables that I don't think you can claim that velocity is stablized in any great degree via demurrage.  Certainly not with a 10% APR demurrage that is inflexible and unavoidable.How is this?  Do you just delete the transactions if they reach zero?  How? But that is a contradiction.  In order for there to be investing and spending in relation to a currency, it must also be fairly good as a storage of value.  At least as good as the Euro or US $.  Otherwise, your spenders are never going to spend in Freicoin, because they never have an incentive to earn it.  Credit works in our debt laden economy because the credit is based upon the US $, which is still a decent store of value compared to a demurrage rate of 10% APR. If you are referring to the concept of a private police force patroling a public or private network of roads as being unwieldy, I would agree.  I was pointing out that it's possible within the current social order without changes that would be dramatic to the casual observer.  I'm not suggesting it as a solution, only an example of how a lib society could actually solve the problem of "enforcement of the traffic laws" in a post-government civil society.  We can't even know how it would actually happen, and I don't even personally support the absolute 'anarchist' ideal anyway.  I think that governments exist because they serve a particular niche (justice, collective defense) very efficiently.  The problem that I have with governments is that they have a perverse incentive to expand the mission into ever more facets of private life. You contradict yourself immediately...Based upon the research, work and recommendations of private planning firms.  Governments don't have planning firms, btw.Most people would consider that project management, would they not?Some government agency finances and manages the maintaince contracts of completed roads.  Only very large cities such as Chicago and NYC do this kind of skilled labor without contracting out the work to private contractors, and even they do it sometimes.  It's literally impossible for smaller cities and independent towns to do it without contracting, because they can't maintain the expertise.  And states don't do it because of the distances involved and political issues with county governments that make such a thing a logistical nightmare.EDIT:  A single paving machine can cost over $100K, and unlike a fire truck which sits still most of it's service life, a paving machine needs to be in nearly constant use in order for the costs of road maintaince to remain low.  This also means that the machine itself needs constant professional maintaince as well.  And this is just one type of specialized equipment required in road maintaince.  Can a city own one of these?  Sure, but it's not cost effective for a city to do so, because a single city's public works department is unlikey to be able to keep the machine in service.  At least not as well as a contracting company that owns twenty of them, employs 15 operators full time, and two mechanics.  The kinds of specialized equipment that cities tend to own fall into the catagory of 'physical insurance', such as salt trucks in cities that freeze and fire pumper boats in cities near trade waterways.  Many cities have enough trouble just keeping their police helicopters in flight ready condition.That sometimes is the vast majority of the time.  I would say almost all of the time, but I have no doubt that there are a few exceptions.And utility companies are private corporations, not mere extensions of government.  And like all companies, they have the right to sub-contract those maintaince duties to other, more specialized, contractors.  And they do, everywhere in America.This is a field that I have worked within in the past, from several different perspectives.  I know how things actually get done.  You should try to consider your practical understanding of a topic before posting about issues for which you know not. These are not trivial questions, but they are questions with real world solutions besides government.  In fact, I'd be willing to wager that the roads that you drive on were no built by government, are not maintained by a government, and could also be policed by a private contractor even though they are not presently, and you would likely never notice the differences.Governments don't build roads in America.  They never have.  They fund roads and maintaince via taxation, but there are other ways to fund roads if need be.  The roads are built and maintained by construction contractors, and governments (at most) function as management.  In fact, none of your vital public infrastructure is provided for you by any direct actions of a government official, beyond the funding aspect.  Even in areas that the water or electic companys are publicly owned monopolies, the work of maintaince and expansion of the infrastructure network is done by employees of private industry.  Hell, even the police and military were somewhat private enterprises in the United States once upon a time.  The term 'constable' (where we get the term "cop" from, i.e. "constable on patrol") is an English word that literally refers to a privately hired policeman.  To this day, the county that I live in, and technically every county in the state, has two publicly elected positions for constables, who are not paid by any government agency for the office.  They are private security companies with state honored police powers.  One guy gets elected to the office, and hires off-duty cops to patrol banks and ride along with bounty hunters and serve private civil court summons, etc.  It's likely similar in your own city.  The enforcement of the traffic codes could likewise be performed by private companies.  For example, what if the funds from a traffic ticket went into the coffers of the constable's office after being proven in an independent traffic court?  Enforcement would be both better, and more just, then is presently so. Why is that crazy?  That's exactly what commonly happened before the New Deal.  It was the role of the Church to guilt the rich into funding the missions that supported the poor.  It still happens, just not to the same degree.  The government has mostly muscled the charities out of the charity business.  And not just religious groups, either.  Before the New Deal, fraternal societies were enormously important social organizations; providing benefits to their local memberships that were hard to come by for middle class families by any other means until the 1950's.  Such as group health and life insurance coverage.  The American model of unionism is directly based off of the fraternal orders, and is the primary reason that unions don't function the same way in most other countries.  Those fraternal orders were, for the most part, forced to stop providing member benefits by the increasing regulations imposed by governments.  Many of those orders only existed for the purpose of collective social benefits, and thus simply faded out of existance.  Of course, many were racist by their nature, refusing to accept members who didn't look like them or pray like them; but every race and social group had their own order, so that didn't limit options much. You guys worry too much, all of you.  A large number of core GNU/Linux developers worked at IBM.  That favored IBM, but it also favored Linux.  They didn't hide their affiliations, nor did they declare them to every Linux user.  This doesn't qualify as a conflict of interests. I looked up Freicoin, and I'm not impressed.  How did you impliment demurrage into the codebase that manages the blockchain?  By what method do you actually impose the demurrage fees upon the addresses with a positive balance without also introducing security issues into the blockchain?  10% per year is way too high, 1% is probably too high.  And is that percentage applied to the individual balances, or only to the total monetary base?  If the former, how?  If the latter, what are the details of applying demurrage to transactions buried deep into the blockchain?  A demurrage system that is rigid is not likely to achieve the social goals, if the users can take no other actions for reducing their loss other than leave the currency in favor of another method of storage of value.  In this respect, a rigid demurrage fee system isn't much better than a rigid/predictable inflation target. Logic is logic.  Logic involves proofs, but that doesn't make it math.  Praxeology involves logic and reason and math, but it's still a social science.  The core concept of praxeology, and thus all included disiplines, is the study of human actions.  Thus, there is no way to separate the social aspect of the science without significant flaws.I can see how you might consider Bitcoin to be similar to fiat currencies, lacking any obvious non-monetary use value; but how could you rationally consider it fiat?  The very term requires the imposition of a government agency, since it literally means "by decree".I'm sorry to tell you this, but this is wrong.  The business cycle's root cause is malinvestment.  The social aspect is that, during the boom, investors are as upbeat as everyone else and are more likely to investing borderline projects.  Artificially low interest rates, manipulated by central banks, make this pattern of malinvestment worse but are not themselves the cause.  The root cause of the boom is a form of collective sentiment, what Keynes called "animal spirits".  Keynes was not wrong about the role of the mood of the collective in the business cycle, he was wrong in his belief that it could be forced via monetary policy.  The malinvestment of the boom cycle is what then makes the correction inevitable, but there is always a trigger event that draws the attention of the collective towards the developing cracks in the system.  Once the first true crack is identified to the collective, it starts looking for more, and it finds them; and then the mood changes.  And this continues until the correction resolves the cracks, and the recovery begins.  After a time of no cracks, the sentiment slowly turns to a 'feeling' that there are no more cracks to worry about, and the boom starts again.  In the past, both a gold standard and the more local regionality of the credit & productive markets tended to limit the scope of the boom, and thus the severity of the bust.  The boom from 1992 to 2001 was the longest national (worldwide?) boom period in the history of the US, thus we can expect the most severe correction in the history of the US.  But only once those with the power to manipulate monetary and fiscal policies finally resign to allow the correction to occur, or simply fail to continue to prevent it.Neither gold nor Bitcoin have interest by their design (or nature).  Interest exists only because two parties are willing to engage in contract.  Do you believe that there is some mechanism inherent to either Freicoin or Ripple that prohibits interest?  Ripple is a web-of-trust credit system, and not a currency at all, so there is certainly not any means to prevent interest contracts from forming in whatever currencies that Ripple users ultimately settle upon using.  I admit I'm not terriblely familiar with Freicoin, care to enlighten me?You would have lost that bet in whole.  People invest in stupid things because of interest, or more precisely in the pursuit of improbable interest.  And I am aware that demurrage is not equal to inflation.  Inflation is rot, udderly unavoidable while value is stored in the currency.  Demurrage is a security or storage fee, which can usually be reduced under certain situations, which players will then tend to favor.  I've started an older thread on this subject, stating my concerns about the lack of an artificail equivialnt to demurrage in Bitcoin, but the thread died because there doesn't seem to be any way to do that in the blockchain security model without also breaking the cash-like features of Bitcoin.  It also might not matter, as I'm concerned but not actually convienced that demurrage is neccessary for a cryptocurrency. Knowing nothing about the projects that you are referring to, the fact that no one is interested in investing in these projects suggests that their application is limited.  Nations shouldn't really be investing, anyway.  The US "invested" into the Apollo program in order to be the first to put a man on the Moon, but the goal there was a display of technical superiority, not profit or sustainability.  One of the greatest projects for public investment in the US would be a right-of-way, pipeline and pumping station on the Mississippi River to force water up, through or over the Rocky Mountains in order to supply freshwater to populations beyond such as Los Vegas.  Or simply a pipeline from San Diego to siphon seawater to refill the Death Valley Basin, which was an inland saltwater sea (like the Dead Sea) up until about 800 years ago that provided rainwater (via the natural water cycle) to the entire area up until the last of the water dried up and left the salt flats.  Those would be investments worth of a national effort, but they are never going to happen due to interstate political issues and environmental issues.  A power plant is something that the private capital markets handle best.   I suppose that our disagreement is more of a matter of degree.  I don't contest that deflation can be a destructive force.  I do think that a monetary system that tends towards deflation (gold standard, Bitcoin) and is naturally moderated is preferable to one that tends towards inflation (fractional reserve fiat) and is actively moderated.  The reason that it's preferable is because the consequences of the business cycle are more muted in a deflationary monetary model.  Thus, deflation is not "good" so much as it's better than the alternative, generally speaking.Although praxeology attempts to use reason and logic, it's still a social science.  There are no such things as 'undeniable truths' in any social science.  And the greatest folly of most self-described economists, both in history and modern, is the failure to recognize that economics is a social science.  Otherwise, mathmatical models really could be developed that consistantly predict economic events.  People have been trying to do this for decades in some form or another, but none are particularly good.  The best predictive model ever devised is the predictive market, such as Intrade, that leverages the collective wisdom of society itself in an organized fashion.  Even the best prophet among us isn't as good as all of us.Again, I'm not making such a claim.  I'm been arguing that it's better than the alternative.Again, I have to say that you are correct, but not completely so.  Economics is a complex topic, and any such simplification of causes such as you present are bound to leave out or gloss over non-trivial contributing factors.  But it doesn't matter what the root causes are, if one accepts that any market is 'unstable' and always seeking it's equalibrium.  Once you accept that, then it becomes obvious that the business cycle, as the agragate view of that unstablility, is inevitable.  If the cycle is inevitable, then the best overall solution is to use a monetary system that is self-regulating and generally less likely to reach extremes.  The only monetary systems that fit that description are commodity standards and Bitcoin.In what way do you consider them flawed? This is dead on correct.  By hindsight, we now know that the most important change in society that led to the equal rights of women was not the Women's Sufferage movement.  It was the invention of the automatic washing machine.Those who are wealthy enough to afford a maid to clean their homes pay them because they favor their free time over their money.  The maid cleans the home because they favor the money over the free time.  It's a difference in wants and values.  The wealthy don't value money as much as the poor, because they have more than enough to satisfy their primal needs.  Thus they are willing to pay the poor woman to be their maid.  So who benefits most from the advancements in consumer technology?  The middle class and the poor.  Because of the inventions of washing machines, vacuums and automatic dishwashers; both middle class housewives and those nearly destitute maids of the rich are better off then their predecessors a few generations ago.  If a man is wealthy enough, he didn't have to labor to meet his own needs even back in Roman times, since he just had to hire more servants (or by more slaves).  The modern maid, however, directly benefits from the effectiveness of labor saving devices designed for the American middle class homemaker.  Because of a washing machine, the maid does not need to commit so much time or personal effort into the washing of clothes.  Because of the Roomba, she might be able to vacuum personally in one room while the robot vacuums in the next room; so that the maid only need to check the robot's work and finish up the details.  To sum it up, machines don't actually displace workers unless you are looking at a particular subset of work.  Before the machines, the maid did the work while her employer (or a manager) surveyed the results.  Now the maid has taken over much of the tasks of the manager, while the machines do much of the labor.  Thus she is more productive overall, and can earn more money (by doing the same work that would have required many more maids two generations ago, perhaps by freelancing and cleaning a different client's home each day of the week rather than laboring all day every day for one rich guy) while her employer benefits from lower labor costs as well.  This doesn't actually remove jobs, because although there is less need for professional maids, the rich man still has other unmet desires.  For example, since he doesn't have to pay two maids because one is enough, now he also hires a gardener (or a landscaping company, same principle) so that he doesn't have to worry about the yard work either.  Or a poolman.  Or he buys a home theater, which employs not just engineers to design the thing, but also those factory workers; who now rather than standing on an assembly line driving two screws into the product 1000 times each workday monitors three or four screw driving robots.  Now he is an 'operator', or a 'tech'.  So the employee makes more money, performing a less (physically) demanding task; while the consumer gets an improved product at a more affordable cost.Literally everyone in society benefits from the improvements in productivity that automation provides, from the wealthiest industrialist down to the unemployed drunkard whose beer costs half as much because the brewing process is now controlled by a computer rather than a trained brewmaster. You assume that the 'something' is a naturally occurring force in a market situation, but you can't offer any evidence to support that.  You can't, because it's not true, and it's provablely not true.  The 'something' that is driving disparity presently isn't a naturally free market mechanism, but the long predicted side effects of intervention into the free market.  It's just taken this long to accumulate to the current crisis.  I can actually support this premise, but I don't have the time and you wouldn't likely accept it anyway, so take the above however you wish.
Trivial to whom?  They are not trivial to those who engage in free agency in order to earn an income.  And the addition of the Internet into the mix ultimately only makes free agency more efficient, otherwise it wouldn't happen.  Higher efficiency and effectiveness in the realm of using the Internet to match up individual desires with individuals willing to fill those desires (be it shippable products, or personal labor services) only increases the market share that free agency can effectively provide.  In the beginning, the new 'TaskRabbit' type people who can make a real living will be rare and annecdotal, but over time those jobs will increase with the increasing public awareness that such a system can satisfy their needs in less expensive or less frustrating ways than are presently possible.  A decade ago, anyone making a living from home via the Internet who wasn't an accomplished author was a news article.  Today most people know someone who does or could make a living solely from home via the Internet.  Craigslist is another example of the improvement of efficiency of the Internet altering an existing market, resulting in it's massive expansion compared to the prior model.  In the case of Craigslist, the local market of used goods is what changed.  Not only did Craigslist improve the advertising of yard sales, it permitted sellers of single used items to avoid the need for a yard sale or the purchase of a classified ad in a local newspaper.  Thus allowing those people looking for a deal on a used item that is impractical to ship (think used refrigerator) to find sellers locally.  I have an android app that scans Craigslist for me, looking for items that match keywords, so that I can be quick to reply to any such ad that I should be interested it within a few minutes.  I know that I'm not the only person to use such a thing, because I've been beaten to the item by a matter of minutes in the past.  Search Craigslist for refrigerators and you will find a number of ads that ask too much for what they are selling, because the good deals are claimed quickly and those ads are removed.Sure, they are aware that stuff sells on Ebay, but that is only an example.  The second hand market is legally taxable, but let me know if you find anyone who sells stuff on Craigslist in November that will even consider reporting that to the IRS come April, assuming that they even remember the transaction while sitting down to do their tax forms.  If there wasn't a check or a credit transaction involved, something I would presume to be very rare with regard to Craigslist transactions, then it didn't happen as far as the IRS will ever know.  It's only because of the third party issue that Ebay transactions are more likely to be reported and taxed.  This is the killer consumer app for Bitcoin anyway.  Whether or not Bitcoin is used in a manner intended to be anonymous by both parties, it's going to be a lot of work for a agent to tie a particular transaction to a taxable event even after identifying both parties to a BTC transfer. I can't watch this video, but if the general argument is that a "job" is a daily defined working arrangment with a legally established company, then the answer to the question posed in the title is "no".The official metrics are flawed, in many notable ways.  But significantly in error as the "unoffical" grey market increases in relative size.  This has been the trend since the commercial explosion of the Internet since 1992.  For example, many people for the past decade or so have made a part time job out of Ebay dealings.  A minority of these people have lost their "offical" jobs in the recent recession, and are thus offically unemployed.  But if your side job was selling locally made knick-knacks on Ebay prior to the pink slip, what would you do?  I live in a city that has a local artist industry centered around glass, but for the most part the artists themselves don't sell their art on the Internet.  Several fans have filled that niche over the past several years, and I'd bet that more than a few have made a full time income out of their hobby.  Another example is my nephew.  He recently turned 18, and like many his age have trouble finding "offical" work because they have to compete for those entry level labor jobs with older and more experienced adults who were laid off from higher skilled jobs.  That is not to say that he doesn't work.  He takes one off labor jobs from myself, neighbors, and strangers via a website called Taskrabbit.  It's not as easy or dependable as an "official" job, and he would prefer a regular scheduled job, as there are many advantages; but he doesn't go hungry and he manages to earn enough to pay for the things that he really wants, such as gas in his car, insurance, cell service and bowling fees. Yes, but we have already seen some deflation, and attempts to "combat" same.  I would agree that the correction is not yet over, but to assume that we will see general signs in the overall economy (such as consumer price deflation) as opposed to deflation centered in particular industries (such as real estate and industrial commodities) is unsupportable, IMHO.That would be the 'stagflation' that I mentioned prior.  A condition of concurrent consumer price inflation and rising middle class unemployment rates that Keynseian economy theory insists is impossible. There are natural counter-tendencies that limit how much deflation can occur within a given working economy.  One might argue that exceeding those limits are possible, and the results would be destruction of the working economy, but there are no cases that affirm this argument.  Deflation tends to be much milder than inflation, if only because the rate of inflation under a fiat currency is under the direct control of those who can legally (or even illegally) produce that currency, thus there is no practical limit to the inflation rate.  There is no case of deflation exceeding 10% APR under a gold standard, but there are several events of inflation exceeding 400% APR under fiat currencies.  A deflationary rate of 10% is very high, and would have some harsh effects; but an inflationary rate of 400% actually destroys the economy based upon the fiat currency.  The risks are not comparable.You're view of praxelolgy is oversimplified.  You are not alone in this error.http://www.fee.org/from-the-archives/the-importance-of-economic-theory/<snip>"Take, for just one example, Galbraiths interpretation of Adam Smiths notion of self-interest, an idea that is constantly misunderstood even today. Galbraith seems to believe that self-interest might not lead us to the socially optimal outcome, as the invisible-hand idea would suggest. This is a terrible misunderstanding of the role of self-interest in economics.First, self-interest does not automatically equal greed in economic theory. It is not assumed that individuals are motivated solely by selfishness or material gain. Economics is not about the particular motivations individuals have but rather is a method of analysis. It assumes individuals attempt to maximize their welfare as they conceive it, which can be selfish, altruistic, spiteful, loyal, or even masochistic. Individuals are attempting to achieve their ends with the means they believe to be the best.Second, institutional context matters. The rules we live under will determine whether Adam Smiths invisible hand achieves socially beneficial outcomes or not. The invisible hand guides self-seeking individuals  people who are attempting to achieve their ends  to serve the public good, but only under the correct rules. Private property, freedom of contract, and competition are all necessary to achieve what Smith envisions with the invisible hand. As Sigler says in the review, [T]o discuss Smiths theory without mention of competition is to discuss Napoleon without mention of war.<snip> Higher field densities are not required....http://www.physicstoday.org/daily_edition/physics_update/water_s_response_to_ultralow_magnetic_fields_comes_as_a_surprise<snip>"Stefan Hartwig, Martin Burghoff, and colleagues at the National Metrology Institute of Germany have now discovered that in fields of 1 µT and lower, water responds to a magnetic perturbation even faster still. To see the increased relaxation rates, they had to measure waters magnetization in fields less than 1/500 the intensity of Earths geomagnetic fielda feat made possible in part by a superconducting quantum interference device. Hartwig and company havent yet pinpointed the detailed mechanism underlying the fast spin dynamics, but they suspect that coupling between H+ and 17O nuclei plays a role."<snip>I understand this, but I disagree that this is the root source of any unexplained energies.  The breakdown of the magnets is certainly a drop in the potential energy of the magnet, but there is no explaination as to how the slow collapse of the magnetic field can transfer it's energy to the momentum of the device in a net positive way.  The individual molecules are equally likely to dump their magnetic energy in a net negative way, simply because when the molecules lose their magnetic alignment with the field, they can lose it in any direction whatever.  Said another way, the failure of the individual molecules that comprise the magnet are just as likely to oppose the overall flow of energy of the device as to contribute to it, and there is no way to bias the process in favor of the desired flow.What use scenario are you referring to?  I offered a general explaination as to why we we will never see horizontal maglev flywheels used as storage devices for electric vehicles.  I never claimed that this effect was large enough to develop an over-parity "free energy" type of device.  I did imply that, should this ever be accomplished, men in black suits are going to kick the inventors' doors down and they are going to fully understand the term "extralegal enforcement". I can't contest anything you say above, but I think that the price inflation will not be truly felt until a recovery is in the works for real.  Most of that QE money, as you said, is sitting in bank reserves because they can't or won't lend right now.  Once that sentiment changes back into a 'boom' mentality, M3 will shoot for the Moon like never before, and that is when the majority of the price inflation is going to be noticable.  In the meantime, deflation is the dominate theme, due to the contraction of M3 outpacing the expansion of M0 and M1.  I'm still not ruling out a 'stagflationary' period in the near term, however.I don't even think hyperinflation is in the US's distant future, because as much as I like Ron Paul as a candidate I consider the odds of his success (or anyone else's) at forcing meaningful reform or control upon the FedReserve to be on par with the odds that the world will actually end precisely on December 21st, 2012.  Which is to say, not very good.  The last actual president who tried to reform the monetary system was assassinated about a month after the attempt.  Corrolation is not causation, and I'm sceptical of a connection anyway, but I'm never going to rule it out either. Not so.  The MadHatter was logged in one week ago, but is not in the habit of posting anymore and may not respond to PM's.  He doesn't send cash through the mail because he has been burned doing so.  Basicly, you can trust him to honor his agreements, or bugger off if he doesn't know you.  I'm sure if you could meet him in person, he would consider buying your bitcoins for cash.   We are likely to have some pretty strong price inflation in the next couple of years, if the economy actually starts to recover and people go back to work and pay off those debts without defaulting.  Then there will be a large increase of currency in the market due to QE1 & QE2.  However, hyperinflation is something altogether different.  A currency can, and many have, suffered very large annual inflation rates for a couple of years without imploding; but hyperinflation is always and everywhere a political event.  The Federal Reserve exists for the benefit of the member banks, not for the benefit of the US government or the public.  So long as the Fed exists, and continues to manage monetary policy independently of Congress, then hyperinflation simply isn't in the cards.  That would destroy the golden goose, as far as the bankers are concerned.  The banks would rather see an inflation rate of 20% for a few years and crush the market economy than surrender the power of control over monetary policy.  Congress will have to take it by force, and it won't prove easy.  Still, things don't look secure for the Fed's charter considering how well Ron Paul's retoric has infultrated the Republican base this year.  If Congress cancels the Fed's charter, or takes over monetary policy in some other manner, then hyperinflation is a possibility.  Otherwise, forget it.  And even as bad as inflation could get in the US, it's likely to not be as bad as inflation might be under the Euro or in China.  The US FRN is the safe haven of soverign wealth funds and unscrupulous political officials the world over, and any net influx of captial to the US FRN is going to support it's buying power until such time as the influx tapers off.  But sooner or later, significant price inflation in the US is already a certainty.No, we do not agree.  Monetary base deflation discourages imprudent capital investments.  Capital investments that deserve funding will always find it. Some of us, yes.  Bear in mind, we are dealing with real value here; the value of intellectual property is theoretical and not relevant to the torrentors themselves. You can try with the -connect flag.  If you know the pool's ip address and they are accepting inbound connections. When I was a Junior in high school, I had a friend of mine who was notorious for bad ideas.  His father traveled for his work, and brought some of these bastards home with him.  My friend brought them to school, and tried to tell everyone that they were "only a little hotter than a halapeno".  Everyone else just said, "I'll try one after you do".  However, I was a bit crazier.So I grabbed one, popped it into my mouth and started chewing it before he had a chance to stop me.  I chewed it up, and swallowed it.  I then looked at his shocked face, shrugged my shoulders and said, "it's sweet".  Then it hits me, and I screamed like a little girl.  It was oilly, and sticks to the inside surfaces so that once it got going I could literally feel my mouth and all the way down into my stomach.  I ended up comandeering a water fountain, and the principal forced my buddy to go down to the cafeteria and buy me every milk that he could afford.  I slowly drank about a half gallon of milk over the next two hours, and I had blisters on the inside of my mouth for a week.  And I still suspect that I lost some hearing in my left ear that day.On the plus side, my head cold was gone. The Pauls may not be as familiar with Bitcoin as some, but they are aware of it.  But they don't need to really grok it, they have aides for that stuff.  They don't update their own blogs, either; and I seriously doubt that either one tweets. Thank God!  A forum member who actually takes the time to completely understand a subject before answering questions!  As oppossed to the majority that takes a look at a truncated visual aid, never noticing that it's truncated. It will never pass because it would work.  It wouldn't make the US FRN worthless, it would simply expose the present reality.  The US FRN is already worthless.  It wouldn't be chosen by a market economy once the threat of force that 'legal tender' laws imply are removed.  Bitcoin would not likely be the dominate alternative, however.  Bitcoin exists in a niche because of coercive legal tender laws.  Digital gold or silver certs would almost certainly dominate.  There would be no practical reason for Bitcoin to exist. NOW YOU'VE GONE TOO FAR! The title of this thread is akin to asking, "why don't Jews us the Internet?"If you just thought, "Wait, What!?  How the hell would you know that?" then you just got my point. I'd bet that Mars had life on it at one point, but I have no opinion about the intelligent part.  I'm still not sure that there is intelligent life on Earth.  As a aside, what if humanity evolved on Mars, and we are refugees.  That would explain the missing link issue.  I have no idea, just speculating.The atmosphere of Mars was most likely lost because the molten (reactor) core failed criticality, and thus plate technonics failed.  The Earth wouldn't have an atmostphere to speak of either without the replacement effects of volcanos.  Given enough time, the vast majority of gases would be absorbed into chemical molecules until the pressure was no longer sufficient to maintain liquid water, at which point the oceans would slowly boil away into near space.  This would have occurred over millinia, and can't reasonablely be called a catastrophe, as it would have been long forseeable by intelligent creatures.  Can't be stopped, can be avoided.  It's possible that the life cycles plants and animals could slow down this process of atmostphere loss, but I'd doubt it.To say that Tesla was a mad genius was an understatement.  The idea of turning the entire Earth into a tesla coil begs the question, what then is your low-energy sink?  In the case of a normal Tesla coil, it's the Earth and the energy source is the ambiant electromagnetic spectrum.  As far as the Earth as a whole, there is a substantial ambiant electromagnetic specturm to draw from, but where then would it go?  You still need a flow of energy in order to draw useful work.The story about the explosion in siberia that destroyed his massive attempt to build a tesla coil, although plausible considering we now know that there is a great deal of natural gas in Siberia, still sounds like a cover story to myself.  The tower was destroyed, but it was more likely that it was destroyed by actual explosives.  There were many people who were afraid of Tesla actually succeeding, in much the same way that people today are afraid of the supercollider succeeding in creating a naked singularity.  Silly, to be sure, but fear of the unknown is a powerful motivator; and Tesla had some well heeled enemies anyway.  Not the least of which was the founder of General Electic.And natural gas doesn't explode while in the ground, because there is no oxygen.  If there were enough oxygen to burn it, then the natural gas wouldn't have formed as it did. I'm about to burst the bubble of both the original poster and of those who are trolling the original poster due to the abject impossibility of conservation of energy.  If this is what I think that it is, 1) it's not a 'free energy' or over parity device and 2) it's already patented, but the details of how to do it is considered so dangerous that it's been redacted long ago.  Hardcore government types, who wouldn't give a moments thought to the risks involved with global warming, will be more than happy to burn you at the stake should  they discover you know how this device works.  This is because, once I explain the device, the risks to life on Earth should be obvious to any rational person.As the scientificly educated here have already pointed out, a closed system cannot produce more energy than it requires to operate.  These are the two laws of thermodynamics that prohibit 'free energy' devices from working, as there must be a higher energy state to lower energy state even occuring in order for (useful) energy to be harnessed.  Said another way, there must be an energy flow from a condition of high energy into a lower energy state sink.  Once the two states are of equal potential, the ability to harness useful energy is lost.So, in general, let me explain how this device "works".  (Full disclaimer, I've never seen this device actually produce over parity, only the credible theory on how it could, and why it would be bad even if it never achieves over parity)  The device is basicly a magneticly levitated flywheel, of mostly non-ferrous construction, with an array of magnets embedded into it's outer ring.  The array of magnets are aligned in all three axis.  Some of these magnets are used to keep the device leviated and centered, while others are used as an inverted brushless motor armature.  The entire device needs to be in a near total vacuum to reduce friction, for it needs to spin very fast.  Now, I've just described a magneticly levitated energy storage device, and one that has been invented and reinvented by multiple people, but has not and will not ever reach mass production.  Not because it doesn't work well for that use, but because of the (largely unintentional, and theoretical) side effects of large number of these fast spinning magnetic disks on the surface of the Earth.  Here's the problem in a nutshell, the only way to build such a maglev flywheel is to have it spinning parrallel with the surface of the Earth, as there are many reason why any other oriantation is difficult to build.  The disk, being basicly a flat, spinning magnet can and does, however small the effect might be, interact with the magnesphere of the Earth itself.  This fact, taken alone, means that the magnetic field of the Earth is a drag on the motion of the spinning disk, as the disk is a moving magnet inside another stationary magnetic field.  Relative motion is what creates electomagnetic current.  This is how most people would look at this.However, the magnesphere isn't the only magnetic field of concern.  The Sun also produces a magnesphere, which interacts with the Earth's.  It is thus theoreticly possible for such a disk, of the perfect set of size and rpm's, at an unknown resonate frequency, to draw an incrediblely small amount of momentum from the relative motion of the Earth's field spinning inside of the Sun's, even while itself sitting on the face of the Earth and not in any real motion relative to that field from a macro viewpoint.  This would be akin to those quantum level 'eddys' that plague researchers trying to develop room temp superconductors.  This would be a rare and unlikely event if the device was not tuned specifily to do so, but if tens of thousands were built for electic vehicles, or any other reason, the odds that someone will, by accident or intent, stumble across the perfect resonate frequency required to draw off large amounts of 'free energy' from unkonw sources increases.  That source would then be the spinning of the Earth itself.  Obviously, this occurs naturally, and the spinning of the Earth does gradually slow down on it's own.  Ever wonder how the Earth's spin could slow, even though it's an object spinning in open vacuum?  This is how.  The observation is known as the Corrillus (sp?) effect.  Taken to it's logical conclusion, such magnetic objects spinning in open space eventually 'lock' their spin to their orbit, thus presenting only one face to their host object.  We have a number of celestial examples of 'locked' moons in our solar system, not limited to out own.Now, obviously, drawing momentum off of the rotation of the Earth itself would be a very bad thing, if it were to ever to occur as a matter of course.  A collection of tens of thousands of such devices, used over generations, and the slowing of the Earth could become considerable.  Granted, the momentum of the Earth is astronomical compared to the energy needs of humankind, but once this kind of tech were loose, there is no way to know for certain if it can be used to spin up the Earth later on.  The long term effects on terrestial life would be unpredictable at best.Then again, an extra hour each day might help me to get things done. http://www.raspberrypi.org/I think that a raspberry pi is a better platform for a dedicated wallet device.  Add wifi, Dash7, NFC and (maybe) a 3/4G radio to the device; a touchscreen, and a secured wallet.dat.  Allow it to use Dash7 continuously to locate both wifi hotspots to automaticly use by turning on and off the wifi radio at it's own need as well as locate other such devices to either sync blockchains with or to perform wireless transactions with in meatspace.Even without the ability to use Bitcoin, a Raspberry Pi in a portable format with a Dash7 radio and either wifi or 3/4G would be a wicked mobile pc.  I can think of a half dozen things that I would do with it right now. No.
Don't count on that.  Those powers are the same that continue to deny the problem exists. There is the key piece of data right there.  The Fed's own statistics confirm that the Fed was doing the right thing!  Ever consider the possibility that those stats are intentionally manipulated to make the government/federal reserve look like they know what they are doing?  If the CPI were calculated in the same manner that it was in 1970's, the CPI would be over 6% right now and would never have shown a negative number.  But it's not calculated the same way.  M1 isn't even reported anymore, and has to be guessed.  Shadowstats.com, which does have it's own biases and issues I admit up front, does a much better job producing metrics that compare to those that we used to use.  For example, if we were still using the unemployment metrics that we still use in history books for the Great Depression, U6 would be the closest number to that metric.  Last I checked, U6 was over 16%; and that is even with the lowest participation rate in the recorded history of the US labor force. Yeah, real funny.  Right up until the point that, at best, all the factories in China that make our consumer products are nationalized and retooled for products never intended to come to the US.  What then, once your Iphone breaks?  And that is assuming that they don't decide to invade to take whatever they can find in payment.  Wars have started for much less.  And there is no case in history wherein the national monetary system collapsing did not result in civil unrest or a civil war, or fascism.  Be very careful what you wish for, young man.  You might just get it. Nothing that is beyond the variation of averages, as far as storms go.  Earthquakes worldwide, however, is another issue.  Remember that tsunamis are caused by undersea earthquakes and try to remember the very first tsunami that you can remember occurring that you learned about the same day, and not in a history class.  I'd be willing to bet that it was in the past decade.  We've had half a dozen tsunamis that I can think of in the past decade, and I can't remember one occurring before that in all of the 80's and maybe one in the 90's?  When the east coast was hit by the 5.9 a week before the hurricane, there was another earthquake in the western half of the US the very same day.  Not saying that this is out of bounds for the law of averages either, but it does make one wonder.... They are not the same prize.  The Nobel Prize for Economics is an award granted by a bank in honor of Nobel, not by his own foundation.  The Nobel Prize for Economics is a reflection of the kind of economics that central banks respect and wish to promote.  It's not an award commonly given to real economists.  Think of it this way, if you are a scientist whose job is to study economics, and present predictions; yet a significant portion of your income is directly or indirectly the result of government and/or central bank funding, are you still impartial?Roughly half of all Economists in America fit the above description.  It is very difficult for even the most intelligent professionals to see the truth when their paycheck depends upon their not seeing it.  Krugman is an example of cognative dissonance in academia and media.  Real economists don't teach economics, nor advise governments as a profession.  Real economists make investments and fund startups.  Peter Thiel is a real economist.  Paul Krugman is a political talking head, who happens to focus on economic issues.  Even mentioning his Nobel Prize in Economics as support for his economic theories, rather than their fundamental logic, is an 'appeal to authority' fallacy.  Krugman is a master at bullsh*tting his readership, most of whom are not thoughtful enough nor well read enough to see through the bs without outside help.  This includes many very otherwise intelligent and educated people.  I would like to see what his own investment portfolio looks like, because I'd wager that his own choices would stand to benefit grandly whenever governments follow his advice. Has RMS made any public comments about Bitcoin?  In light of his past commentaries, he should have something notable to say about Bitcoin.  If his public mentions of such cryptocurrency ideas cease after Bitcoin's metoric rise around October 2010, about the same time that Satoshi disappeared, this might be a significant link. It's also easily checked.  Have any of the first 10 blocks moved?  The first ten are almost certainly Satoshi's, the genesis block definitely is. So you are hedging then? Yes, but I don't think that Japan is a good example to hold up.  Their government is in debt to 180% of their annual GDP.  They are actively trying to devalue the Yen, in order to encourage exports.  So is basicly everybody else, but only the Chinese do it well.  The stability of Japan is, I think, largely a byproduct of their culture; and one I don't think will survive their demographic peak in the near future.  I can't predict how it will end, but I give high odds that their social cohesion is going to be tested as their aging population is increasingly dependent upon a (relatively) shrinking working age population.  The same can be said for the United States and Europe, but Japan will certainly get there first, even if the US is more likely than Japan to end up in a class war as a result.True, but price deflation (and price inflation) are largely a reflection of the currency's perceptions at the time, not it's fundamentals.  Said another way, the aggregate value of a currency (within a working economy, not speculation as in the present case of Bitcoin) is, in large part, a result of the confidence of the user base of the currency's "usefulness" to themselves in the future.  Since the present and future supply of Bitcoin is a known variable, only an increase in the demand can result in price deflation of goods as priced in Bitcoin.  This also means that a greater number of people have confidence that they can spend Bitcoin in the future; which in turn means that it's impossible for the 'deflationary spiral' theory to apply to Bitcoin.  For if a 'deflationary spiral' were to occur in the Bitcoin economy (whenever that were to materialize) this would result in a drag in it's own perception of usefulness, and thus limit it's value.  It's a self limiting factor, so long as the economy at large has an alternative to the currency in question, which in this case is the local currencies that Bitcoin stands to replace.  Thus the deflationary spiral is impossible as applied to any alternative currency.I'm not sure that I agree with you here.  Not entirely.  Trading in Bitcoin is quite easy, but aquiring bitcoin in order to trade is not easy.  Using credit cards for online shopping is still easier, the privacy concerns notwithstanding.  I agree that there is a great potential for Bitcoin to dominate as a superior exchange currency, but that remains to be seen.  It is no more difficult for me to trade my metal for dollars and then go buy a new washing machine than it is for me to trade my dollars for BTC to buy books online.Gold has been on a record tear for the past decade, but I wonder (without checking) if a purchase of Apple stock in 2000 would have outperformed gold oever teh same time frame. Why does it go up in the evening?Why are you doing this, if you can earn more just hashing? UPS?What is magical about a government subsidized parcel post? You either pay for it directly or via taxation. An the idea that inflation encourages prudent investment is also a myth.  If sitting on cash is the wisest investment choice that can be made, then there is either something wrong with the investors' information or the economy in question.  Either way, where is it written that (any) investment is better (from any perspective) than no investment?  It's certainly true that wise investors will not perfer to stay in a cash position when inflation is rotting away the purchasing power of that cash, even at a mild 2% APR; but it is not true that the investments that said investors will choose are better for the economy.  Even under the best conditions, those investments are better for the investor.  There is no evidence that an economy in 2% deflation is worse off than an economy with 2% inflation, but much that says the beneficiaries of those conditions are much more likely to be closely tied to the central bank in the latter situation. All of this is inmaterial to Bitcoin, which isn't deflationary, and cannot be deflationary until well beyond any of our predictable life expectancies have long since passed.  Bitcoin is presently inflating at about 40% APR, and is a many year before it's ready for a true economy.  Bitcoin's present value is reflective of the present speculators' collective view of it's future value.  There is no significant bitcoin economy to speak of.  There won't be until Bitcoin's inflation rate is below the inflation rates of nations that might wish to take it up.  Many third world nation's currencies still inflate at rates well beyond the 'ideal' target of 2% per year, even the stable and functioning ones.  If you live in a nation that is inflating it's currency at 9% (I suspect that China is close to this number, but the official rate is about 5%) then when Bitcoin breaks that number, the local online economy is going to begin to prefer Bitcoin (or it's successor) once it crosses that rate.  If only 1% of the online trades that occur in China are in Bitcoin, it's trade demand will be high enough that it's record value of $30+ dollars per would easily be justified.  The price presently implies that the collective wisdom of the speculators believes that the odds of this level of success in the future is less than 25%.  I would tend to agree with this sentiment.  Whoever is here that doesn't believe that Bitcoin is an extremely risky venture, shouldn't really be here.On a side note, the effective APR for Greek bonds shot to just over 80% for a time today.  That says that the good money thinks that the odds of Greece paying back it's bills in the future are much lower than the odds that Bitcoin succeeds to grow an economy large enough to justify a trade value of $30 per share. My choice would be that they already are. I'll buy everything you have for twice that right now. Considering that he took the source code straight from bitcoin, and has admitted such, he literally is in direct violation of the license that he agreed to by taking bitcoin's source code.  If anyone is getting sued, it's him. Thanks for your input.  And note, if you will, that "callous, vicious, and mean spirited" is entirely subjective.  Subjectively, "in my opinion, is irresponsible and harms bitcoin" in reference to the style of moderation that the establishment has chosen to promote, could be interpreted exactly the same way.  Just because your not cursing, doesn't change this perspective.  And yet, you will not find a single mod here that would censor yourself over this opinion about us.  Manners would be a grand thing to have, but some members don't, and we simply couldn't force manners even if we had the time.  If you feel strongly about this, I recommend that you start another forum, with rules of your own liking, and invite a few of the early adopters to participate. I didn't say superior.  Try to check your assumptions.I can't speak to your beliefs, but there is no evidence that a predictable deflationary environment is worse or better than a predictable inflationary environment.  Yet, savings of capital must precede economic growth.  Liquidity, alone, does not substitute for real capital.  If it did, stimulus would work.It's irrelevant, in this context, that value is subjective.  The predictablilty of the monetary base removes one, significant, future variable.  Namely the ability of a third party to affect the monetary base, such as a central bank.  The declining nature of the inflation also provides a growing variable of stability into the forseeable future.  These features do, indeed, something to assure the future value of the currency.  They help to assure that it's not zero, for a number of reasons. First, how?  And second, demurrage based upon value of the transactions isn't really demurrage.  It doesn't have the same incentives as a fee relative to the age of the transaction.  But both have negative effects. The idea that the Fed would consider freezing the accounts of China for any reason short of an overt act of war is laughable.  Such a thing would literally destroy the US economy and the currency. I've discussed this topic in the past, and since Bitcoin is intended to model gold's resource extraction curve (and the secure storage of gold is demurrage) I don't have issues with the concept.  However, in the past I couldn't imagine (and neither could anyone else IMHO) a ruleset that could be added to Bitcoin (or to an alt currency) that would introduce a mild, market based demurrage without significant risks of unintended consequences.  I had argued that demurrage would not really encourage spending so much as 'churn', but that would also be a good thing for bitcoin because a demurrage based upon the age of a transaction (not it's value) would encourage users who didn't need anominity to consolodate holdings into fewer & newer transactions; thus not only maintaing the profitability of miners (and thus helping to pay for security on savings as well as transactions, increasing the security level in general) and 'rotting' lost coins back into the pool, but also serving to incentive the consolidation of the blockchain itself.  Allowing pruning to be more effective, but efforts towards anonimity less effective or more costly.  The problem was how do you do it?  The system is a set of simple rules that interact.  How do we impliment demurrage such as this?  Solidcoin actually forces this issue, by permitting the old blocks to actually die, however the time period is much too short, and can't be relative to the age of the transaction, as it's either good and free or just gone.  The demurrage model for bitcoin, to be effective without becoming a damaging factor, would have to occur over decades.  No gold storage vault would ever charge the user so much for storage that the balance was gone after a year or two.
Seriously.  Without even going into the accuracy of the source, or how the wikipedia article author came up with those numbers, the amount of foreign currency reserves that it claims for China is expressed in US dollar values.  The Central Bank of China doesn't actually keep it's currency reserves in US Federal Reserve Notes.  Much of those reserves are Euros, and many other currencies besides, not limited to Brazil, Argentina and Australia; China's most important non-domestic commodities source nations. Done. Which ones?  You, incorrectly, assume that economists agree that the deflationary model is universally bad.  That is not the case, and only Keynesians agree with one another on this point, and Monetarist depending upon conditions.  Austrians, almost never.  The gold standard was, due to rising population rates, generally deflationary over long stretches of time, and only inflationary for short stretches and in regions with close economic ties to the new found sources of gold.  A gentle, predictable deflation is at least as economicly benign as a gentle, predictable inflationary currency.  Currently, Bitcoin is neither, as it's highly inflationary (of it's monetary base) whilst also being incrediblely predictable.  Bitcoin's value has increased over the past year, as much as it has, only because the size of the bitcoin user base (and thus it's aggregate demand) has increased by several orders of magnitude since I discovered it in April of 2010.  The high (but declining) inflation is somewhat contradicted by it's predictability, which helps to assure early adopters and speculators (same thing, mostly) that the currency will have value in the distant future, once the inflation rate levels off.That said, Solidcoin is not a better choice here either, using a much steeper inflationary model followed by a sudden stop.  Solidcoin might prove to have it's place in the market, but not as a direct competitor to Bitcoin.  Namecoin has a nitche.  A localized version of bitcoin might as well.  Solidcoin doesn't seem to have a nitche as far as I can tell.  The sudden stop nature of solidcoin could also prove it's undoing, as the geometric halving of Bitcoin's block reward (potentially) serves the function of weaning a growing market economy off of a subsidy.  If Solidcoin has any success at all at 2022, the sudden stop in block rewards is as likely as not to be a major disruption in the system.  If the market is weak, such a disruption would likely kill it off, even with it's own high degree of predictability.  The reward system in Bitcoin, as well as it's interval, are certainly arbitrary; but they are well considered. What does "overspill" mean in this context?And before it happens, no BitcoinPorn, I don't need a visual image. And that is why it is reasonable to assume that there will always be at least one person willing to run a full node that does not prune.  It's also why I said that most full clients won't prune anything recent.  As already noted, light clients don't need the full chain anyway, and can start their chain when they create their first address.  Most full clients won't really need a full chain either, and can prune quite extensively and/or start from the most recent trusted checkpoint hash.  All clients do full chains currently, in part, because the network is still very small compared to the expectations, and the many-copies-keep-data-safe method is employed.  The concept of placing a full "quiet" node in orbit, on Earth protected in a safe zone, and eventually on the Moon, as archival devices have been discussed already.  For now, there is neither the need nor the resources to do any such things, but if Bitcoin is as successful as some of us predict, those nodes will be cheap insurance; largely inaccessable to most forms of destruction.  (one or another, but not all, depending on the kind of destruction being considered) As noted, I've done my research.  Some of it, at least.  What I found isn't promising.  I'm willing to stake a bet between us.  What is the currency exchange rate?  Based on the rate today, in six months you buy me $50 worth of Bitcoins (on today's exchange rate) and I'll buy you $50 worth of Solidcoins (also in today's exchange rate).  You can buy those coins at any point along those six months, if you don't aleady have them.   It doesn't need to be verified.  The client downloads the entire block, verifies it, and then proceeds to prune it to it's own liking.  That is what the merkle tree block structure is for. Yeah, I'm starting to see it more your way.  Off-book land contracts tend to be shady deals anyway, and those who set up such things are either family of the homeowner or a criminal looking to launder some cash.  People who are willing to deal with such people tend to be criminal in their own right. No, I knew what you were doing.  I said that you were stupid.  The other guys for trying to deal in contraband on a public forum, and you for getting your identity involved at all. I didn't move this thread, nor have I deleted or moved any threads on this topic.  I locked the pot thread because permitting such things to continue invites legal liability to the ownership of this forum.  This is one reason that this forum is no longer part of bitcoin.org.  I think that they mean that if a coin hasn't been spent or moved by the time it hits the 100K block, it's probably a lost coin and is given to the miner of the next block as that one is destroyed.   That's a false logic.  A license is required to perform real estate contracts, legal contractors are presumed to honest, thus any contract that lacks the written permission of the state must be dishonest.  Sorry, but a license doesn't mean your honest and the lack of one doesn't mean your dishonest.  In this case, it means your stupid, but malice still isn't the most likely cause of this breakdown.Actually, he could.  That's the 'loophole' in a land contract, performed properly.  Still a good idea to use a licensed real estate lawyer to handle the details, but land contracts are legal for anyone in any state.  As I noted before, a land contract is simply a rent to own lease agreement wherein the object being rented is one's own house bought in a short sale prior to forclosure, instead of a tv or a computer from Renta-center.  It is, essentially, a long term lease agreement.  Real estate lawyers can't really make such contracts illegal.  BW's failure was accepting a deposit from potential clients.  If cash wasn't involved, the dogs wouldn't have had anything to hit him with.  If he had shelled out the fees that licensed agents expect, they would have left him alone.I'm saying you can't trust anyone.  Saying that some judge is trustworthy, because he is a judge, is an appeal to authority, a logical fallacy.  Bruce was broke, remember?  What would he have paid his lawyer with?  They don't work for free, justice belongs to the highest bidder, sometimes.  I'll admit, that part does sound a bit fishy, coming from Bruce himself.  Again, a license doesn't imply honesty. The judge is a lawyer.  You presume that the judge was correct and impartial.  I'm trying to point out that isn't something that should be assumed.  The judge is, more likely, acting under the color of law.  Real estate lawyers don't like it when new guys muscle into their turf, particularly when they find some way to do it without jumping through the legal hoops (i.e. licensing) that they have erected to prevent it.  Lawyers stick together, and don't like it when their brothers are upset.  I've seen this crap in action personally, and I am inclined to give BW the benefit of the doubt based upon the plausibility of his explaination on the events.  Sure, he couldn't produce a single person who had been aided, most likely because his contract with any investors required confidentiality.  Something that the lawyers filing suit would have well known, considering that many (most?) of such land contract investors are persons with an excess of cash reserves who need discrete investment vehicles.  Said more plainly, particularly considering the locale, any investors that BW had would most likely had shady forms of income, and needed a means of washing the dirt of that cash.  Land contracts are infamous for such things, because the mortgage company being paid off does not have any incentive to report suspicious events, the homeowner gets another chance at the American Dream (tm) and even if the investor ends up in prison, no prosecutor is going to go after the house, because they want to keep their jobs. (if they aren't elected, they work for someone who is, and evicting law abiding citizens from their home because they rent from a scumbag is bad press).  And most of the time, civil forfiture laws can't realisticly even take the land contract, because they probably belong to some out of state corporation and not the scumbag in question; funtionally making the seizure of the asset (the contract, not the home) an out of state legal action.  Something that prosecutors aren't likely to do, because they don't like to work hard for small odds of success any more than anyone else does.And if you had a confidentiality agreement like that with someone like that, would you risk breaking it by actually inviting a homeowner to testify on your behalf?  It's not like the homeowner agreed to keep quiet, and the lawyers are certain to ask the homeowner about the investor. I went to the solidcoin website and this is what I found as the logic for this fork..."As Bitcoin itself and other similar chains have seen, there are numerous vulnerabilities and issues in the protocol, including :-    * Slow transaction speeds, often making waiting for confirmations unbearable    * Near complete shutdown of network due to pump-n-dumps by large operators    * Transaction fee nightmares, no way of knowing what a fee will be until you've tried to send funds    * Concentration of Bitcoins into elitist early adopters that have no interest or desire to help Bitcoins be used by "normal" people"Really?  That's it?  This is the complaint?1) Slow transaction confirms?  (not transaction speeds, as noted by the faq later, actual transactions take seconds)2) Pump'N'Dump 3) Unknown transaction fees4) Elitist attitudes1)  So to solve the problem of 'instant' transfer confirmations, they reduce the target time from 10 minutes to three minutes.  Okay, but it's still three minutes.  How does that help?  If you are standing in a checkout line trying to buy a hamburger, fries and a coke you aren't going to be waiting for a confirmation in either case.  If you are sitting in the new car dealership then you are going to be waiting for several confirmations in any case.  This doesn't solve anything, and is just as arbitrary of an interval than Bitcoin's 10 minutes.  By what logic is three minutes better?  And why not two minutes?  And what is the expected network latency going to be if Solidcoin is running transaction volumes near to that of Visa?2)  Is this a problem with Bitcoin, and if so, how?  This kind of thing (sort of) happened last summer, when the difficulty was way lower than now and almost no one was mining with their GPU's.  But rules now exist to limit such events, even though they are astronomicly less likely since that was most likely done by someone with a GPU mining prototype and there just aren't any new jumps in tech on the horizon.  Bear in mind that we knew that GPU mining was coming at the time.  And ASICs represent a leap in power efficiency not hashing power per se.3)  They aren't unknown.  All one has to do is take a look at the range of fees in the last couple of blocks.  If you want to be 99% certain that your transaction will be included in the very next block, choose the high end of that range.  If you just want to have a pretty good odds of getting it in within the next couple of blocks, choose the low end of that range.  If you don't need it to be included anytime soon, choose zero.  4)  Really?  You don't like how others play the game, so you are going to go home and make a whole new ball game?  Is this Baseketball?  Is this a logical reason to choose a currency fork over the original?  Because you don't care for the attitude?  Do you really think that others who come after you are going to prefer your attitude enough to overlook the advantages of the original? I'll admit up front that I don't know anything about what Solidcoin is trying to accomplish, but it's obvious to myself that neither of you have any deep understanding of what Bitcoin is really designed to accomplish, nor how it works to that end. This is not the proper forum for this kind of transaction, regardless of what you might use to pay for it.  And even if it were, odds are even that this new 'vendor' is a police sting.  You two really are stupid. Why?  Because he posted the legal opinion of a lawyer put to paper?  Or because you trust that he is honest while Bruce is not?  Have you people learned nothing?  Just because someone says so, doesn't mean that it's so.  This is no more true with Bruce than anything that Nagle, or myself for that matter, might post on this forum.  It's not damning, it's not even supported with a reference.  Just because someone on this forum hasn't been yet shown to be a liar, doesn't imply that they deserve your trust. Do you shop for books by their covers as well? That's an excellent idea!  How long do you need to get it done? Yes.
Middle class people have pension funds and benefit from endowments (via improved campus resources, presumedly without increased tuition).  The poor don't invest in anything, as a true poor family couldn't have paid for a flat screen anyway.  He was using the term 'poor' to refer to the American lower middle class, who most certainly do have pension funds and 401K's, just not much of either. That would be true about now, but that is also one reason pruning isn't high on the to-do list.  In a future, wherein Bitcoin processes transactions on the scale of Paypal or Visa, the pruning of spent transactions will be a very useful thing.Yes, there is a reason; and because of that reason, and the sentiment that you have expressed above, not every node is going to prune.  Thus, the entire blockchain will continue to exist somewhere on the 'net forever.  However, this isn't particularly useful for a node processing transactions in a live production environment.  If you truely feel this way, then you can feel free to commit some of your own personal resources to make certain that a node with the complete and unabridged blockchain continues to exist.Agreed. http://www.escapefromamerica.com/2011/08/is-it-getting-harder-to-become-an-expat-and-escape-from-america/I'll just leave this here. There isn't any real need for a large number of nodes that keep a full copy of the blockchain.  There probably isn't any real need for any node to keep a full copy of the blockchain unpruned at all.  Pruning of transaction data that 1) is older than a certain period of time, say three months or15K blocks or so and 2) has been referenced (spent) and the referencing transaction has been referenced (i.e. the transaction is at least two transactions long spent) will eventually result in a fairly stable blockchain size that mostly varies by transaction volumes over those three months.  Some clients won't keep spent transactions unpruned at all, and will thus have a much smaller data footprint, growing only by the size of the block headers; which amounts to about 4 megs per year.That said, some nodes will keep full copies of the blockchain, if only for archival reasons.  It's not neccessary that these nodes have high bandwidth or super powerful machines either.  I have a VPS that can keep up with the blockchain just fine, that I direct my other client(s) to bootstrap and update from, since I don't keep clients running either on my home machine nor my android phone and I don't want either to announce to the network or to the bootstrapping IRC channel that they exist. BitcoinJ clients do this, because once they are started for the first time, they create their own addresses and have no logical need to assume that such addresses have existed prior to themselves.  They download the most recent blocks, and then keep up with the chain, but then I think that they only keep the block headers and discard the data in all blocks that do not relate to coins sent to themselves.  It's certainly possible, there just isn't a real need for a regular client that can do this just yet. Despite the common belief that you are free to move to any nation you choose, an American is not free to revoke their own citizenship without the permission of the US State Department.  They don't make it easy, and wouldn't make it possible if they could get away with it.  I'm not claiming it's right, I'm saying it's reality.  Move to Israel and get citizenship there, get a job, and return to the US on a Israeli visa and they might just leave you be.  But if you move to Israel, start a company and become wealthy entirely beyond the borders of the US, and return to the US under any method using your own name, you can expect to pay out your unpaid federal income taxes earned abroad if you wish to see your wife in Israel again.  It really is all about the money.  If you don't have enough earnings abroad for them to care about, they won't.  If you end up making a fortune, you can expect a shakedown eventually. It's in the white paper. No.  Not slower.  Not the network, anyway.  Perhaps your particular client, but only if your machine & internet connection suck.I can't compromise the network, and it can reach infinity until a client with the capacity to 'prune' spent transactions from the old blocks is developed.  Pruning of the blockchain is part of the protocol, but isn't implimented yet, and likely won't be for some time.  It probably isn't going to become a priority until the blockchain is around the 10-20 GB range.  Any computer newer than two years old and with a decent broadband connection can handle this kind of database. I never thought that anyone should be the 'face' of bitcoin to start with, but the media needs someone to be the point man.  BW stepped up to do that task.  He should not continue, regardless of the truth or fiction among these accusations.  Still, I'm questioning the vitrol of many of the posters in these threads.  Some facts exist.  Some of them quite damaging, taken alone.  I take such things with a grain of salt.  I'm not here to defend BW.  Honestly, I don't care about his reputation.  I do care about this forum, and think that most of this is way out of bounds, but I havn't yet done anything to prevent it.  Members have a right to say what they want, to a point, even if what they have to say is false or generally asshat-ish in nature.  But there is an aweful lot of blaming going on here lately.  Sometimes we get scammed.  Take your lumps and move on.  Don't trust BW or any anonymous wallet service again.  But none of us are going to get compensated by BW, whether that is the proper course or not.  And nor is it ours to decide if it is the proper course.  If you have evidence that BW is actually responsible, please present that to a detective at the fraud devision of the NYPD. That's the theory, but try it and see what happens.  If you are an American living and working abroad, you will be taxed by the US government.  I dare you to refuse to pay that tax.  Even revocation of your natural born citizenship doesn't fly, because the US won't accept it and most other nations that you might want to live in won't protect you should the MIB come pay you a visit in your new country of residence. Salaries for paper pushing office employees, real estate lawyers via fees, deed investigations, etc.  The statement that a non-refundable deposit paid by the homeowner seeking aid, of a substantial amount in most cases, is plausible.  This, however, is what really got them in trouble.  Lacking a license in the state to do real estate, they shouldn't have been taking any money from prospective clients.  They should have tried to be more discriminating with those they thought they could help.  The subset of late homeowners that were still credit worthy enough for a land contract (which is basicly just another form of refinance, using a rent-to-own contract to sidestep a lot of real estate regulatory BS) is a narrow, but mathmaticly predictable, band of people.  They should have been able to eliminate 95% of the unworthy applicants based on a simple questionaire wherein they provide data on their finances, and via their credit background check.  Those who still had a good credit rating should have been able to refinance without them, it's those who had a very poor credit rating for other reasons that (no longer) applied to the homeowner.  For example, a divorced single woman, employed, who filed for bankruptcy due to the circumstances of divorce.  (Even a divorce does not relieve your responsibilities to pay for your deadbeat ex-spouse's debts, if they occurred while you were married) 25K BTC was cheap when BW bought them, and does he not have a job in NYC?  Was this judgement really unpaid or not waived?  If he really didn't have the funds, they might have let him out of it.  That would have been a different document.  Fleeing the state over a civil suit can get you a warrant.  I seriously doubt that BW would still be in the US if this were so.How do you know that he didn't try to make amends? Maybe I'm just too old.Obviously some people do care if Bruce is battin' for the other team.  I see no evidence that he is a convicted fraudster, a civil suit is easy enough to lose.  Mismanagement is a valid cause for a class action suit, but it's not usually criminal.  Never attribute malice whenever incompetance is a reasonable explaination.  Again, a real con artist wouldn't have used his real identity if this were a con, nor would he try to defend himself in this forum once the game was done.  Obviously, Bruce's reputation within this community matters to himself.  What he should have done in 2005 was simply stop accepting new applications, or at least stop accepting a deposit for accepting new applications.  I've some limited experience with land contracts, and what he was doing was basicly matchmaking of real estate investors and homeowners who were treading water, but still a better risk than the standard metrics would imply.  Sort of like what Prosper.com used to do before the regulators shut them down.  This does not mean that the idea wasn't sound, just that as the market started to tank, the pool of risk worthy homeowners and the pool of available investment funds both dwindled away compared to the pool of soon-to-be-former homeowners.  That said, mismanagement does seem to be a plausible cause of failure, and not one that is easy for most businessmen to admit.  I think that a lot of this is about a subset of forum membership that got burned by Mybitcoin.com (I lost 29 BTC myself) and are too bitter to accept that they (we) all failed to do our due dilligence.  We should never have been so trusting of a faceless website ran by a largely anonymous individual, and we shouldn't be looking for prominant members to blame for our errors.  Take a little responsibility for your own actions, people.  I read today that some woman paid $180 for an Ipad 2 in the parking lot of a McD's; only to get it home and discover that it was a painted block of wood.  The woman called the cops, as this was obviously fraud, but what was she doing buying anything from the back of a van without checking to see if it was real!?  She claims that she didn't think that it could be stolen, either.  Really?  I assume that half of the electronics that I find on Craigslist are stolen, if their list price is less than half of the new price and the seller isn't willing to provide contact info.  Don't you?It's past time for the members who lost funds to write it off as tuition to the University of Life, and learn from it.  Some of us may have paid more than others, but we should all be able to take a hard won lesson from this. What is "SA"? You're damn right.  Do you know the difference between a tax and a homeowners' association fee?  You know the fee before you move in, and are free to move away if you no longer wish to pay it.  I dare you to refuse to pay your taxes "due" and move out of the country. Mods can't do this, only global administrators. Maybe, but this isn't a courtroom, and your diatribe not evidence of much.  If he was a con artist, he was a crappy one, and still is.  What con artist would still be using an identity that could easily tie back to such prior events?  Particularly within a community that it is so very easy to obscure one's own identity.  What gain would there have been for Bruce to invest into Mybitcoin.com just to scuttle it?  Certainly he would have known that the blockchain would eventually trace back to himself and that the scandal would have devalued the currency. Then you don't understand Capitalism, much less it's evils. I'm either missing something, or we have been overrun with homophobes.  Why are there so many BruceWagner bashers lately? True.  If you started it, you can stop it.  Unless you are a newb, but then you shouldn't be able to start threads anyway.
I think you mean "Caveat emptor".  "E pluribus unum" means "from many, one". It's newspeak.  They know what it means, they also know what most readers believe it means. ...all that this system lacks is a secure distance payments system.  A hub and spoke network of goods movement.  Similar to UPS but with much smaller vehicles, tighter spokes and cargo UAV's instead of massive cargo aircraft piloted by pairs of trained humans earning $100K+ per year.http://matternet.net/They even intend for it's primary use to be the distribution of high value goods, such as medicines.Just wait until the SilkRoad get's in on this one. Religion has next to nothing to do with it.  The term that you are looking for is belief.  Specificly a belief that the unknown constitutes a threat.  In the age of city-states and before, that unknown was the intent and abilities of differing cultures beyond the line of sight of the city tower.  Governments formed for the collective defense of small communities, thus appointing the most able among themselves to direct such a collective defense against threats both real and imagined.  Over generations, however, the families who abandoned yeomanship in favor of professional security became a warrior class; distinct from the community they were intended to protect.  After this point, the lack of identity with the community at large would create a situation wherein the ambitions of those in the warrior class (during periods of particular peace and stability) led to the creation of a political class in command of the warrior class.  And thus the betrayal of the common citizenry was complete.  Essentially, all governments are up-sized protection rackets.  The modern pretense of civil control is simply a matter of progression. +1 YuushaSmall loan repaid on time and in full. Loan repaid in full.  Thanks! argumentless opinion = meritless noise Another may be responsible for letting you eat lead paint as a child, but then they are primarily responsible to you, not for you.  It is not, in any capacity, the liability of society and civilization at large for your heavy metal poisoning or it's associated effects.  If society wishes to take such into consideration in the collective punishment (normally called 'justice' although it tends to be far from that) imposed upon you for your actions, society can choose to do that.  However, that in no way implies that society is at fault for your condition, nor responsible in any way for your actions.  The primary goal of modern justice systems isn't either restitution of the wronged nor even punishment of the wrongdoer.  The primary goal is to limit the liberties (both in time and scope) of the wrongdoer in order to limit the further harm to society in general that the wrongdoer can commit.  If it benefits society to commit resources to 'reform' the wrongdoer so that said wrongdoer can be released and support himself, that will happen to the greatest extent that it's actually possible.  If it's not possible, and particularly if the wrongdoer is of particular risk to the public (such as a serial murderer) then reform is dropped in favor of simply indefinite incarceration.  If someone (successfully) uses the mental incapacity defense to evade a conviction, the justice system still commits them to the care and incarceration of a state mental hospital; because anyone who has a history of causing harm and lacks the capacity of self-regulation, they are even a greater threat to society at large than the career criminal.  The nutter cannot be reformed, but the mobster commits crimes due to the pursuit of profit and the belief in his own capacity of evading the police.  If he can be convinced that the profit doesn't justify the risks, the mobster can be reformed. Fortunately for me, that isn't an argument that I made.  I can't even see how you came to the conclusion above by distortions of what I said, unless you just didn't bother to read them and just jumped in.  I would agree that all humans are equal under the law, but certainly not identical.  Again, it's not relevant that one person can be more influenced than another.  It's a prerequisite of an adult that s/he be able to rationally control their own deviant tendencies regardless of whether those tendencies are the result of nature or nurture. Such as? I do not have to trust you at all.  I think you don't understand bitcoin. No, he is saying that outside influences have no bearing on the morality of the choices, and thus little to no bearing on the type of response from society's justice systems.  Having a mental dysfunction is already a consideration in the modern concept of justice and morality, it's just not an excuse.  If you ate lead paint as a child, and then go out a do crazy things as an adult, is that cause and effect?  Clearly it is not, considering the large number of people who were also exposed to lead as children who did not grow up to be clockwork orange characters.  And the excuse about the kind of family one is born into is just as faulty, for all of the upstanding and generally successful people who came from broken, criminal and dysfunctional family influences.No matter what kind of devil made you do it, you are still responsible for the consequences of your actions.  That is the very definition of adulthood. Some variation of this 'scheme' is inevitable.  When Wal-Mart is mining, they might reject fee paying transactions from known Target addresses; and withhold some of their own transactions to be included only in self generated blocks.  If Wal-Mart (or other large, international corporation) were to consolidate all of the small transactions they produce in a given day (that can be delayed) into a single, self-generated block, they might stand to save a fortune in fees.  This assumes that Wal-Mart has enough miners to reliablely generate at least one block each day (or week, month, whatever).  Once this is commonplace, it will become very difficult indeed to discern this kind of delayed transaction processing for economic reasons from delayed transaction processing for anonimity reasons. If you are using a client on your computer, you can't.This would have to hit the blockchain at some point, even if it's only 6 confirmations before you use it.  Of course, that would be pointless.Don't tell anyone.Which is why you use a different receiving address for each transaction, or at least each customer.  If you desire real anonimity, you are going to have to put in some effort.  Using a mixer or a shared online wallet would help. I recommend that you peg the monthly rent to some other currency of more stability, perhaps with a clause that prevents the monthly rent from increasing or decreasing by more than a certain percentage, say 10% either way.  This way both parties accept some of the currency risk.  Gold, silver, copper spot prices; the Euro, Yen, and even the US$ are more stable references than Bitcoin.  This will still help the bitcoin economy to grow, which will increase stability in the future; but it's not in the interests of anyone if either party to this deal ends up getting hammered and bailing out due to massive swings in the Bitcoin exchange value. If that's your ZAS kit, I think that the bullet to the head plan is more practical.  I carry more than that in my briefcase.EDIT:  For that matter, I wear a Leatherman Wave and a Fenix LD20 on my belt everwhere I go except to take a bath or to bed.  My wife used to insist that I leave them at home when we went to church; until 9/11.  I have never been to church without such tools since.  (I had a Gerber and another flashlight at the time, but have since upgraded my belt tools.)  My children have never seen me without them while I was awake.  Ever.And as I write this, there is a 14" Kukuri knife on the top of my roll-top desk, two feet away; and a stocked pantry cabinet capable of feeding my entire family for at least 30 days (except water) four feet away.  Even my house is prepped (prior owner was a security nutcase, I even disabled some of the features because I agreed with my wife that they were over the top) and the enclosed staircase leading to the bedrooms has it's own security door with a dead bolt lock (and a different key) and the stairwell leads straight up to a landing with a blind corner.  Be them zombies or criminals, that stairwell could be a shooting bottleneck. If that's all that you could understand from my responses, then I would guess that I can't answer it for you.I'm a libertarian, not an anarchist.  Try and understand the differences in the ideologies before displaying your ignorance.  Corporations are a creation of the state, and thus the state has the right to regulate them.  I'm opposed to regulations without basis or merit, which just happens to be the majority of them in our modern world.  That said, not all companies are corporations.  Corporations exist for the purpose of limitation of liability, which wouldn't even be allowed in a true free market economy.  Private companies that do not seek to limit their liabilities by hiding behind the skirt of mama state should not have to deal with the false regulations imposed by that same state.Yeah, I don't think you're going to make it. I didn't say that they lied.  Don't try and put words in my mouth.  I said that their financial statements don't reflect the reality.  A lie implies the intent to deceive, which I don't believe that most corporate auditors participate in.  They simply don't know all the details themselves, because those individuals within the corporation that oversee those datasets have many incentives (personal, professional and political) to not share them.  The financial statements often don't reflect reality, in part, because you believe that you can interpret them.  But you can't, and neither can I.  No one really can, outside of the insiders who helped to create them.  They exist to blow sunshine up the skirts of regulators and mutual fund managers alike, and they work very well at this.  The only detail of any value that I've ever been able to grok from any of those statements is, whenever those things are all sunshine and happiness, it's often because the dark clouds are so dark that even the insiders don't have a viable avoidance stragedy and are afraid to put it into ink for fear of making it too real.  I exited from a strong position in GE common stock, based mostly on the overly optimistic annual report, the Thursday prior to a rumor about the sale of GE core manufacturing plants (such as Louisville Appliance Park) sent the stock price from over $30 to $12 over the following several weeks around May of 2008.  That one annual report saved me quite a tidy sum.  It's what those financial statements don't say that is the most valuable.They also used creative accounting that most certainly still is allowed.  Encouraged, in fact.  Feel free to search for the term, "Marked to market accounting" and compare that to what is actually allowed.That is exactly the point.  Enron was an extreme example of the practice, but they did it because they were a company in decline, and they knew it.  What they did, whether it's 'legal' or not, is still standard practice with regard to public reports.  The companies that are doing well, have no incentive to resort to such actions; but because some reports cannot be trusted at face value, the rational investor cannot trust any such reports at face value.  If, for no other reason, he is not an insider and cannot possiblely know when a viable company has crossed the rubicon headed for ultimate failure.Get your's straight before calling someone else a liar.  Don't forget who you are talking to, either.  You continue to express your "opinions", about my character and my viewpoints, by my own leave.  I will only suffer such abuse for so long before you cease to have a vioce at all.Hedging is one rationalle, not the only rationalle.  That said, just what do you think that buying bonds are intenteded to do for a company, if not to hedge against inflation of the fiat currency? That's also what gold is good for, btw.Who do you think that you are arguing here? Logically correct, but still irrelevant to the topic.  Try and focus.Of course you would focus on the bit about the suit, and ignore the point completely.  I'll give you the benefit of the doubt, and assume that you simply didn't understand the point.Gold isn't an investment.  Gold is money.  If you are buying gold, silver or even oil futures as a speculative investment, you are as likely as not to lose capital.  If you are seeking an alternative currency to the default, gold is (historicly and generally) the best choice for capital preservation.  I.e. hedging against currency risks.  Most people would simply call this "saving". I have.You seem to assume that the publicly available financial statements honestly reflect reality.  Any rational review of the past statements from such corporations such as GM, Enron and half of the Fortune 500 should expose the lie in this belief for even yourself.  As for gold not being listed as cash, this is true, if it's listed at all.  However, generally speaking anything that the Powers that be (tm) consider to be a "cash equivalent"; such as money markets and government bonds (and basicly anything else with a highly active secondary trade market, such as oil futures within certain constraints) can be reported upon such summary statements as "cash reserves" even though they most certainly are not sitting on cash.  That cash is already back out in the market, because the finance managers don't want to be in a true cash position any more than anyone else does in an inflationary environment.Those facilities can, and generally are, provided by the oil companies as part of the futures contracts.  Thus oil and steel can be bought and sold as easily as corporate bonds, and thus are liquid assets.  I can buy a futures contract for vastly more oil than I can actually do anything with, with a built in delivery date three months out, and sell it to a refinery (or anyone else) two days before delivery confirmation.As noted above, yes they are liquid enough to be considered as part of the 'cash reserve' figure in a summary financial statement, if the trading of such commodities is not a fundamental part of the corporation's core business model.  You really should try this thing called Google, it's your friend.  If you work in this field, I feel sorry for your childrens' future.This seems like a great place for a quote from a recent Wiskey & Gunpowder article (commodities traders, Wiskey & Gunpowder, get it?)"Oh dear. The gold price in dollars is volatile because the US dollar is volatile. An ounce of gold has almost always bought you a nice suit at any time in history. The volatility in the gold/dollar exchange rate is all on the dollars end. And thats because the supply of dollars is always increasing. Also, the futures exchanges have been pretty active boosting margin requirements on gold contracts. Thats made for some larger-than-normal price moves. But the value? Rock steady over time, baby.And thats the point. Gold isnt really an investment. Its money. And its money that holds value well over time. You only worry about capital gains if youre investing in gold. If youre buying money, youre more focused on preserving purchasing power."http://whiskeyandgunpowder.com/you-can%e2%80%99t-eat-asset-allocation-either/Yeah, things are going to get bad in the next couple of years.  I don't think you're going to make it. Yes, I do refuse to play your game.And a summary of my answer...Some do, some don't.  We can't really know to what degree that those who do, do so; nor can we know if those that we don't think do, actually don't.  For either of us to speculate on which do or do not, would be a particularly futile form of mental masturbation.  Again, I'm not willing to play in the dirt with you.  Not again.There is no defining distinction.  Not one that can be agreed upon by all players, anyway.  The differences are both personal to the observer and temporal.In general, and over long periods, yes.  Local, and near term conditions can render such a statement overly broad, and thus false for a particular set of conditions.  Not knowing any particulars, or not caring enough to do the research, any particular individual investor (saver) or company is likely to do as well or better with gold than anything else.  However, there are many companies with enough 'cash' to manage that hiring a finance manager to do the research is worthwhile.  This is one reason that companys might not (again, we can't really know what they do if they don't really want to tell us) invest liquid reserves into gold while the general statement that gold is history's overall greatest store of value remains true.  Another possible reason is that said finance manager is, in fact, criminally irresponsible and his employer simply doesn't understand that (yet).  Bernie Maddof was considered one of the greatest investment gurus in the country up until a few years ago.
No, I didn't.  You just didn't understand it.I don't feel obliged to provide evidence to you.  You wouldn't accept anything I provided anyway.  You just want to see me expend time and effort in a futile effort.  If anyone besides yourself actually cared, I might consider it.  Otherwise, google is your friend.I don't think you understand what is going on.  If gold were the ultimate store of value, it'd be worth something like $1700 per ounce!  Just because something is the best choice overall, (and historicly) doesn't mean that it's still the best choice for a particular person or corporation.  A company that has a lot of production inputs in oil or steel would be wise to invest reserves into those commodities, by either futures contracts, storage facilities or outright purchase of companies that produce those commodities. Not really.  Mostly it means highly liquid investments, such as money markets.  That said, the 'cash' position of any particular corporation; or even all of them taken together, is only part of the equation.  You have to consider their debts as well.  Although most large corporations are net positive, they aren't by much.  They tend to own each others' debts via money markets, which are basicly mutual funds for corporate bonds.  This is very similar to how the banks all seem to owe each other money.  The idea that there is corporate cash sitting on the sidelines, or even private investor cash, waiting for the right moment to jump into the market is a sad myth.  That money doesn't, for the most part, actually exist.  And what doesn't exist can't be traded for gold.As stated above, mostly because it doesn't really exist.  And for that which does exist, much of it is invested in bullion, either directly or indirectly via the 'paper' metal funds.  The thing about gold, is that it is as untraceable for corporate entities and very wealthy individuals as Bitcoin is for us.  There are estimates about how much refined "above ground" gold exists in the world, but the thing about that is that no one can really ever know with any certainty how much actually exists.  And if we can't know how much there is, we can't ever know who is trading the "shadow" supply on the margins.  Also, there are other highly liquid investments that can do as well or better than gold; such as oil futures, or ag futures.  With value levels at the top of the corporate food chain, it would be unprofessional for the CFO to invest all of the net 'cash' of the company in any single commodity, no matter how wise that particular investment might be. A fair point.  I had assumed that this was an obvious fact, and that it didn't need to be pointed out.  Sorry for overestimating you once again.  I'll try to do better next time.I challenge you to find a single US corporation or major investor that keeps more than 10% of their savings in cash.  They value it in cash, but very little of it is actually kept in cash.  There is an obvious reason for this.As noted, I have to be careful with you, AyeYo.  I can't assume that you understand what this economic terms actually mean.  As for gold's 'use value', it makes for a hell of a ship ballast.  Good for bullets as well.  And silver has well known anti-bacterial properties, which are useful to everyone should the collapse of civilization destroy the monetary value of silver.  I challenge you to tell me what use a pint of mercury has to Mad Max. Maybe 10% of those reserves are actually in cash.  Maybe. Aren't we all?Well, not AyeYo.  One would have to be willing, on some level, to challenge one's own belief systems to be a scientist.  At least a good one. There is no such thing as 'intrinsic worth'.  All value is a subjective calculation.  Gold is worth what someone will trade for it.  The same thing is true about steel, mercury, salt or real estate.  The fact that gold & silver are both valued well beyond what their market price would be absent their monetary value is entirely irrelevent.  Actually, that is also an argument for gold over any industrial commodity, including silver, since the establishment of a commodity backed currency upon an industrial input is going to increase the market value of that same commodity beyond it's industrial value because someone will always choose to store some of it for it's monetary/capital preservation characteristics.  Thus increasing monetary demand.  This means that gold, having few industrial uses, is ideal as a monetary base even lacking it's 5K year history of same.  For a monetary crisis would be unlikely to upset the supply of any industrial inputs.  Do the same for mercury, (or any of the 'rare earth' elements) and products that depend upon those inputs functionally become out of reach economicly.  CFL's require trace amounts of mercury in their manufacturing processes.  Good or bad, they would not be possible as a consumer product under a mercury standard.  Many forms of vaccines, until recently, required trace amounts of mercury as part of a perservative.  A mercury standard might have cut millions of lives short due to polio and whatever else if it had existed over the past 100 years. The p2p network cannot scale to support microtransactions should the userbase hit anywhere near that of Visa or Paypal.  Although bitcoins themselves are highly divisible, microtransactions (and probably most common daily transactions, period) are going to require some third party network.  Such as a trust network among online wallet services.  Thus making such services the bitcoin version of a clearinghouse bank. As to addressing his comments...Gold is compared to everything, continuously.  That is the very point of using the standardized unit of value measurements that we call 'currency', to have a common reference to base those comparisions on.  Since we are no longer on a gold standard, that reference floats, so there must be a 'gold price' in the fiat currency in order to make said comparision.  Steel, copper, wool, maize, industrial chemicals of all sorts, most agricultural products, and coal have dropped in their relative value due to massive improvements in productivity over the past 100 years.  Thus, using any or all of these things would give you a distorted perspective, as the value of the currency dependent upon them would change with every significant improvement in any of those industries, thus making the economic calculations (and thus predictive capacity of economic calculations) vastly more complex and inaccurate.The productivity issues undermine your theory here.  The costs of production of raw steel is one such example.  Another is, what kind of steel?  There are hundreds of standard steels in use in modern industry, most of which were not yet invented 100 years ago.  The grades of steel that were available 100 years ago, for the most part, are no longer produced in any significant quantity.Yes, value is always relative.  And a gold standard is a simple metric for common valuations.  Real estate backed currencies have been attempted, but they all failed.  Why?  Because unlike refined gold, not every acre of unimproved real estate is interchangable with another.  Said another way, real estate is not fungible.The fact that no nation has ever backed a paper currency with mercury is actually irrelevent.  Mercury has been used as a trade medium on occasions.  However, mercury does not have better properties for commerce than gold silver or copper.  The first and most obvious, is that the liquied state of mercury is a problem for trade, as it requires that those who trade in it have both vessels to hold it and scales to measure it, but also a means to verify that it's all mercury in the bottles.  You can weight the bottles full, and then empty them into another container using a strainer to make sure that tere is no lead dust mixed in, but that is a lot of work for the common trade.  The minted coin, with a recognizable size and weight, and the mark of a trusted (bank, government, king, whatever) tells the casual trader the value of the thing pretty fast. He did make good points.  I was talking to you. An unmodified, consumer product window AC unit would make a terrible heat pump, even installed reversed.  However, modifications are possible if you know what you are doing.  Probably more cost effective to buy a unit designed to do it to start with. AyeYo, you are the saddest example of an American.  You have direct access to the greatest concentration of public wealth in the history of the world, including a constitutionally founded library system that is the largest in human history, and you choose to remain willfully ignorant. That was noble, to accept the burdens imposed upon your nation by unscrupulous leadership.  However, the situation is not comparable.  You are a small nation that owned most of it to other nations.  We are a large nation that owes most of our debt to our own eldest population.  In effect, the youth were saddled with debt obligations owed to their own grandparents before they were even born.  This is fundamentally unjust.  Moreso than even the Philipino people being saddled with debt owed to other nations without their consent. And seashells, salt and nails.  None of which has either the continuous duration of use nor the international scope that gold, silver, copper and yes, even mercury, has had.  Ironicly, considering that citizens of the Roman Republic used nails as money for at least two hundred years, and the trade value of same was so stable (until the Roman Empire began to debase the national currency) that the standard Roman sizes for nails were denominated in the smallest national currency, the Denarius.  This is exactly why, in the United States, the AS metric for nail sizes is shown as a lower case "d"; the denarius became the pence, which became the penny.  So you can go to any hardware store in the US and ask for an 8 "penny" (8 d) nail and they will know exactly what you are talking about.  Yet, an 8 penny nail costs less than 8 pennies.  Why?  Due to productivity improvements in the production of nails, from the mining of iron ore all the way to the automated manufacturing of the flat nail head.  A gold standard does not suffer from the distortions that changes in technology to any degree that is the case for nails, mercury, cow hides or glass beads.  Or even for salt.  Certainly a gold standard has it's own problems, but those are well known problems that are difficult (probably impossible) for individuals, no matter how well connected or well heeled, to distort for any significant duration or degree.If only the fiat currencies of the world could have had nearly the success of the Roman black iron nail as a trade unit, we wouldn't be having this conversation for another 100 years, and there wouldn't likely have ever been a need for Bitcoin at all. A commonly believed myth, because that is what is taught to schoolchildren in history books written by historians instead of economists.  Even the majority of Kenyesian Economists reject this concept.  The gold standard was functionally defunct in 1913.  At best, the argument is that the Federal Reserve started a 'deflationary spiral' in 1929-1930 by failure to supply "liquidity"; an argument that has been disproven repeatedly, but persists. Yes, it is.  Because it has 5K years of history as the international baseline for money.  The past 100 years is a small data set by comparison. Search for the Ithica Hour. I can't imagine that it would be worthwhile, unless someone were going to do it just for the geek cred.  Feel free, tho. Hmm, could be even easier than a QR code.http://www.naratte.com/ There already is one, but it's been broken since MtGox was hacked. Oh, I'm sorry, that's a dollar chart!  I thought you had actually posted something relevant to a topic for once!  I should have known better.I already stated that I'm talking about the average across years, not the spikes; and relative to silver, not US FRN.  Of course, I shouldn't expect you to actually read any posts that precede yours. that not being your style of debate.
No We haven't had 500% price fluctuations over the past 120 years.  Oil was first discovered in 1861, the first 20 years mostly involved finding a use for it and then developing the tech to get it out of the ground.And if you don't think that the 10 residents of that town that make $1000 per year are better off than you are, then you have no concept of reality.  The adult children of the wealthy residents don't make anything in the real world, but I'd wager that you would rather be them then their hard earning father. Demolish me?  You just proved the point.  The trendline of that chart is flat for the past 120 years. There is no need to, and if there ever was a need to do so, that law is going to lack force without a functional government. In practice, it's four feet, because if you are using a ladder over 6 feet tall you are expected to harness, and you're also not permitted to use the top two steps to actually step upon. There will come a day that supply finally peaks worldwide (and this might have already happened, but demand is also down from 2007) and then the cost of energy is going to rise.  We are not there yet, however; so (due to the competitive nature of oil refineries) so the primary contributers to the cost of a gallon of gas are 1) production & shipping and 2) goverment taxes.  Usually in that order, but I believe they are reversed in parts of Europe.  Middle Eastern dictators make a fortune from exporting oil (primarily) because they pay local skilled labor wages that are lower than they would be in the US or Europe while charging slightly less than the cost of production for those same regions (those that still have oil, anyway).  The proven reserves of oil in the US are higher than those of Saudi Arabia, but those are not "economicly viable" reserves so long as the Saudis can provide oil cheaper.Thus, the cost of a gallon of gas has been fairly stable (measured over months to years, not days) when viewed relative to either silver or gold.  I admit the article is biased, and so am I, towards silver.  Gold would probably have been a better comparison.  Yet, the point stands.  Inflation isn't the prices rising, it's the value of the currency dropping.  Gold and silver both (tend) to reflect that debasement in their spot pricing, over the long term. It means, most likely, that they will submit themselves to an independent third party auditor who will act in the position of arbitor/judge in the effort of distributing the assests that remain as equitable as is possible.There were four wallet pools that operated mostly automaticly, so it's roughly one quarter of the total deposits, I would guess.  If there were more pools, independently secured, then the loss ratio would be lower; and if there were only one pool the loss would be total.  This is a good lesson for future online wallet websites to learn from.  Many wallet pools with independent security is better than less.  Best would be something like a single wallet file per user, with a method of single user encryption.  Perhaps something that requires the user to log into his account, and then provide a different passcode to decrypt the user wallet onto a ramdisk for a limited period of time.  Alternatively, an android client could use public/private keys like SSH does to double authenticate the user account, thus requiring that an attacker have access to the individual user's phone, home computer or other device with that secret key, and the phone client can reprovide the server a decryption key every 15 minutes or so.  In this way, the user can conviently use the wallet service on his phone when Internet is available to him, but whenever he closes the client, turns off his phone or leaves the range of his cell service his wallet.dat file is only exposed for (at most) the next 15 minutes until the file is purged from the ramdisk.  A cracker breaking in could (potentially copy the wallet.dat files from the ramdisk, as well as copy as many of the encrypted wallet.dat files as he can find before being noticed, but the encrypted wallet.dat files are useless because his intrusion is unlikely to go unnoticed for long (as this event illustrates) and users can be notified that they need to flush their accounts and then destroy their wallet.dat and not reuse those keypairs again.  These steps would limit the exposure to risk of the membership of an online wallet service, regardless of the degree of security. This is not so.  Fractional reserve banking doesn't work like you think it would work. Bitcoin is a form of LETS currency, wherein the local trading zone is the Internet and the total currency is circulation is net positive, not net zero.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_Exchange_Trading_Systems There are not a lot of other investments that grow faster than inflation.  Some do, and have, but picking the right one is key.  If you can reliablely do so in advance, then do it.  But most people don't have the time or skills to research through all the crap in order to find the diamond.  Given no other real choice, buying gold or silver simply as capital preservation against debasement is a valid stragedy. Low value posts aren't really 'spam' unless you have some ad in your sig.  The point is that a human being can manage to post five times in the newb section and sound like a real person responding to other low content posts.  A bot will flail trying to post in the other sections, because this rule is uncommon, and hopefully those kind of people that just move from forum to forum trolling for cheap amusment will prove too impatient to post five times and read the forum for a couple hours before having something to 'contribute' and thus move on. Bitcoiners don't use Ebay much, and even it we did, the act of using another website's ratings undermines the autonomy of the membership.  That's kinda antiethical to the Bitcoin community.Insulting the mods while you are still a newb isn't a good way to make it out of newb hell.  If you can't manage to make 5 posts along the lines of "hi, I'm not a bot" without getting bent at the established system, feel free to start your own bitcoin forum. $70 per hour for job that doesn't require a degree or a willingness to charge a machine gun nest is pretty good.  I'd be willing to bet you are a lawyer. They try.  That doesn't mean that they succeed.I can make $100 an hour also.  Doesn't mean that happens often.  That $70 per hour quote is base wages.  Also, I personally know quite a few certified welders, most of whom make between $18 and $25 around here, base wages.  $100 per hour to weld is great work, if you can find it. They often wear faraday suits, but yes, they have to mount the wires from a helicopter because it can be equalized without harm.  A crane cannot. http://whiskeyandgunpowder.com/gas-prices-dont-move-much-in-good-currencies/ This was just so well done, that I'm going to have to hotlink it here.https://thementalmilitia.com/forums/index.php?topic=29098 You seem to take the position that 'safety' in the workplace is an absolute.  That either a job is safe or it's not.  It doesn't work that way, and I'm sure that you wouldn't consider my job safe.  So whether or not a particular occupation is a 'safe working condition' or not isn't something that the government decides, the workers do.  It's still that way, no matter what the government agents will tell you.  If the job is too hazardous for the professionals to do it, the company is either going to offer enough of a risk premium to overcome the fear factor or take steps to make it safe enough that the professionals are willing to do the work.  The government regs on the matter still come later.  Do you know what the most dangerous, and highest paying skilled labor job in America is?  A high tension lineman.  These guys are paid on the order of $70+ per hour to be dropped by a cable from a helicopter onto a high tension power line, in order to inspect and repair it, while the power is still on.  They earn every penny, but can't get life insurance.  They aren't just near the power lines, they are actually sitting on them.  The voltage of a high tension transmission line is usually 14,400 volts or higher. Islamic lending has other issues than interest rate.  At least with an interest rate, anyone who can do the math knows what they are getting into.  Which is the primary reason that Islam (and all the Abrahamic religions, really) are hard on ursury, because most of the people across most of recorded human history couldn't reasonablely be expected to understand the math and know what they were getting themselves into. Not that I can find.  There are a couple of old newbie accounts, but they are not likely the account of the owner of Mybitcoin.com.  It's entirely plausible that Mybitcoin.com has been running on automatic for some time, and he simply hasn't checked up on it in a while.  Has anyone bothered to call him?
I'm potentially out 29 BTC. Or worse, was targeted by criminals willing to do him harm in order to get a copy of the pool's private keys.  This was always a dangerous idea. Highly likely.  Plumbers have terrible plumbing issues at home and electritians have lights that don't work right.  Maybe some professional coders prefer to go camping over the weekend. Usually, but it's when the inflation/deflation rate is not correctly factored in that problems arise.  This is exactly why I said that the disruption occurs when the rate crosses the zero.  It's hard to predict the changes due to a central bank's change in outlook.  It's not nearly as difficult to predict inflation/deflation under a true gold standard.  This is why Bitcoin shines, as one variable of that calculation (the present and future total monetary base) is highly predictable.  Moreso than even gold.I mean that catastrophic deflation is not likely in a bitcoin economy, even without a stable user base.  This is partly because of the above variables being highly predictable, thus speculators temper the sudden price movements to whatever extent that they are predictable.  I will not claim that catastrophic deflation isn't possible, it's just that it has never been seen in the real world; under a gold standard or since.  The claim that the Great Depression was an example of such is provablely false, yet it is a myth that persists.  There is simply no reason to expect that a catastrophic deflationary environment is possible under Bitcoin.  If the Bitcoin economy grows too fast, it simply will limit it's own growth via it's excessive price deflation.  There is no way to overshoot that mark and destroy itself.  None that I can see, anyway.This is simply not so.  Bad investments do get funded during the 'boom' cycle, that then turn obviously bad and result in the 'bust' cycle that must occur to clear out the bad investments.  It's the access to easy credit, not the interest rate itself, that results in the business cycle.Of course this is a valid view of the business cycle, but the interest rate is not the cause per se, but the access to easy credit, which tends to be reflected in the interest rate. The sentiment isn't the problem, it's the unintended consequences.  And reality doesn't support your position that the minimum wage is necessary so that college students can work their way through and earn a higher wage.  The only students that I have ever met working minimum wage were either working on campus or in a co-op program.  What you just described is just a back-door subsidy of higher education, which already costs way too much. While I do agree with you, I feel the need to clarify your statements.  Gold is not a currency because it's not a standardized unit of measurement.  If it is minted into distinct coins of noted mass, then it's a currency as well as a money. Reagan was a Democrat for 20+ years and the president of the Actor's Guild in California before becoming a Republican as well.  Most good minds never really stop learning, and a public education can only delay the good mind for so long.  That said, Reagan wasn't really very good with Economics either.And the Department of Education doesn't really do anything worth two months in iraq.  The most influential regulatory body in the US over education is the Texas Board of Curriculum. This guy is pretty good, too.http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dQw4w9WgXcQ Honestly, I never kept very much at Mybitcoin.com, because I was wondering how long it would take before the temptations of so much value would get to them, that or someone else managed to hack the site.  It was inevitable, really. I can't access my Mybitcoin.com account, and blockexployer says that the address that I sent bitcoins to does not appear in the blockchain.  I must admit, this is bad all the way around.  If necessary, I'll go get my savings thumbdrive out of my safety deposit box tomorrow and send the funds from there. "The economy" is a fiction, really.  There is only people.  Every scenario that we can imagine is going to favor those who could have predicted it, and profited from it, in the short term.  Gentle deflation favors the consumer & saver in the long term, while gentle inflation favors the debtor.  Catastrophic inflations favors no one, in the long run.  It would be safe to assume that is also true with catastrophic deflation, but there isn't much evidence that catastrophic deflation is a realistic possibility.I do disagree.  On the average, the best investments and entrepreneurs will get funded, while the worst are the first to get dropped when the funds get scarce.Depends on what one considers a monetary event.  The business cycle is never solely caused by monetary events, and under a gold standard a monetary events was rarely (if ever) the primary cause of a business cycle downturn.On the average, they did 'deserve' it, particular circumstances aside.  It may not be fair, but it is just.  Wal-mart is always blamed for running the mom&pop general stores out of business, but they went out of business because they weren't competitive anymore.I mean that the shift across the zero point is when/what/how the system is confused.  Investors are either bulls or bears, and the rare few can manage both.  Same with inflation/deflation.  It is rare for an investor/business/whatever that does well under inflation to do well under deflation, and vice versa.  That doesn't mean that the companies that exist now deserve to continue to exist, nor that inflation should continue to exist so that the established companies can flourish. Not to me or the rest of the network.  Such harm is limited to you, the seller who didn't take prudent steps.  Have you ever bought a car from a dealership wherein you were not in the dealership for at least 30 minutes?  This does not qualify as lasting harm in the context of bitcoin itself or the network. Only a small amount is used as jewelry, for the jewelry that Indians buy is money.  For they can't buy gold as bullion.  The same is true for most of the world's population, and was true for American citizens for fifty years. I've worked them.  I was working for $7.50 an hour; married to a spouse still going in school for her degree, when she had our first child.  I had a two bedroom house, one car, one tv and a computer with Internet access (this wasn't a given at the time, I didn't know the Internet actually had pictures yet, I was an early adopter) phone service, etc.  It is and was possible to raise a family on wages close to minimum wage.  For reference, my first child was born in 2000.  I had zero debt (beyond my mortgage) until my daughter was born.  Kids are freaking expensive. <sigh>The US wasn't the most powerful nation on Earth until after WWII.  The federal government had zero roll in education until the founding of the Department of Education in the 1970's.  Compulsory education of children didn't exist in the US anywhere until New York State started requiring the education of children in the 1870's, and compulsory education wasn't an nationwide requirement until 1913.  Even then, it was only compulsory until 8th grade until after WWII. Then what is the disconnect?  Have you read the white paper?  If so, are you sure that you understood it?  Bitcoin has a lot of moving parts, really.  The possibility of a blockchain attack doing any lasting harm is directly addressed in Satoshi's white paper, and what I think that you guys are describing isn't possible with less than a majority hashing power.  Not just unlikely, but astronomicly unlikely.  In the same threat range of the sudden reversal of the law of gravity, or the rapid dimming of the Sun.  You do realize that neither is impossible, but they are so far removed from possible that any rational person simply rounds off to zero.  Same with the odds that a minority attacker can just stumble into an attack that lasts two or more consecutive blocks.  In order for an attacker to double spend in this manner, he first has to allow the first transaction into the blockchain in order to get the vendor to accept the deal complete (assuming that he doesn't expect more confirms, the default is 6) and once in a block; said minority attacker must create two blocks of the proper difficulty before the rest of the network can produce one.  That's why I said it's posssible at 50% but it's still unlikely.  Given 6+ confirms, even an attacker with 51% of the network hashing power would have an astronomical and vanishing likelyhood of reversing that far back; all of which has to occur before the honest network can produce another block.  Even if the attacker was producing his dishonest blocks in the dark to be released all at once, he still only has a 51% of creating the 7th block to seal them in before the rest of the network does. Neither disruptive nor damaging.  The system does this regularly, and is designed to cleanly handle it.  They are call "reorganizations".  From the perspective of the network, part of the network disagrees about the last block or two; but as you said yourself, the honest majority will overtake the network, and all attempts to force a blockchain split with less than a hashing majority result in futility.  The network doesn't even care.  And even though it's not impossible to overwrite one or two blocks in a row with 25% of the hashing power, the odds are still vanishingly small considering your trying to swim upstream at 2.5 feet per second against a flow of 7.5 feet per second.  There is more to it all than you seem to grok. Wouldn't hurt. And I hereby acknowledge the correctness of the above declaration. Wait, I think you're right.  Can namecoins be used to reference to an onion address?  If so, we just tripped over a major use for namecoins.
Did you tell MtGox to send them to an address on your client at home?  And did you give your client enough time to download the blockchain? http://www.bottomviolation.com/bitcoin-cannot-fail/ Not unless you're doing it. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/special/politics/federal-debt-limit-you-choose-who-gets-paid/?hpid=z2 No, and there doesn't need to be.  Bitcoin.org is irrelevent to bitcoin, so is this forum.  That said, if/when such things start to happen, you might want to download Tor and explore the deep web. Savings equals capital.Debt does not equal capital.Therefore government debt is not savings.Any such savings has already been stolen.  Furthermore, if the repudiation of government debt results in the nation becomeing 'poor' by any metric, then it already is and simply hasn't come to that conclusion yet. No, it's not.  Not if we are talking about the same thing.  It is not possible to reverse a confirmation of a transaction, and thus double spend, without 50% or more of the total network hashing ability.  That is shown in Satoshi's white paper. I would have to say yes, but the answer depends upon who you are.  Like anything else, including inflation, there are always those who benefit.The entrepreneurs who couldn't get financing were likely not a good bet.  The investors who lost profits because of deflation were betting on inflation.  No harm was done to the economy at large in either case, since the last thing an economy needs is more bad investments and failed entreprenuers.That's true, but not particularly relevant.  Those two types of events are not actually related to one another.  The vast majority of economic crises that occured before 1913 (When fractional reserve banking was pased, allowing a loosening of the gold standard) were business cycle related, not monetary events.  The two exceptions that I can think off were SPain when they stole tons from the Incas and flooded Europe with gold, crushing economies around them including Britian and France; and the California Gold Rush, which experienced huge inflation West of the Rockies but still managed to spur industry in the Eastern states, particularly in the manufacture of tools.That's part of the 'creative destruction' of a (more or lesss) free market system.  So yes, some guy who invented the car powered by forward facing wind turbines or the water fueled engine not getting funding is a positive adaptation.The zero line on an inflation/deflation percentage graph.  The line dives toward zero as the inflation rate is reduced until it crosses the zero, and is thus in deflation.Please refer to the above comments upon the guy who inventedthe water fuelled engine.  Some loans are best not issued.50% in one year would be huge, and would likely destroy an economy.  As far as I am aware, however, such a huge deflation rate has never occured in the history of currencies.  The reverse certainly has, however, and inflation rates over 50% APR  have preceded the hyperinflationary destruction of a currency in every case that I know of.Inflation rates that high are easy, it just requires that the institution in control of the currency run the printing presses to do it.  I can't even fathom a scenario wherein 50% APR deflation could occur, because once the currency has been issued even theat same issuing institution would have a hard time getting enough back to destroy. 1) It would never be presented like that and...2) that's not how it really is anyway.As I have already mentioned, Granny doesn't have any savings, because the government has been robbing her savings the entire time to pay for her parents' retirement and other current costs.  So, in the long run, the Millinials are going to look at it like ending SS is just ending an ongoing fraud.  They might feel for their own grandparents, but most middle class Millinials grew up with parents who were finacially burdened, while their nearly retired grandparents had accumulated vast assests, regardless of how good their retirement plan was.  Most of them aren't going to buy the crap that ending FICA taxes upon themselves (thus ending SS) is going to actually result in Granny eating dog food.  More likely she might have to move out of the $350,000 home that was paid for and into either a much smaller apartment or a retirement community.  Granny doesn't drive anywhere but church and the grocery store in that Caddy her late husband bought anyway. They might, but Boomers are too proud to move in with their children or grandchildren like their own grandparents often did.  So I really don't see this happening on any great scale. But just getting blocks in doesn't cause any damage, you have to be able to overwrite prior blocks, which isn't possible with less than 50% of the total network hashing power, and still isn't terriblely likey at 51%.  Thus, you are correct guessing that 70% is a more realistic number.  In order to assault the blockchain in real time, the attacker would have to be able to seriously dominate the entire honest network.  However, if the attacker were building a chain in secret, he could possibily build one in secret that overwrites a prior block to reverse a transaction wherein the attacker previously spent funds.  But this kind of attack is damage limited to the person who was dealing with the attacker, and he would still need enough of a majority to build and release his chain before any new checkpoints have been added. Ownership boils down to a generally recognized legitimacy of possession.  If the civilization in question doesn't already have a generally recognized chain of legitimate possession, then it's not a civilization.  The two rules don't address those  particulars any more than it addresses the particulars of what defines "encroachment" in this context. The vast majority of that $11 Trillion that is "owed" to US citizens is owed to Baby Boomers.  When the Millinials grow up, they will be a larger voting block than the Boomers; but before then there will be a point that we cross paths, as the Boomers die off and Millinials reach 18 years there will come a point that the votes are in balance.  It's this point that those who hope to get (re)elected will be pandering to the Millinal generation.  And if there is one thing that is consistant about that generation, they identify much more with their age peers than their grandparents.  Once one guy gets elected with a platform that can be boiled down to "screw the old, I want mine" then it's all just a matter of time. Somethings seriously wrong, then.  Mine is on my SD card, and my SD card is only 2 gig and does fine. Did you have a point?  Or even an on topic train of thought? I've always thought that the "tipping point" was closer to 12%, but yes, this is pretty much how all things happen.  Things are considered "mainstream" once they cross that threshhold, and hold mindshare in roughly one-eighth of the target population. Talk about waste!  Turn off your mining rigs until September! I won't claim that deflation is good in general.  Having said that, your statement that deflation hurst investors and entrepreneurs is faulty.  It may be true, or it may not be true.  5000 years of gold deflation implies that it's not true, since investory and entrepreneurs alike tend to adjust to the conditions just fine.  It's only in the period of crossing the zero that tends to screw things up.  The financial markets, as they are, would certainly be harmed, but that is because they were built upon the foundation of continuous inflation.  They, in turn, were built upon the institutions destroyed when the gold standard ceased to exist.  I'm sure that they will adapt, eventually.Again, an assumption for which you cannot support.  Nor can I, but I'd say that your assumption is incorrect.  50% deflation over what kind of time period?  Certainly 50% deflation has be experienced before, and over long enough time frames that those who lived during those times considered it as normal as inflation is considered today. You are correct. Won't matter.  If we were trusting in the people to understand money or crytography, and how it's in their interests to drop govco and use Bitcoin; we'd be screwed.  The last guy to finally use bitcoin will be because everyone else does, not because he makes a rational, educated determination of which is the better monetary system.
No, encourage them.If there is a secret key owned by the government, and a copy of it exists on one computer system in every post office in America, I'd give it two weeks before that key is on Wikileaks.  If, instead, the government chooses to not put it on the computer itself, but to use a VPN that is also connected to one computer in every post office in America; I'd give them 2 months before the key is on Wikileaks and Anon or LulSec is posting child porn on the VPN's main portal site.Postal clerk is an entry level job.  Security that is dependent upon a large number of postal clerks is security theater.  If that security theater is actually there to protect something that needs real security, somewhere in America there is going to be a hacker group that draws straws to choose the smuck that has to actually get up each morning and go to a job at the post office. I'm honestly offended.  Just because you might not like the "hand's off" moderation style of a predominately libertarian forum, doesn't mean that we aren't paying attention.  There's way too much volume for the number of mods to police all the posts, but that is what the 'report to moderator' button is for.  Even most of them are just one user complaining about another that s/he doesn't like, so very few of them are honest complaints from our perspectives.  If you don't like how we do things here, you're welcome and encouraged to start your own Bitcoin forum.  Trust me, we won't mind. They already do.  I'd bet dollars to doughnuts that at least half of the top ten pools have direct links to each other.  However, in a future that Bitcoin is wildly successful, single hop peer connections to those major miners (whether they continue to be user pools, or Wal-Mart's own datacenter) will be valuable enough to companies that serve mom & pop stores, smaller retail chains, and business associations that the major miners could stand to charge connection fees to those groups.  When that happens, the clients of those 2nd tier mining/POS companies will have lower average latency than the end user, and thus would be better protected from casual theft/fraud attempts, but the average network latency for the average end user/Android client could be terrible.  It's not unreasonable to expect there to be five hops or more from the largest miner to the average droid wallet in another two years.  Since blocks can be expected to be much larger on average as well, the CPU times and transmission times for each hop are going to start to tally up.  The average is over 2 seconds now, and the network is relatively small and low volume.  Imagine 500 times the nodes, 100+ times the transaction volume and an average block size of 700 Kilobytes.  The end to end network latency could easily push 2 minutes. Like anything else, whether the repudiation of the debt is a good or bad thing depends upon who you are just as whether the secession of the Republic of Texas is good or bad depending mostly upon which side of the Texas border one happens to live on. That's actually pretty hard to do. Like I said, nearly zero industrial uses.  A few of those mentioned are only potential uses of gold.  For example, Silver is a far better conductor, and is used in aerospace for this purpose.  When is the last time you actually heard of anyone getting a gold filling?  That use has been replaced outright by enameled plastics and porcelin techniques.   Deflation actually favors the consumer, generally.  But inflation steals the gains due to increased productivity. This is what you get when you have increases in productivity....http://cafehayek.com/2011/07/stagnating-middle-class.html Have you ever watched Fox News? I didn't write them, and they are not ordered based on importance.  The first is the root of all contract law, the second of all criminal & tort law.  They are called 'Mayburys Two Laws' I should have been more explict in my double-spend attack comment.  The reason that I said that decreasing the average block interval could increase the risks of a double spend attack is because at some latency level blockchain splits become the norm.  Under these conditions, it's possible for an unscrupulous person to have his client hacked in such a manner that, for every honest spending transaction he engages in, another dishonest transaction is produced that spends those same coins back to another of his own addresses is produced 20 seconds later and sent to a random but topographicly distant node.  As long as latency is significantly below the average block interval, this would never matter.  And if many people started to do this as a matter of course, the present node permits the savvy user to monitor transactions, and if a double spend attempt is seen within the average latency time, both transactions are rejected by such nodes.Yet, if the latency crosses that afore mentioned point, and blockchain splits become the norm, it then becomes possible for that unscrupulous user to time the release of his second transaction so that, even though it's practically impossible for the second one to gain the majority of nodes before the first one does, the possibilty exists that a multi-block chain split could permit the honest transaction to be confirmed for one or more blocks without destroying the dishonest transaction.  There then remains a (still fairly remote) possiblity that the honest transaction, even confirmed, isn't in the majority blockchain and is reversed once the block split is repaired by normal operations.  If that is the case, then the dishonest transaction has a better than even chance of becoming the transaction accepted into the permanent chain.  This would mean that opprotunisticly dishonest clients would exist that run in an honest manner so long as there was no blockchain split, but anytime that they detected a blockchain split (yes, they are detectable, most of the time) this kind of opprotunistic attack would be seen. Latency can increase due to both an increase in the nodes of the network as well as a concurrent increase in per node bandwidth.  As more transactions are flying around, the load upon the nodes' cpu's also increase as this cannot be performed by GPUs at this point, and must be performed by the CPU.  High loads will result in a buildup of unconfirmed transaction queues, at least occasionally, even on dedicated hardware.  The transactions cannot propogate to the next set of nodes until they are verified, so this compounds the latency.  The same is true with a released block solution, as they cannot propogate until they are verified.  Increasing the number of peer connections would compensate for this effects somewhat by reducing the average number of hops necessary to flood the network, but at the cost of permanently increased bandwidth consumption.  At some point of increase, the cost of adding new peers outweighs the value of lower latency, and then new peer connections will cease.  Some nodes won't even have as many peer connections as the current client expects, as I already intentionally limit the number of peers my own node communicates with.  It's not in my own interest to have more than enough peers to be fairly certain that I'm not being screwed with, since I don't mine.  I'd say that it's a reasonable expectation to expect that average network latency will increase at a rate greater than linear against the growth rate of network nodes. Mathmaticly, one department of the federal government owing money to another department of the federal government is comparable to your left pocket owing money taken from your right pocket.  For all practial purposes, that money is a fiction even when one doesn't consider the underlying fiat currency to, itself, be a fiction.  There is no SS trust fund, as all FICA taxes collected for SS that are not immediately sent back out to pay current beneficiaries is used to buy US Treasury Notes.  Which is then used to pay the current bills of the federal government.  Thus, when the day comes that the cost of beneficiaries of SS exceed the revenue from FICA taxes, congress must raise taxes on the working population to pay for the differences.  And they will no longer have the ability to finance current government largess on SS future payouts.  Thus, SS is, by definition, the largest Ponzi scheme in the history of this country.  Maybe the world.  By the time that this happens, the cost of refinancing the federal debt will have become so burdensome as to make the option of raising taxes to pay for SS beneficiaries a practical and political impossibility.  So the only options that will exist for congress is to either default and repudiate all or part of the federal debt, or simply inflate the currency to the point that the SS checks (which cannot practically maintain cost of living increases at the same time) are worth less then the new revenue provided by FICA taxes.  Of course, such inflation rates tend to be a vicious cycle unto themselves. Mining for gold is also a net waste of energy, from the perspective that gold has nearly zero industrial uses outside of the monetary functions of gold.  Societies that produce more than they need to persist can afford to commit resources to such endeavors.  Societies that are on the edge of starvation, cannot. Sure, as long as the 'owe' is the taxpayer and the 'ourselves' is the entire class of government parasites.  Under very rare circumstances is a actual net taxpayer also a beneficiary of government largess. Keep in mind, that if the average interval were reduced, then the incidence of a blockchain split increases dramaticly.  In a future with many times the number of nodes in the p2p network, the odds that such a blockchain split could persist beyong one block, and even split again, also increases.  There is some, largely unknown, point of network size (and thus average network latency) with a low enough interval that such network splits become the norm, rather than the exception.  Although this is a self-healing issue, as network splits also split the hashing pool while maintaining the difficulty for both sides; frequent and persistant blockchain splits not only increase the average time between confirmations (from the perspective of any single transaction, not the network as a whole) it also could introduce a double spending 'window of opprotunity' on an often enough basis to make it a viable attack.  Mostly, the 10 minute interval was an arbitarty design decision, with a best guess as to the future size of the network. I didn't have a say.  Am I responsible?  Collective responsibility is an evil fiction. "I propose, then, a seemingly drastic but actually far less destructive way of paying off the public debt at a single blow: out-right debt repudiation. Consider this question: why should the poor, battered citizens of Russia or Poland or the other ex-Communist countries be bound by the debts contracted by their former Communist masters? In the Communist situation, the injustice is clear: that citizens struggling for freedom and for a free-market economy should be taxed to pay for debts contracted by the monstrous former ruling class. But this injustice only differs by degree from "normal" public debt. For, conversely, why should the Communist government of the Soviet Union have been bound by debts contracted by the Czarist government they hated and overthrew? And why should we, struggling American citizens of today, be bound by debts created by a past ruling elite who contracted these debts at our expense? One of the cogent arguments against paying blacks "reparations" for past slavery is that we, the living, were not slaveholders. Similarly, we the living did not contract for either the past or the present debts incurred by the politicians and bureaucrats in Washington."http://mises.org/daily/1423This is the only way to save the US FRN, which is the only scenario that Bitcoin (or some derivitive) doesn't become the next international trade currency. I haven't bought any in a long time, decades even, but when I did they were 99 cents.  Which was on the low end of competitive with other such money orders. My family wasn't some exception.Maybe the corporate structure is inheriently flawed, as it's certainly amoral, but that isn't the implication of your statements.  Whether you intended it to mean it or not, your words implicated Wal-Mart as some kind of corporate criminal.  Which is an opinion that I encounter often within the union culture.  I never see those people shopping at wal-mart, but I've seen many of my union brothers who wouldn't raise their voices in support of my position shopping there.  I am offended by this kind of propoganda, in part, because I now understand that I was a victim of it.  And so are you.  I would imagine that, considering your youth, this is an opinion that you have picked up from either family or peers.  Well, they are victims too.  The truth shall set you free.The terms 'good' and 'evil' are very subjective, but I'll hazard miscommunications and say, yes.The corporate institution isn't rationally comparable to the systemic subjigation of an entire race/culture/religion of people over the course of generations.  Just trying to make this comparision drops your credibility about three points in my opinion.  I shouldn't even have to support that position.  Such a statement is comparable to violating Godwin's Law, as anyone who trys to play that card loses the argument by default. When I was a younger man, and new to the union world, I used to eat this crap up.  Then my wife applied for a job there, just to piss me off.  She had a BS in Biology at the time and even with the low wages (not minimum, BTW) for a cashier; to this day she will tell you that it was the best job she has ever had.  She worked at Wal-Mart for four years as a cashier, for a Vet clinic for seven years as a vet assistant, and five years at Proctor & Gamble as a lab tech in their microbiology lab testing the anti-microbial effects of both P&G products as well as competitors.  The stories that she would tell me honestly shocked me.  Wal-Mart would go out of their way to improve the lives of their 'associates' in ways that I've never even heard of another employer doing.  For example, what my wife earned wouldn't have supported a single mother, and there were several that worked as cashiers at the Wal-Mart that she worked at.  The corporate office would sponser 'meetings' with the part-time & low wage employees to inform them of state and federal grants & programs that they might be eligible for, and would provide for the forms and some legal help to apply.  This is exactly why there are twice as many working poor who receive state and federal benefits such as welfare or food stamps at Wal-Mart than Target or KMart.  Granted, that might cost Wal-Mart next to nothing to help apply, rather than just raise their wages, but it's not something that they have to do, and even informing someone that external help might be available is more than half the trouble.They would do other, less noble, things as well for their 'associates', such as have regular 'pep rallies' to improve moral.  As well as a (voluntary) daily exercise routine, intended to stretch out the legs of those who stand all day for a living, preventing chronic stress health problems later.  And no, they didn't save enough from the health care plan doing this to pay for the costs of having the manager and 20+ employees do this for 7 minutes each start of shift.They also provided for a discount for direct family members, and a card for said family members.  Lots of retail chains give the employee a token discount during and after their shift, but who gives the spouse a discount card for 10% discount on everything in the store, all of the time and honors coupons and sales while doing so?  The only thing that I bought there in those four years that was not covered by that discount card was milk.  But baby formula was.So anymore I tend to get a bit sideways when I see tis kind of anti Wal-MArt propoganda being presented without citations as if they were commonly accepted facts.  I've been a member of a union for nigh on 20 years now, and Wal-Mart has done more for my family than you can ever know; and that goes beyond what Wal-Mart does for everyone by the simple act of trying to sell everything that they can cheaper than anyone else.Don't get me started on their optional health plans.  They were great.  The only fault that I could find with them, if it can be called a fault, is that they exposed the actual costs of health care to the associate, and then gave them the option of not buying in.
I can't explain it to you, because you would first have to understand why it's not a realistic expectation that the United States or Europe has either the right or the ability to compel the people of other nations to accept our concept of a 'living wage' or anything else.  You are a self-admitted socialist; which, by definition, requires the use of force (or credible threats of force) upon those who dissent in order to achieve the common goals of socialism to any effective degree.  There is no such thing as a voluntary state, but a voluntary socialist state is impossible by it's own definitions. Fail.  Employee safety and general conditions were 'fixed' long before regulation, mostly by the collective will of unions prior to the second world war.  The regulations came later, and at first simply enshrined the negotiated working condition rules into law; but then became perverted later.Care to try again, or perhaps attempt to defend this point of view? Name one example of a market failure that was 'fixed' by regulation.  Just one. I'm sure that you have no concept of just how many ways this is wrong. Add to that, some people prefer their proof of steak on the rare side, while other would demand well done.  And then there are all the proof of A1 sauce proponents!  I'll never understand it all! What point would that be, that Metric is more precise?  Of course it is, it was developed by and four science & international commerce.  But the fact that I can look at a gallon of water, and know that it's just a bit over 8 pounds tells me something useful in practice.  Real people don't need that kind of precision, most of the time.  For example, I've been running an experiment over the past two weeks.  I've got two coolers, and I want to figure out how much ice would be required to keep the contents chilled for four days as well as how much salt to add to those gallons in order to keep the contents frozen for four days.  Everything that I'm doing is in gallons, but for a frame of reference, I checked out the price of bagged ice at the store.  The bagged ice is sold only in four pound and 10 pound bags.  Knowing that a gallon of water is very close to 8 pounds gives me a frame of reference to make my intuitive guesses as to how much it would cost me to buy the ice I need versus freezing my own in gallon jugs. Why do we have to remember them?  No one uses them anymore.  At least the gill is still called the half-cup.  The point of this argument is that AS is still in use in the US wherever it is more useful than any alternative system.  Metric is used by Americans, when we want to.  Ever heard of a two liter bottle? Talk about 'derp'.(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_customary_units#Units_of_capacity_and_volume)BushelHalf-BushelPeckGallonHalf-Gallonquartpintcupgill (half-cup)Half-gill (quarter-cup)OunceTablespoonEach one of those is a half measurement of the one above it.  The volume to weight references are because a pint of water (16 fluid ounces) is very close to one pound in weight.EDIT:  From Wikipedia..."One fluid ounce is 1⁄16 of a U.S. pint, 1⁄32 of a U.S. quart, and 1⁄128 of a U.S. gallon. The fluid ounce derives its name originally from being the volume of one ounce avoirdupois of water, but in the U.S. it is defined as 1⁄128 of a U.S. gallon. Consequently, a fluid ounce of water weighs about 1.041 ounces avoirdupois.The saying "a pint's a pound the world around" refers to 16 US fluid ounces of water weighing approximately (about 4% more than) one pound avoirdupois. An imperial pint of water weighs a pound and a quarter." I disagree with this subjective opinion.You (convientiently, I assume) completely ignored the reasons that most countries in the world have adopted it.  You also fail to notice the contradiction that citizens in the UK were forced to use Metric, and did not chose to use Metric of their own will. Actually, the US isn't the only nation left that still uses an Imperial system.  But that doesn't matter much.  There are 300+ million people in the US.  Two-thirds of whom don't give a crap what Europeans do.They don't complain because that gets you arrested.  The prohibition on homeschooling is the only statute still in effect that was passed by the Nazi's.  That alone should tell you something.  I'd bet you think you live in a free country.I was never overwhelmed by the metric system, I just don't consider it particularly useful.Interstate Freeway signs are also in both AS and Metric around here.  So is my speedometer.  Doesn't matter much.  Data in metric is available in the US, it's just that nobody cares, and the government can't realy force people to care.  If it was truely a better system, people would use if of their own free will.  In some ways, they do.  I know that a gallon is just under four liters, and beverages are available in both types of bottles.  The gallon jugs also have their metric measurements printed on the label so the Eurotrash visiting Walt Disney World in the off season won't have a stroke trying to buy milk.  The public will adapt to whatever they use daily.  If Metric is superior, it's not superior enough to get people to switch.  It was easy enough for Europeans to do that because the various imperial systems that existed were all incompatible, which affected commerce.  THe United States never really had that problem.How often do you need to convert from Km to meters in real life?  I agree that it doesn't require much thought converting between different scales, but doing that in AS tends to develop the gray matter.  If you needed to convert between miles to yards in your daily life, you'd know how to do it in your head as well.  Most people don't have to do that.  That said, AS actually is very intuitive within scales, as it is largely based upon halving and quartering, whichis something that the human mind has no problem doing.  Even the math illiterate public have never had issues with AS in the past, as in the Old West attaracting gold prospectors who couldn't even read.  Try to teach a four year old how a decimal system of division works, and then try to teach that same four year old about even sharing and you will understand the differences. Price deflation isn't what the OP question was refering to, I don't think.  Anyways, under such a condition, as long as the price deflation is generaly known, the market will adapt to that.  Vendors will prefer to hold them as much as the consumers will, and will offer bitcoin discounts to help seperate the consumer from his desire to hold onto the bitcoin.  At some discounted rate, the consumer's desire to have the thinkg now outwieghs his desire to keep bitcoins that are rising in spending power, and then the sale happens.  Gold worked this way, very slowly, for generations.  Rare was the economic conditions that gold was dropping in spending power, and also rare was the economic conditions that gold wasn't spent when the deal was right. I was barred from sending a transaction of .06 BTC, which shouldn't have required a fee in any case.  There is something else wrong, really.  I was testing out Bitcoin Android. If your boat is more important than your child's education, then public school really is the best place for them anyway.  At least then they would actually have a decent chance of getting a decent education. Yeah, and that is exactly how the public education system is designed.  To provided the education levels necessary to get by working for someone else.  That's why the wealthy don't send their kids to public schools.Well, homeschooling varies dramticly along that kind of scale.  I've never encountered the much feared 'church/political cult' type homeschool family, and seriously doubt that they even really exist in any non-trivial amount.  My wife & I did start out with choosing our materials ourselves, but that is a lot of work.  For the past several years we have opted to pay the money for a packaged curriculum that we think highly of, that is a derivitive of literature based education theory. (http://www.sonlight.com/aboutus.html)  Yes, it's Christian.  No, that's not the overwelming focus.  I have seen such systems that have to have a bible reference for every single lesson, which is kind of superfluous when one is trying to recreate Newton's apple drop lesson on gravity.If you're primarily homeschooling, a few focused classes with professional tutors or co-ops isn't terriblely expensive.  Far less expensive than the $12K per year per child that the state spends on public education.  All totalled, with the yearly packaged curriculium and the money we spend for coops, group classes, tutored classes and a few museum trips each year; I'd say that I spend about $8K per year for all my kids.  I could probably afford private school with that (my parents did for myself and my siblings) but homeschooling works well for us. This is a common error that observers make.  Homeschooling is a misnomer, as the kids rarely stay home.  For example, my kids have art, dance and singing classes and a weekly 'co-op' set of classes taught by other parents.  I also have access to retired teachers who do contract work.  My kids took two years of Spanish from one such teacher, who formed a weekly class of about 12 homeschooled students, who then met at a local public library.  The reason that homeschoolers tend to do so well in every subject is because homeschooled children are taught how to think far better than that can be developed as a skill in a large classroom setting.  The only professional skills that teachers are taught, that other college graduagtes are not, are the skills of crowd management and child psychology, which are both neccessary when dealling with 30+ children for hours each day that you don't know in a familiar way.  Institutional educations is profoundly efficient, but that does not mean that it's more effective.While I might not be able to teach my own children how to play a piano, I still have far more access to those who can than the average public schooled child or his parents. Bitcoin isn't deflationary yet and won't be for decades at least.  Technically, it won't be until 2133, when the block reward drops to zero; but in practice it may turn deflationary at some point in the middle if the loss of bitcoin addresses exceeds the creation of new coins.  Presently, Bitcoin is still inflating at over 40% APR (decending) and will not drop below the common 'target' inflation rate of 2% APR until about 2020.  So regardless of where one lands on the 'deflationary spiral' debate, it has no bearing on why Bitcoin should or should not be used in our lifetimes.  Our grandchildren might have a real reason to have this debate around 2050 or so.  The 2030 date that so many articles throw around is just crap. I teach my kids the units of measurements that they need for the problem at hand.  My son's tape measure has both a metric and a AS edge.  He could have chosen either, he chose to use the one that made the most sense to him at the time and in the context, which was a foot.  He didn't use either inches nor meters, as either unit would have been less intuitive for his problem.To illustrate this concept, take another practicum problem that I have not yet used on my kids.  How do you weight a car, using only a pressure gauge, a pencil, a ruler and four sheets of blank paper?  The answer is that you have Dad park the car over top of the paper, trace the footprint of the tyres, and measure the tire pressures.  Then you use the ruler to make an estimate as to the area of the paper, multiply that by the pressure measurements, and add up all four results.In AS, the pressure is Pounds-Per-Square-Inch so the paper traces are calculated in inches, and then the raw pressure measurement is multiplied.  Add them up and you are doneHowever, in Metric the pressure unit is the Pascal, or the Newtwon/Meter.  (No, I didn't remember that, like my own kids would do if they needed to, I simply looked it up)  So to start with one would have to measure the area in square centimeters and then convert to square meters.  Not that hard, surely, but an extra step.  Then one would have to multiply out and add up, and end up with Newtons, a unit of force instead of weight.  If the unit is wrong, the answer is wrong; so we are looking for kilograms.  To get there, we would have to involve the exceleration of gravity (2.2 m/s squared, if I recall correctly).  So the math just got way more complicated, unless the problem solver knew the shortcut that a Newton was (roughly) equal to 102 grams at Earth gravity or knew to look it up.  But why would an eight year old know that, or choose to go to the trouble?  This just illustrates what I have said about Metric in other threads, it workds well for sciences beause it was invented by scientists for their own ends.  AS appears more complicated, but is usually more practical in practice becauseit was evolved by people who freely (in most cases) choose to use those particular units.  The student should be able to use whatever unit of measurement he favors. More or less, yes.  But the progressive dream is unified political power, i.e. a world state.  Their support of immigrants have less to do with the rights of immigrants and everything to do with increasing political power.  Same is true with the 'right', except they favor more social control, which generally requires that there be a distinct politcal scapegoat class.  That used to be a racial or religious distinction, now it's a distinction of origin (which is really racial or religious anyway).  The politcal base doesn't really care about immigrants on either side, so neither side's politcal base has much incentive to object to their party's political gaming of other peoples' rights.  When the day comes that the political left has to choose between pandering to immigrants (or any other politically dependent social class) or maintaining the social support networks, the support networks will win.  It's those very social programs that increase their political power, and open borders are incompatible with a welfare state. I'm sure that they love you in the little world that you live in, but this one doesn't really look anything like that one. They won't be brown this time around, perhaps green.  Or wearing blue helmets.
I never taught my eight year old son any standards of measurements, only the functions of calculating volume, and he was able to accurately compute the internal volume of the bathtub, refrigerator and minivan in about 30 minutes.  Once a child understands the process, the next obvious question was, "how do I measure the length, Dad?"  He did it in feet, using the tape measure that his grandfather gave him for Christmas.  Granted, my son actually does have an IQ in excess of 130, so this doesn't actually disprove your BS theorem, but I still say you're full of crap. http://code.google.com/p/android-scripting/With "Scripting Layer for Android (SL4A)" what stops the Python and Perl hackers from doing it their own way? Even less than I can, and I havn't had much luck in that department. And they live in a nation that clings to the American Standard.  Whether or not you might think ill of that or not is irrelevant.  And teaching the American Standard isn't, and shouldn't be, a core requirement in any state either.  Kids should be taught the basics of measurement, not taught measurement systems.  They can be introduced to them, so that they are aware of the different systems, but no one really knows these kinds of things until they are old enough to need them.  Neither a kilometer nor a mile means much in the context of the average 8 year old. The reasons to learn the metric system for scientific studies is obvious, but the metric system is easy enough for a teen or an adult to learn.  Teaching it to grade school children is what makes no sense.  They have no frame of reference in which to use it.  It's like forcing them to memorize the declaration of independence.  To what end?  So they can recite it to the grands on the 4th of July?  The document exists, and can be referenced.  Rote memorization is an utter waste of educational resources, particularly time. It is regulated, the metric system isn't a core educational requirement in any state, nor should it be.  Try to keep your statist propoganda under wraps, you'll sound more credible.  I wouldn't want your to lose your job at the Justice Department, and then some other agent would have to monitor us.  At least I know who you are. Talk about failure, then.  The primary purpose of the public education system in the United States is not to educate children, nor is it to provide them a means to a job.  It's designed to indoctrinate the middle class children into the lifestyle that is consistant with mass production, and to limit their free thoughts.  This is from the founder of public education himself.  He was a true 'progressive' who believed that 'over education' of the masses can only lead to unhappiness in adulthood, since they were going to be stuck working in a factory or a refinery anyway. Publicly dress down the teacher, the principal and the school in general.  Hopefully in front of the kids classmates, and then announce that the son will be withdrawn and homeschooled.  And that they will be receiving a letter from your lawyer about their failure to perform with your tax funds, and that you will be expecting a refund for their wasted money.How's that? Wait, What?I'm sure that I'm older than you, and I learned both American Standard and Metric in grade school.  I can use both fine, but I hate using metric, and have not felt the need to teach it to my own (homeschooled) children.  If they foresee a need to learn it, they can learn it in a couple of days, or carry a pocket reference on their trip to Euroland. How do you know that it's not happening?  I am aware of a great deal of micro-hydro power systems being installed across my state, some privately while others are locally public/private ventures.  None larger than 10 kw, that I know of.  There are hundreds of sutible micro-hydro sites in Kentucky, and many of them have already been bought up for this purpose.  Many of the old locks are being converted or circumvented for this end.  Even the local power company has gotten into the micro game, and retrofitted the McAlpin Locks & Dam (which routes river barge traffic around the Falls of the Ohio) into a 10 Mw hydro.  There are also solar power contractors that are installing roof systems in my city, I had one come out and give me a quote last year.  Granted, that's not quite the same as power sharing with my neighbor, but grid-tied green power is both legal and growing around here.  With grid-tie, the power utility then becomes an intermediary broker, but there is nothing preveting me from dealing directly with my next door neighbor.The free market is actually quite good at planning.  This may be counter-intuitive, but hsitory bears it out.  Much better at planning than central planning has ever been over any extended period of time. On it's initial presentation, it appears potentially deflationary.  The problem that I have with it, already, is that it is an even more complex algo than Bitcoin presently uses, which has many co-dependent parts that function together.  You're algo may appear functional, and may even be functional for decades, but the odds of a more complex algo resulting in a failure of many sorts is increased even over Bitcoin, which again is not a small risk.  On it's face, I think that I can see a potential method of exploitation of the algo, so that the results are ever inflationary.  Could still be better than fiat currencies, but I doubt that it's going to be better than Bitcoin's highly predictable algo.  It's that kernal of doubt that will prevent me, and others, from seriously considering it.  Ever. This is, beyond doubt, the most ironic (and accurate) statement that Keynes ever made concerning his own field of study. If a version of bitcoin is established that inflates forever, I'll ignore it.  If somehow such a thing were imposed upon Bitcoin, I'll abandon it.  I'm sure I'm not alone.  Perpetual inflation as a monetary model is only possible with continuous economic growth, which is a physical impossibility so long as humanity (and thus the economy) is constrained upon this planet's surface. But I don't think that the model can be copied so easily as you might think.  Sure, one can take the code and compete, but then you are starting from a community much smaller than even Bitcoin.  As the system presently exists, security and value come from the network effects.  So any particular merchant or consumer is going to favor the established blockchain, even when he doesn't really know why this is in his own interests, because some will understand this, and the ignorant user will use whatever he has greatest exposure to.  This will always be bitcoin unless and until a competitor with a distinct advantage can be developed, and such an advantage cannot be one that bitcoin itself cannot reasonablely assimulate.  In the long run, I think that we will see both specialized parrallel solutions such as namecoin, and regional solutions.  Yet I think that they will all be tied back into the main bitcoin blockchain in some fashion that allows the other smaller chains to 'piggy back' on the security model of the main blockchain.  But then this kind of co-dependency also solidifies Bitcoin's main chain as the common thread, and thus bitcoin as the currency of international Internet trade. Considering the shear efficiency of a digital instant message, SMS, an email, or the like; all of which are protocols that can use any form of IP connection as transport infrastructure, including modems over ham radios; I consider the breakdown of bulk transportation a more likely event than the persistant breakdown of the Internet.  It's become so important and so effective a form of communication, that every urban area in the world is going to have someplace in the city supported by some group of people to maintain an effective connection to the rest of the world digitally.  Even if that just means that some places can only get 14.4 kbaud over a well protected ham radio setup powered by a solar array scrounged from those highway traffic displays.  Even a mad max scenario still has the fiber optic cables in the ground, so nothing short of a human extinction level event is going to stop the Internet now, and in not much longer, that will include Bitcoin.  Hell, there are already ham radio sats that use IP protocol.  If it can run on an android phone, bitcoin can probably run on a satelite. Gold isn't a very good conductor, really.  Both silver and copper are better.  The only property that gold bests the others on, with regard to electronics, is that gold does not corrode.  Thus, gold's conductivity is the same whether it is encased in a protective plastic insulation or spends 100 years at the bottom of the sea.  The written records thing isn't particularly special either.  Lead is just as useful as a archival print medium as gold is, and under the right conditions, hemp paper is superior to both. The hard part to replicate about bitcoin is the community.  It took two years to build up the community, and I think that it would be difficult to replicate that just by tweaking the code a bit and starting a parrallel blockchain.  That said, anyone is welcome to try it.  If it has features that make it superior to bitcoin, it would probably eventually win.  However, they must be features that are obviously superior to a large percentage of the Internet using population.  I don't really think that is going to happen, myself.  Bitcoin is already very resiliant to attack as well as increasingly useful to Joe Android User in 1st world nations.  There are competing smartphone clients that allow in person transactions (with Internet available) and I don't think it's a far leap before smartphones can transact in person sans Internet via Dash7, ad-hoc wifi or NFC.  Nor do I think we are very far from a system that caters to regular cell phones via SMS or the like, a la M-Pesa; which is actually a huge leap for people in 2nd & 3rd world urban areas, although it might not be quite so useful for 1st world urban areas such as Toyko.  Still, it seems to work out pretty well in NYC. If you have never seen one generator running in one back yard, with extension cords running to three or four neighbors during a power outage, then you have never really seen this kind of activity in practice.  I have seen it happen on the fly, as a refrigerator takes very little power to run in 24 hours, but most residential refrigerators need to have power at least 10 minutes of every hour to maintain temps.  What people in hurricane country will do, is freeze gallon jugs of seawater for a couple days prior to the hurricane, (they get a warning after all) and will keep those jugs in their freezer to maintain cold between opprotunities to share power.  One decent sized genset can run the compressors on several refrigerators for a straight hour in the morning, in the heat of mid-day, and once more just before dark and the cold mass of the saltwater jug in the freezer and a freshwater jug (or several) in the refrigerator will carry the temps till daylight.  In this way, the cost of capital is lower, because only one guy needs to own the genset; and the costs of fuel are lower, because larger gensets & non-coincidental load sharing are more efficient ways of electrical generation.  The normal way this kind of ad-hoc transaction occurs, is that the neighbors who piggy-back off of the generator owner's genset are providing the (majority) of the gas for this arrangement, while the owner provides the genset and the scheduling.  It is also fairly normal for clothes washing (not machine drying) to be schedualed in a like manner.If this kind of arrangement were cheaper/better overall as compared to the massive economies of scall that the power company enjoys, we would see this kind of thing happen all the time.  We might yet. Gold's industrial uses are negligible as compared to it's monetary use value.  Granted, if gold were the price of silver, there would be a lot of uses for it pop up, but realisticly one must consider the industrial use value and the monetary use value as independent variables.  All the industrial use value of gold provides is a backstop against catastrophic monetary value collapse, which bitcoin does not have.  Silver does have many industrial uses for which there is no viable alternative, which is not the case for gold's industrial uses.  For example, silver is both toxic to many forms of bacteria, making it a valuable medical material; while also being fairly non-toxic to human life, contrary to almost all other heavy metals.  Gold is not toxic either, but nor does it have any other chemical properties of note, since it's non reactive.  This does make gold a good choice for conductive connectors, particularly in corrosive environments, but there are other solutions that exist for that. What phone client was Bruce using in this video?  Mine don't look like that.
No, they are both implemntations of the bitcoinj lightweight client on android.  Pretty much work the same, different UI.  I have them both, now.  They both seem to work fine on my Samsung Intercept, but they both take some time to download the blockchain.  Beware, however, there is now a third such client knockoff on the market, and it could be a scam Only if you were hanging around when it was running.  The polywell, and it's derivatives, are not that hard to make, really; and have been used as a neutron source for medical experiments for decades.  The hard part is getting the deutritium, and getting over-parity out of one.  Neither goal is trivial. Sure we can.  But natural barriers in a free market, such as initial capital costs, are not affected by regulation.  By it's nature, regulations add barriers to market entry.  Which is why established players tend to favor some regulation of their own industry.  Subsidies lower market barriers, but at the cost to many taxpayers who may not benefit, or if they do, do not benefit to the degree that they contribute. New coins take 100 blocks to 'mature', if you are mining solo.  The client won't let you use them until then. I have a 'savings' wallet.dat I developed, put onto a thumb drive, and keep that in a safety deposit box.  It exists nowhere near the Internet, and never has.  I had to hand write the first receiving address, so that I could add that to my addressbook on mybitcoin.com, but once entered, I can 'deposit' to that address as many times as I would like.  What can't be done is spend coins from that address without getting the usb drive out of the bank and loading that wallet.dat back into a client. Sounds like a benevolent prison rapist. Because it's a fair assumption that newbies come here to learn about bitcoin, and are unlikely to have any already. Theymos is not Atlas. Maybe regulation would have prevented it, maybe not.  The key here is that the newcomer wasn't efficient enough to keep it up.  The local bus service probably had sunk costs paid for that the newcomer did not.  It's still not an example of a free market.  If www.flinc.mobi's service is not outlawed, the bus service monopoly will have to compete with everyone with a car, and if their prices don't come back down then they will go out of business also.  Avego is also developing such a service, and it won't be long before they are both ready for public consumption.  I have a beta invite to flinc, anyone want one?EDIT: The bus service in my town is partially taxpayer supported, but is already aware of Flinc & Avego and other similar dynamic ridesharing services that are coming.  They have already started to develop their own dynamic routing system.  They have installed Internet connected GPS devices in every bus.  In addition to the regular bus routes, there will be the smaller buses (which they already have, as they are required for paratransit, a condition of taxpayer subsidies) that can be 'called' away from a general route by anyone with a smartphone and their own app.  The fees would be higher than the scheduled buses, but lower than a taxi cab.  The cab companies are just ticked, but they will be able to keep their 'monopoly' of sorts on the pick up of travelers at the airport. Stack a bunch of these into a baseboard heater fan case, and allow me to control it with an external thermostat, and I would buy it today. Digital timestamping of external documents could be achieved using the (not yet implemented) transaction scripting mechanism.  Using zero value inputs or outputs is not necessary, simply send money from yourself to another address that you control, less the transaction fee required for the script (which will never be free, it costs miner's cpu time that regular transactions do not).  If you want to see scripting happen, join the development team.  It will be able to do much more than digital timestamping. Considering that you already have all the gear, yes GPU mining would be worthwhile for you, so long as you can exclude increased AC costs.  If you can wait until your heating season starts, you literally couldn't lose as long as you have a script that can turn off and on GPU mining with the available power so that you don't go over your generated amount by very much. First off, not everyone was unaware of the issues that led to the financial crisis of 2007-2008.  I, for one, was not surprised by the crisis at all, only the details.  Second, you suffer from a terminal lack of imagination.  What do you think that a 'live web cam' is, if it does not let you see what is happening behind closed doors?  Do Internet strippers work on the streetcorner? Those were references to federal tax law, were they not?  What possible reason would I have to read them?  Would they override state tax laws?  If they did, wouldn't someone have pointed that out to the Kentucky Department of Revenue by now?  I'm not going to look up the KRS references to give you, but I've done it before, because I thought it was bs when I got hit with it two decades ago.  Sadly, it is bs, but it's bs they can get away with.  They send me a (state equivalent) of a W4 every year, with only my prior year's (state) tax return amount upon it, and instructions that it must be included as income in line such n such on the state tax form. No, not my federal.  My state refund is taxed again by my state.You statists really do have reading comprehension issues, don't you?No, I'm not. I know of no religious order that would openly support the 'crazies' after the fact, but it's an unavoidable historical reality that crazies do gain positions of authority in any major religious structure.  When that happens, crazy crap happens.  You will not find any Catholics that support the events related to the Inquisition either.That's not my premise.  My premise is that religious organizations have a history of attracting zealots.  I know of no exception to this rule.There is some evidence that such orders were actually given, but not conclusive evidence.  Even so, the people who gave those orders were still people, and would be disowned by the LDS today anway.  Like I said, you will not find a Catholic in favor of the Inquisition either.For the most part, so does the Koran.  And even the Hindu have a habit of killing each other over religious differences.I don't need to prove otherwise.  I have not claimed that the LDS, as a religion, is violent.  All that I have claimed is that it has a history of violent conflict, which it does just like every other religion on Earth that is older than two generations.  The Utah War is only one example of this, as they moved to Utah because they lost a war in Missouri (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/1838_Mormon_War) and then in Illinois (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Illinois_Mormon_War#The_.22Mormon_War_in_Illinois.22_and_the_Mormon_Exodus).  You can make the argument that the Mormons were fighting for self-defense, but not that they didn't fight.  Religious beliefs don't kill people, people kill people over religious beliefs.  The last thing that one should ever do is present evidence contrary to the belief system of a zealot with a firearm, the coganative dissonance can be murder.Why not?  They are historical facts.  I didn't misrepresent them in any way.  If you made an assumption about the meaning, it's your own doing. Whatever you say, buddy.  I think that I'm going to continue to listen to my tax lawyer, not some guy on an internet forum for my tax advice.  The root facts are, every year I have to include my previous years tax refund from Kentucky onto the current year's income, and the state auditors don't consider that double taxation.  Double taxation is actually illegal after all, so it would have to be considered something else by the legal system!  Added to that, I can't change my state tax withholding ratio in order to reduce that refund.  I would have to reduce my federal witholding in order to reduce my state withholding, and doing so would get me sideways with the federal IRS. All elements beyond iron consume energy in their production, and can only occur within certain types of stars at certain stages.  Even if we were to crack the fusion issue, the most that we could expect from it would be helium. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utah_WarDespite this, the confrontation was not bloodless. At the height of the tensions, on September 11, 1857, more than 120 California-bound settlers from Arkansas, Missouri and other states, including unarmed men, women and children, were killed in remote southwestern Utah by a group of local Mormon militiamen. They first claimed that the migrants were killed by Native Americans. This event was later called the Mountain Meadows massacre and the motives behind the incident remain a mystery.The "Aiken Massacre" took place the following month. In October 1857, Mormons arrested six Californians traveling through Utah and charged them with being spies for the US Army. They were released, but later murdered and robbed of their stock and $25,000.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/InquisitionGranted, a bit lopsided as far as the examples go, but if the Mormons had the history, population and worldwide influences that the RCC did, they likely would have done the same crap. LOL!  You both made an assumption that I didn't assert, and then based your own smug assertion on the one that I didn't make!
The greatest irony of that statement, is that most of what the Internet does is show other people what goes on behind closed doors. No, it's not.No, it doesn't.  Your example is so far away from what I just stated it the reality that it's not even in the same tax code.  I never said that Kentucky taxes the federal return. I chose those two denominations intentionally, because they both have a history of using force against non-believers. I'd wager that you don't think that your political ideologies are "fringe". Yes, I am.  As are you.  And thus, this ongoing political "conversation" is mostly a waste of time for both of us.  Both sides are pretty sure of themselves.  It's like trying to argue religious doctrine on a forum frequented by both Catholics and Mormons.   Just because you consider your arguments in high regard, doesn't mean that I consider them worth responding to. I've got some really bad news for you.  I'm taxed each year on the amount of my tax return check from the previous year by the state of Kentucky.  By some legaleze magic, they don't consider it double taxation.  The only way to avoid it is to owe the state each year, which is very difficult to do. This is actually one of the better arguments for your 'benevolent statism' position.  And, speaking historicly, it's true.  The Internet has been systematicly undermining the 'leverage' of superior data gathering long held by large organizations for centuries.  We are all already in uncharted territory, and continue down this same path with each passing day.  Bitcoin is just one piece in that great puzzle, but it's already true that a person transplanted from 1980 couldn't have predicted the reality of 2011.  Twelve year old girls regularly get a new cell phone for their birthday, although not necessarily their first cell phone.  Furthermore, cell phones are only called such for historic reasons, as talking upon them is just one application of the tiny & portable computers with multiple built-in digital radios, all of which have bitrates that would have cost a fortune for a wired connection in 1980.  If that person from 1980 was even aware of the Internet, what the average middle class fourth grader has access to would have still floored him.  If he was an academic, Wikipedia would have made him fear for his tenure; and if he was a member of the military officer's core, Google Earth would have scared the crap out of him even after learning about the complete collapse of the Soviet Union. I'm talking about the recently released 'Bitcoin Android' client that keeps a local copy of the blockchain on the SD card.  Not your 'Bitcoin Wallet' app.  Since I'm the one who started this thread, I'd say that I don't have to make sure of anything with regards to what is in your sig. I have figured out why mine wasn't working.  The sleep mode was interupting the download.  If you are having this problem, plug your phone into it's charger, open the app, select 'refresh' from the settings menu, and then set the phone down near your wifi router and go to bed.  DO NOT hit the button to sleep the screen.  The app should have marched through the blockchain by morning, and daily updates only take a minute or so.  Also, after downloading the blockchain and finally seeing the coins that I sent it, I sent it more.  It took less time for the phone app to see the transaction than it took me to pull my finger from the mouse and pick up the phone.  Less than a second.  It was "pending" (not unconfirmed, I think that I like that description better) of course, but it knew that it was there. I am here to say, with certainty, that this is not a fraud.  I got mine to work, and now I think I know what has been going wrong.  The download is getting interupted without any kind of error or even a force close.  To get it done, you need to plug your phone into the charger, turn on the app, select 'refresh' from the settings menu, and just set it down near your wifi router and go to bed.  DO NOT hit the button to make the screen sleep.  The app will keep the screen on, which is why you need it plugged in, and will take many hours to march through the blockchain.  But by morning, the spinning icon should be gone and any coins that you sent to it should be visable.  You can safely stop the app, and the next time you start the app, it will take only a short while to catch up. http://www.acton.org/pub/commentary/2011/07/06/minimum-wage-law-backfires-american-samoaI should qualify my previous statements that I don't think that the minimum wage law would affect many people.  It's still true, but aparently it would affect an entire protectorage state. No. You should stop and consider your own choice of words.  Rights come from our Creator, or if you reject that concept, from our basic humanity.  However, enforcement of rights comes from the justifiable use of superior force.  Just because you can violate the rights of another, should you have the bigger guns at the moment, doesn't mean that 'might makes right'. If you don't like my circle jerk, stay out of the middle. Coal plants only have an advantage presently, because in the past they were protected from the external costs by governments, and presently they already have huge sunk capital costs.  In a free market, not a single new coal plant would be built. If the US were to actually default on it's debt obligations, something that I don't consider to be in the cards even if the credit limit isn't raised, the results would most certainly not be deflationary.  That would be highly inflationary.  Perhaps even hyperinflationary.  There is simply too much US $ that exists outside of the national borders that would be quickly trying to find it's way home to be intergrated into the US economy.  That would be the end game for the US $ as an international reserve currency. This point of view would make you a sociopath. I'm reserving judgment. If you are being paid in paypal or credit cards, you should be paranoid.  If the transactions were local, and he was paying in cash, or otherwise couldn't get funds into MtGox (not easy, I can't do it either) and was otherwise unwilling to wait for the post to make it to one of the cash in the mail dealers, they'd be as legit as any others.
It's this or nuttin'. True, but not very many people need to move large amounts of value across borders.  And if bitcoin is flowing out of the country to facilitate capital flight, then goods would need to be moving out as well, in order to get bitcoins to flow back in.  Otherwise the bitcoins within the country become scarce.  Keep in mind that currencies are just placeholders for goods, somehow those goods still have to move. That's the theory, but the practice doesn't seem to really hold water.  It's based entirely upon the business model that new drugs are priced at the cost of production plus a portion of the costs of research, which is how it actually works today.  However, there could be, and likely are, better ways to mitigate the financial risks of research.  For example, you never pay for UL testing, producers pay for that.  Why would they do this?  Because their insurance is cheaper.  They either pay UL to test their products for public safety and function, or they pay much more in insurance premiums.  It's a kind of subscription service.  Likewise,  insurance companies, or health care foundations, could fund the research using a subscription model. The monopolies that do work, don't work any better than if they didn't exist.  A benign monopoly such as a limted term copyright may not cause any harm, but it can still be a limitation upon the consumer (that's the point, after all) so the best case can never be acheived under the monopoly.  Thus, on the whole, monopolies make the public worse off than they could have been otherwise. Nope, I wiped it out.  Sorry. Force closes.  Sometimes lockng up the phone, requiring me to pull the battery and reboot.  I have a Samsung Intercept Application Details tells me a similar story, but by diving into the sd card I can see the file in the secured android apps directory, and it weighs in at 22 megs right now for me. For Bitcoin Android and any other future client that uses the headers-only blockchain. Although I can agree it's a well written document, I still say that Maybury's Two Laws represent the shortest body of law ever devised.1)  Do all that you have agreed to do.2)  Do not encroach upon another's person or property.Granted, there is a lot of room for interpretation; but there is something to be said for a legal framework that can be printed onto a bumper sticker. Can I recommend a feature?  If the phone is out of range of the network, or otherwise does not have Internet access, could this app use a shared wifi hotspot as an intermediary without access to directly transmit the transaction from the sender to the receiver's phone?  Much like your 'Blinkendroid' app can send data to numerous phones if they are all connected to the same hotspot?  This would permit users in the same place to transact so long as there was something like a pirate box available.http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox Excellent.  Now how do I safely upgrade, without nuking my phone's wallet.dat?  The market doesn't show this as having an update available. By definition, it's impossible to predict the effect and use that to calculate a prediction of the cause. If Satoshi is, in fact, a single individual, then he is a polymath.  The breath of professional grade knowledge required to produce this, and the rather sudden manner in which it just sprung onto the Interent in 2009, leads me to assume that Satoshi isn't likely to be a single person, IMHO, any more so than LulSec would be. How large was your data footprint by the time it stopped spinning? Yes, but miner defined filters are part of the protocol.  It's expected that, in the future, some miners will simply choose to reject fee-less transactions, as an example.  Future bitcoin-banks could choose to ignore transactions, free or not, that are not issued by clients of other banks that they have reciproprocity agreements with.  Wal-mart could ignore transactions intended for Target, and vice versa, if they can identify them.  None of this would cause harm to the Bitcoin network at large, and is not an attack. The worst thing that can happen to such a transaction is that it's in limbo until such time that a miner that doesn't discriminate processes a block. Has anyone been able to get this to do any more than spin?  Mine has been running since yesterday, has a 22 meg footprint, and still hasn't seen the coins that I sent it.  I'm using a Samsung Intercept, but it doesn't force close like Bitcoin Wallet did. Anyone who has such hashing power has to choose between assaulting the network and participating honestly within it.  If said person has 51% of the hashing power, and participates honestly, he can capture 51% of the newly generated coins.  He could choose to reject every transaction, and simply publish empty blocks, but this isn't an attack on the network, really.  It does no harm, since transactions can still be expected to be processed by the miners who capture the other 49% of blocks.  However, such a person could choose to prevent all transactions, but to do this he has to turn his miners to the task of reversing all of the blocks that are created by other miners, so he would still only be able to capture about the same number of blocks over the same time period.  The effective hash rate of the network would be cut in half, but only if the attacker is successful at reversing all honest blocks before another honest block could be built upon it.  The odds of this continuing for any extended period of time is remote with only 51%. tl/dr No, an attacker with 50% of the hashing would not be able to take over the network.  Such an attacker would be able to prevent transactions from being processed, and potentially double-spend coins that he recently possessed; but would still be unable to do anything to anyone's coins that he had never actually owned.  The 50% mark just makes an attack possible, it doesn't make it easy. I'd guess you haven't paid much attention to the news, lately.
No, difficulty does not attempt to compensate for the inherited error.  So assuming that difficulty continues to go up, and never down, average block creation over the lifetime of Bitcoin will be something slightly faster than every ten minutes.  Thus it is possible that the entire production curve for bitcoins will be compressed slightly, and the blocks wherein the block reward will come earlier than projected.  However, there will still be exactly the same amount of bitcoins issued as is projected. I'm having the same problem, and am starting to suspect that we've been tricked into sending small change to an address not under our own control.  I can't find evidence on my own phone that it's actually downloading the blockchain (headers or full).  There is no block count, only a spinning icon; so there is no way to judge it's progress.  The only option in the settings section is 'refresh'.  What is it refreshing?  I can't examine the code, so until I see evidence otherwise, or someone on this forum that I trust will inform me otherwise, I will consider this a rather ingenious method of 'phishing' fraud. Don't forget about those who mine to heat their little flats in higher latitudes.  I seriously expect that Bitcoin mining will be concentrated in locales with either very inexpensive electricity (at least relative to the costs of other heating fuels) and locales where heating demand is high.  Thus, if you live in Hawaii, forget about it.  Denver in Winter, maybe.  Iceland?  It's bound to be a year round occupation. He is likely correct.  Bitcoin is very high risk, but with a very high potential gain.  And it will continue to be this way for some time.  However, increases in the size of the Bitcoin economy will dampen this issue eventually; but by then it can be assumed that the price of a bitcoin will reflect that.  Listen to your father, proceed with caution.  Do not invest anything into something that you don't understand. If mining dies, difficulty will drop. And we're done here. You would be correct. I'm actually trying to determine that. How do I know that it's actually making progress downloading the blockchain?  And why not have a regularly updated app that is really just an archive of the blockchain headers? The minimum reserve requirements of the bank in question could be breeched.Well, it's not really quite so fragile.  It's all a fiction, really; so it just becomes a greater fiction, but all the while someone is making money even when that money is disappearing.  The fiction begets a real world effect.Under normal times, such a bank would be put on probation of sorts, and given a time period to raise the reserve requirements.  If they failed they would be seized on behalf of the FDIC and sold to a more capitalized bank.  In the present times, we are running out of more capitalized banks.Sort of, but the apparent inflation creeps into the greater economy at a lag of around 14 to 18 months.  So the banks have some time to make full use of that new money before the markets respond.  Stock & bond markets tend to react much faster than the rest of the economy, though.The problem is that it's a balancing act, and one that always has victims.  Also, keep in mind that although the banks didn't fail due to bad loans, they made those bad loans and in the end of it all those banks not only ended up with the money (which must be paid with taxation, thus a transfer of wealth from the middle class to the banker class) they also ended up with the properties.  Literally getting their cake and eating it too. Actually, you can.  Minimum wage laws have exceptions. I really don't know what to tell you. I'm opposed to the minimum wage, but in reality repealing it would have almost zero effect.  There are relatively few minimum wage jobs as it is, as most unskilled jobs pay more.  Most of the unemployed are unemployed because they have a certain skillset, and will chose to remain on unemployment insurance payments so long as they last rather than take a lower wage job.  If we were to repeal both the minimum wage laws and restrict or repeal unemployment insurance, there might be some measurable effects.  But the truth of the matter is that most of the unemployed can find minimum wage work, but won't because they are accustomed to a higher wage and better working conditions than a minimum wage job. The Unabomber wasn't trying to fix anything, in reality.  He was enacting vengence towards people he belived had done him wrong.  The manifesto was a distraction and cover. No, it wouldn't.  It would only signify the end of using that particular type of public/private cryptographic signature.  Bitcoin is modular, the encryption methods in use can be replaced. Then you have a firewall that is actively killing your outbound connections.  If you were just blocked for inbound connections, you'd hit 8 and stay there.  More than 8 means that you're unblocked.  A single connection that keeps dying means that there is an active process killing your connections. During that same time period that M0 was rising, consumer credit was collapsing.  Particularly with regard to housing loans.  Mortgage defaults (or any credit default, really) is deflationary.  As the market value of homes across American tanked, much of the monetary base ceased to exist, because much of the monetary base is digits these days, and not just paper.  As homeowners filed for bankruptcy, and got it, the digits that depended upon those debts simply ceased to exist; and so the real monetary base (could be M1, M-Prime, the Austrian Money metric; choose one, they all have faults) still contracted. All right, I know what is happening, as I have had it happen to me.  Restart your client using the -rescan, -noirc and -addnode= switches.  The addnode= switch needs the IP address of a fallback node just after the equal sign.  Use two or more fallback nodes.  The client should then rescan the blockchain and then not announce it's presence on the IRC channel, but it will get more nodes from the fallback nodes, and other nodes should do the same for you. No, that's not it.  Even if his friend didn't have the full amount on one address, bitcoin consolidates by default, and all of the input addresses would have been included into one transaction and processed at the same time. If it's visable in Blockexplorer, you already have it.  It's your client that isn't seeing the transaction, for whatever reason.That second one is curious.  Are you in a mining pool using this address?
Is there anything that prevents someone from a regularly updated blockchain snapshot download via Android Market, so that new users (or users that haven't permitted their Bitcoin Android client to update recently) can slurp down a recent snapshot, verify it, and then bootstrap from there? No. Okay, I'll post this again, since some people seem unable to either do some research of their own, or even read the older posts.http://austrianeconomics.wikia.com/wiki/InflationAmong the Economics texts that use this definition....Economics in One Lesson, by Henry Hazlitthttp://www.lfb.org/product_info.php?products_id=38The Road to Serfdom, by F.A. Hayekhttp://www.lfb.org/product_info.php?products_id=49The Law, by Fredric Bastiat, I think also uses this definition implicitly, but it's not really an economics text, per se.http://www.lfb.org/product_info.php?products_id=96Capitalism & Freedom, by Milton Friedmanhttp://www.lfb.org/product_info.php?products_id=103Applied Economics: Thinking Beyond Stage One, by Thomas Sowell probably uses this definition either explicitily or implicitly, although I haven't read this one.http://www.lfb.org/product_info.php?products_id=300Whatever Happened to Penny Candy by Rich Maybury of Chaostan.com fame, but that is a children's textbook.http://www.amazon.com/Whatever-Happened-Explanation-Economics-Investments/dp/0942617525Other's can provide more, I'm sure.Because you seem to be incapable of independent thought, so I thought I might help out. How to I know if it's downloading the blocks?  I can't even see a count anywhere. It would be a short lived win, because deepbit doesn't control the pool's nodes.  As soon as the breech was noticed, and it wouldn't take all that long, the nodes' owners would just starve deepbit of it's collective resources and the takeover attempt would be useless. Wow, this conversation has gone all over the place.  Too much noise.  Too much emotion, also.  Considering locking this thread and forcing the party to start another thread.Just as a general comment.  There is nothing in libertarian ideology that is against drivers having insurance, but not having insurance doesn't change the liabilities of the drivers.  It only transfers the costs of those liabilities to the insurance company hired to underwrite the drivers.  Uninsured drivers are still responsible for the damage that they cause.  This is generally true now.Likewise, libertarian thought is not against an organization such as the FDA, so long as it's not a government monopoly.  Consumer Reports and Underwriters' Labs are two examples of private institutions that perform similar functions to that of regulatory oversight, and do it well, without restricting the individual to the choice of ignoring their advice.  If the FDA only warned me against using certain drugs, but didn't actually prevent me from the choice, then I'd be okay with it (yes, even though it's funded by taxation; but that's a pragmatic compromise not an ideal).Incidently, US building codes just about everywhere require that installed products sport a 'listing mark', but does not require a particular listing mark.  This means that, in practice, products must have been tested by UL or a competitor to be installed in any new or existing structure in the United States.  UL has few competitors, because they do their job so well, but there are a couple.  I've seen products 'listed' by the Canadian counterpart to UL (which I believe is a government operation) but very few of them.  This is because, even though the building codes don't require a particular testing lab, many insurance companies do.  So it's not like the FDA does anything that can't be done by the marketplace. I already addressed post #221.  But with regard to large market players, it should where appropriate.  You seem to forget that the vast majoroty of 'market makers' in our modern version of corporatism are sanctioned and protected by the government regulators, not limited by them.  It's the little guy that gets hit with charges of insider trading, not the corporate backed investor.  Much of what you object to, although not impossible within a libertarian or anarchist marketplace, would be transient events in a truely free market.  Admittedly, I'm not sure that a truely free market is any more possible than a true communist economy, wo for myself it's more a matter of degree.  That certainly doesn't bode well, but why evidence is there that this response was actually written by the same guy?  Whoever wrote this has no concept of what Bitcoin actually does, and is a crappy lawyer to boot.  He's going to get hammered someday, even if he survives the CP that the black hats are likely to put all over his home computer. It's happened in the past.  What would prevent it in the future? Links or it didn't happen. I think that you guys are really overreacting.  It's as likely as not, that this lawyer trademarked Bitcoin in defense of the bitcoin community, before anyone else with ill intent did so.  After all, there are lawyers on this forum.  Perhaps there was an unaddressed legal threat there, that this lawyer knew that he could do something about.  Has anyone bothered to ask him his intent?  It's not like his email address isn't all over his website.  He's certainly not anonymous. I didn't.  The classical definition of inflation/deflation has never been a change in the general price level.  As I have already said, and changes in the general price level could be a symptom of inflation or deflation; but it is, itself, not either.  Inflation/deflation can be considered the absolute change in the monetary base, or alternatively, the change in the monetary base relative to the size of the economy that it represents.  Either definition is valid, but both are fundamentally dependent upon a determination of the size of the monetary base.  The changes in the general price levels are always and effect, never a cause.If you have been taught otherwise by any formal Economics instructor, you need to ask for your money back. I disagree with this position.  Americans can find housing within 10 miles of their work, they just don't.  I did that, intentionally, four years ago and have ridden a bicycle to work for over 3 years.  Ironicly, I just bought a car for myself yesterday. You could release a modified bitcoin client that structures peer connections in any way that you like.  If I think that it is safe, I'd use it. Maybe later.I didn't say any such thing.  Are you confusing me with someone else, or do you have a reading comprehension issue? Most are fine people.  They are just ignorant.  And terminally so.Name a capitalist country that had a famine with a million deaths in the past year.  Name one in 2000, 1990 or 1980.  Show me a million deaths in any year, since WWII, within a predominately capitalist society that wasn't at war at the time.  You can't because it hasn't happened since 1933, and even then it's questionable.I really wish you kids would study History. I doubt Atlas was remotely a repub.  Perhaps you don't understand what a libertarian actually stands for? Only the part of me that you know.  You can't know all.  Can you regulate the tunnel people in NYC's abandoned train tunnels?  Can you regulate the Appalation hillbillly making meth in the woods?  I think that you overestimate your capacities as a government. Oh, I didn't miss the point.  And I don't disagree that taxes can be levied in other ways.  There are many other ways to tax than direct taxation of income.  I was talking about regulation of Bitcoin or the economy around it.  Taxation is but one form of regulation. Oh, I see.I misunderstood.  I thought that you had killed your persona long ago.
Think of the children!  (pay no mind to my little cut) None of these are regulations upon Bitcoin, or it's economy.  This would require the implimentation of a total police state.  I don't consider that much of a threat, myself. You would have to find my door, first.  Even if you could, you would then have to prove that I had any bitcoin, would you not?  How would you propose to do these things?  If you can produce a credible scenario, then I'm selling because Bitcoin is a failure. Perhaps it's not, but archival storage of paper, under the right conditions, is known to have an indefinate lifespan.  This is not known to be true with regard to solid state digital storage (as in the ironkey) and is already known to not be true with regard to optical disks. I want you to use your's, and tell me how you think that the bitcoin economy can be regulated. What's your address again?(MoonShadow wonders where he put that metal detector) How would he do that? Violence, yes.  A revolution, no.  Americans have become a kept populace, in general, over the course of my lifetime.  Middle class America has become materialistic and soft.  So much so that the only thing that I can imagine getting them off of the couch would be the threat of loss; loss of their comforts, loss of their jobs, loss of their pensions.  And even if that happens, far too many have been asleep for far to long to understand what would be happening, and would join the riots without a cause.  If that day comes, I'll be hanging out with my family at my Mom's farm.  The meek shall inherit the Earth.Woe to anyone who sneaks upon the farm looking for a free meal without permission, however. Everyone has a bias, including those who make a valid effort to suppress their own biases in reporting.  To forget that opens you up for the effects of propoganda as well as accidental influences. It would be difficult to impliment this in code at this point, and potentially subject to manipulation.  The apparent randomness of the clients' peer discovery process is a defense against a particular kind of attack that involves an attacker 'owning' all of the peers of a target node.  Any kind of structured network method would permit the attacker to predict the nodes that the target is connected to, and thus make such an attack easier to impliment.  As it is, the random nature of the network means that an attacker can never know with certainty that he actually has all of the peers of the target, and it only takes one honest node to muck up that kind of attack vector.That said, you can structure your own client however you see fit via forced peer selection.  Eventually, clients will have a peers page in the GUI like most bittorrent clients do, that will give the user more direct control of peers.  Until then, you can do the same thing from the command line. And all that it requires to be implimented securely is an open wifi hotspot at each vendor's establishment.  Rather than NFC tech in each customer's phone and supporting infrastructure at each point-of-sale.  We don't yet have a standardized method of sending the POS data to the phone in order to have your smartphone display the total for confirmation, but I'm confident that it's coming. You are already subject to those same market forces. He is saying that, should you mistake the self bootstrapping of a new currency for a speculative bubble (or vice versa) you are likely to make a serious error in investment choices. Not all textbooks are created equal.http://austrianeconomics.wikia.com/wiki/Inflation Such a proposal would be subject to manipulation, which disqualifies it for consideration.  However, if you insist that your idea is better, start your own blockchain and change the name of your currency.  We will let the market decide. Based on the perspective that fiat currency represents a debt obligation of the federal government?  I can respect that perspective.  I withdraw my objections. Okay, you're arguing semantics then.  That's fine, so long as we all know that you are using a loose definition of the terms.  There is certainly little difference between those two terms, but there is a little difference. I don't have 'liberbuddies'.  I don't know him any better than I know you.  And I'm sure that you know that I wouldn't "make him respond" even if I could realisticly have such a power as a mod.  You can choose to ignore him, free speech goes both ways. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Austrian_business_cycle_theoryConsidering an expansion of credit to be the same as inflation is a loose definition, but in a temporal fashion, a valid one I suppose.  Still, the business cycle is created by the expansion and resultant contraction of credit within an economy.  Credit can exist without expansion of the monetary base (inflation), thus inflation does not cause the business cycle.  Although inflation can (and does, that's one intent) affect the credit markets, thus altering the timeline and severity of the cycle. Another 2 hours and 37 minutes reading all that you can about bitcoin on this forum, and you will be good to go.
Hyperbole and strawmen are not violations.  I don't intend to do anything about it until they start recommending anatomicly impossible acts involving your gentialia and your bodily orifaces.  I never did anything about your strawmen, did I?And that is a wonderful definition.  Notice, if you are capable, that for that definition to be effective, some authority in the state apparatus must act towards an end goal.  It's not necessary for the actions of distant authorities to know the individuals they are coercing, nor even the details of the coercion in reality, but only that there is an intent to achieve a goal and an action taken towards that goal.  Enacting a tax is one such example of a collective act that forces those subject to that tax to themselves react in a manner that they would not have voluntarily.  I realise that there is a paradox in all of this, as a lib is not an anarchist, but subtlety is a product of compromise; and the ability to discount the negative effects of such subtle inconsistancies is a sign of wisdom.  I wish to see progress within my own lifetime.  Yet I don't advocate sudden social change, even that which would significantly favor my own ideologies.  I recognize the paradox, I just reject the concept that this paradox negates the validity of the system as a whole. <sigh>Please take some time and read an Economics textbook.  The definition that the news media presents is not the Economic definition. Sorry, but the business cycle exists regardless of inflation or deflation.  It will exist in Bitcoin as well.  The business cycle is an aggregate phenomonon that exists despite the Federal Reserve.  In fact, elimination of the business cycle was one of the original missions of the Federal Reserve, but in practice the actions of the Fed only act to delay the correction phase, not eliminate it.  Since the market has more time to build up inefficiencies before the correction phase wipes them out, those correction phases tend to be deeper and longer than without monetary intervention from the Fed. Now that you have made one post in the newbie section, you can send him a PM. Sorry, but I'm not a coder myself.  I know this is so because I have asked the same question in the past, and received this response from one of the developers. I'm sorry if you feel insulted.  The newbie forum exists as a filter against bots and those who troll until they're banned, just to create a new identity.  It also functions well as an incentive for newbies to spend a little time reading, hopefully to better understand how Bitcoin works before posting nonsense.  It's cut down on the "I'm the first person to discover the Great Bitcoin Flaw (tm) even though I've never read the white paper!" crap significantly. I have moved this topic to it's proper home. Well, many more non-smart cellphones exist, and I had a $9 phone that worked quite well before buying an Android.  I got the smartphone for the other apps, not for the possibility of using it to spend bitcoins.  Not everyone is going to switch for many years, most people just need a phone and maybe SMS texting.  Even my $9 phone could securely connect and use my account balance with the service provider. A pool miner doesn't do a full and proper check against it's hash solution to determine if it meets the target.  All it does is a quick check of how many leading binary zeros are present, and if it is close, it submits that work to bitcoind for verification.  If the submitted work does not meet the target, this is what you get in the logs. Why does it have to be limited to smartphones?  What prevents a system similar to M-Pesa built around a cell service provider offering a BitPay like service?  Does anyone here have direct experience with M-Pesa? Ah, I think I see the disconnect now.A market force is not the same as coercion.  Coercion against Tom implies that there was a willfull intent on some person's or group's part to affect Tom, be it directed towards Tom himself or some third party that might hold authority over Tom or is dependent upon Tom.  A market force is a collective thing, without a will to cause you harm or gain.  Thus a market force is comparable to a force of nature, in that it's not anyone's fault that Tom just got screwed, except maybe for Tom's own poor investment choices.What Libs & Anarchists oppose isn't the broad, aggragate forces of society, but the individual & collective initial acts of coersion. Changes in the general prices are symtoms, not the causes, of deflation and inflation.  In the case of Bitcoin's high inflation rate, that symtom is overwelmed by other factors.  Words have specific meanings within certain contexts, and withing the context of Economics deflation and inflation only have meaning at all in relation to the decrease and increase in the monetary base.  There is no other way to define them with any useful precision. That's not deflation, that's the law of supply and demand.  Inflation and deflation are economic terms that directly describe the increase or decrease of the monetary base, respectively. It works, too. I wasn't making any such claim, I just wasn't about to let you make a bs claim and just let it go by unchallenged. Amen to that, but Bitcoin isn't deflationary.  It is very inflationary at present, and will taper off to a very stable amount.  The only reason so many people believe it to be deflationary is because the Bitcoin economy is growing as such a greater pace than the monetary base. That's the one. Income isn't the best metric to determine the "most well off people in the world", as different thinkgs cost different amounts in different cities.  That was the point of it all, and even based upon income of the bottom quintile, which is what the UN metric measures as compared to the rest of the same socieity, Europeans win. http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/jul/04/iceland-considers-prescription-only-cigarettesI don't smoke, but if that is the rate before the proposed regs... This is true, but the highly predictable nature of Bitcoin (it's not deflationary) is an attractor for early adopters and long term speculators.
Of course not, but his economic illiteracy is frustrating. Not enough data.  Is your client up to date on blocks, or is it still downloading? To support my point, here is a report on American poverty in 2007.  This report is based upon census data, and the government's definition of poverty; which conviently is roughly households in the bottom 20% income bracket.http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2007/08/How-Poor-Are-Americas-Poor-Examining-the-Plague-of-Poverty-in-AmericaFrom the article....Forty-three percent of all poor households actually own their own homes. The average home owned by persons classified as poor by the Census Bureau is a three-bedroom house with one-and-a-half baths, a garage, and a porch or patio. Eighty percent of poor households have air conditioning.  Only 6 percent of poor households are overcrowded. More than two-thirds have more than two rooms per person. The average poor American has more living space than the average individual living in Paris, London, Vienna, Athens, and other cities throughout Europe. (These comparisons are to the average citizens in foreign countries, not to those classified as poor.) Nearly three-quarters of poor households own a car; 31 percent own two or more cars. Ninety-seven percent of poor households have a color television; over half own two or more color televisions. Seventy-eight percent have a VCR or DVD player; 62 percent have cable or satellite TV reception. Eighty-nine percent own microwave ovens, more than half have a stereo, and more than a third have an automatic dishwasher.  Noted. FAIL!I did not contest the claim that the Japanse have the lowest wealth disparity in the world, I was demanding support for your conclusion.  It does not follow that low wealth disparity implies that the poor are magicly those most affected.  The "most well off people in the world" is a vague metric, and I was giving you the chance to support this claim.  I actually know already that it's false by almost any real metric available; but quality of life is a hard thing to measure.  The poor in Japan certainly have access to much more quality of life than the poor in Kenya, but absolute comparisons are rarely instructive.  Your probably thinking of the UN's MDG metrics.  http://unstats.un.org/unsd/mdg/default.aspx  These would imply that Japan has long been in a tight matchup with some states in Europe for the top spot, but that's based upon the percentage of total national wealth that the bottom 20% possess.  This metric alone actually means very little with regard to quality of life, because nations like North Korea are automaticly removed from the comparisions because the government owns everything, so there is a bias from the start.  Also, how do you compare the lifestyle of a poor japanese family in Kyoto to that of a poor American family in Spokane?  Which has access to quality health care?  Living space per household member?  Effective public transportation?  Consumer products?  Internet?  Most of these issues are about comparable between nations except living space per person.  By any measurement, Americans (of any class) have, on average, the most living space per person compared to any of their class peers anywhere in the world; while Japan sits at the other extreme among first world nations. I attack the singular example that you present as your support, not your principle, because there is nothing there to debate.  You believe that you are right, based upon your definition of the terms used, and believe that your's is the common usage of the term.  We believe otherwise.  I'd rather not be sucked into another circle jerk.  The irony is that, to some degree, I actually agree with your argument.  But you use an uncommon use of the term 'coercion' to attack the ideals of libs and anarchists based upon your overly broad use of terms.  Based on those overly broad use of terms, you badger us with your insistance that we admit that our system is no better than the alternatives.  Your argument is fundamentally based upon semantics.  You do realize that those definitions are usually numbered in order of their common usage, right?  If #2 sounds like our's but #3 sounds like your's, which do you think is the more common understanding of the term?  Does it really need to be said? Hong Kong is far from an ideal libertarian state, the point is that it's closer overall than many other societies that it can be compared to, and is also more prosperous in almost every metric against those other examples.  However, corrolation is not causation, so this really doesn't prove anything.  It should give anyone trying to rationally compare nations a reason to pause.Incidentally, Hong Kong actually is home to the only example of a modern and urban anarchist society that can rationally be argued to represent the ideology, and it was both entirely accidental and less than stellar, but it was still far better than the alternatives available to those who chose to live there.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kowloon_Walled_CityThe fact that Japan has teh lowest wealth disparity does not lead to the conclusion that they have the most well-off poor people in the world.  I demand support to this claim. That is false on it's face.  Of course he can choose to live in a culture that has not been "vulgarized" by porn.  He just has to choose to live in a sub-section of society that is less than ideally libertarian.  The ideal is unobtainable anyway.  Take a look at the differences between public life in the North Eastern US and the 'bible belt' southern states.  Adult businesses are hard to miss rolling down the freeway in some locales, but in the bible belt they are off the beaten path and harder to stumble upon unless that is what you are looking for.  This is a product of zoning codes and religious influence, not libertarian concepts, but those adult businesses aren't actually illegal in the 'bible belt' states.  Likewise, a libertarian society may, and arguablely would, develop exclusionary zones wherein like minded people self-segregate to limit their exposure to such social corruptions.  This kind of thing has been going on in the US since the very beginning.  It certainly has it's downsides, but it's not rational to still argue that such a self-governing sub-culture can't exist within a much more libertarian, and libertine, society.  The Amish have been doing it for 200 years. Where did you get this crap from? Ducks are off topic. Yes, the OP's pool. Who pays for the server and bandwidth?  Hold on for the ride.  You shall live to see your high quality socialized healthcare system utterly collapse.  You will not understand why, and your countrymen will blame government corruption or whatever else, but will also not understand it.  I understand it, and it was predictable a decade ago, probably more.  I'm not making a prediction, for a prediction would imply a possibility of error.  This is inevitable, and Spain is already long past the point of reform, even if that were politically possible.  You will watch as Greece & Ireland proceed your nation, but your turn shall come. I don't disagree with the statement, "anarchism is libertarianism taken to it's logical conclusion" on general terms, it's the specifics that concern me.  All things being equal, I'd say that this is correct.  However, people are not always logical, and cultures don't always react to threats in a rational manner.  The differences between a libertarian state and an anarchist society may, in fact, be very small in practice; but I don't consider those differences to be trivial.  Prior to 1908, the lifestyle of the average American was very libertarian in practice, if not in fact.  For example, the average American would have nearly zero contact with official federal agencies over the course of his entire lifetime, and contact with state officials only on an occasional/annual basis.  There was no such thing as regulation of finance except at the highest levels, no personal income tax, no departments of energy, agriculture, education or even defense.  There was no Federal Reserve, and no fractional reserve banking.  All US money was specie or banknotes issued as wearhouse receipts of specie.  All loans were secured with an equal amount of long term savings, not on demand accounts with the backing of the FDIC.  All this was better than it is today in many ways, but worse in different ways.  Semantics aside, the average American born after the civil war could have lived clear till 1913 at least without any contact with any federal agency without even trying to do so.All of that said, that same average American would have had exactly zero contact with any government in an anarchist society, but would it have looked the same if the federal government did not exist at all?  I can't say that it would have.  Certainly, slavery would have collapsed for economic reasons without the destructive need for a civil war to forciblely ended it, eventually.  But at what cost, then?  Two more generations of declining slavery versus civil war?  The end results might have been about the same if Lincoln had permitted the South to seceed, and slavery then die an economic death without bloodshed, but is that perferable if the cost was two more generations of humans owning humans?  And what, in a truly anarchist society, would prevent the return of that irrational culture, if not the collective threat of force from society at large?  I can't quite accept the argument that private security forces would rise to protect all facets of society.  I can imagine that such a force would rise that caters to black Americans, but what about Islamic Sharia law?  Sure, there would be forces that would protect the interests of daughters of white men, but about the daughters of those who proscribe to sharia themselves?  Do they not have the right to reject their upbringing?  Not according to sharia, but what incentive would a protection company have to intervene on behalf of them?  And if they did have such an incentive, wouldn't AyeYo's argument that such a society is, itself, coercive?  From my understanding of both, sharia is fundamentally incompatible with libertariansim. Please review the subject of this thread.The matters of scale do make a difference, but both still respond to the same incentives.I'll concede that point.  Still, the membership of the UN don't grant the UN any kind of monopoly on force, nor any other ongoing power.  Governments are possessive of their regional monopolies.We must have different understandings of the term "support" in this context.  In my world, neither apathy nor ignorance would qualify.As I just said, you confuse the ideologies.  Libertarianism is not advocacy for the dissolution of the nation-state.  Nor is it an absence of social cohesion, otherwise considered to be 'chaos'.It's not 'my' system.  I presented a defense of the anarchist concept of private security forces sans state.  Libertarians don't advocate for the dissolution of the state, but for it's limittaion to it's core purposes.  One of those core purposes is the defense of nationals from enemies foriegn and domestic, another is the enFORCEment of law.Bob only wants to get paid if he can stand to profit.  If Bob is the commander of a private security force for a rational reason, then he is going to weigh the risks before (or even after) taking the job.  The argument changes little regardless of how much Joe has, for itf the costs of the war exceed the resources of Joe, it doesn't make any difference.Again, I wish I lived in the world you think that you live in.  Criminal organizations exist in certain locales because the police forces are either ineffective or corrupt.  In either case, such organizations persist where they do because they have a functional safe zone within which they can operate with near zero risk from local police interference.  Such organizations do not, and never have, operated in other locales because the police forces in those areas have neither problem.  Mafias, in particular, are a phenom begotten by government prohibitions, and are thus strongest in locales wherein the gulf between the degree of prohibitions and the enforcability of those prohibitions are greatest. Which is why I'm not an anarchist.  I consider it an unstable society.  And any unstable society will, more often than not, lead to oppression and tyranny.  The framers of the Constitution built a republic with balance of powers because, as risky as that was, it was the best option available to them.  We may have better options in the age of the Internet, but I'm not any more convinced of that then you seem to be.Sure it is, it's just a matter of scale.  The same incentives to avoid conflict, but not at any cost, exist just the same.No, they don't.  The UN has no power not granted to them by the voluntary actions of the member governments.  At best, the UN is an established system of mediation.  At worst, the UN is a puppet organization that gives legitimacy to the collective aggressions of the largest member states.I'd love to live in the world that you think that you live in.  Even the most progressive democracies of the modern world do not require the consent of the governed to engage in war.  The United States has not declared war in the constitutionally described manner since WWII, and even that would not have required the public support from even a simple majority of voters.Joe isn't the commander of Bob's Army.  Bob is.  Once Joe makes that phone call, Bob is the one that has to weight the options toward resolution.  Bob faces, not just the prospect of defeat (and his own death) if he should choose to ignore mediation as a solution; but also (more likely) the expense of combat exceeding the perceived losses of his client, the desertion of his manpower, and the depletion of his resources.  Depending on the injustice that Joe has suffered, it can quickly become in the best interests of Bob to compensate Joe himself, and either seek restitution from the offender (or offender's own private security force) using the evidence available to him, or drop Bob as a covered client should the evidence favor that Bob is a fraud.  No one here can really say whether actual combat would be more or less rare in a anarchist society with any certainty.  The answer would be highly dependent upon unforeseeable factors and matters of culture.  That said, I find it unlikely that combat in the streets would be any more likely than such combat between rival mafia families or street gangs are in some areas today.  There is no formal mediation process between such criminal organizations, and by definition, these organizations are filled with violent criminals; yet, these kind of conflicts between such organizations are relatively rare for all the same reasons as it would be rare between private security forces that are (presumedly) comprised mostly of legitimate forces representing a broader and less violent cross section of society.  I can't even imagine how this could lead to a 'Mad Max' scenario of a constant state of low level warfare, as you seem to imagine.  But I won't argue that such a condition is possible.Again, I'm a libertarian, but not an anarchist.  Like so many statists, you seem to confuse the ideologies. There is a glaring example of such a "balanced" (stable is not the right word) state of anarchy that you statists continue to overlook.  There is no such government over the international negotiations of nations, as all nation-states interact in a condition similar to anarchy.  Of course, sometimes they do go to war, and sometimes the biggest dog dominates the others.  Again, I'm not an anarchist, but not because of the reason presented here.  Such security conglomerates can work, because they have in the past.  Call them what you will, but tribes, clans and city states all existed for this exact reason; but they all yielded to such organizations more powerful than themselves.  Humanity seems to have a natural tendency towards self-organization into such social structures. And that is a valid opinion, but it's important to make a distinction between Germany the People and nation and Germany the government & their banking controllers. Better yet, have him help you make a vid explaining bitcoin to his generational peers.  Retirees control an outsized amount of investement income as compared to the Internet generation that dominates this forum.   If you intend to have bitcoin running on more than one computer, it's better to just have two independent wallets, and send a small amount of funds to the mobile one from the more secure home PC.  You can share wallet.dat files, but neither is aware of the other, and so once one of them were to send coins anywhere, the other wallet.dat file would be functionally void and then you would have a case wherein you would have to be copying your wallet.dat files back and forth.
Yes.  Once.Not automaticly, at least not yet.Possible, yes.  Still a bad idea, generally.  If you travel much, mybitcoin.com is likely the best balance of convience and security.  Having an unsecured bitcoin wallet.dat file on a laptop is the worst of worlds; not only could you get hacked into while trying to surf at a public hotspot, a snatch-thief could take off with your actual laptop. I sent you a bit-quarter.  This is a great idea. Prison.  That would be fraud. Did it make it to your MtGox account?  If not, you should be worried. Now hang on just a sec.  That pocket fisherman is damned useful.  Not for fishing, mind you, but for slinging a field expedient wire antenna over a tall tree limb to get your ham radio DX'ing in a hurry at the campsite, it's the best tool evar! Yes, I was describing an alternative solution.  A full client could still run on android, if the blockchain was kept on a fault tolerant network shared drive of some sort, and only a local copy of the locally important blocks were held on disk. LOL!  The majority of people on facebook have a computer, but the average facebook user knows next to nothing about security, money or the reasons for Bitcoin to exist.  Posting on facebook, twitter or youtube is not a skill; it's simply a process.  Most users have no better understanding about how it all works than the average 16 year old "valley girl" understands how her engine in her new convertable works.  Asking your average facebook user anything specific about the functions of the Internet that s/he utilizes many times each day is like asking that same "valley girl" how to check the oil. To all the frostbacks on this forum, have a happy Canada Day! run it on GBTV.com Amen.  I can honestly say that I've known very few truely stupid people, but truely ignorant people are f'ing everywhere I go. Which is exactly my point.  Almost everyone who ventures down that rabbit hole ends up in pretty much the same place, intellectually speaking.  If you tell someone who doesn't already know that currency isn't backed by anything more than faith, they will either reject you out of hand and forget about it, or check your facts and eventually end up just like most of us on this forum.  Even the bitcoin detractors who spend their lifespan here arguing against Bitcoin (or it's particular features) know that basic fact.  It's almost like a entry qualification. I think that might have been some cognative dissonance antimatter coming together with a *bang*. Not here I can't. Cellular service.http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=25179 Do you know hardware hackers from NYC Resistor or what? The easy explaination is that, if everyone knew what you knew, they would be just like you.  There is a give and take with diversity. The inputs in a transaction reference other transactions, and by looking up those other transactions, the address is revealed.  I'm not positive that this is what the 'from' field in the client actually is referring to, however. You'd have better luck on one of the exchanges anyway. More or less, yes.  If you are absolutely certain that the funds sent to you came from a single user's client, and did not come from any shared wallet service (online or otherwise) you can safely assume that the 'from' address field is one of your sender's addresses.  It's not entirely safe to do this, however. Wow, that sums it up nicely.  I lived near Oceanside, California for a time, and can honestly say that those six words are truth incarnate.
http://www.strike-the-root.com/discovering-true-laws I'll concede that it's almost a human right, but it's still not.  However, the right to keep the fruits of one's own labors most certainly is a human right that is regularly violated by people who claim the authority to do so by reason that they are the government.It seems to have worked pretty well in the US right up until the New Deal.Obligation to do what, exactly?  Aid your fellow man?  Sure, I'm obligated as a Christian to help the needy, but that is my religious obligation.  It's not something that can be satisfied on my behalf by government taking from me to give to another.  Nor can I, as a Christian, force my mores upon others.  <sigh>If you aren't a communist at 20, then you have no heart.  If you are still a communist at 30, then you have no sense.You obviously have a distorted understanding of what libertarian system would be.There comes a point that it's no longer worth trying to fix, and it's just better to junk it and try again.  We passed that point around 1971.Public & private is what we have been getting for as long as I have been alive, and as you pointed out above, that seems to lead to a broken system with endless stream of bad decisions. If BOINC can be modified to meter out bitcoins relative to node contributions, then scientific mining pools could develop that are paid for via bitcoins.  The market value of a block of computational power would be established by this, for (almost) any rational, profit seeking node will switch from scientific projects into pool mining if the scientific projects can't offer at least as much.  This would also allow there to be another "killer app" for bitcoin, thus supporting it's value further, while also (perhaps) permitting all those other GPU archs to be able to compete for bitcoins.  I'm not a programmer, so I don't know how feasible this idea is.Thoughts? I'm pretty sure that there is an effort to develop a two part wallet for this kind of scenario, wherein the marginally trusted server has a copy of your public keys, but not your private keys, and produces the entire transaction before sending it to your device to be signed and sent back.  This could be onion wrapped by setting up the server as a hidden service, and using orbot on android to handle the proxy connection. You don't, but some people are going that route because of the familiarity aspect of the large ATM, as well as a ready made kiosk that can be readiliy secured in public. Well, depends upon how you look at it.  There was more than one pizza bought around this same time, by the same person, and for the same amount.  However, this transaction presumedly included other costs besides the actual pizza.  These famous pizzia transactions are what formed the basis for valuation at the time. Why? May of 2010 wouldn't have been quite so favorable as all that, but it's not chump change. Thank you for this. No wonder I got those tools so cheap! There was a p2p encrypted network drive project that aimed to do exactly what you want to do, but I cannot remember the name of it. This is hilarious!  But if you were a real wife, you'd just complain about how hard your day has been and the lack of decent cable programming, while asking for a maid to come in and do the housework! And the engine, just for giggles. She was forced to pay more into it than you likely ever will. Build a new boat. No, it doesn't.  Germans are the taxpayer of last resort, however.That's not much of a unique claim on the part of Bitcoin.  Even the Euro has the capacity to destroy the Euro.  From my own perspectives, the breakup of the European Economic Union (and thus the Euro as such) was already baked into the cards before Greece was a member of the EEU.  It's inherently unstable, much more so than even the normal fiat currency system would be.  Disparities between nations and their working cultures make political events as we have been witnessing of late a certainty eventually.Ah, I see.  This was a joke! You can't possiblely know this to be true. Braile marque using my nose? 4 When you sign a transaction using your private key, you are publishing your public key at the same time.  All other nodes can then, using only mathmatics, verify that the address that legitimately claims those coins can be derived from that public key, and then by using that public key, can verify that the signature was produced by the matching private key.  The private key never touches the network.
People here don't think that the world is as black and white as others tend it think, either.  It's a bit difficult to define the nuances of every philosophical construct in a forum post. I don't know where he is going, but according to certain social  theories, a person who doesn't produce a net gain for society is still a burden upon society, for no other reason than he takes up space.  This is an argument used by Marx himself, and some of his immediate followers, to rationalize away an individual's right to life away.  The basic argument is thus....  As long as an individual is producing at least as much, if not slightly more, than he consumes (including landspace consumption) then he is a net benefit for the society at large.  Once he is no longer producing a net benefit for society at large, and has little prospects toward doing so, then he is of no further benefit to society and his life is forfit.  This is the basis for the 'total life' theory of health care management, or something like that, that attempts to place a social value to the average individual based upon their age.  Thus, small children are of low value, because they can be replaced and educated and little benefit (to society) has been lost, and old people are also of little value because they have already produced the greater part of their lifetime productivity, but teens and young adults have a high value because they have already been 'vested' with education and resources for life and have a high future potential for productive returns to society.  if you take this viewpoint as valid, then the self-supporting hermit is evil because it is assumed that he took the resources from society (by the act of growing up and being 'educated' and 'socialized' and presumedly eating along the way) and has chosen a life that fails to return those resources to society. If an academic wants to get processing done for his major project, this usually involves a block grant to buy processing time on some supercomputer.  If, instead, these academics were able to break up the problem into distinct packets that can be distributed to a bitcoin-like pool and computed on video cards, they could get a huge project calculated in no time by simply offering Bitcoin in exchange for processing power.  They only need to compete with the Bitcoin pools to attract that kind of power.  As long as they offer slightly more for the same processing time, many of the pool miners would certainly consider it, and the price of Bitcoin would rise due to the block grants being used to buy up BTC to pay the pool members. What if the forced bystander died trying to save you, and you knew that he was forced to do so? Oh, I'm sure that you have been laughing the whole time, I doubt it not.  That is, after all, the primary motive of agitators like yourself.Just keep laughing. Well done, indeed.  Keep up the good work! Yeah, that's my style.  You can't find a dissenting opinion anywhere. This is an awesome idea, but pretty much requires that users produce a clean second wallet so that it's not possible for their original wallet to mix the clean coins back into the unclean transactions.  The downside would be that it would be impossible to obscure the intent to launder coins. No, sorry.  The 'Tea Party' was started many years after the Tea Parties on April 15th and on the anniversary of the Boston Tea Party.  The idea was started by libertarians & like people, picked up by Ron Paul supporters leading into the 2007 Republican nomination cycle (who are also far more libertarian than the rest of the Republican Party), and co-opted by the Republican Party around 2009 after it became apparent that it wasn't going to fade away.I was there for most of it, I watched it happen. Four hours as recorded from the perspective of the forum server.  If you are not browsing, you time out and the server won't count the time after that.  If you just browse randomly or too fast, the server might flag you as a bot.  So searching the forums and learning about Bitcoin takes at least four hours of active browsing.You will also need a few more posts. Difficult for your average Windoze user, sure.  Not difficut for anyone who has ever tried to install Linux and enjoyed the learning experience.  It's not a project for non-geeks.This is case specific.  No one can rationally answer this for you except you.  My best guess is that it's probably not worth it.  I don't mine, myself.Incrediblely lucky.  Go buy a lottery ticket before it wears off. I would say that this would explain some strange behaviors I've seen from my own client, that I don't run continuously. Ron Paul, whom I respect, didn't start it either. You keep telling yourself that, despite all of the evidence.  Don't let the facts disturb you. Ha!  That's cutting the poor family short!  I am related (by marriage) to a family that, due to disabilites from birth, the parents don't (and really never have) work.  The only income they have is Social Security Income (the disability version of Social Security, pays even less then normal SS) totaling to about $1200 per month.  With this, they have in addition to all of the above; a Playstation II, a PC newer and more powerful than my own, an entertainment center with a 32" flatscreen & basic cable, broadband internet, three cellphones on pre-paid service plans, microwave oven, DVD & DVR, multiple MP3 players and CD-R capable CD players, a two bedroom flat with rent control, and subsidies for heat and air conditioning.  Hell, up until just last month, they even had a car so that friends (or their sighted and now of age oldest son) would be able to drive them to the grocery store.  Did you know that a sighted child of a blind couple can get subsidies from the state for car insurance?  I sure didn't. I suggest you paint with a narrower brush, or you might find that you offend the wrong forum member.  It's a short trip back to newbie hell from where you are standing. I had attended a few 'Tea Parties' before they were co-opted by the Republican Party.  I guess you could say I was a Teabagger before it was cool, or before it was square.  Whichever. Yes, I would agree, I was using the tactic of mockery to highlight the ubsurdity that any 'natural law' is an absolute.   The obvious differences between laws of science and laws of sociology notwithstanding. Oh, the imagery that this conjures! http://www.economist.com/blogs/dailychart/2011/06/quantifying-history&fsrc=nwlFrom this point of view, assuming that Bitcoin is as successful as many of us believe it could be, this chart could shoot for the moon.
And I guess that it's impossible to fly, since there is a natural law that we call "gravity", huh?See, I can pull your bullshit too. This is a reasonable assumption in general, and correct in particular.  But my real point is that the exchange markets exist because of convience, not necessity.  For if they were really necessary, I wouldn't have been able to buy any prior to MtGox, since they were the first.  My method of seeking out an early miner to engage in trade with is both inconvient and time consuming, but it's still a viable way to obtain bitcoins sans any established or otherwise accessible exchange market.  I would think that, if all of the exchanges we presently have, were knocked off of the Internet tommorrow, then direct exchanges would return until another exchange market were to pop up to fill the void.  The demand creates the market. I've done it with silver, but never gold.  But I would hazard the guess that you can actually spend gold in many more places than you would assume would be likely, it's just that, because fiat currencies are the common unit of value measurement, any such exchange is necessarily between two individuals with the authority to bargin, and this pretty much excludes most any chain store you will ever encounter.  Engaging the shop owner in a bargining event requires the commitment of time by both you and the shop owner, so doing so for relatively inexpensive items, or many consumer items, tends to consume too much time to be profitable.  So don't count on buying groceries with a gold coin, but if you are looking to buy a tailored suit, give it a try. I can agree with this viewpoint. I have purchased a relatively small sum of bitcoins some time ago, prior to the founding of MtGox.  It was a direct exchange between persons, and did not involve an exchange market acting as a matchmaker.EDIT:  I guess this would apply, "bought them at an earlier stage where due to a lower price you can have a hoard that does not need an exchange to be replenished", because you didn't actually mention an exchange acting as a matchmaker or middle man.  I just assumed that it was implied. "Is there any currency in the worlk backed by gold?"Not since the Swiss Franc dropped gold reserves in 2000.  They only used a partial (40%) currency reserve anyway, and it wasn't convertible, so it's debatable that even that would have counted. I'm pretty sure that the free transaction that doesn't consider a lock time would render the one with the fee and lock time invalid.  The reason for this is because the scripting system is required to use a lock time, and this requires a fee, but it's the use of the lock time that keeps the inputs from being 'commited' by the clients that see the lock time transaction.  However, the regular (feeless) transaction would cause the inputs to be 'commited' by the clients, and thus the scripted transaction would become invalid and be dropped before it's lock expired.  I could be wrong about this, not sure. Welcome.  Whatever you say, keep saying it.  You need 5 posts in the newbie section and four hours of lurking before you get posting privilages beyond this section. Kerosene is better than batteries.  It keeps longer, has a much higher energy density, and is cheaper on a joule per fiat currency unit basis.If battery power is a concern, get one of these...http://www.techdigest.tv/2011/06/everybody_needs.html None of the three conditions apply to myself, but that is not what I was refering to.  You can't possiblely know if I'm an exception.  You can make such an assumption based on what little of the market you can personally observe, and likely be correct, but you cannot know because of the high degree of anominity. Bots can't make coherent, on topic posts, even in the newbie section.  Bots can browse just fine. That would be quite a trick, considering I haven't yet seen an on topic argument out of you yet.  You are very good at arguing why you shouldn't be expected to present an argument, which is quite a talent I must admit.  Much like being a magician, I suppose.  Everything you present sounds good, but lacks substance; yet succeeds in delaying the demand for support from yourself, while at the same time wearing down your opposition.  That set of three logical fallacies was beautiful, considering that you literally presented the exact three that apply to your own post, and succeeded in implying that I had violated them while not actually presenting an argument for that either!  You are either very practiced at this and have no life, or this is your job; I'm not sure which.  A cursory look at your posting stats suggests that you have no life, for even if you are doing this at work, even professionals go home eventually. A future feature that would allow a person to 'withdraw' a particular public/private keypair from their wallet.dat and use that as cash directly has been discussed.  The problem is only when the receiver doesn't trust the sender.  Bitbills are based upon this concept.  This is also somewhat how an online wallet service such as Mybitcoin.com works, as the funds sent to your receiving address are almost certainly not going to be used by yourself.  Thus, an online wallet service adds to the anonimity of the group.  The problem with such online wallet services is that, because this kind of service requires a large group to contribute meaningfully to anonimity, the wallet service then becomes a primary target for government leverage to be applied.  But what if such a wallet service were to pop up that was, itself, anonymous.  Such as on Tor as a hidden service, with no connections to real world individuals.  Well, the trust level would necessarily be lower, due to the fact that if someone were to steal the coins, including the site owner, there would be even less recourse for users to pursue the thief than there is with regard to MtGox.  Still, I could imagine myself putting small sums into such a service, risk of theft would still be a limiting factor. Nice try, but I've seen mortal men, and I have known some who have died.  So I have some personal experience that would lend credience to the assumption that all men are mortal.  Even if you have seen a real unicorn, your readers have not, so there is no shared experience to base such an assumption upon.I must admit, you are the best troll I have ever seen.Try again. The premises are assumed to be true, in the absence of contrary evidence.  I'll even use this logical argument as my evidence.  You cannot possible prove that all men are mortal, for that would, in fact, be attempting to prove a negative.  Specificly, you would have to be able to show that every man that has ever lived, has actually died, as well as every man that shall yet live, shall die, as well as show that it is not possible for you to have failed to include anyone.  We both know that proving the premise "all men are mortal" is, thus, actually impossible.  Therefore we assume that it's true in the absence of contrary evidence.I have stated a premise, that I assume to be true in the absence of evidence.  I'm asking for any kind of such evidence from yourself, who seems to wish to invalidate the premise on the logic that I cannot prove it.And btw, the second premise has no proof, either.  Socrates is assumed to have been a man, based on the historical documents that record events surrounding his life, but he could have been a fictional character.  In 1000 years, if some future society with a disconnected historical connection to us, were to discover Harry Potter and the rich fan ficition around this character, what eveidence would they have that Harry Potter was a real person?  More than we posses about Socrates, very likely, since we assume that Soctates was a living person based upon the varied number of authors who wrote about his life.I'm going to let that last attempt at dodging pass, since it was so well researched (albet flawed).  But this really is your last chance present an arguement or admit that you don't have one, and be silent.  Any further attempts to avoid the issue will result in me making a project out of you.  I pride myself on my fair treatment of others, and favor freedom of speech over censorship; but it is my role here to be the judge of proper forum conduct.  Show me that you're not just a troll.  Participate as a peer, rather than just assaulting the viewpoints of others without support.  Your viewpoint is no more valid without support than ours, but this is our venue.  You're the minority here, thus the greater burden remains upon yourself, whether you are actually correct or not. Then you don't accept the basic premise, then?  And choose not to present an argument as to why you don't accept the premise other than to lay the burden of proof upon myself.  Well, I can't prove it, that's why I stated it as a premise.  It's a given required in the further proof of natural laws of mankind.  I'm going to give you one more chance to participate, and show that you are more than just a troll.  Present an argument that my basic premise is false.  You are not required to prove a negative, only to disprove a positive.It's put up or shut up time, and should you fail again the shut up will be forced. It was actually about 3% of the population that actively supported the US revolution, with about 30% of the population as 'fellow travelers', another 30% were loyalists to the crown of England, and the rest really didn't care either way.http://sipseystreetirregulars.blogspot.com/2009/02/what-is-three-percenter.html Tell that to the retired in another 10 years, after the social security and medicare system that they were taxed to pay into for their entire working lives is ended because there is no money in the trusts. No, it will remain an assumption.Natural law can be demostrated from root premisi, but if you don't accept the core premises that I base it upon, then we cannot ever come together.  My root premises is that a man owns himself, and that no other man can lay a claim on his physical person or the fruits of his labors without a prior agreement to that effect from him.If you disagree, then present your reasoning.  If you refuse to debate the underlying premesi then you are just a troll and need to drop this altogether. And by ninja'd, you mean what exactly?
That's f'ing awesome! Even that is easy to check for, since the packets entering or leaving your computer are not encrypted. www.bitcoinwatch.comTransaction fees are added to the block reward given to the miner who finds the solution to the block your transaction is included within. Just because someone once published a book on the topic, doesn't make them right. The Federal Reserve would crush iCoin before it had a chance to finish the job.  Paper, rock, scissors. It's not even a decent hit piece.  I don't think the author is being malicious, he is just poorly informed.  There will come a day that he will regret his current position. I couldn't possibly answer that question.  Exchanges are a good thing, my point is that they are not critical to the functions of Bitcoin.  As Bitcoin matures, exchanges will become even less relevant until they are as necessary to the average bitcoiner as the Forex is to the average first world citizen, which is almost zero. I keep hearing about this comparison of Bitcoin to failed digital currencies, and specificly Beans and Flooz.  Yet I had never even heard of either of them before Bitcoin.  I can't see how either of them could still compare at all, did either make a market cap of over $100 million? Nobody with an IQ lower than 40 could feed themselves, much less make any rational choice about currencies. First, let me state that I actually agree with your position that a complete anarchy is impossible for reasons similar to your line of thought above.  Which is why I'm a lib and not an anarchist.That said, that above statements have an unstated assumption.  Namely that there isn't such a thing as a natural or common body of law.  Thus, although #1 is true on it's face, it's not likely in practice.  Mediation is just another service, and people will seek out those who have a history dealing with this topic.  More likely, contract level disputes will already have a named court system to act as an arbitraitor, similar to the merchant courts of the last several centuries and the International Business Court of London.  Neither had any government backing, but their decisions are binding because businesses specificly refer to them as the court in juristiction in contracts.#2 then falls flat, in most cases, because not only would most explicit contracts have a named court (and if that court is suspected of bias or corruption, a competing arbitraitor will take their business) but there will settle to be local arbitraitors to settle civil disputes among locals that didn't have such a contract.#3 does not follow, because the meaning of words are not relevant in a natural law/common body of law court.  If the court tries to start making crap up that doesn't fit the public's understanding of the common law, they will start losing business.And therefor #4 fails.But I honestly don't know how to respond to #5, because just because a court makes a decision, doesn't make force lawful.  And words on paper and declared law by a group of rich men, democraticly elected or not, doesn't make force lawful either.  If you want to get technical, those aren't laws, they are statutes.  And if pressed, even they will make that distinction.  The term "the Law" used to have a very specific meaning in former colonies of the British Empire, and referred to the body of law that we now call British Common Law.  I live in a commonwealth state, that explicitly refers back to British Common Law as it's default body of law. Till they die. You can't possiblely know this with any certainty. That's astronomicly unlikely to occur, but even if it did, all the clients have benchmarking hard coded into them that prevents them from going back and reorging beyond their latest benchmarked block.  The benchmarking basicly involves a list of block numbers chosen largely at random, and their established hash values.  If there is any kind of blockchain attack that tries to convince one or more clients that there is a differnet true chain, it must also be able to match hashs with these benchmarks as far back as they go, and not all of the clients have the same benchmarking list, so even diving into your own client to find the list to match won't necessarily mean that an attacker won't run into a client with a different benchmarked list. Yes, but bots won't be able to do anything outside of the newbie forums, and bots posting in the newbie forums are easy to identify and destroy. That's just the ebb and flow of markets, as applied to bitcoin mining.  I'm in the market for some used mining gear to build my mining heater for my garage.  It might need to be as large as a rack for an electric heater as powerful as I can buy at Wal-Mart for $30, but this one has the potential of paying for itself.  Any miners who live in climates with a heating season longer than 6 months should really consider shutting down, but waiting until fall before considering selling.  Any miners in  tropical climates really shouldn't be mining at all.  The thread with the miner in Hawaii, with year round AC demands and 25 cents per KWH, just made me laugh.   Or mod powers.EDIT: keep your money. I don't need an exchange now.  I've never cashed out.  I've bought many physical and digital goods, but never cash.  I'm sure that day will come, but I'm not really willing to do so before Bitcoin is big enough that local people are asking for exchange. We don't need the FDIC.  If you can get the explict backing of some early adopter with substantial reserves, who is willing to function in the position of the FDIC, that would be grand.  This alone would give any wallet service a huge advantage over the others, whether they offer dividends or not.Is this bank going to be fractional?  If so, what will the ratio be?  What kind of loans, CD's, etc do you plan to offer?  I can imagine that such a bank that offers a 50% reserve ratio, and invests into it's own mining hardware, might be able to make this all work; but some kind of major backing would certianly quiet my nerves. If you were my student, you would be held back.  The part that I find most amusing is that some teenager actually believes that he is giving me an economics lesson.EDIT:  BTW, mine were not assumptions.  This is the title..."Could BitCoin be a decentralized password cracking system?"This is the money quote..."Could these mining processes be used to crack highly encrypted passwords and encryption keys by linking together computers for unmatched processing power?"The answer is, no it cannot.  Thus continuing is not worth my time.  Anyone who can read the code, read the packets leaving their own computer, or even read blockexplorer.com, would know the answer to this question.  Nothing, and I mean nothing is actually being encrypted or decrypted in the bitcoin system, and certainly not in the p2p portion.  Bitcoin doesn't even use methods capable of encryption or decryption of arbitrary data.  Bitcoin uses secure hashing methods and secure public/private digital signature methods.  Nothing in bitcoin can actually do what it is accused of doing.  The open nature of Bitcoin aside for just a moment, the code cannot actually do it.  This crap is just FUD, and doesn't deserve the attention that I've already granted it.That said, pool mining potentially could be used as cover for a distributed brute force cracking network, but pools are not Bitcoin.
p would always affect g.  They are never independent in an economic venue.  Thus your little attempt at mathmatic bs is just that.  Let me try this another way.  Assuming everything else remains the same, and that the monetary base is static; the price deflation is an effect of the overall economic growth.  Price deflation is the symptom while the economic growth is it's cause.  So long as the economic growth continues, the price deflation does as well, yes?  When the economic growth declines, so does the rate of price deflation, yes?  Thus, when the rate of price deflation stops or goes negative, it's a symptom that the economic growth has already gone into recession.  The symptom follows the cause.  The symptom cannot be the cause.Granted, a real economy is complex, with many feedback effects; which means that this is an overly simple way of looking at the issue.  However, taken alone, the price deflation cannot logically be the cause of a recession in this scenario.  Even though the prior price deflation could contribute to the severity of a decline, it cannot cause it. You implied that due process was unlikely in an anarchist state, not that it was impossible.  If you are arguing for impossible, then argue it.  Don't just make subjective statements and then later declare it to be impossible because I said so already and nobody (that I listen to, which is no one but myself anyway) contradicted my subjective opinion proof!I can agree with you on one point here, due process isn't a certainty.  But then again, nothing is.  I know that due process isn't a certainty with the system we have now, even if you would personally trust your freedom to it's judgement.  I, for one, wouldn't trust it.  I would guess that you are white, male and grew up middle class; and thus you have a profound trust that the justice system would treat you fairly.  If you are white & middle class, you're right.  However, that does not describe us all.  And even if you generally give the system as it is your faith, what do you do when you see police lights in your rearview mirror at night?  Do you faithfully pull over to let the cop pass by, certain that he is pursuing someone else?  Or do you tense up, and check your speedometer? I started to read the link, but stopped when I hit the bullcrap at the top.  Why should I read it?  I know that it's wrong.  Waste of lifespan. That took me two seconds.  Logic reviewed.  You should try learning some. I know what my client is doing.  Do some research before you expose your own ignorance.  The packets aren't even encrypted.  You can use a sniffer and look at them yourself if you don't trust the code. If the price deflation is a product of economic growth, than it's logically impossible for there to be a recession caused by the same.  And if a recession were to occur for other reasons, thatn price deflation could not proceed uninterupted.  This, of course, is all relative to the economic activity represented by the movement of bitcoin, and that is such an insignificant amount overall that the US economy (or any other) could easily return to a reccession while the bitcoin economy is still in massive growth.  But for clarity, let me restate the issue.  If the bitcoin economy is growing, then it can't be in recession.  If the monetary base is maintained (it's not, bitcoin is still inflationary) it's impossible for price deflation to occur as a direct result of growth while such an economy is in recession.  A recession is, by definition, the opposite of growth.Understand? The miners are not trying to crack anyone's passwords.  The proof-of-work system defends the blockchain from brute force attacks.  If you can actually think of a better way to do it, speak up; but many minds have been bent to this problem in the past.  Please leave your personal habits out of it, thanks. None whatever.  Proceed with caution. No. By definition, if the economy is actually growing, then the price deflation must logically be a reflection of good tidings.I can't really belive that this has to be stated. Whichever copy of the private address key inside of the wallet that spends the coins first is the valid copy, and all others become invalid.  However, advance keys are generated inside the wallet.  So if you suspect that an encrypted copy of your wallet has been taken, then the best course of action is to transfer out all of your coins from that wallet, and then completely destroy that wallet.dat file. Bitcoin does have a killer app, and it's one we all use.  The near zero costs of transfering value across limitless distances.  If you don't think that this is a revolutionary core feature, try sending 20 Euros to Kenya.  15 years and it won't make any difference. You're either going to change this position eventually or be bitcoin poor.  By a number of metrics, we already are as bad economicly as during the early part of the depression.  That said, it doesn't feel like as bad to us, because we are all used to the history talking about starvation of Americans and adject poverty.  We don't see starvation because of advances in mechanical agriculture (bear in mind, in 1929 the automobile was a status symbol, farm tractors were uncommon, and most family owned farms still depended upon working animals), advances in botany in general, and the so called 'green revolution'.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_RevolutionWe are the beneficiaries of these events, and they have been buffering our population against the full brunt of a depression.  That said, the effects are present, and a rising number of American families are direct beneficiaries of "nutritian programs" such as food stamps, WIC, ecetera.The hallmark of such events is wealth transfer.  If the government takes steps to confiscate 401k's like gold was confiscated in the 1930's, there will be a mad dash into safe havens of value, and if Bitcoin is close to maturity (it's not remotely right now) then it's value would shoot to the moon as measured against fiat currencies. Congrats on your induction into the higher order of forum membership.  I've been trying to dispell the myth that Bitcoin is deflationary for some time. Fact #1, the system that you advocate presently exists, and is forced upon those of us who do not agree.Fact #2, the system that we advocate does not exist, and no one is presently forced to abide by it.  In our theoretical depictions of it, you would not be forced to do anything beyond respecting the social conventions that already exist, namely property rights and human rights.Therefore, your opinion upon whether our theoretical society would be coercive or not is irrelevant.Do you disagree? In what area, in what store?  Keep us informed about your progress.
Those are not facts, they are opinions.   Not a button, but perhaps a menu option. Let the bitcoiner beware.I suppose that you can chock this up to a learning experience, whether or not you ever succeed in getting your funds back. Yes, but that is unnecessary.  Stop the client, and give it about 10 minutes to really stop.  And make sure that it's not hiding in the dock.  After your delay, restart the client from a command line with the -rescan flag, and it will sit there for some time rechecking the blockchain and rebuilding your index.  That's actually price inflation.  The economic definition of "inflation" in this context is the expansion of the monetary base.You should take your own advice before playing among the adults. I see.  No, it's not a matter of miners not accepting it.  If the transaction is visable in block explorer, then it had to have been accepted by all of the clients between you and blockexplorer as valid.I recommend a -rescan.  It's most likely that your client just missed it for some reason. The default transaction fee is no longer zero, and that makes people mad too.  Still seems unlikely that a transaction would be in limbo for so long simply because it's free.  There are plenty of blocks that still go by without transaction fees at all, and the online wallet services don't send a fee by default either, and I've done several of those kind of transactions over the past couple of weeks and had to wait 30 minutes at the most.  If your transaction didn't make it out to the network, that would explain it as well. Based upon your assumptions about what the majority may believe, I'd have to say that you are correct in a literal sense.  That people are expected to act in accordance with the NAP, under the potential threat of retaliation.  However, the assertion that the majority disagree with libs on this point is false, and provablely so.  The threat of retaliation isn't the same as coercion under threat of force, because it matters who is the initial aggressor.  Also, the majority of people actually do agree with the NAP as a general social rule, but most people have exceptions.  The difference is that (most of us) don't make exceptions, and none of us make exceptions based solely upon the idea that a police officer is doing the action.  If the police officer represents someone with an honest claim, then the officer is within rights to act upon the interests of said party, whether that be another citizen or even the group of people loosely called the state.  However, that does not give the state the right to make up violations that don't exist, and then expect the police officer to enforce them. In what way is the libertarian concept of "coercion" different than the general definition?http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/coercionhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CoercionMoney quote:"Coercion (pronounced /koʊˈɜrʃən/) is the practice of forcing another party to behave in an involuntary manner (whether through action or inaction) by use of threats, rewards, or intimidation or some other form of pressure or force. In law, coercion is codified as the duress crime. Such actions are used as leverage, to force the victim to act in the desired way. Coercion may involve the actual infliction of physical pain/injury or psychological harm in order to enhance the credibility of a threat. The threat of further harm may lead to the cooperation or obedience of the person being coerced." Definately not pointless.  Justice for a murderer (a real one, not an accidental one or an incidental one) is death.  Incarceration is not. And I don't really think that you will. http://www.portstephensexaminer.com.au/news/national/national/general/mine-your-machines-abc-probes-security-breach/2205622.aspxhttp://thenextweb.com/industry/2011/06/24/lulzsec-claims-to-have-received-over-18000-worth-of-donations/http://www.psfk.com/2011/06/flexcoin-the-first-online-bitcoin-bank.html Some people did pay a high price for the learning curve. There is no mistake, the timestamp is provided by the machine that submits the block.  The client permits a great deal of variation for the timestamp before it rejects it, because the only reason that it's in there at all is to determine the retarget value once every 2016 blocks, and it only needs to be so accurate.  It wouldn't be necessary to reject incorrect timestamps at all, if not for the possibility of manipulation of the retarget. I'm just curious, since this topic has touched upon muggings.Has anyone on this thread ever been mugged?  More than once?  And if yes, where do you live?Personally, I've never been mugged, and I was in my thirties before I met anyone who had, and he was a self admitted homeless person at that time.  I've yet to met anyone else since.  I've had stuff stolen out of my car, and out of my backyard overnight, but I've never been confronted with an actual individual willing to threaten harm to steal something from me.But then, I live in a citizens' concealed carry state, which probably influences such things significantly. It's different for Japan, at least for most people.  Some parents send their children to after school classes for English with a native English teacher, but nearly every Japanese student attends publicly funded schools, which are prohibited from hiring foreign nationals as teachers due to union rules.  The result being that a Japanese born native speaker of English is a rare teacher, and one who is in very high demand; while the vast majority of English students (which is all children in public schools in Japan) get a teacher who's native language is Japanese.  This causes distortions in the grammer that is detectable by native English speakers that is commonly called "Japlish".  Although they can be understood, they are also easily identified.  It really is different for native Chinese. Those are all retrofit designs.  There are designs intended to use the thorium fuel cycle as the primary fuel, after the initial breeding cycle of course.  India has been studying teh feasibility of transitioning to the thorium fuel cycle for a number of years.  I don't know if they concluded that their existing reactors could be retrofitted to a complete thorium cycle or not, but even if only new reactors were completely thorium fuel, the mixed fuel setup would still allow India to detach itself from the international atomic fuel industries to a large extent for decades. Scientists, yes, but it's spelled a bit differently in common usage depending upon the language.  You understood what he was talking about well enough.   Bear in mind, also, that in such a society that generally honors the NAP, there will be those who will not.  The criminal would have to deal with being labeled a criminal, which largely removes that person's expectations of civil support in the event that another criminal were to take advantage of them.  Most people would simply call that karma, whether or not the second criminal were himself blacklisted. Of course not.  I don't think that you could be convinced of anything.  You have a strong belief system, and are unlikely to accept any evidence to the contrary of that belief system.  It's like trying to convince a muslim from afganistan that a Catholic is correct.  It doesn't really happen.  Very few people who grow up surrounded by such a particular belief are going to be able to break free from it,
My point was, that if the climate change crazies are right about their worst case predictions, then Greece will have a much hotter & dryer climate, and thus the ag base will not be able to grow as much, limiting the local population in a future with limited international trade.  Your local connections are great, but it's actually impossible for all Greeks to be able to find local food sources in an economic crisis. And if climate change is true, and Greece becomes much hotter, what do you think happens to the agricultural base of Greece?  Again, economic crisis is the near term problem.  If people in Greece can't grow enough food for their populations due to the heat, the increases in viable farmlands in Siberia and Canada's Northern Territories would more than compensate, but if the Greeks can't afford to trade internationally, they starve. Well, that's just it.  The recent failures of central banking over the last few years were not only not unique, they were entirely predictable from the moment the central banks shed the discipline of the gold standard and thus gained the power to inflate.  That is what happens to all fiat currencies.  It always has.  Just because we are finally starting to see the fatal imbalances in the system accumulate to a visible level, doesn't mean that those imbalances were not there from the start.  They were, and I believe that you are smart enough to understand that.  The cognative dissonance that you are experiencing within this forum is not a unique affliction.  Most people very much desire to believe that the society that they live within is a predominately honest one, and that the image that it presents to us is not fraudulent.  I'm sorry to be the one to tell you this, but what you have been told since you were a child, what your parents believed, and what you believe about the best intentions of those who command these vast monetary systems is a lie. Difficulty is a made up metric to help humans understand the system better.  It is literally the number of times more difficult that the present target is to achieve than the minimum difficulty of 1, which is (and always has been) defined as the maximum target that the client was hardcoded to permit.  That maximum target is (roughly) 32 leading zeros in a 256 bit hash.  With each extra leading zero (target cuts in half, it's binary) the difficulty literally doubles; so as the target approaches zero, the difficulty metric would approach infinity.  The difficulty, however, is not actually used by the bitcoin system at all, the target is.  And since the target is a bounded 256 bit number, the system has no trouble storing the integer. That's quite an assumption to make about your detractors.  I consider it more likely that you don't understand a system that you advocate.  You might know bitcoin inside and out, but you still don't understand that which you speak. You're saying this without access to any factual data.  It's simply not true.  The US Dollar prior to 1913 did have it's ups and downs, but the general trend over the prior century was deflationary, if only very mildly.  It would be tricky to have an inflating currency that wasn't just on a bi-metal standard, the currency was actually the metal.  Try and imagine the world before 1913, for the most part paper money didn't really exist.  All those old Westerns showing thieves robbing banks and getting away with paper money were wrong.  A dollar was (and legally still is, look it up) a defined weight in gold, while coins were made of the silver itself.  Paper money was rare. Vastly more people would die from starvation in a massive economic breakdown in Greece than will die as a direct result of climate change in the worst case.  Even if tides rise a full 11 meters like the most extreme estimates claim, that will still take 100+ years to happen.  This kind of thing has been happening to Venice for hundreds of years.  No one is going to drown because they can't manage to escape the rising tides.Honestly, kids.  Try and keep the global threats in perspective. Good luck with that. I have a headache. <sigh> I'm not making a seperation.  I consider them parts of a whole system.  That was my point. Did you actually read my post?  Or did you just read part of it and assume you understood it? There doesn't need to be a loophole around #1, because Bitcoin does have a use value.  That use value is derived from the software that forms the client as well as the network.  Software represents organized work toward a goal, namely to create a logic machine that performs a desired function.  In the case of Bitcoin, that function is to transfer value (not wealth, which is different) over vast distances at unmatched speed and for a very low cost.  The kicker for bitcoin (the currency itself) is that bitcoins are required for this function, for no existing form of currency can cooperate with the Bitcoin client to this end.  Adding confusion is the fact that, due to the nature of a decentralized currency, there can be no form of backing or peg.  So the relative value of bitcoins verses existing currencies must float.  Thus the chicken and egg problem then becomes, how does one get an initial relative value for bitcoins?  It happens to be that said initial value was established when an early adopter, wishing to advance the currency, chose to offer some of his vast holdings in return for a pizza.  He offered 10K BTC, and someone else decided that it was worth that to him.  All of point #2 flows from this singular event, but the use value that those two traders saw in bitcoin wasn't in the pizza, but in the functions that the currency and the client together could perform.  I.E. to move value across limitless distance.  It is this function that no other prior currency on Earth, fiat or otherwise, could perform in an economicly competitive manner. http://www.pcworld.com/downloads/file/fid,199890/description.html This is a logical impossibility. Even if there were a secure summation available on the server, this doesn't tell you if the server itself has already be compromised and whoever inserted a malicious client didn't just do the same for the summation and alter the timestamps.  Ultimately you are going to have to trust someone.  It's because of this very issue that older Bitcoin clients persist upon the network. Those we have. If it were only that simple.The relationship between Bitcoin and any particular fiat currency, reflected as they are in their relative prices, are complex enough taken alone.  But they really can't be taken alone, as each is affected somewhat by the influences of the other currencies and the relative influences of their respective economies. They are local to Japan.  Why would they have to be concerned about when you are awake? Nothing in life is absolute.  You are tweleve, aren't you?
That's not quite true.  Thorium does have some hazardous waste products, but none that are nearly as long lived or as hazardous as plutonium itself. Waste storage is a red herring.  These issues have been solved, but the US doesn't do these kinds of things, and instead chooses the path of long term storage, because this waste is still reactor fuel in it's own right and the US has no economicly viable uranium mines of it's own, and presently depends upon favorable political relations with Canada and Austrailia to supply both the military and civil needs of the United States.  The long term storage facility concept thus becomes a reserve that could be drawn upon should either of those supply source become cut off indefinately. That is provablely not the case, and he will grow weary of your crap soon enough. Which I have already done, and you ignored it.  It's possible to live, and even use credit, without maintaining a credit card right now.  I, therefore, conclude that it would still be possible to do so in an imagined free market society.  The burden of proof, if there actually could be any, rests upon yourself to show that I'm wrong on that assumption.Although this true enough taken alone, it's not relevent to the argument because I have already shown that it's possible, by presenting an existing solution.  Are you twelve?This forum doesn't exist to support the ideologies of the hosts, or anyone else.  It exists to support Bitcoin and educate those who wish to be educated in this subject.  The fact that one ideology predominates, for which you disagree with, is not material.  So you are calling out your hosts to defend something that they shouldn't have to defend in this forum.  Thus 'calling out' in this context is trolling by definition.  Granted, so was the original post that started all this, and I'm ashamed that I was sucked into this at all. I can't prove a negative any more than you can, despite your repeated attempts to do exactly that.  All of your arguments are rooted in your belief system.  While that may be true with us as well, at least we can make a credible appeal towards logical premises.  So it has to be true for you to be true anywhere?  Wow, that's a novel argument!You believe you are doing such a thing, but really you are just upsetting your hosts and making a general ass out of yourself.  BTW, there are actually real examples of societies that were very libertarian in their own times.  The Swiss cantons from ~1270 till at least the 1600's is a fince example of this.  Yes, the Swiss were a stable society because of their social constraints and homogenous racial makeup, but their actual national government was almost non-existent for hundreds of years. Something else here happended.  You don't need more than one address if all you are doing is sending more money to that address.  You only need more than one to send money.  Did you try to send any money? Project much? That wasn't the argument, but I'll address this one.By definition, government imposed regulation limits consumer choice.  It is their primary tool.  In the absence of regulation, therefore, consumer choice would be greater.  There is nothing that promises that those other choices are actually better, this much is true.  But on average, history shows us that the kind of innovations that drive technology and culture forward (thus society as a whole) are the very kind of innovations that regulators cannot forsee (how could they?  otherwise they would have been the innovators) and whose limiting powers tend to restrict choices and delay progress.  I will concede that there is nothing in libertarian thought (I'm not an anarchist) that actually prohibits such a worst case scenario, but there are natural regulatory forces in a free market that you are wont to acknowledge.It proves that your contrived scenario is invalid.  Likewise, just because you feel you need a credit card to survive in the modern world, doesn't invalidate the concept that in a libertarian society you would not.It doesn't have to exist now, it just has to be possible.  I just pointed out that there already exist private party/ free market solutions to the problems presented that do exist already, even if they don't exist where you live.I don't require your respect.  You've already lost the respect that I grant others due to lack of knowledge of their faults.  I shouldn't need to defend anything, whether I'm poor at it or not.  Libertarianism is not on trial here.  This is our house.  You are a guest, who is quickly wearing out his welcome.  From what I can see, you are very poor at presenting valid and rational arguments to support your own position, relying heavily on repeation of falsehoods, a lack (or feight of) ability to understand the positions and arguments presented to you by your opposition, and attacks upon the writing skills of your opposition. No, I didn't.  Troll.  I pointed out that there are people who have the skills to manufacture the computer componets for you in your locale.  You just can't afford their services.  Mass production by semi-skilled labor always wins on economies of scale.I don't have a credit card, and have never had an issue getting any kind of installment loan.  Revolving credit is not comparable to an installment loan with collateral.  Obviously you don't know what you are talking about.No, I didn't. Troll.Three times, no I didn't, troll!  If the service doesn't exist (yet) in your area, that is not evidence that it couldn't be if the need were to exist in the future.The top was so much crap, I didn't bother to continue. Honestly, you suffer from a terminal lack of imagination.  #1 Seriously?  Have you ever heard of a hackerspace?  Adafruit?  Just because it's cheaper for Chinese factories (not slave labor) to make them and ship them around the world, does not mean that you couldn't find someone locally with the skill set to do this.  You just probably couldn't afford it.  #2  Look around the forum you are on.  What do you think is happening here?  Personally I haven't used a credit card in a decade.  They aren't necessary.  #3 What says that your vehicle must run on gasoline?  What says that you even need your own vehicle?  What about flinc.mobi, zipcar.com, relayrides.com or the many other private transit solutions popping up? All that I can say about that is take a hint from your great-grandmother and learn a bit more distrust of banking institutions.  I had a trade account at MtGox as well, but I have less than 5% of my bitcoins holdings even exposed to the Internet in total.  MtGox had less than 2%.  Yes, it sucks.  But never risk what you can't afford to lose, and there is no logical reason to keep a vast sum of coins at MtGox, or any other exchange, unless you intended to risk them in speculative plays.And Paypal can be hacked as well. 1)  Bitcoin transfers are cheaper.2)  Bitcoin gift transfers do not require that both parties are registered with the same website.3)  Bitcoin does not discriminate against users who live an certain countries.4)  It's impossible to violate the terms of service or policies of Bitcoin.5)  If you are from certain countries, using Bitcoin doesn't contribute to the tax base of your perceived (true or not) oppressor or occupier nation.6)  Bitcoin transactions between two people can occur off of the Internet altogether, as there is no server necessary to actually perform the transaction.7)  If you are the vendor, Bitcoin won't take back your sales revenue because someone says their account was hacked or because they claimed that you defrauded them; nor can Bitcoin reverse any transactions for any  reason without your consent.  Bitcoin won't submit tax reporting on you if you exceed $600 in sales in a single year.But you're right, there is no obvious benefit to using Bitcoin over Paypal for legitimate transactions, to you. No, January of 2013. Stability is a red herring.  Which way it goes, nobody really knows.  You place your bets and you take your chances. Sell half. Well done, indeed. You are in pioneer territory.  There will be no guide until the pioneers have made one. Maybe he is on the cutting edge of it, because this is really close to release. Try it again after 11pm Eastern Standard Time. Not when you consider the reality of "regalatory capture" wherein the industries in question functionally come to regulate themselves because those professionals that are experts in the fields, who are the best persons to regulate an industry, all come from that same industry and return to it after their public tour is over.  This same effect magnifies the competitive advantages of the market leaders, because they have an outsized influence on those same regulators and their decisions as compared to their smaller competition.  This isn't quite the same as monopoly capture of a market, but it all but garrantees that said industry develops regulatory barriers to entry over time.
This seems like a good place to leave this...http://falkenblog.blogspot.com/2011/06/humans-born-capitalists.html If you intend to do this, please change the genesis block and remove the benchmarking code.  Change the default port number, also. This effect will slow down as the currency matures. +1I don't think that you young people can quite understand just how revolutionary Wikipedia was and still is.  I remember growing up in the Dark Ages, prior to the Great Internet Event (tm).  My father paid a small fortune for an incomplete encyclopedia, and I read all 23 volumes that we had in a single Summer.  Now days, an 11 year old can call 'bs' on an adult full of it in two minutes with a cell phone.  My grandfather would just make stuff up to screw with us kids.  We never could know if he was feeding us a line or not because his lies were so plausible to an eight year old.  I can't do that to a six year old without one running to the computer to check googlw or wikipedia. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Launch_loop http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Energy_amplifier Without nukes, we don't have the spare energy to build a space elevator, technology aside.  A launch loop is going to happen first, and functionally requires nukes. Yo! A long time.  People still freak out about the electromagnetic radiation that cell phones emit under normal operation.  Neutronic radiation actually merits such panic. Possible I don't know.  Smallest practical is about 14 Kw thermal, which is tiny.  There is no theoretical minimum for an energy amp thorium reactor.  But the reactor size itself is rarely the issue.  It's usually the containment and shield mass that is the largest expense, which is why civil reactors favor such huge economies of scale.   Wait, you are trying to set up a company to sell property that you know that your family has stolen from their employers, and you want us to help you commit this crime? Yes, there is.  It's called escalation of force.  I have the right to try and prevent you from continuing to damage my property.  I can, if I see fit, lay hands on your person to attempt to physically eject you from my property.  If you are harmed in the doing so, I might be liable for that or I might not, but that depends on both the degree of the harm and the intent of action.  If you bumped your head because you tripped while being pushed off my property, but the bump was neither long term brain damage and a reasonable third party observer wouldn't have assumed that I intended to cause you harm, nor that same observer believe that I had used a level of force that was unnecessary towards the goal (protect the property, eject the thief) then I have done nothing wrong.  If you resist my interference (or the interference of my hired thug) and then either take a swing at me or threaten to do so, then that is the initiation of force that escalates the conflict, not me protecting my own property from harm.  If you pull out a knife, a deadly threat has been issued even if nothing was said.  At this point, I'm within my rights to pull out a firearm, but I can't shoot you in the back.  If you are trying to escape, I must let you leave, no matter the harm already done to my property.   Lacking evidence to the contrary, it is presumed that they came by it honestly, via their own labors.  Either they made themselves, or they traded for it.  You seem to insist that the basic assumption is that those who posses an object or real estate came by it dishonestly.No one decided this, because no one can.  Where did you come up with this idea? Not quite.  The delivery truck driver in the former Soviet Union had exclusive say over how the truck was used, so long as he was still the driver.  This is because he had possession, but he did not have ownership.  One of the necessary conditions of ownership is the right to destroy the thing.  The truck driver didn't have the right to destroy the truck, even though he certainly had the access necessary to do so if he had the will.  I will presume that you would agree that only you should have the right to decide to destroy the fleshbag that your mind resides within.  So would you agree that you own your own body? No one said that there are no rules. No one who lived near Chernobyl died or contracted cancer as a direct result of their proximity.  Chernobyl was a bad accident, but contrary to popular belief, an American coal plant releases more radioactive material into the air each year than Chernobyl did.  The problem was that Chernobyl was doing it in concentration as well as would have continued doing so so long as the fire continued.  Coal contains large amounts of thorium and uranium naturally, and there is no way to get them out before burning it.  So some portion of those elements do end up in the exhaust.  I've been employed in both types of power plants in the United States, including the oldest coal fired power plant still licensed in the United States, Beckjord Power Plant, and I can honestly say that I would much rather live near a nuke plant than a coal plant.  Yes, there is a small chance that said nuke plant could be mismanaged and have an incident that harms my children; but that's a certainty if you live downwind from a coal plant.  Go tour a coal plant, nothing green grows within a quarter mile of the stack.  Nothing.EDIT:  BTW, Chernobyl continued to produce power for another 15 years or so before being mothballed.  Only the affected reactor was closed immediately.  There is no evidence that employees that worked at Chernobyl after the incident were exposed to any more radiation than their peers at any other nuke plants. That might be your objective, but it's certainly not mine. I have to admit, I'm amused at the irony that a thread with this one's original subject matter can devolve into an argument where both parties involved violate one or more of the conditions that they recently agreed to. http://desertislandgame.com/I'll just leave this here.... Then we need to get even more basic.  What defines "ownership"?  What does it mean that an individual believes that he "owns" a thing, whether or not others recognize his claim?
It's down for upgrades and security fixes.  Will be for a bit longer, according to the (presumed) owner, who posted as much a few days ago. Yes, it's A.  The client doesn't care that you are sending your coins to your own address, the transaction still has to be included into a block just the same. A bit of both, actually.  Most Americans are not aware that this is how it already works in 'commonwealth' states, such as my home state of Kentucky.  There are the taxpayer funded police forces, the county sherrif's offices and the state troopers' office, which are paid for with county and state taxes respectively.  But there are also the police forces that are paid by private enterprise and a 'reserve' contingent of the county sherrif's deputy corps that is largely a volunteer force, much like a volunteer fire department.  Granted, there is much division of labor in these police forces, volunteers never patrol for example.  The privately funded police force is usually overseen, (or perhaps "regulated" would be a better term, since as a matter of law and fact, they are militias) by the county Constable's office.  To use my own city as an example, there is the Sherrif's office, which is the police force that most people are aware of and the most visable, but there are also two independent Constables.  Now, the two county constables are elected positions, but they are not taxpayer funded positions.  So, in effect, those positions are two governmentally recognized private police forces in each county.  The actual constable isn't usually even a state licenced police officer, but the owner of the business that manages the private police.  It works, more or less, like a temp agency does for unskilled labor, but for certified police that take contract jobs.  Have you ever seen a cop hanging out inside a bank lobby?  In the US, these cops are usually off-duty sherriff's deputies looking for a bit of part time work, and the bank can contract for a cop to suit up and literally hang out all day, but they cannot (normally) contract with the cop directly due both to anti-corruption rules and police union rules.  Instead, the bank contracts for the cop's time via the county constable's office.  If you look up the history of the work "constable", the concept of a for-hire roughneck with state recognized police powers comes from olde Brittanica.  So this isn't even a new idea for former colonies of the British Empire.   And what would our objective be? Arbitrage is limited by the difficulty in actually buying bitcoins with US $.  If you don't already have the bitcoins, you're probably out of luck.  Personally, I wouldn't want either Pounds or Euros.  I'd rather have US $, if those are my choices. Poland is closer the to economic abyss, at the present time, than the United States.  At least that is how it looks from my POV.  The US's turn will come, but not till after the European Economic Union implodes, which might happen before the end of Summer.  If not, it certainly will next Winter, once the Russians start price gouging for natural gas again.  Pray for a mild Winter, or the Germans might be high-stepping through main streets across Europe once again, just looking for heating fuel.  Lord knows that neither the Greeks nor the French have the fortitude to do anything more than burn their own cities and drink away the bad memories. Let's get back to basics.  Does a person own himself? Some did.  That's why he suspended habius corpus and imprisioned his detractors in the Northern states.  What, didn't learn about that in public school? You can't even come up with a condition that a lib society fails to grant you the choice to leave, or how a lib society could actually be infringing upon yourself.  If you violate a known libertarian 'law', such as kill someone in the act of attempting to possess material objects that they would have considered their property, then you are a criminal.  Other than that, if you don't like living in a libertarian society, what prevents you from leaving?  Your complaints are without merit.Why would I have to resolve those issues?  Those are questions of commons and externalities, even the ones that matter.  They are not coercive acts against you.  They are not even relevant to the question posed.Of cours not.  There can't be a solution posed to a problem that doesn't exist.  I you can't even frame the problem as a 'strawman', even after you have been repeatedly promted to do so, then no problem exists.  Perhaps I simply cannot invision such a conflict because I'm biased.  But then perhaps you can't frame the problem because there isn't one.Well, it's far from arbitrary, but okay.  A libertarian society is dependent upon collective force used against those within, and without, who would choose to violate the (majority) accepted concepts of property and natural rights; compelling them to either cease or leave.  Most libs would call this the primary purpose of governments.Happy now? Native wallet encryption is in the to-do list, but isn't already because the idea is to establish a solid reference design that code forks could base new clients from, each solving security issues in a differnet way.  This prevents a bug in one client from leaving them all exposed at once.  Monolithic software design is prone to security issues directly related to it's monolithic design.  Take Microsoft for example.Almost certainly will happen, but don't count on it in the main client.  Again, the main client is only a working reference design.  Features not critical to the function of such a client will have to be added by others.Same as aboveA panic dump, and interesting idea.  Still an unnecessary feature that will have to be added by others.I've one.  Help write these features.  Put them into a forked client.  Name it something else.  Does anyone here still use the original bittorrentd to download torrent files?  I have in the past, but not in years.  The programmers working on the guts of bitcoin are probably not particularly good at implimenting popular features or even user interface designs.  This would be a misuse of their time, anyway. Then they are still free to start their own society or leave and seek out an existing one more to their own liking.  The fiction book, The Diamond Age explores this concept with depth.   Change your email settings to something it's not.  Try "null".  What other reason would you have your real email address registered at this forum, if not to receive notices? Wow.  You really have no clue what a libertarian believes. No.  This would introduce an obvious abuse vector.  He who could influence the blacklisting of coins, or their unlisting, to his own advantage would eventually do so.  Don't bother trying to claim that you are above corruption.  No one is.  Everyone who runs for congress for the first time does so because he believes this fallacy. Again, abuse vector.  How is the time limit decided?  Can this mechanism be spoofed?  I suppose one could use the block number, but why bother?  The future expected deflation due to lost coins is bound to be so slow as to be unimportant. Absolutely not.  Get out.  And go start your own currency. An interesting idea?  Are you serious?  That was so obvious I never even considered that it had to be said. Alright, I've let this one go on long enough.  Everyone out of the gene pool!Thread locked. Why go to all that trouble, when any user could become a vendor for any of those prepaid services and put up a website that allowed users to buy minute cards & top up cards for bitcoin.  I use Virgin Mobile, and the local vendor that I usually buy topup cards from doesn't even use actual cards anymore, but generates a new top up code that is printed onto the receipt.  I'm sure that coding this into a website would be trivial for any code monkey worth his 'leet thinkgeek t-shirts. He means the improvements of construction and the like.  The land that once belonged to an indian tribe in Florida was nearly worthless swampland until Walt Disney & company bought it up to build Disney World.  It was the idea that was most valuable, not the real estate.  But even the idea was worthless without the labor to make it real. Care to present an actual example of this? I'm sory ryepdx, I was trying to respond to your post, but it seems that I accidentally overwrote it instead.  I'm not sure how that happened.  I would split the thread, but I keep getting an error.It seems that I hit the 'edit' button instead of the 'quote' button without noticing it, and there is no 'undo' button.
I don't accept the assumptions that they make.  Also, that compares the entire US to individual European nations.  If we have to include Michigan and West Virginia in the averages, you should have to include Latvia, Estonia and the Ukraine.  Compare Apples to apples, buck.  Where do you live in Europe, and how does that compare to my state of Kentucky.  Shouldn't be that hard, since Kentucky is in the lower half of the states, but I would still find the comparisions interesting.  Mostly in what Europeans consider to be high on the list of features that add up to a "standard of living".  Compared to myself, personally, you have a near zero chance of having a higher standard of living, but then I make quite a bit more than the average Kentuckian. Been to PorcFest? In what way is your standard of living higher than mine? Do you think that your standard of living is higher in Europe? Consumer protection.  I.E. theft & fraud insurance against misuse of your mobile wallet funds, just like a credit card works today.  There would have to be a liability cap."Instant" checkout.  Since Google knows who you are, they become the trusted intermediary for the vendor, so he doesn't actually have to wait for confirms nor employ a third party company to risk assess unconfirmed transactions on the fly.Overspending credit, for some users.Basic security, for mobile users who don't know any better. No, the central point of Bitcoins is to allow the user the choices.  Other options can't be decentralized nor anonymous.  Just how far the user wants to go do that rabbit hole is entirely up to them. I'm sure they would be happy to have all this gainful conversation. You don't have to be a miner to notice the decreasing rate of block discovery.Hard, perhaps.  Still something that should be taken under consideration if you find that your entire country is isolated from the rest of the Internet, and not just in the case of Bitcoin.I never have, either.  Mining is still a necessary process whoever does it.Yes it does. This thread is quickly following the path of the other one.  Calm down or I'll lock this one next. Yeah, at least if it's his idea, he has some say in how it's done. No one can take these bitcoins from him, and he knows this.  If kevin is unwilling to return the coins, there is very little that any of us can do about it. Even better would be a market trade site ran by LulzSec openly trash talking the others to break it. I'd doubt that google has any such plans, but I would say that google wallet is DOA. Oh, don't get me wrong.  I would have deleted it immediately.  Still a bad idea to make such commitments, even if you think you're calling a bluff. Entertaining threads are, by definition, not useless. This thread has no redeeming value.  Locked. So do I.  What are you accusing me of!? Just to see if he could get you to do the same, yes, I think that he would do it. Amen to that.  Keep the bad news coming.  It'll keep the riff-raff out long enough for me to add more savings. Think of it like this, you have freedom of speech in the presence of your mother, but would you choose your words more carefully?  
That is a very good question. Be careful of such commitments. BTC has no use value, outside of the context of a medium of exchange.  BTC is both the currency and an effective, worldwide, transfer mechanism.  Just like gold's intrinsic value is rooted in it's properties that make it an ideal money, BTC's intrinsic value rests in the properties imbued into it by powerful cryptology and rigid code practices.   The same way that it handles short delays.If coins are created during the split, and the split lasts longer than 100 blocks, then those coins and all the transactions that depended upon them in the minority chain simply cease to exist after the merger.  There is no other way to do it, unfortunately.  If the minority blocks were permited to exist, block splits would become a profit vector in their own right, breaking the 21 million coin limit with ease.If you have frequent connectivity dropouts, you probably shouldn't be trying to mine at all.  But blockchain splits should never be an issue, as it's trivial for a watchdog process to detect a blockchain split, particularly when it's on the minority side of the break.  As large as the Internet is, a near even network split, resulting in a near even block discovery rate on both sides of the divide, is astronomicly unlikely.  If the rate of block discovery, from your perspectives, drops by more than half then users should be suspending the acceptance of new coins created since the division anyway.Have you read the white paper? Very few of the American Indian tribes made any claim towards owning the land.  For the most part, the tribes West of the Missippi River were nomadic; and did not have a coherent concept of property ownership at all.  Tribes East of the Missippi, however, generally did.  In particular, the five tribes (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Five_Civilized_Tribe) that made up the Cherokee nation; who owned all of Ohio and much of the territories that now make up surrounding states.  I'm directly decendent from Cherokee stock, and I can prove it.  Are you trying to say that I should have a claim to the state of Ohio?  I reject that concept.  I've never owned it, and as far as I can tell, none of my ancestors were swindled out of anything.  Prejudice of the early white settlers aside, my ancestors chose to move of their own accord.  Probably, in part, because of their own prejudices. You're incoming connection requests are being blocked at some point.  Most likely by a firewall in a broadband router. He was talking about an Austrian economist stating that gold had intrinsic value by reason of it's use value.  Austrians don't normally talk in those terms, because use value doesn't equate to an intrinsic value.  Value is always subjective, and an 'intrinsic' value would necessarily have to exist, if it did exist, by reason of a commodities natural characteristics.  Gold's use value is not very closely related to it's elemental properties, but it's monetary value is related to it's elemental properties.  If gold has an intrisic value, it's directly related to it's quality as an ideal money, not it's industrial or commercial uses.   The valuable posts in this thread occurred in the first three pages, the quality of posts have declined since.  I'm locking this thread. Do you think that you could wait until they have had a chance to figure it out? I'm a bit more secure and mature than to let jokes from random people on the Internet offend me.   By his own version of the story, he withdrew the funds that he did because he suspected that someone's account had be compromised already, and he was not certain that it couldn't happen to him as well.  There has been no evidence to suggest that this event is anything other than what MagicalTux says it was.  Kevin understood, at least on some level, that he might be accepting stolen property.  This doesn't mean that Kevin did anything wrong at the time, but now that there is credible verification that was so, it's wrong for Kevin to keep that property. Trust me, Synaptic is definately not the worst troll on this site. And everyone did know, or at least reasonablely should have known, that MtGox was neither a financial market regulated under the laws of any particular nation nor even international law.  None of the Bitcoin markets are subject to such regulations, and thus such standards do not apply to Bitcoin markets.  At least not as of yet.  Anyone who was operating under any other perspective did so at their own risk.  This is risky business that we engage in, wildcat banking and finance. Occam's Razor would imply luck.  I'm sure that Kevin wasn't the only one desperately trying to place a low-ball buy order as fast as he could, but perhaps he was just the one who clicked at just the right millisecond.  It is also true that, even assuming that Kevin's story is accurate from his perspectives, that he is in possession of stolen property and he knows this.  Unless he is going to try to present evidence to the contrary, this is an accepted given.  Thus it is proper for Kevin to return the funds and permit MtGox to undo the trades as best as he can.  Whether or not MtGox chooses to compensate the owner of the compromised account or not is his own business.  The fact that no policy existed that covered this scenario prior to the event is not relevant. Not from me. The support of a central bank. Quiet dude, I'm trying to get some cheap here! Yes, some miners that have been here since the first few months have mined substanial amounts, well into the 100's of thousands.  Most of those same miners have divested since then, and no longer hold such huge amounts.  I can think of only one miner, that I know of, that has likely never sold much of his holdings.   I can't read this link, but what does it propose that doesn't already happen?   The TeraFLOP's number is an estimate based off of the hashing ratios of common cpus and their FLOP's as benchmarked.  It can be inaccurate, but not by that much.
LIFE'S A BEACH!!!!!EAT SAND!!!!!! http://www.thinq.co.uk/2011/6/20/japans-8-petaflop-k-computer-fastest-earth/ Yes. I've been a silver bug  for decades.  Have never sold an ounce of what I have, even after discovering Bitcoin last year.  I'm an econo-geek, and versed enough in the crypto to understand how the system could work, even though I can't dive into the code and determine for myself it it actually does what others may say that it does.Mostly I consider them complementary.  If the future looks anything like Schiff or Olov think that it could, then a return to in person barter trade is likely, and thus Bitcoin will prove to be a useless endeavor.  However, I don't consider that remotely likely, as even in the days of sail trade prior to the wireless telegraph; communications were required to facilitate trans-Atlantic trade, and that was largely limited in credit trust due to the physical nature of gold money.  Therefore, the Internet will not die easily, and there will be groups in every city with deep vested interests in maintaining some kind of Internet link long after the cars stop moving due to lack of fuel.  So even a 100+  year reversal of fortunes in transit technology would benefit from the existance of Bitcoin, a Mad Max scenerio notwithstanding.I think that there are more metal bugs, and vastly more Austrians, engaged in Bitcoin than many would otherwise be inclined to believe. http://www.libertariannews.org/2011/06/18/the-economics-of-bitcoin-how-bitcoins-act-as-money/I don't know if this one was ever posted. I seriously doubt it.  The only person that could be is Vladimer, and there is no way he's stupid enough to put this crap into an email to a hater.  More likely someone trying to add fuel to the fire and depress the price so that they can buy in. Peter Schiff is a well known Austrian economist with a damn good track record of predictions.  He's ran for Congress in the past.  If Peter Schiff even hints at having put any significant amount of his own funds into Bitcoin, there is going to be a major rally regardless of the issues at MtGox.  He also knows this about himself, so odds are good that he will not make any obvious moves towards Bitcoin.  If he thinks poorly of Bitcoin, he will say so, and then the trade value is going to drop for some time. I accept.  Just for clarity, I'm taking the under.  I will grant you the 10% variance. Well, yes and no.  Once the wallet.dat file is encrypted as a standard operating procedure, there will be a piece of data that does not reside upon your hard drive for a trojan to find.  Namely your secred key/passcode. Since you asked so politely, which seems to have become so rare on this forum these days, I shall.EDIT: I sent you a quarter-bit.  Please pay it forward. If I offered you $6K for your entire cluster, would you sell? Let me know when you wish to sell, I might be interested in a discounted set.  I'm looking to build a miner/heater for my garage this fall. The wager can be any amount of bitcoins that you wish to commit.  It's not about the amount for myself, but the fun of it.  9.3 days * 6 difficulty adjustments = 55.8 days.  So make it 60 days from  tomorrow, Sunday June 18th at noon Eastern time is when the bet is final.Bet starts with the next difficulty setting the bar, but I'll lay out the difficulty over/under based upon the estimate presently on bitcoinwatch.com.((((((1,052,445 next difficulty, estimated) * 1.5) * 1.5) * 1.5) * 1.5) * 1.5) * 1.5) * .9811988006.328125 * .98 = 140838049808701.7442626953125, or over 130 million times higher hashing power than the next estimated difficulty?  Wow, did I do that right?So the over under difficulty would be 140,838,049,808,701 dropping the decimals, assuming that the estimated difficulty is the actual difficulty.Feel free to check my math, please.EDIT: I definately did something wrong here.  Yup, decimal screwup.  11748246.2015625 is 98% of 11988006.328125.  So the over under would be 11,748,246.  About ten times the next estimated difficulty.  That sounds more like it. A simple over/under straight bet.  Based on your calculations, at the calculated date.  If the difficulty is, say 98% or higher of your projected amount, you win.  If lower than 98% or your projected difficulty, I win.Five bitcoins is the wager. The residential user in some areas can get electric rates lowered if they are willing to intergrate their demands into the power company's smart network so that they can directly reduce demand.  For a time, I had a programmable thermostat that would do exactly that.  It would be trivial for such an input to control the residential miner as well.  That aside, the professional miner is certainly going to dominate, but mining will never be an exclusively professional endeavor.  If I use a small miner as a heater in my garage, linked to a thermostat or not, but only during the heating season for my area, the cost of electricity for mining is, at worst, only the difference in the cost between electric resistive heating and the least expensive alternative available in my area.  This is exactly why I say that Icelanders are uniquely well suited to owning small, personal mining clusters.   I care because I have to live in the same house with the bully.  You should care because he is also known to leave his own house and beat the kids on the next block whenever he starts feeling insecure about himself.  And he carries a damn big stick. And have you ever considered the possibility that this discussion goes in circles because of the single common denominator, yourself? It's a loaded question because we both know that we don't have an answer.  We don't know how "Libertopia" would work out questions of natural resource ownership or real estate because it's never been tried and the answer is highly dependent upon how a truly free people choose to organize.  From homesteading to high rise condos, those issues can be solved in more than one way.As for how do we divide the wealth?  Under what conditions would we be dividing anything?  This is a false premise to begin with, that there is a standard way to 'share the wealth', or even a prohibition on coming up with such a method.Some of it, yes.  They have a claim, certainly.  Did they all come back?  If so, they have abandoned their claims to that which their developed mirrors do not require.  They have a claim on the mirrors only because they are (I assume) still in active use.  Those whom remain have at least as much as they can improve.  That's actually a pretty easy one, and one that has been mentally tortured since The Moon is a Harsh Mistress. That's still a contradiction in terms. It's just as profitable for a city full of people mining on one card as it is for all of those cards in one room.  Likely more, because if the cards remain distributed, then the waste heat can still be used to offseat home heating needs in winter.
This is actually true except for the part about both MtGox and MyBitcoin keeping detailed logs about what goes where, and both being subject to the will of LEO's to some degree simply due to the fact that both are public companies with known owners. I'd really like to see you support that statement.FAILYour premise is false, therefore the remainder of the question cannot be rationally answered.  Try and establish a logical reasoning behind the idea that living in a lib society = forced to abide by lib ideals. <sarcasm>That would be a wonderful development, get all this low brow mining trash out of the way.</sarcasm>Somehow, I doubt that mining will ever be an endeavor exclusive to "only the rich". Perhaps there is some confusion here about the meaning of 'coercion'.  What do you think that it means, and in what way do you imagine an ideal libertarian society fitting this description.And you had a point? Even if bitcoin2cash was the pope of libertarians, this statement wouldn't hold water.  The fact that current society is based upon coercion is a provable fact, but has little bearing on how I might feel about it.  I certainly don't feel persecuted.  I've certainly said nothing to suggest what you imply about myself or libertarians in general.  Or were you trying to use the general 'you' while directly addressing an individual on a forum dominated by individualists? And it has been pointed out that the two are not comparable despite both being illegal in most countries.  One is 'malum prohibitum' (http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/malum+prohibitum) and the other is 'malum in se' (http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/malum%20in%20se).  They don't belong in the same context.  And where did you see this at?  Or are you projecting?I did.  You just can't wrap your mind around it. I've already established that you are only here because you enjoy arguing with libs, and imagine yourself to be the smartest person in the forum.  Hell, you're probably the smartest person in the room even when you're outside.  But the reality is that you just don't have anything better to do with your life, and thus your time has reached it's own true market value.  Most of the rest of us value our time more than to feed the troll. Who are you arguing with, and why are we still talking about this crap?  If you want to discuss CP and debate it's virtues and vices, start your own thread.  It will make deleting it much easier on us mods.Until then, this stuff is off-topic.  Way off topic. The biggest truth here is that I can honestly believe that you honestly believe what you are saying. I have better things to do with my lifespan. Perhaps you don't understand analogies? The same way that the state of your residence is voluntary.  If you don't like the one you're in, you are still free to move to another.  People still do it all the time in this country, it's called freedom of travel.   You keep saying that, but I don't think that you know what that means.If we were to bother with the logical consistency argument, you might die from the cognative dissonance. Seven quotes, all of which were out of context, was the best that you could do?  Really?  I could have done better than that on your behalf.I don't think that you want a founding father quote war.  You would be buried in counter quotes and this thread would just devolve into irrelevency.  They weren't gods, and they weren't ideologically perfect, either.  I didn't claim any such thing.  I said that they were closer to libs than anything else that can be found in modern politics, and I think that even you know this to be true.  I could crush what you posted with the single text of the 'give me liberty or give me death' speech. The right to speak against the soverign was a uniquely 'liberal' concept in the 1700's, back when 'liberal' meant something much closer to 'libertarian' than you are willing to admit.  In effect, libertarians did invent freedom of speech.What contradiction is that?  Is that anything like an athiest who gets bent because he goes to a child's baseball game at the YMCA, and then some jerkoff bible thumper has the audacity to expect him to sit still while there is a prayer!?  Oh my non-God!  No atheist should be forced to sit quietly while someone else prays to the culturally dominate deity in the society that I continue to choose to live within at a public event that I chose to attend.  Oh the horror!It's called freedom of religion, not freedom from religion, quite intentionally.  You are just as free to ignore libertarians as that atheist is free to ignore the Christians.  No one is forcing anything upon you, you came here of your own accord; and knowing now that this is a forum dominated by a culture that you detest, you contine to return of your own accord.  If you don't like it, I'm pretty sure that even you can see the options available to you. Out of context much?"O daughter of Babylon, doomed to be destroyed,   blessed shall he be who repays you   with what you have done to us!9Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones   and dashes them against the rock!"http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Psalm+137&version=ESV You do realize that the founders were ideologically far closer to libertarians than anything other politcal ideology that can be found in the United States today, right? What a pile of shit.  You really don't have any idea what libertarianism actually is, do you?And you definately don't, AyeYo.I don't think that either of you understand that your continued ability to express your opinons about libertarians on this list is entirely dependent upon the ideology that you think so little of.  You may continue to express your views, as popular as they may be outside of this forum and beyond the Internet, mainly because it is the firm belief of the powers present that you have the right to do so.  Thus, you have the liberty to defame your hosts, because the dominate ideology in control of this forum believes that you have that right.  Go try and support libertarian ideals on any forum that is not predominately libertarian and see how long your hosts permit you to do so.  Note that this degree of tolerance the opinons of others does not depend upon you believing that you have any such right. Really?  Where in the job description included in the US Constitution is that?
Hmm, maybe.Care to make a wager? As I mentioned above, when a node sees a new transaction, it checks that transaction for validity, including making sure that it has not already seen a transaction that spends those same coins.  The second transaction thus fails the validity check and is not propogated furthur.  So, in the end, the first transaction to hit the p2p network will get propogate to the majority of the peer nodes, and stop when it hits the propogation wave of the second transaction.  The differences between the first and second transaction would be milliseconds, and it would likely take less than three seconds for any other conflicting transactions to fail right at the vending machine server itself.  A vending machine server would also have an economic encentive to maintain a connection with a major miner, such as a pool, due to the lopsided propogation that such a peer connection provides.  So, even with a 10 second window, only those who hit send right at the beginning of the window will succeed, and players also have an encentive to cheat by sending early.  Maybe a few people could get the machine to give up some loot, but one of them is actually going to still get paid.  The vast majority of players are going to get nothing. Well, no.  It wouldn't.  What the nodes actually do is announce the hash value of transactions that it is aware of to nodes, and nodes that do not have that transaction will request it.  If that node considers it valid, it also then annouces to it's other peers.  So what would have to happen is that the vending machine would have to pick a couple of it's peers out to not announce that transaction to, so that it could just wait to get that transaction to announce it back to itself, thus confirming that said transaction has moved across the p2p (that said vending machine could see) without another conflicting transaction hitting the chosen peers first.  I oversimplified the scenario, I guess.  Most people seem to get very confused. This is not true at all.  Communism does require a near absolute participation rate to be successful, but libertarianism does not.  You seem to believe that, because we have an ideal goal to aim for, that a society that fails to obtain such lofty heights wouldn't still be a society that we would prefer to live in right now.  That is a rediculous assumption.  We aim high, in part, because that is the only way to make progress.  For if you start with the open willingness to compromise, you will end up settling for less than you could have achieved.  This is true in any negotiation, and politics is basicly a negotiation on an ongoing and national scale.  Would a communist prefer to live in a moderately more socially dictated society that ours?  Probably not, because a thinking communist would understand that a half-measure of communism would undermine itself.  This is not so with liberty.  I would choose a somewhat more libertarian society, and if others were to choose to create small enclaves of communism within that society, that effects me very little if at all. There are a number of ways to reduce the risks in accepting a transaction as proof of payment within bitcoin.  Waiting for confirmations is, obviously, the most secure and trustworthy method, and the only one presently established.  However, there are a couple of ways that a vendor rapidly selling low value items in meatspace can significantly reduce their exposure to just such a coordinated fraud.  First off, ten seconds is pretty tight timing, so it's not going to be an easy attack anyway.  But think of it like this...Vending machine doesn't do the verifications itself, this would likely be done at the owning company's server, but for simplicity let us imagine that it's done at the vending machine.One participating attacker walks up to vending machine, no one waiting.  His watch is set for just the right time to send the final transaction.  So he chooses his loot and sets up the transaction, hears his watch alarm and presses 'send'.The transaction hits the p2p network, doesn't matter if the attacker sent it to the vending machine first or directly to the Internet.  Vending machine is waiting a few seconds for the transaction to move across the p2p network.  What it is waiting for is to see all of it's peers, and most importantly it's most 'netgraphicly' distant peers, to tell it about the new transaction.  If all of it's peers tell it that this transaction exists, then that means that transaction is the first one that spends those coins that said peer has seen.  It also means that those peers will ignore any other transactions that spend those same coins, refusing to include them in mining blocks or forward them to their own peers.  So if the vending machine sees that all of it's peers have received and accepted that transaction as valid, then that means that vending machine was the first to get it's transaction out onto the p2p network, and thus it doesn't much care about any other transactions because it's astronomically unlikely that a double spend attempt will work out counter to it's own favor.However, if even one peer does not tell the vending machine about the new transaction within a set period of time, then that likely means that said peer has already seen a conflicting transaction, and the vending machine simply refuses to dispense. Do you really think so?  I download files larger than that via bittorrent for a few hours entertainment. Interesting analysis.  Can't say that I would agree with your premises, though. Only because the developers haven't gotten there yet.  Really, we want different clients to fork out and handle security in different ways.  We definately don't want a monolithic approach to security with bitcoin.  Which is one reason why the wallet.dat file isn't encrypted natively to begin with. The debug log exists for development reasons, and having the client automaticly delete the log upon exit would be self-defeating.  I suppose that a startup batch script that destroys the existing debug.log file upon restart wouldn't be too dangerous.  Or you could use the -noirc switch to disable the irc bootstrapping altogether.  You only need it upon the initial startup of a fresh install, or if you wipe out your database.  You don't really need it at all, it just makes finding the ip addresses of the first few connections easier.  After that, node discovery is done via the p2p network itself.  I always use -noirc.  You need to do it if you are using tor or I2P, otherwise the irc code will just leak out your ip address anyway. You two are talking about two different things, Littleshop.  This wasn't the normal bump just after the difficulty change, nor was it normal statistical variance.  There were 11-12 blocks found per hour for several hours continuously.  Someone was benchmarking some serious hardware.I still wouldn't get to worked up about it, anyway.  Whatever they had wasn't quite enough to capture the network, and since the network is always growing, their high end machine simply isn't up to snuff. Do you restart your client often?  The debug.log is just a logfile that is recording events that your client considers notable, such as restarting.  You can delete that without a hickup, and the client will just start another upon the next restart.  blk0001.dat is the actual blockchain while blkindex.dat is the file that your client uses to quickly find a particular transaction within all those blocks.  I would still recommend that you backup your wallet.dat file before deleting anything, though. So are X-box live points and WoW gold. Not really, because at this point the client will still verify all the blocks upon first start, regardless of where the blockchain came from.  In the future, there are likely to be clients that come with a blockchain already in it and trust this included blockchain, but that would require trust in the client developers. (7200 BTC per day * 7 days * 52 weeks) / (210000 * 50) (2620800) / (10500000) = .2496 = 24.96%I royally screwed that one up.  I apologize.  So dropping the block reward in half would drop the % APR to about 12.5%.  So was I off by a year?(3600 BTC per day * 7 days * 52 weeks) / ((210000 * 50) + ( 52416 * 25))(1310400) / (10500000 + 1310400)(1310400) / (11810400) = 0.11095305832147937411095305832148 = 11.09%Apparently not. The other option involves pruning of the blockchain's spent transactions, which is already in the protocol, but not yet safely implimented into the client.  That is why transactions are stored in a merkle hash tree instead of just a flat file with all the transactions hashed once.  The merkle hash tree permits spent transactions to be deleted from the local blockchain without disrupting the verification of other transactions in the same block yet unspent.  The only part of the blockchain that must continue to exist is the headers, which weigh in at 80 bytes exactly for each block.  Roughly 4 megs per year.   Not at all.  The link was talking about gold and silver coins with a qr code web address printed upon them.  Not a thing about rfid chips. Normally, that would be the answer.  But this time some major miner turned on his cluster just after the difficulty change and ran it about 8 hours and shut it down.  If you look at the timestamps at blockexplorer.com it's pretty obvious that blocks were coming in at 12 per hour for about 8 hours then suddenly dropped back to six per hour.EDIT:  It's also obvious that, whoever it was, couldn't manage to quite break 50% of the total network hashing power.  It might have been a test (by govco? Who else has that kind of power?) to see if they could still break bitcoin.  If so, bitcoin just barely survived. Good luck with that! Try not to be a dick, okay? First, I didn't say that.  Second, libertarians are not anarchists.  We have a strict set of tasks that a good government should perform.  One of which is to protect the individual citizen from theft, fraud, etc.  Most of us accept teh premise that industries that profit from collective activities (i.e. governments) are also logicly subject to oversight.  Our problem is that it never seems to end there.A truly free market needs no government oversight, but when a government participates in the market as either an overseer or a customer, it then distorts said free market so that it is no longer truly free.There are, in fact, a set of natural laws that can be discovered by human reason.  I shouldn't even have to prove this, but I could.  They, however, can be boiled down into 19 English words, and are called "Maybury's Two Laws" or the "Two Laws of Civilization".  They were coined by Rich Maybury in his book, Whatever Happened to Justice?  They are as follows...1)  Do all that you have agreed to do and...2)  Do not encroach upon the person or property of another.All natural, or 'common', laws flowed from this deep rooted concept of fairness.  The differences are borne of culture.  For example, what is property?  What is encroachment?  Are there any agreements (contracts) that an individual cannot make?  Is an individual bound to honor an agreement made under duress, or deception?  Generally speaking, civilizations that tended to honor those two laws (within the context of their own cultures) tended to prosper, while those that failed to honor those two laws tended to decline.  The accepted rules of free markets flow from these two laws naturally, and these can be collectively called capitalism.  As such, capitalism exists to some limited degree always and everywhere; from the black market traders of the strictest socialist nations on Earth to the unregulated digital halls of Silk Road.
The supply of BTC won't reach 21 M in eight years or in 2031.  It won't reach 21 Million ever.  It's log limit, ever approaching but never reaching.  Around 2129 the block reward will drop from .00000001 BTC to zero, if the decimal accuracy of the bitcoin protocol isn't increased by that time, but even then it will be just under 21 million. There are other option available in the future.  Including, but not limited to, simply including a recent copy of the blockchain in each new client release to be downloaded directly rather than over the p2p network and verified by each client upon first start.  It's the verification process that takes most of the time, not the actual downloading. I guess you didn't hear about Bitcoin's lead developer doing a presentation about Bitcoin for the CIA, then? This is a specific referrence to the power to create legal tender.  Bitcoin isn't legal tender anywhere in the world, and the legal right to create a private currency within the United States is well established provided that it could not rationally be confused with legal tender.  The Ithica Hour is a wonderful example. Twice? Libertarians don't believe in Capitalism as you understand it.  Libertarians believe in liberty, which naturally leads to the free exchange of goods, services and ideas.  What you consider to be capitalism is really corporatism, a softer form of fascism.  Capitalism can be both an ideology and a collective description of a set of naturally occuring economic conditions.  It's the latter form of capitalism that libertarians tend to advocate, and the former we tend to be wary of. I did, and the irony of it all is that the very 'vulgarus' he was complaining about was correct.  Although the rates that taco bell was offering was provablely low, they were still higher then the next presently available alternative, which happened to be subsistance farming.  As crappy as that work was, and as poorly as Taco Bell may have paid, those who worked there did so by their own free will.  They were not forced to do so.  If they had been, then it would have been real slavery, which is unacceptable.  But they weren't.  It's just that the job market in their area and with their skillset sucked.  If you wanted to help these people out, then start another factory nearby.  Offer better jobs for higher wages, and Taco Bell would have no choice but to pay more or close house. You are both right to some degree.  Most early adopters are speculators. Have you considered offering a real bounty for information that leads to the recovery of your funds?  Like hiring a real detective? I'm canceling mine as well, in part because one of my conditions was approval of accuracy from Sataoshi, which now seems unobtainable. Your math is as bad as your economics.  When the block reward drops from 50 to 25, the inflation rate will drop from 12.5% APR to 6.25% APR and continue to decline from there. No, it doesn't.  A user can create a new wallet.dat file on an unconnecte machine (by installing and starting the client, then shutting the client back down safely) copy the receiving address that the client produces onto any medium, copying the wallet.dat file onto a cheap thumbdrive, put the thumbdrive into a safe, and send coins from his mybitcoin.com account to the receiving address into the indefinate future.  This is pretty much what I do for my long term savings, as I have just such a setup.  I have a special address in my mybitcoin.com addressbook called "savings" that I send my overage to, and I don't have to take my thumbdrive out of the safe to do it.This requires the wallet.dat file. Within parameters, yes.With regard to the pool, the pool server decides the transactions to be included in the block.Yes and no.  There is some centralization going on with pools, but there are balancing forces at play even with pools.Your original post seemed to imply that you believed that pool servers distribute transactions to be processed, which is not the case.  Pool miners are only hashing an 80 byte long header and only incrementing the nonce.  It's the server that builds the block and merkle tree that begets the merkle root as part of the header.Solo mining works in exactly the same way, except the pool miner and the server are on the same machine. Or just use the 30 day volume weighted average on bitcoinwatch.com.  This needs to be added to the trade page soon.  Hmmm, Disney's Ultimate Homeschool Fieldtrip is in September. Okay, I'll qualify my statements properly.  Secure hashing is believed to be secure from quantum mathmatics...."The Merkle signature scheme is a digital signature scheme based on hash trees (also called Merkle trees) and one-time signatures such as the Lamport signature scheme. It was developed by Ralph Merkle in the late 70s and is an alternative to traditional digital signatures such as the Digital Signature Algorithm or RSA. The advantage of the Merkle Signature Scheme is, that it is believed to be resistant against quantum computer algorithms. The traditional public key algorithms, such as RSA and ELGamal would become insecure in case an effective quantum computer can be built (Shor's algorithm). The Merkle Signature Scheme however only depends on the existence of secure hash functions. This makes the Merkle Signature Scheme very adjustable and resistant against quantum computing."http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_signature_schemeNote that this is exactly the system used for the internal block structure, and the same hashing algorithm is used for the blockchain headers themselves, although not in a binary tree. Of course they make more money in a sweatshop than in farming just to feed themselves, or they wouldn't apply for the job.  Wage slavery is called that by tools like you, because you don't know what slavery is.  No one forces these people to accept these jobs.This is an argument for less government, not more. No, they wouldn't.   Not from have of what I described.  This is basicly the digital version of the Vernon Cypher, the only cryptographic method that has been proven to be secure from brute force attacks forever.  Even a quantum computer couldn't do anything with it. Might be faster, might not.  Can't break SHA-256 with quantum methods, and can't reverse it with any presently known method. It is if you already bought the card.
two cheap (128 meg) usb drives, or even multiples for redundency.  Wallet.dat file, equal amount of random bits.  XOR the two together.  Keep the original set of random data on one drive and the random-like output on the other.  Destroy the wallet.dat file.  Keep the two drives in physically secure locations, but in different ones.  For example, one could be in a safety deposit box, the other in your file at your attorney's office.  Or another safety deposit box at another bank.  Gun safe at the house.  Your dropbox account?  You could have multiple copies of each, as long as they were never kept together.  A thief could then steal one, and you would still have at least one copy of each to be able to recreate the wallet.dat file, and the thief would just have a thumbdrive with useless data.  Mark each of the thumbdrives so that it's obvious what they are and which they are.  Perhaps a sticker on each that says "codex" and "key".  Both are necessary for recreating the wallet.dat file, forever; but it doesn't require that you remember a complex keyphrase, nor is it a very complicated process that can't be simply explained in your will. They're here and you're not informed.  They just aren't yet widely available. The rise of ASIC mining chips is going to be a pretty big jump, but after that there is no major advances foreable. It's damn close. Yeah, that's not what is being discussed here.  There is a name for what you guys are looking for.  It's a phyle. Not only would that work, it's a fair description of what I have already done with the majority of my bitcoins. I'll just leave this here..."The Mole lives an exemplary life, obeying all possible laws, filing taxes, crossing the street only in crosswalks, holding a respectable job (maybe even a government job)  but on the side and in silence gives help to freedom causes and freedomistas. Or saves herself up for the day when a single act of sabotage or whistleblowing can bring down an enemy of liberty. "http://www.backwoodshome.com/blogs/ClaireWolfe/2010/06/07/so-what-exactly-is-a-freedom-outlaw/ Except that they don't go under.  Therein lies the fraud.  It's called, "moral hazard" because they know in advance that the government will save their asses if they get into trouble at the taxpayers' expense, and thus it is an immoral business to engage in. Or just buy a used Android phone off of Ebay, and install your custom client with the cell radios turned off.  whenever you needed to update the blockchain or otherwise access the p2p network, then turn on the wifi radio and connect temporarily.  The truly paranoid could open up the phone and de-solder the radios other than the wifi.  Or the really paranoid could de-solder them all and only use a usb cable to connect to the p2p network. Probably much the same.  Like most major wars, the Civil War was a conflict decided by economics, not tactics.  Inflation is, economicly speaking, just another tax as far as funding wars go.  It's just that it's a particularly regressive form of taxation.  The North won because they had the industrial base to support a war of attrition and enough unemployed young men to throw at it, not because they had a morally superior mission. I'll consider what you can offer.You have broken the rules.  The accepted rules of common Internet civility.  You have hijacked every thread I've seen you on with your "opinions".  If the "vocal minority" needs it's place, it can go found it's own.  These other forum members came here to learn about Bitcoin and how to use it.  They don't want to have to wade through your stinking pile of "opinions" in order to gleen out a respectable understanding.  You come into our house and then shit on our kitchen table and declare, "the minority needs a place to crap".  The place to spew FUD is elsewhere.  The Internet is vast, go start another "Bitcoins are a scam" blog.  If someone comes in here looking for the counterpoint, I'll be more than happy to hotlink straight to your little shit filled corner of the web.I've had enough of this.  Go find another street corner, Padre.EDIT:  I've deleted all your trollish comments, except those last few in this thread.  I left your non-trollish posts alone.  Both of them.  From here on out, I will delete every remotely trollish thing that you say, but I'm not going to ban you or censor you in advance.  I want you to be able to make an even bigger ass out of yourself going forward, just not long term. You can expect to pay capital gains taxes on that sum, if it is recovered.  If not, then claim it as a loss on your taxes! A VM truecrypt that uses an on-screen keyboard that is randomly scrambled with each startup.  User clicks in his passcode.  Keylogger fails, mouse recording fails, screen capture does not fail.Speech to text?  Soundcard sniffer? Where do you come up with this stuff!?  It's comic gold!The US Constitution outlaws it as well.  The British outlawed it in the colonies because the colonial bankers were cutting into their game.  Now it's outlawed in the states so that state banks cannot cut into the federal game.  It's still a game, as in the "don't bet against the house or you will lose, but don't refuse to bet either or you'll die" sense.Perhaps not.  There is that risk.  But the potential upside far outweighs the risks, IMHO.  One thing that is certain, do nothing and we will continue to get what we have been getting.First, you can actually.  And second, you really believe that 3% is what you have actually been getting? Nonsense.  It just means that those who are good at security will become the new guardians of the realm.  Bitcoin was never really meant to be used at the protocol level by Joe Six Pack.  There will be geeks who write secure wallet systems for android and such that let Joe use bitcoins in daily life as an abstract means to pay with his mobile phone or over the Internet securely.  We don't really want one single client with one security model, because if it has flaws they all willl.  We want a bunch of clients, each doing security in a different way.  The bazzar, not the cathedral. Or you could just put a majority of your coins onto couple of cheap thumbdrives, encrypt them, and put one in a safety deposit box and another in a bubble wrap envelope with your last will and testament. Vietnam doesn't make Nikes.  They don't make anything, really. LOL!  Even that was abused!  The king declared tally sticks ursury and had them outlawed after forcing all of the goldsmiths in London to accept them in trade for gold so that he could pay for his war with France.  And since they were now illegal, no one could come to the treasury and claim their gold deposits.  They were then burned so that there wouldn't ever be any chance that the goldsmiths might come back in the future and be able to make a credible claim.  This is actually were we get the phrase, "he got the short end of the stick" because the tally sticks were created by taking a common stick, etching on both ends, breaking it in half, and then the treasury kept the long end while the (mostly unwilling) goldsmith was left with the short end as a receipt. And because you can't fathom it, it must not be so, eh?  I don't have a vested interest.  I don't have many coins.   What I have, I bought.  I've never mined.  And 80%+ of what I have bought has been spent or donated away.  The reason that I am an advocate of bitcoin, and I am, is because of the massive potential it has in creating a better world.  If the act of doing so begets a few hundred new wealthy people with more foresight than I, who am I to complain?  Who are you to complain?  If Bitcoin fails, then they are out much, but you are out nothing.  And I am out very little.  But if it succeeds, then even those who have not yet even heard of Bitcoin, or even ever used the Internet at all, shall benefit.  Some more than others, certainly; but so what?No, I'm accusing you of hypocrisy.  And of being a professional troll.  I've reviewed your entire posting history, and there isn't even plausible deniability.  couldn't even be bothered to start with some noob question, I see.  Went straight into trolling from the first post.  The only reason that you can still talk is because I don't believe in censorship.  You have a right to be an ass.  That said, I've started the process for mod accountability,  and have enlisted other mods to review your history as well.  If they agree with my assessment, well, we shall see what happens next.If you worked for the CIA, you'd be quiet. bitcoinclassifieds.com?
Yes, and for the blocks to continue to come at twice the target rate across 28 retargetings would require that the network total hashing power double every seven days for 28 weeks. No, I don't, and I wasn't talking about the price.  Did you bother to read the thread? Yeah, really.  That's at least as damning as some guy bragging in a bar to the drunk next to him. No, we are not.  My point was, if Bitcoin is a scam and early adopters are those who got into it in the past two years before you did, what then is the US FRN when the early adopters got into it before you were born?  Injustice!  We need to gather the troops and have a flash mob protest!  Were you not alive for the past two years?  Did you not have Internet access?  Not know how to use Google?  So a few hundred people make a mint because they new about something before you did are scammers, even though you had as much chance as anyone to do the same; while the legacy currency system that you were born into is the metric by which you judge fairness?  Are you for real?How much does Senator Schumer pay you anyway, are are you an "unpaid intern"?Who told you Bitcoin was deflationary?  Are you listening to the media trolls?  Bitcoin is not deflationary, and will not be before your 100th birthday.  Read the documents for yourself, and don't depend on the opinions of strangers on an Internet forum for truth. And how do you know what the capital investments, human resource and overhead are?  You don't, and you can't.  No one can. 5 days?  That was just in the past 18 hours. And your screen name reminds me of the most absurd critique of Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged was that the characters, particularly the villians, were just absurd. http://www.hover-bike.com/Just laying it out there now. So you are assuming that the hashing power doubles every retarget, which would happen every week, for the next nine months.I see.  Care for an over/under bet on that? I saw this and at first was like, "Wha..?" and then it hit me, and I bust out laughing. Why don't you make such a suggestion to the show? Guess all you want, there is no way to know.  Maybe Silk Road has had a record sales day. You think that you have protection in a brokerage account?  MtGox is a real company in Japan, subject to real laws.  They could be liable for this person's losses, particularly if it was due to negligence on MtGox's part.Still, you're right that no one should keep more in an online wallet service or exchange than they are willing to risk losing. The supply of new bitcoins doesn't change (much), that's the major point of the difficulty retargeting.  The daily new supply of bitcoins is fairly constant.  Price didn't go up because price doesn't follow difficulty.  Corrolation isn't causation, children.  You have to look at which metric leads the other.  Price changes consistantly lead difficulty changes, because a spike in the exchange price attracts new miniers.  Why is this concept difficult to understand? Do you also rail against the US FRN because it's a pyramid scheme?  After all, you don't have as much as Warren Buffet; and that bastard got into the pyramid scheme before you were born! He doesn't.  He just imagines that his account was hacked and he's losing his funds at the max cash out rate. From me, but as my employee, you only get half of the profits.  So I pay you $10 for each bitcoin you make.How's that for a deal? There is a third purpose, to secure the blockchain against a brute force attack. Oh, hey would you look at that!  Another bitter newbie mad that other people profited off of what he never knew! 11 months early?  How did you get there?
Ah, I understand now.I see two problems with your scenario...1) First, you have no idea how the bitcoin blockchain proof of work system works, and..2) you have no idea how pool mining works, either. You need to rewrite this, it doesn't even make any sense. Have you tried their email address? 4 Btc, shipped. The target rate is, indeed, 6 per hour.  The difficulty adjustment would have dropped that rate down very close to 6 if not for a sudden near doubling of the hashing capability of the network. I'm not a noob, and I checked for a disfunctional statistic.  I'm used to it being off for quite a while after a difficulty adjustment, but as I was watching it, the stats were rising instead of adjusting.  And I still waited for four hours to mention it because I wasn't sure. Such as this?http://bitbills.com/ This suggests that some well heeled personalities are stress testing the system.I'll give you $10 for each of your's and then you can go take your Zoloft.Really?  You suffer from a serious lack of imagination, and seem to be heavily influenced by the BS media reports.  Does anyone really think that the feds have the resources to monitor the outgoing shipments of these vendors?  Do you people watch too much TV?  What do you think happens?  They set a stakeout of the guy's front mailbox?  No, these guys have runners that move the shipments to various dropboxes and post offices.  The cops don't have teh resources to follow them all, so the only reall option that they have is to arrest the runner, but then that tells the vendor that he is being watched, and he suspends business activities.  Nor does the government have the resources to intercept mail in route.  And if they started doing that often, UPS would start complaining openly about the cost burdens.  This kind of mail smuggling has been going on for decades.  The only new addition is Bitcoin. Nonsense.  Debt based means that the paper is an abstraction of some third party's obligation to perform, otherwise known as a "debt". And, of course, the middle of the night runs for pickles and ice cream. Dispite the difficulty jump this morning, the average blocks per hour has been rising steadily all day, and now stands at 12 blocks per hour according to bitcoinwatch.com.  Looking at the pie chart, it's definitely in the 'other' section, which has nearly taken half of the pie chart from it's normal position of less than 5%. The standard client can do that.  That is the only way I run a client on a Windows machine, ever. Neither, as it turns out.  It wasn't my actual account these were sent from, but a newbie account that was created very similar to my screen name.  It threw me for a loop, because my passwords are not weak ones. Smartphones are not necessary for m2m micropayments if the cell provider is the primarly wallet service provider.  The necessary functionality is already present in any cell phone that I've ever used, it's just that that function is only used by the cell service provider to permit the user to manage his cell service account. My moderators account has been hacked, if you receive a PM from me (MoonShadow) that asks you to click through to any link outside of this forum, DO NOT CLICK IT!  It is likely malware. Correct, and if you use the -keypool=some.bigger.number switch you can make that advanced keypool arbitrarily large enough to backup for a very long time. Um, no.  Every fiat currency is debt based by definition because the paper note is an abstraction of value, not the value itself.  The paper notes represent an obligation of a third party, in most cases, of the entity that issued it.  Even warehouse receipts for gold bullion are debt, because those receipts represent an obligation of a third party to perform an act, namely exchange a specific weight in gold upon demand with said receipt.  Although a gold standard is certain a more reliable form of debt, only the physical trading of the gold itself does not represent a transfer of a debt.  Bitcoin is very much like gold (and silver) in this respect, as it doesn't represent a promise of value (gold standard) nor any other form of third party obligation (futures trading, fiat currencies the world over, and just about any other contract based form of trade, explicit or implicit), as bitcoin is the object of value.  This is one of the attributes that makes Bitcoin so revolutionary.   Even the Liberty Dollar was a debt whenever the paper notes were used, as the gold was stored in a vault and if you showed up there with the paper notes, Liberty Reserve LLC would have been obligated (under implicit contract) to provide all the gold those notes represented. It would be obvious enough by searching the blockchain.  Coins no longer in circulation will be very old transactions. Native encryption of the wallet.dat file is on the to-do list. In the end, the customer is always paying the transaction fees.  Bitcoin, by it's nature, just makes that explicit.  I can't see any way to hide the cost of transactions from the sender anyway.
I addressed this elsewere...http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=16764.msg219594#msg219594So if we assume the OP assumptions are correct (I don't, because I understand the system better than he) then the worst case scenario is that bitcoin is limited to 4 million nodes, not users.  Surely the wealthy (or otherwise distrusting) might choose to run their own nodes, which might be costly in 20 years, but that is not a real limitation on the average Joe. Fiat money is, itself, debt.  The framers of the US Constitution referred to them as 'debt instruments' and banned their issuance in the Coinage Act.  They are obligations of the bank itself, backed up by the "Full Faith & Credit of the United States".  When you go work for a wage, the first thing that happens is that the employer is endebted to the employee.  The employer then pays the debt by transfering that obligation to the government, via the Federal Reserve bank.  They are not called "notes" without reason, just like a mortgage is a "note". Kill your client, wait an hour or more....restart your client from the command line using the following switches...-rescan -noirc -addnode=ip.address.of.a.known.fallback.node -addnode=another.fallback.ipgoogle "bitcoin fallback nodes" to find addresses, choose them randomly, not from the top of the list. If the transaction is sent without a fee, then it will be ignored by the miners until it's old enough to have the minimum priority level to be included in the free transaction section of the block.  With a voluntary fee, the priority is much higher and the miner's will include it into the next block. No, your computer's hashing rate should be fairly even.  The difficulty has no bearing on your personal computer. I think you are looking for a portable bitcoin client.  Yes, bitcoin can be made portable so that it boots from and stores it's wallet.dat file only upon a thumbdrive.  It's not straight forward, however, but only requires that you know how to write a simple batch file to start bitcoin with the -datadir= flag to point back at the thumbdrive itself.  It's also wise to encrypt the drive with a program such as truecrypt. Someone has to start a bitcoin insurance company first.  Have at it. We are not silk road. Bitcoin itself is highly liquid, it's just that the exchange of bitcoin to/from any other currency isn't.  Try exchanging a Euro for a US$ in downtown Detroit without going to the airport.  If your business model doesn't require the exchange of your bitcoins with other currencies every time, then the liquidity of Bitcoin will become apparent as, slowly but surely, all your suppliers or their competitors begin to accept Bitcoin themselves; and thus you can remove one more step from the supply chain.  By accepting Bitcoin, you can partially remove credit card companies from your online business model.  Once your suppliers do the same, you can also partially remove the fiat currencies themselves as well.  We are still probably decades away from the point that an online successfully accept only bitcoin as online payments.It's still early, and as such the clients that are already available are a bit primitive.  There is much to be done in the area of security, we know this.  Currently, leaving your client running on your PC with the bulk of your bitcoins in the same wallet.dat file is like walking through downtown in a crowd with your wallet on your shoulder.  If you are not capable of securing your wallet.dat file to a decent degree, then don't buy any bitcoins.The currency is infinitely divisible in the protocol and to the eighth decimal place in the current client.  The destruction of BTC, in large or small amounts, just results in the slight value increase of those that remain in circulation.  They are, after all, just numbers. Eastern Although the namespace isn't infinite, it's beyond human comprehension.  If you set a brand new, high end computer to the task of seeking a collision (what you are describing) you might finish up before the Sun turns into a red giant and engulfs the Earth into heat death.  It's unlikely, however, that said time frame is a concern. What kind of assurance can you give yourself? I don't go to sleep until 3am normally.  I've seen the sunrise before bed on more than one abnormal night. Myself, my wife and three of our kids are night owls.  The last kid is a morning person, screws us all up.All my kids are homeschooled by my wife, and I'm a late shift working man.  Try sleeping to 10 am before breakfast and then starting school in your PJ's at 11 am.  They don't know what it's like riding a school bus, much less waiting for one before dark in the snow.  They still complain anyway, so sometimes I threaten to give them weggies and stuff them into their lockers, just so they will better know what the alternative is. Personally, I couldn't care less what the governor of NY's legal opinion is on Bitcoin, or pretty much anything else. Yes, it will be fine.  Addresses are valid forever, it's just bad for anonimity to use them more than once.  Actually, you can receive with them hundreds of times, but it's best not to reuse an address once it's been used to send coins once. I just encrypt the wallet.dat file onto a cheap 128 meg thumbdrive then put it into my safety deposit box.  Destroying the unencrypted copies on my PC is also necessary. Wait, how did you use the internal messaging system without your password?Something stinks. Wow, Horkabork!  That's rather creative.  How long did it take you to come up with that BS? Get used to disappointment.
Micropayments of arbitrarily small value sizes are already handled well by online wallet services such a Mybitcoin.com.  A secure cellphone interface, such as is used by M-Pesa, will come much quicker, and be more widely adopted than a cellphone client.  I want an independent smartphone client, but it's not realisticly needed for the vast majority of users.  These 'bitcoin banks' are, truthfully, a partital centralization of the Bitcoin system; but the key is that the user always has the option of switching wallet service providers or using his own client.  These wallet services will become somewhat ubiquitous, and over time as the Bitcoin economy grows, the current p2p network will trend towards being a form of major settlement backbone; while the average user with a cell phone, wallet services provider (which could easily be his actual cell service provider, as M-Pesa is actually run by Vodaphone) and a cell phone app to securely interface with his wallet service, and not directly to the Bitcoin network.  As this occurs, wallet service providers are likely to develop their own parrallel network to allow them to interact directly, and thus reduce the number of bitcoin transactions that actually must hit the network.  Imagine it like this...Joe has an account on Mybitcoin.com, and a widget on his phone to let him sent coins to any bitcoin address.  Jane has an account on MtGox, and Ron has a client running on his home computer.  Both Jane & Ron need to send a small amount to Joe, because they are sharing the cost of a dinner out (before their California 3-way) and Joe is paying the check with local fiat currency, and the others are paying him back.  Jane uses her cellphone to tell MtGox to send some to Joe's address.  MtGox immediately checks it's own records to see if that is an address that belongs to a MtGox member.  It's not, so the next step is to reach out across the parallel wallet services network to see if that is an address connected to an account with one of it's competitors for which it has an agreement of mutual settlement.  Mybitcoin responds that it belongs to a member.  MTgox doesn't care which member, only that they have a settlement agreement with Mybitcoin.  So Joe's Mybitcoin account is credited, Jane's is debited, and sometime later the accumulated imbalances between MtGox and Mybitcoin are settled in one, much larger, lump sum transaction.  This all happens before Jane can pull her finger away from the "send bitcons" button.  If both Mybitcoin and MtGox both have a large user base (each is already in the tens of thousands) then most of the transactions between users of each tend to balance out, so settlement would become rather rare.  However, Ron uses his cellphone remote control client (or a native android client) to send Joe theat same amount over the Bitcoin p2p network directly.  Ron doesn't trust wallet services, which is his right, but then must (likely) pay a transaction fee to make certain that Joe will have his coin before the night is over, since Mybitcoin won't credit Joe's account before at least a few confirmations.I hope that I have illustrated here how Bitcoin can serve as a micropayment currency system into the indefinate future, even though the above scenario isn't yet possible.  The economics provide for the above scenario to be probable.  And the only thinkg that prevents this from happening is a secure and standardized parallel communications network for which bitcoin wallet services can develop theses kinds of interparty trust agreements around. Maybe, maybe not.  We will yet see.  Regardless, this experiment is only two years old.  You are and early adopter, if you so choose to be. http://lewrockwell.com/orig12/robins-r1.1.1.html Oh, sorry. Well, you know the rules now.  You won't make that same mistake twice, will you?  Relatively cheap tuition at the University of Life. If the buyer is using his personal client, then yes, there will be a delay.  However, if the buyer is using an online wallet service, such as from within MtGox itself or Mybitcoin.com, then transfer can be instant.  It depends on just how much MtGox and Mybitcoin trust one another. No, it would not.  Why would that be necessary?  An anonymous user can withdraw fiat currency from MtGox daily up to a $1000 per day limit, while a verified user (such as a business account would be) has no such limits as far as I am aware of. Can anyone verify if these transactions have fees paid?   Yes, you can.  But that is not what he is actually saying here.  The vendor can go to MTGox and open a business account, and then his ecommerce store provides the bitcoin address that leads the funds directly into MtGox.  It's not necessary for the sender to have a MtGox account, although that would work at least as well.To completely eliminate it, yes. He doesn't, as he is more about the social networking thing.  Still, he probably wouldn't have noticed anyway, because his client predates the rise of the GPU miner and still uses the internally provided CPU miner in the client.  All of his blocks were found before October. By default, yes.  I'm his only uncle. Ah, yes.  But those assumptions could take decades to come to fruition.  They have almost zero bearing on what the value of a bitcoin will be next week or next year. What math?  Are you talking about guessing the 'proper' value of a bitcoin, based upon assumptions of the size of the (non-speculation based) Bitcoin economy?  Because it's a rediculous assertion that you, me or anyone can actually know what that is.  We can't even get a decent guess without first knowing how much trade goes on within such walled gardens as SilkRoad, OTC or BlackMarket.  Just looking at the volume of trade on those currency trading sites like MtGox doesn't tell you anything of usefullness, except that the market price is what the market price says that it is. Blocks are still being created just fine.  Your problems are not related to a lack of mining power. From both, but in every case the selection may be severely limited. All of those classes of products are available via Bitcoin. I am.A bear market is a fire sale. I doubt it, it's still on the BitcoinWatch.com pie chart.  More likely your connection to Slush's servers has broken. I've got sell orders in the high end and buy orders on the low end.  I'm sure I'm not the only one.  Bear in mind, one can create orders without having the funds to fulfill them.  I'm pretty sure that those don't show up on the order book, but if you have several orders on the low end and several on the high end, you can bounce up and down for a long period of time without ever logging into your account. ... and says, "Hey, Uncle.  I just noticed today that the bitcoin client that I thought was gone from my computer is still running in the dock.  How do I know if I generated anything?"He's a bit of a gamer, but not a computer geek.  He literally didn't notice that he's had a bitcoin client running for months, and he never turns his computer off.I told him how to check, and then he told me that he generated three blocks since October.  "How much is that worth, Unc?"  
Shouldn't.  The bitcoin client doesn't store the decimal at all.  50 BTC is stored as a 64 bit integer representing a value of 5,000,000,000.  The client only adds the decimal for human readability.  Any calls to the system should be using the protocol's representation of the value, not the GUI's. There is a post over at Mish's Global Economic Trend Analysis blog that touches this subject nicely...http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2010/11/miracle-of-survival-and-falling.html GDP is a terrible metric to depend upon.  The only reason that economists even use it is because they don't have any better metrics. No, not really.  Inflation just alters the time preferences of money not of wealth, which is notablely different.  To paraphrase a character in Cryptocrimicon, 'money is not wealth, but the corpse of wealth'.  This is no less true for Bitcoin. The BitcoinJ project is an attempt to do just that in Java for Android.  If you have the skillset, feel free to participate. Personally, I predict that trusted peer services will spring up, eventually, with the promise that transactions sent from paying users' clients will continue to be processed by the "bitcoin bank's" own pool and/or datacenter for free, even if it might take some time.  This might also become a privilage of pool contribution.I'm not a programmer, but my understanding is that it's already part of the protocol, but isn't yet included in the standard client for several reasons.  Not the least of which is the lack of urgency as compared to other concerns, such as encryption of the wallet.dat file. You are forgetting a very important factor in the  real economy.  That is, A needed that widget when he needed it.  If he could wait for it, and thus pay less bitcoin for it, then he would.  For the sake of argument, let's say that the widget in question was a refrigerator, a water heater, a washing machine; whatever.  If you refrigerator dies, do you say to your spouse "we can get it for less by doing without a refrigerator for another month"?  Do you think that works out?  Now, if the widget is something that A actually can do without, why would he buy it anyway?  The only possible answer is that it's something that he wants rather than needs.  And wants tend to be even less likely to be rationally delayed.  This is called the 'time preference' of money, and inflation certainly does increase the likelyhood that the holder is going to decide to spend sooner rather than later, but that is not necessarily a good thing. No, a thin client can operate without a trusted peer by keeping a full copy of just the block headers.  At 80 bytes per block, that about 4 megabytes of space per year.  Add to that, the thin client must be able to request and verify the blocks that contain the history of the coins that it possesses, but only has to keep what parts of each of those blocks that represent the transactions that are important to it's own coins and the merkle tree branch that proves that transaction belongs there.  The thin client doesn't need to have a trusted peer to count upon, because it can randomly choose a couple of peers that it can see on the network and compare their independent responses to it's queries.  If an attacker can surround the thin client, then a spoof could happen, but if the client is just an average Joe's wallet on his smartphone, what's the point?  There is no way to identify a particular client on the network (via the bitcoin network anyway) to find a high value target, so the best that this could do is trick a random user to accepting an invalid transaction, not steal his coins.In addition to the headers only client, a blockchainless client can also exist by choosing your trusted peer.  The nature of Bitcoin also means that if you choose to trust a peer, you are not limited in your choices of peers to choose from.   It's also impossible.  The Us government could throw all their capacity at Bitcoin and either attack it or participate in it, but they cannot just mine all the remaining coins and hoard them.  It would still take till about 2129 to mine all the coins no matter what they threw at it. The price has been volitile as of late do to the massive influx of new users, like yourself, who only recently discovered Bitcoin.  Only some of those new users are going to be concerned about buying a few bitcoin now, but enough that with a market as thin as Bitcoin is at present, that's enough to move it quite a bit.  There are vendors who accept Bitcoin, however, by using a price update script that takes the 24 hour weighted average price from bitcoinwatch.com and changing their prices automaticly one or more times per day.  Those who are concerned about the voltility of bitcoins can then sell those same coins on MtGox automaticly at that same price almost immediately by using their MtGox business account to produce their bitcoin addresses.  Most vendors have started out in Bitcoin by selling all or part of their received bitcoin immediately in this fashion, but most move to the point of accumulation of Bitcoins. If any government were to begin to accept Bitcoins directly as payment of taxes, this would be a defacto legal tender declaration; thus putting Bitcoin on par with the nation's own fiat currency.  If the US were to ever do this, it would be an admission of the declining nature of the US $ as an international reserve currency.  They are never going to do this. I think that if the government attempted to do all of those three things, I'd be extremely wealthy by 2020 and living on a private island somewhere.  If they just tried to do #3, I'd probably only be able to retire at 50. Oh Noes!  Somebody please think of the children!Wow, you really went deep to find the straw to stuff this one. Bitcoin is probably not legally different than from any in game currency, just accepted wider by design.  Still, just because the US Treasury Department isn't concerned about the tiny market that Mindmark oversees doesn't mean that those same regs don't apply to them.  The yprobably do, regardless of whether or not the USTD has ever intervened into that market. http://www.dailytech.com/Cracking+the+Bitcoin+Digging+Into+a+131M+USD+Virtual+Currency/article21878.htmLooks like DailyTech has taken the time to actually understand the system before reporting.EDIT:  Looks like I was slow on posting this one. This is true, but some of the expected fees are 'soft', and should not force the sender to include them.  If the fee is not paid on a low priority transaction, then the transaction is simply ignored by the miners until it's old enough that it's priority is above the minimum.  I've done this many times when not under time pressure.  This fee must be required by his client for some reason. It was bound to happen, today someone was trying to reset my password to MtGox.  Make sure your passwords are strong.  MtGox really needs a multi stage captcha. Gentoo Yes.  The most likely classification under US tax laws that Bitcoin would fit into is a "stored value" digital asset.  So as a business openly engaging in Bitcoin trading for goods and services, there is the possibility that the law could interpret part of your company as a money services business, and thus subject to such laws.   Any method of moving funds from Paypal to BTC is dangerous for the person selling BTC.  No honest seller is going to do it without a significant risk premium.  It's possible that you could find bitcoin users in your city, particularly if you live on the East coast of the United States, and trade cash in person.  Or you might be able to find someone on the OTC network via IRC, but that's still risky.
Mods don't have the power to ban users, only recommend users to be banned.  That's a power reserved for the admins.  Nor do I have the power to alter the forum rules.  I'm only a mod, not a god. He was.  Those were the posts that didn't call for deletion.  I was not the one who imposed that punishment, nor the one who overrode it. I bet you will. "Let me explain smalls claims courts to you:""Oh I'm very happy to stay in the bitcoin economy.  I'm minting free money on the hopes and dreams of amateur investors with the computer sitting next to me, after all...""Paypal fees aren't that bad...hell, neither are credit card fees, really.  Certainly not when compared with BTC lol.""And oh great gods of Valhalla what delicious, delicious government over-payments they are. Right now my Gubmint over-payments are outpacing my BTC mining by a wide margin, so I guess you could say I just have a diversified portfolio!""So I guess to sum up what I'm saying is go fuck yourselves.  Yep, that's pretty much it really.  Go fuck yourselves, you know nothings.Good day, Sirs.  Good day.""Unless you're happy jerking your pud about printing money for nothing with the rest of your "I just happened to have some powerful cards cause I'm a gamer" and "I'm getting rich cause I print money, BUY MORE CARDS, RALLY" and "This is the way of the future guys, really, I know it" bretheren, then you better hope to the fucking bitcoin god that someone more mature and a better man than you are out there trying to POLITELY educate people who don't understand it.""Hey, get the fucking point yet?  They won't.  They NEVER WILL.  Unless you have rather extraordinary parents who are undoubtedly in a small minority."Only your first post wasn't overtly negative..."Hello all,Glad to be a new part of the bitcoin world.My current system is 1x 5770 and 1x 5830, non Crossfire. I also have a my NVIDIA card that was replaced by the AMD's.My question is, is there any way for me to plug in my NVIDIA card into my third PCI-e slot and use it to mine as well?I have already tried and when I installed the NVIDIA drivers it broke OpenCL and guiminer could no longer see my AMD cards.I'm wondering if anyone else has gotten this to work...Also, damn this OpenCL bug pegging cores.  I hope everyone affected has notified AMD of their folly!Thanks everyone!"And the time difference between your first post and your first negative post was nine minutes.  Did you have some kind of amazing epiphany in those nine minutes?  Suddenly discover that it's all a scam?Troll.  Probably professionally. This is the first good thought you've had.  It goes against my instincts, but I guess your right, it is time to ban you for trolling. Woo Hoo!  Weekend fire sale! Added to that, you think too highly of yourself.  This is a forum about bitcoin, not bitcoin itself.  The new rules don't exist to prevent you from talking your book, even though that is still bad form. We tried that one back a few weeks ago.  Users abuse the rating system to punish those whom they disagree with, rather than just those whose posts are offtopic or offensive.  Trying to keep a liberal forum works well when the vast majority of the users are libertarians or similar, as libs don't desire to overtalk our detractors, which is just about everyone.  We're kinda used to that.  But the signal to noise ration on this forum has dropped to unacceptable levels. Limiting expression is not our style.  This was put in place due to an influx of trolls and scammers as a direct result of the media attention and the army of co-ops who think that the rest of us don't know that they work for Chuch Schumter.  All of these accounts have less than 50 posts, and we know that to can be messed with.  This is only a temporary measure.  Please stay tuned. Thanks for volunteering.  Keep us abreast on your progress. Yup, daytrading is easy here.  I ratched up a $100 starting pot up over ten times in the past 6 weeks, and I just bought back in again.  I expect to sell again by Tuesday.  Eventually, users are going to start noticing the patterns, and the price movements will not be nearly as profitable or predictable; but for me mining was never a likely endeavor. It's not a religion.  I'm not going to censor anyone because they are shortsighted or error prone. I'm ready!  I don't mine anyway! Maybe, maybe not.  Those who wanted to mine on GPU's didn't think to highly of the claims of a single ATI 5830 getting 100 times the hash rate that a high end cpu could get either.  I'm going to reserve judgement until I see some physical hardware. The free software foundation would be a good test subject. This topic has been worked to death.  Search the forum for "dash7", "near field communications" and "the vending machine problem". And those same early adopters can expect to be rewarded relative to the risk and efforts they put into it.  Consider the teenager who convinced his parents to let him sell their alpaca wool as socks for bitcoin.  That relatively simple action brought new business to their family farm, and also likely set that teen up for a very bright future in the process. No, that would mean that you had about ten inputs for each transaction.  That shouldn't be enough to throw you into the 'large transaction' rule. This is true, and why gold became that preferred market money for thousands of years.  But Regression theorem requires a use value to exist before it's properties as a good money could matter.  Since gold was money long before the bronze age, and is too soft and heavy for weaponry, it's initial use value was highly limited at the time.  Basicly, some warrior-king's most favored wife saw some gold and desired it for it's beauty, so the king desired it to keep momma happy.  So basicly, "Ooooh, shiny!"Bitcoin's initial use value was it's potential to be a good medium of exchange as compared to current online offerings; and it's first monetary use was basicly a 10K BTC pizza. http://www.itproportal.com/2011/06/10/amnews-microsoft-acquires-prodiance-bitcoin-evolves-citigroup-networks-hacked-wii-u-available-on-pre-order-at-zavvi/Of course!  Jeff Garzik is Satoshi!  Wait, that's just stupid.
Not portable enough.   I would make one, if a kit were available, say from adafruit. Might work, but I'm not willing to buy a new phone for this.  I'd prefer a standalone device. I don't know, then.  Either it's a fee schedule imposed by the creator of that client fork, or you had a massive number of inputs. ArtForz has done all of that, and even commissioned a small run of asics for his (not insignificant) mining cluster.  By reports, each card produces 200 Mhashs per second while only using 8 watts.  Most of this is hearsay, of course, but he was discussing ASICs back in September. Where have you found survivalist gear for sale? If you can get ArtForz to talk to you, then you just might be able to buy his design off of him.   It's not arbitrary, it's just that the sender's client is the one that creates the transaction.  But, under most circumstances, a fee is voluntary.  This permits the costs of processing transactions to be borne in another fashion.  For example, if in a future that Bitcoin is very successful, and you are shopping at (for example) Wal-Mart; it is generally assumed that Wal-Mart is not going to expect you to pay the transaction fee, but the client may or may not be able to respect the vendor's request that the fee be deducted.  It doesn't much matter, though, because it's in the interests of Wal-Mart to have those transactions processed quickly whether there is a fee paid or not; so Wal-Mart has a strong economic encentive to either run their own datacenter to process Bitcoin transactions sent to themselves, or contract this activity out to a professional mining datacenter for the same ends.  Thus, Wal-Mart bears the transaction costs and also keeps any savings (or fees) gained by mining for themselves.  All other consumer or retail businesses have similar encentives, and therefore we can expect that "bitcoin banks" serving business interests will be responsible for processing the free transactions to or from their own clients/customers. This should not have been required.  Did you send these from your own client?  Did the client ask for a fee, or refuse to send without one? Ah, must be a new thing.  I've never noticed my older client changing the address without me explicitly telling it to do so. MtGox is not your wallet.  It's a website. It doesn't.  It creates a new address every time you send coins, or ask it to do so. They also tend to forget gold's initial use value was little more than "ooooh, shiny!" Stop the client, let it finish up, then restart it from the command line with the -rescan switch. http://www.lewrockwell.com/blog/lewrw/archives/89471.htmlIt's a shame that LRC couldn't manage to wrap their heads around Bitcoin before posting this. Using a different address can improve your anonimity, but if you would rather just give a different address to each person that you transact with, those addresses are still good forever.  So you don't have to tell a new address to your friends just because you changed the address that the client displays. No, because the client automaticly generates 100 keypairs for future use upon first boot.  It will use a new keypair with each send by default, and everytime that you hit the 'new address' button.  Those keypairs (and addresses) are good forever, so as long as you back up at least as often as once every 100 transactions you will be okay.You can also tell it to make a lot more for you by starting it with the -keypool=somenumber switch. restart with -rescan If there is nothing else I know about governments, it's that they are just people with their own agendas and factions like anyone else.  If one set of government busybodies openly wants to shut down bitcoin, it's a sure bet that there is another set of busybodies who privately want to see it florish.  The same is true for any other government as it is for the US.  If the US government settles on the decision of suppression, then there will undoubtedly be other governments that will support bitcoin for no other reason than the US overlords don't like it.For example, if Schumer wants Bitcoin stopped; that alone is enough to get the attention of his own critics.  If the Koch brothers get the idea that supporting bitcoin would undermine Dems who openly oppose it, we are going to see a lot more positive press than we could have ever imagined.  There seems to be an ongoing attack of some subtle sort disrupting connections to nodes that announce themselves via the IRC bootstrapping channel.  Look up the "bitcoin fallback nodes" on google, and use several ip addresses randomly using the following -connect=ip.address.goes.here and also use -noirc to keep your own ip address off of the irc bootstrapping channel.
That's basicly escrow, but it doesn't solve the fast transaction problem because if you knew that you were going to want something from a snack machine in an hour, then you don't really need rapid confirmations anyway. Could be perfect, but I can't tell yet. This echos the results of another user who did the same using the first eight of the published fallback nodes.  Is this what you did?  This means that three of the eight fallback nodes have been knocked of the Internet.Are teh connections that you are getting, are they working? Use -noirc and -connect=ipaddress instead.  This will connect you to only the ip address of the node you specify and not announce your address to the irc bootstrapping channel.  You can use up to 8 -connect= switches. I suspect that there is an attack of the p2p network itself underway.  Use the -addnode= switch and some fallback node IP addresses.  Better yet, use the -connect= switch with several nodes and the -noirc switch to not announce your IP address on the irc bootstrapping channel.  I suspect, but cannot verify, that IP numbers that show up on the irc bootstrapping channel are getting cut off somehow. Try restarting the client with the -addnode= switch and an IP address of one of the fallback nodes.  I suspect there is an attack underway against the p2p network itself, or the IRC bootstrapping method.  Your not the first to mention weirdness. I just got a 404. Nothing worthwhile ever comes easy. That fee was instituted when a bitcoin was less than a cent.  The growth has been far faster than we anticipated and this is being worked on presently. This is probably true, but likely irrelevent since the central banks cannot return to a gold standard and maintain.  Even if they did, I'd consider this entire experiment a success on that note alone. Almost, but that device doesn't actually 'dup' anything, as the user is required to peruse the source device on the lcd screen and select files.  Still, you did find one for sale, which is something I wasn't able to do.  PM me your address, and I'll send you a nickel.EDIT: according to the reviews, it also can't power a usb device and is notablely slow, so it wouldn't fit the bill.  I want a device that can copy at full usb 2.0 speeds, as well as provide enough usb bus power to light up two thumbdrives.  It's for this project...http://deaddrops.com/So that I (or anyone else) can walk up to a deaddrop location with this device and a thumbdrive with a respectable amount of freespace, plug it in for a couple minutes, and take off without ever having to stand there with a laptop in the open.  If the user wishes to place something on the deaddrop, he just turns the device around and uses his own thumbdrive as the source. The only situation that I can think of that the client would report a difficulty of one is if you are trying to solo mine without a connection to the bitcoin p2p network, and thus do not have the blockchain.   If you start a client without a blockchain, and tell it to mine, it will attempt to start the whole thing over again with the genesis block, which is hard coded into the client. I've been looking for this for a while, and even searching the makerspace type hardware hacker forums, and I can't find what I'm looking for.I need a small, self-powered (i.e. batteries) usb drive duplicator.  One source, one target.  The device looks at the source and attempts to non-destructively copy the data found on the source to the target, if the target's data is older than the source and the target has enough space remaining.  This is for the deaddrops project. 0.05 BTC to the first person that can pm me with a reference to wherever I can actually buy such a device or kit for such a device.  I am the sole judge of whether your references qualify. All miners are working on each block, one at a time.  There is a designed delay of about 10 minutes between each block to allow for future network latency of spreading blocks and transactions.  There is no "starting from scratch" however, your computer is repeatedly hashing the 80 block header, all miners have equal odds of success with each hash performed."Difficulty" is a relative metic.  It's the number of times more hashes (on average) it takes to find a solution than it would be if the "target" number were it's highest possible setting.  The system will not permit a target of greater than 32 leading zeros of the 256 bit hash.  Thus a difficulty 1 hash would not solve teh currency difficulty.No, and it doesn't need to.  It doesn't matter because there is no begining or end to the work. read the white paper on the main page under docs.  If you don't understand the white paper, no flash animation is going to help.  You will not understand it the first couple of times that you read it, but hopefully it will click eventually.  I was literally asleep and dreaming about it back in July woke up with a start with the thought, "That's f*cking genuis!" You guys realize that politicos sometimes make rediculous statements to highlight the rediculousness of the situtation, don't you?  He made this comment within the context that there are still people that believe that there is gold in Fort Knox, and that it underpins the value of the US FRN.  If that were so, then attempting to sell the gold would naturally require an audit of the reserves.  He knew that the powers-that-be would refuse any such thing, but Ron Paul also knew that some of their own supporters would then think "hell, why not?" and a very small percentage of them will be started down a path to revelation. First, he admitted that he was operating on hearsay; second, it's a blog not a news article and third he is still way better than most of the "articles" on Bitcoin I've seen thus far. It's in the nature of humans to band together.  That doesn't always result in civilization.  Gangs & mobs are perfect examples of groups of people who band together for a force advantage, and is entirely contradictory to a civilized society.  I hate Metric.  Only engineers like it. I plan on building a mining rack to put into my garage, and set it up with my thermostat to turn on and off the GPU miners based upon the heat demand in the fall and winter.  So I can have a warm car and still a change at catching a block every now and again.
Electronic transfers in the existing interbanking system takes longer than a day to confirm, whether or not your bank lets you see the new balance already or not.  If 90% of the miners dropped out, the system would be fine.  It would take a while for the difficulty to update, and there would be a finite amount of transactions that could get processed, but this would mostly be an annoyance than anything.  The average block is less than a tenth of the current max block size anyway. I wanted to get it done before the userbase grew too large to do it easily. Granted, everyone makes a few errors every now and again, but if Stossel was as bad as you (and your sources, don't you do your own fact checking?  I do, and I usually find that both Stossel and Beck are both much more accurate than the bloggers will admit; particularly when paired up against their ideological opposition such as that one guy who doesn't have a show anymore or that other guy that got fired from MSNBC.  What were their names again?  Hard to remember, as only about four people actually watched either show.) claim then he wouldn't be able to stay on television.  He would have been sued out of the business long ago.A cursory look at your links tells me straight away that the sources that you trust don't deserve it. No much editing is usually necessary.  Most people really are stupid. The Wall Street Journal Online is epic! I wanted to do it back in November. Your concerns are invalid, because this is not a fiat.  The closest thing to Bitcoin is a LETS with a net postive balance.  In fact, that is exactly what it is, a LETS for the Internet.By definition, a fiat currency always has a central bank. And you're an ass.  This was a neutral blog post, what is your problem with Stossel?  Are you his ex-wife or what? Bitcoin can functionally do a 'stock split' by moving the decimal point in the client's default display setting.. @NO_SLAVEDon't assume that you are the high mark of Austrian economic understanding on this forum, nor that you actually understand the underlying economics of Bitcoin.  From what I have seen thus far, neither is likely.  Moving the decimal place is not equivalent to hyperinflation.  In an inflationary state, money is created disproportionately to the economy.  As the central bank creates more money, the existing money loses value.  This is not what we are suggesting here.  In the case of Bitcoin shifting the decimal place, all players have exactly the same relative value as they had before; both in relation to each other and in relation to the non-bitcoin world.  All that divisibilty is already present and accounted for in the system, and the system was designed for it to happen eventually anyway.  The decimal point was placed where it is as an arbitrary design decision by Satoshi, who literally placed the decimal point in the middle of a 16 decimal integer.  The block reward is 50 BTC, but if you look at any block with your own eyes, the system does not use a decimal point at all, and awards the winning miner 5,000,000,000 of the smallest possible unit.  Nothing is changing except how that value variable is displayed by the client, and the client does it because it would otherwise be difficult to read. http://thri.ca/archives/549/comment-page-1#comment-11714 I finally get to post a new one...http://www.fox2now.com/news/ktvi-missouri-lawmakers-want-to-shut-down-drug-dealing-website-20110607,0,2162224.story Used to be able to. Dude, that was mean!  I had to check! Did that too.  No go.  Must be blocked. Bruce WagnerYes, very. I did all that to begin with, and I can't see any form. I've noticed a small oversight.  There does not seem to be any way for a user to deposit in bitcoins, there is only the FAQ that tells the reader generally how this is done, and not a link to the market's bitcoin receiving address to actually do so. Born and raised. well done.  What ever became of the Point-of-Sale inititive?
Yes, well the frenzy was caused by the media focus upon Silk Road in particular, because of the use of Bitcoin and an internal escrow system, it has grown much larger much faster than the other choices.  It's not going to take long for those older sites to adopt Bitcoin to compete, and most of the vendors on Silk Road probably deal on many tor hidden sites.  Even bringing down Silk Road's servers isn't really going to matter that much.  Someone else will do it. Newgroups are old tech, that were re-adopted to accomodate torrents.  I can use either in my bittorrent client, but the only advantage that newsgroups have is that they aren't often trottled by ISP's.  Bittorrent can be trottled, even in the US, but this is only somewhat effective.  I get entire OS updates this way, and download entire netshows. Actually, there is.  It's called the "first to market" advantage.  It's why VHS beat out Betamax in the consumer marketplace even though everyone agreed that Betamax was both a superior format and at least as cheap to mass produce.  Anyone can try to replicate Bitcoin, but without a significant and obvious advantage to users, it's market uptake will never approach Bitcoin's. Just for giggles, I flagged this ad "Best of Craigslist".  I recommend that others do so as well. I see that you don't have the sense not to irritate the mod. I would if I could, just to see if direct access to Silk Road would even matter. No, 21 trillion with a continuing division of two decimal places. Your statements about Napster, etc are correct; because these were company driven technologies with centralized servers.  Your statements about Bittorrent are not.  Byte for byte, bittorrent now consumes more bandwidth worldwide than email.  Movies do tend to be big files.  "Torrents are long replaced by news groups etc."  LOL! Of course.  The name of the state is a proper noun, btw; which requires the respect of a capital. I've been on the Mises forum for a few months, and have followed it for a few years, but I'm far from a regular contributor.  I go by a different handle there, and have been arguing with nearsighted idiots over the semantics of a "currency" and a "dollar proxy" for months. I'm an 'Austrian' (praxeologist, more generally) and I relized Bitcoins potential almost immediately.  Tunnel vision is a condition that can befall anyone. I live in Kentucky, and have posted to Craigslist in the past.  I'm very interested in this sad little statist's response.  I'd certainly like to know if any such statute exists, and what it actually says.  I'd doubt seriously that it exists, the KRS (Kentucky Revised Statutes) are not really all that long or complicated for a state code, and I've read most of them.  I've never noticed anything talking about anything digital or currency related, but honestly I haven't looked either. This is a wonderful analogy, and if you were willing, I'd suggest posting this argument to the Mises forum.  There are a lot of people there that are wholely against bitcoin because it's not backed by anything, and I've actually had some tell me that fiat is still better! I would like Team Fortress II, but not until it can run on my Mint Linux. I'll have to keep that one in mind. No, not yet.  All this stuff is in the 'to do' list, but right now the client is fairly simple, and the encryption of the wallet.dat file by default really needs to come first.  The only thing that you can do is leave the client running. Your client should attempt to resend the transaction every couple days until it sees it.  If your receiving party sees the coins, it's not really an issue.  There is no way (at present) to tell the client to cancel a transaction that never made it to the network. You likely have a lot of small input transactions that the client is attempting to consolidate, as that is it's default profile.  Currently there is not yet a way to tell the client to avoid going over the free size limit, so no matter what you do, you are going to end up paying this oversize limit fee.Did you mix up a bunch of coins into very small transaction sizes with the mixer, or something?  If not, try sending him .02 BTC; if it will let you do that, then your client is still using the old small value limit schedule and needs to be updated.  The small value limit fee only existed to keep people from 'spamming' the network by repeatedly sending very small amounts to themselves repeatedly. I assume that you mean that you are still waiting for a payout.  These must be handled mostly by human beings, and can't be automated to any large extent.  Also, there are increasing reporting requirements for US citizens as either the payout or the total volume of payouts from one vendor increases; thus it becomes increasingly costly for MtGox to payout.  I wouldn't have bothered, myself.  It's getting to the point that most urban dwellers aught to be able to find someone to sell their bitcoin to directly in a local fashion, or at least sell their US$ balance on MtGox to, which can also be done.  I, for one, don't want a bank transfer to withdraw my cash balance anyway; so if the market price isn't going to come back down anytime soon, I'm going to try to find a local bidder to buy my cash balance. This results in a social event wherein the violently uncivilized are quickly identified by the rest of society, by reason of their victims.  Then, as a method of protecting itself from future violence from such persons, proceed to negate their violent tendencies in an organized fashion.  Some would form posses (or hire rough & tumble types) to capture or kill the offender, as well as send the appropriate warning to others with a violent tendency to squash it or face similar consequences; or the offender will eventually encounter someone who is aware of his history and is faster than he is.  Thus the old adage, 'an armed society is a polite society'.
I informed my lover, of Bitcoins. She seems to like it. I informed my lover-of-bitcoins.  "She" seems to like it. This statement can be taken in more than one way. I'll spell this all out for you.  The only reason that SilkRoad would institute a referral system now is to keep snooping feds out.  If anyone is giving away invites to newbies on this forum, that defeats the purpose.  Thus any such invite that you get from this forum is more likely to be a fed sting op than the real deal. That's a good plan. I'd be just as easy if deepbit would publish the full blocks on some automated site for archiving.  This way, anyone that was interested enough to check could go look and see if the blocks look honest and if they match what the pool has been working on. No, not really.  Having 51% of the total network hashing power only gives you about a half a percentage point of success, it just makes it possible.  Even with 51%, a double spend is pretty hard to get away with. You're not alone, most of the women on this forum don't advertise that fact.  So other assume they are male by default. You are correct.  All around, it's better to mine solo. Even in the land of the free, the free man is a criminal. Is there anything that prevents a developer from tweeking the gpu miners to run on game consoles?  Thus creating a 'Wii' pool and a 'PS3' pool, etc? You completely misunderstood. Why does this keep coming up?  No, Tor is unreliable by it's nature.  It's very unlikely that the feds could isolate Silk Road's server and less likely that they are stupid enough to put it where the feds can get to it. "the Internet is a passing fadthat will go the way of the BBS."-By Bill Gates circa 1995 I'm now looking forward to the day I can travel to a third world nation an buy an AK-47 with bitcoin. Hang on to your broken wallet.dat data.  Protect it as much as you would if it were not broken.  I lost 62 bitcoins in an experiment involving a thumbdrive back in November, but only recently was motivated to attempt to fix it.  They can be repaired by the right skillset. At least you could admit that.  Difficulty affects what an individual miner can earn in a day, but not the overall supply.  There is 7200 new bitcoins created each day, regardless of the difficulty or the market price.  This will cut in half in January of 2013. Really?  You guys need to stop and understand the system before you speak. You don't get to choose the market price, only the price for which you will sell.  The market price drives difficulty, not the other way around.  If you couldn't make what you wanted anymore, what would you do?  Drop out?  All else being the same, this would result in a drop in difficulty (no matter how small) thus making it easier for others to mine enough to profit.  The difficulty tends to follow the price by a 6 week lag.  Whatever feedback that difficulty has upon the price is so small as to be ignored. And back down. It doesn't matter.  The difficulty has no bearing on the market price, he's just confused about cause and effect.
So?  Freedom of speech means that the government can come after me for what I say, but that does not mean that I won't have to deal with those other citizens that I tend to offend. My prediction didn't survive 20 minutes. I was denied my coat by deception, but it would have required the use of force if the deception had failed.  Otherwise, why bother to sneaksteal?  If the person is entitiled to my coat because I'm not wearing it, what does it matter if I know that he is stealing it?  It's because theft is still the act that initiates the force.  Initiation of force is not the same as the use of force. I can conceive it, this doesn't mean that I agree with your interpretations of it.  There is an implicit agreement between myself and the restraunt owner, that he agrees that I own what I arrived with (so long as there is no credible claim otherwise) and thus, by agreeing to take responsibility for my property, is partially responsible for defending it against theft or destruction. Don't quit your day job.  Oh, sorry. Yes.  I'm seriously asking how your strawman situation supports your claim that libs are not against all initiations of force.  This may or may not be true for any given lib, but lets leave that aside for a moment and examine your contrived situation.  If someone steals my coat from the coatrack at a resturant, how does that affect my views on initiation of force?  He initiated force, after all, because I was denied use of my own property.  I'm not likely to be terriblely concerned about the theft of a coat, beyond the inconvience of the moment, but my freedom to decide to give my coat away or not was denied me by someone else.  Was it not? Really?  How does your post make this point? Neolod is a famous troll among the Bitcoin community.  He once intentionally "procured" a cluster belonging to his employer, just so he could drive up the difficulty and pull out, to 'prove' his theory that bitcoin would crash.  It didn't.  Take anything he has to say about bitcoin with a pound of salt.  He's probably bitcoin wealthy despite himself, if he didn't delete his wallet.dat file. I'm sure that's what the guy who bought the 10K BTC pizza was thinking, too. "Garzik says that they have cooperated with authorities in conjunction with Silk Road and are currently working to distance themselves from the illegal site. Similarly the site is working to make their service entirely legal and in conjunction with government standards."Sounds like Garzik was feeding them a line of crap. "There will only ever be 21 Trillion bitcoins!  This time we mean it!" We could probably get away with only a 5 decimal point shift, but not a 4.  Six would be a decades long solution. If we want to do this twice, we could only shift 3; but we need to do this together.  Just depending upon the end user to select the most appropriate view is going to do more harm than good if we don't adjust the default view. Or cell phones. Those are all conventions based on the same frame of reference.  Try doing that when one party thinks a bitcoin is an order of magnitude more valuable than the other party. Yeah, the co-ops that they put on the phones are particularly good at giving that impression regardless of their true thoughts. No, no danger there.  The value of the bitcoins won't change, just the display of them.  If the users of said site transfer their coins out from that site, their new client would display the new number.  In truth, bitcoins are just a 64 bit integer anyway, and the decimial point was put into the middle of that 16 decimal place (in base ten) integer as an arbitrary decision by Satoshi.  We have all known that it would have to move eventually, we just didn't really expect that day would come so quickly. i don't have an issue with a client that presents the balance however the user wants, but I'm talking about changing the default state, and thereby changing the standard way we discuss value.  Otherwise, there will be the need to explain our personal frames of references with every transaction, or risk a misunderstanding undermining our businesses. More difficult, yes.  Businesses in Africa won't care that bitcoins are illegal for businesses in the United States, or if they do, they will be happy about it because they will get a monopoly capture advantage that they didn't have to lobby for.  Internet sales are largely unaffected by the location of the business.  For that matter, the business could be in some small country in Africa, next to the servers; while the products are shipped by a standard dropshipping agency in the United States.  Win-Win! I suggested 3 back in November, nobody listened.  Now we have a condition wherein we are already pricing things in fractions of a coin.  If we only move 3 over, we will have to do it again in another 6 months. We need to explain this, and set a date for the shift.  Otherwise this is going to have to happen later, when the average bitcoin user is much less informed than the average user of this forum.  The results, I believe, could be mass confusion.  It could cause mass confusion anyway.
Um, no.  Call them up and complain that your bitcoin trade was charged back and they will cancel your account for violation of their policy rules. Do you agree with yourself often? If you are trying to mine alone, then yes, you must have a client running.  If you are trying to mine in a pool, you don't even need the blockchain. Informal poll.  Do you think it's time for the Bitcoin community to change the view of the bitcoin balance in the standard client? That's just about right for a CPU.  You can't mine on a GeForce 8500GT, I tried that one also. The standard going rate, then? It was decades ago, and was partly due to my own stupidity.  I don't doubt that they have improved the system since, but I don't know because I don't use them.  I'd rather not discuss the errors of my youth. Transaction fees are usually voluntary, but there are some fees required for certain types of transactions.  For example, there is a small fee for sending very small amounts that is intended to limit 'transaction spamming' of people sending vast numbers of small amounts to themselves repeatedly.  This lower limit is currently in the process of being lowered from .01 bitcoins, as when this was instituted it was a very small fraction of a cent.  Another required fee exists for unusually large transactions, such as you might get if you had 1000 input transactions of .02 bitcoin each trying to total up to pay a bill of 19.99 bitcoin.  Yet another required fee is for the -sendtomany option employed by the mining pools to distribute earnings to all the pool members in a single transaction.  Still another is required if you were to create an unusual transaction via the internal transaction scripting language, which is not really functional just yet anyway, but will allow the sender to do some nifty things; such as create conditional transactions, claimable transactions, and time-locked/delayed transactions. Micropayments are likely to be handled by online wallet sites, like Mybitcoin.com works now.  For example, when a Mybitcoin.com user sends funds to another user, the transaction is entirely internal, occurs instantly, and can be of an infinately small amount.  Bitcoin is more likely to function as a kind of monetary backbone between users and these varied wallet services.  Many popular online games are going to probably run their own wallet services, wherein you can deposit a lump sum to be spent over a period of time, and then withdraw the balance if you so desire.  The important part is that they all use Bitcoin as their underlying currency, and don't all try to invent a digital currency of their own. Who is the "US" in this context? We've had lulls that lasted for months.  A couple days is meaningless. No, but you have aggressed against the establishment, who was under an implicit agreement to secure my coat.  Once you steal it, he is then responsible to me for my loss. There are a lot of things that they could do, the question is, would these methods be effictive.  Probably not, in the long run, if the successes of the "War on (some) Drugs" and the persecution of p2p filesharing are any indicator.  That doesn't mean that the thugs can't hurt some people in the near term, though. No.  The number of bitcoins does vary somewhat, but the entire point of the changing difficulty is to keep the average new currency creation rate to 7200 per day until January of 2013. Bitcoinwatch.com has 24hour, 7 day, and 30 weighted average statistics on the bottom of the main page.  If you can extract that number once a day, you should be able to set prices automaticly.  If need be, take the 24 hr number and add an extra 1% to cover your but against the near term voltility. Also, the OTC trade bot on bitcoin's IRC channel might be worth a look.  I've never used it myself, but I understand it gets quite a bit of traffic. Cash in person is ideal, if you live in a major urban area.  If you can find a seller near you, arrange a meeting at a coffehouse with a wifi hotspot; and bring your laptop. I'm sure we will find out. This could work.  A bitcoin bank intended for rapid, small transactions between users, wherein every user has a "panic" address that his balance can be dumped to if the feds show up with a warrant for the servers.  There could be a foot button under the attendent's desk to push when they walk up, and by the time they can walk over to unplug the router the entire value of the bank has been "withdrawn". I've been scammed with WU before, I said it was not foolproof, not that it couldn't work.  If you can find a seller willing to drop his anonimity in order to sell you bitcoins via WU, you should be suspicious if s/he doesn't charge you at least a small premium.
The lull in price movements is a cyclic event that occurs naturally, and likely has nothing at all to do with the threat of government action.  If the bitcoin market cared what Schumer thought about bitcoins, then the trade volume would have spiked and the price dropped as the fearful tried to exit.  The stable price between $18-$19 started before Schumer's threats, and indicates that the bitcoin market just doesn't really care. And from publicity provided by those who would want to stop people from buying drugs. WU is not foolproof. No, I don't mean non-listening nodes, but those would qualify also because they are intermittently listening.  The network is a very fault tolerant, self-healing system. No, but that's not really going to save you a great deal either. Keep up the research.  There is a mechanism that the protocol uses to determine for itself which chain was first.also, those checkpoints are hard coded so far.  It's not unreasonable for one or more clients to have an automatic checkpointing method, wherein they will refuse to accept a new chain beyond a certain point; thus forcing a chain split until human users resolve the issue. Good luck with that. Yes, and your average time to success would be, on average, something only a couple millenia after the Sun engulfs the burnt crust of the Earth as a red giant.But, yes.  It's technically possible. If you type in a valid address, there is no way for the blockchain or other nodes to know that it doesn't exist.  Not all nodes are discoverable. Clearly, indeed.  You and your bearish compatriots should tell this to the many other forums, warning others from bidding up; uh, I mean from buying bitcoins.  I guess I'll just have to take that risk, myself!  Oh, the burden of being an advocate! I would have to agree, but if we are going to move the decimal point, we need to do it sooner rather than later. That's not what he asked you to show.  He asked you to show how difficulty affects price.  We have long known of the corrolary between price and difficulty, but difficulty changes lag price.  It's impossible for the effect to come first, so logically, price affects difficulty.  It's also sensible, since as the price rises, mining becomes relatively more profitable and more people compete. Collecting currency notes is one of my many OCD habits. If difficulty drops, more miners jump back into the game.  Difficulty goes back up, marginal miners drop back out.  It's a s self balancing market. Interested. I think that is a sad statement. Some of us know what the calculations are, and what they are for.  All you had to do is ask.Where does this BS number keep coming from?  No, the 21 M limit is something that can never be achieved, only approached.  If we are still using a 64 bit integer to store the bitcoin values in 2130, then the block reward will drop to zero around that time.  Blocks will continue to be created forever.1) it's not impossible and 2) the bitcoin client provides a new address for each transaction by default.  The user has to willfully reuse addresses, otherwise. Basicly, the overall market doesn't seem to care.   The problem is that the standard way the Bitcoin does things overwhelms Android.   Not enough memory or data storage, too much storage access.
The what? That's true, too; but they could still dick with the last couple hundred blocks. I have this widget, and for the most part it works great.  However, if the interval were configurable and the time at update was replaced with a time since update, that would improve things.  Also, when I click it, I want it to update immediately.  Could this be done? I certainly have, though I must admit that it's never come from the government "regulated" media outlet known as the BBC. "Tact - The ability to tell someone to go to hell so that they will look forward to the trip."It's not the intent, but the content, of the posts that are affected by the rules. Stop doing his homework. It seems that the average inteligence of the forum membership has dropped a bit since Shumer's army arrived.Do you know what a "3 percenter" is? I want to be able to do everything that I can do with the gui client, but inside a terminal window. I still need this. I find myself laughing even more at the meaning of your handle. Same to you, Corky. You have no idea how ironic that is, nor just how offensive it is. You don't get it.  There is no "us".  I won't be participating in any military actions, and neither will you.  The nation state is imploding by it's own weight.  It's only an idea anyway.  If a civil war begins, it will be because the powers-that-be couldn't figure out how to stop, and thus began eating each other on the way down.  This is how all empires have failed throughout history, but unlike those in the past, the Internet has enabled new forms of self-organizations so that a new nation state need not rise up from the ashes of the old one.  What comes next isn't going to be entirely unfamiliar to you, but nor is it going to be something you would have predicted.  The Internet enables not just vast, rapid and cheap communications (a necessary element to any social order on the scale of a nation-state) but also Bitcoin.  Bitcoin thus enables the phyle, an entirely novel form of civil order.  The near term is likely to be a bit scary for you, but assuming that you don't lose your mind (or your life) in the meantime; the long view will be grander than you seem capable of imagining. I doubt that seriously.  A war machine on the scale of the US military is ill equipt for a occupation of it's own citizenry.  I should know, I was once part of that military machine.  I, like many of my brethren, saw the ugly truth of our nationalism writ large from the inside of that machine.  The only way to do what you expect that they will do, is to use loyal manpower willing to kill in the defense of an ideal.  Not only is this already a limited subset of the population at it is, it would rapidly decrease once the whole thing started.  One man can only carry one rifle at a time, so in the end the whole of the Us military is at a disadvantage.  And I'm sure that you would discount this as rediculous, because you believe that the public favors the government as such.  And this is probably true at present, but nothing less than a civil war is going to stop the breakdown of the status quo now; and if the government starts a civil war with it's own citizenry, it's going to have more than a crisis of confidence on it's hands. Or better yet, just start an advertising campaign for the small pools directed at Deepbit's miners. The irony is that there doesn't need to any outside group making this happen, the governments will naturally do it to themselves.  The rest of us just need to stay out of the way and let it happen.  The meek shall truly inherit the Earth.  Do a google search for that quote that I presented, you might find the author interesting.Here, I'll even make it easier...http://kunstler.com/blog/http://cluborlov.blogspot.com/ You give governments too much credit.  They are, after all, simply vast organizations of people. Cold turkey is the only way it's going to happen, and it must happen, or this will be a "world made by hand". How much are you getting paid to troll this forum?  Really, you can tell us, we already know. http://www.caseyresearch.com/cwc/doug-casey-phylesNot really bitcoin press, but mentions 'digital currency' as an enabling technology.
Social Security payments don't, and the sad fact is that most Americans over 55 are counting on SS as a major component of their retirement funding, because they didn't bother to save anything. Or just retire, then wait a year. That's hilarious!  Do it, please! The bitcoin network has,  in collective, surpassed the total (estimated) hashing power of the top 500 (not secret) supercomputers on Earth.  Even taken as a given that the US government actually does have this much computational power in total, it would be a non-trivial issue for any branch to assert control of the computational power of the others for such a project.  And by the time this could be arranged, the power of the network will have quintupled once again.  IMHO, this was once a real concern, but no longer is.  This is no longer the most likely attack vector by any government agency, their attacks will come in the public view, not in the dark reaches of the Internet. Yes, but then the miners would be laughing at the attacker, because he would have to be paying them for the privilage of attacking the network.  This kind of attack ends once the money runs dry. That statement is not true.  A DDOS attack would, at worst, prevent the network from normal function while the attack was ongoing.  It couldn't do any lasting harm to the currency system or the network, a non-trivial portion of which does not exist in any "publicly" accessible form that can be dossed at all. I would hope that you would know that Wikipedia is only as accurate as those who contribute articles, which in this case is not very accurate at all.  The main chain is the one with the greatest total proof-of-work, not necessarily the longest.  I could make a longer chain in the dark with one GPU and a hacked client (to set the block interval to one-hundreth of a second) running at a difficulty of one; but as soon as I attach my client to the rest of the network, my chain is going to cease to exist. No, none at all.  If you wanted anonimity, you shouldn't have come here. "hording" is not relevant.  A liquidity trap is impossible with bitcoin, as it's infinately divisible with near-zero effort.  The market exchange price is a direct reflection on how difficult it is to aquire bitcoins. Already blocked by Fox for copyright infringment, at least on youtube. I'm sorry, but I have to ask.  Do you know what a FPGA is?  It stands for a field-programmable gate array.  It's an electronic circut that can be programmed at the hardware level, in the field. I hope you realize that Atlas is parodying himself. Um, his son, Rand; perhaps? People who have to heat in winter with electric will always benefit from mining. With a brick&mortar business, he could accept bitcoin at the current exchange rate, and simply offer to trade those bitcoins for AUS money at the counter at whatever rate that he wanted to.  He could even put up a little website with the going rate, say 1% over the market price.  For those bitcoiners who live within travel distances, many would gladly pay the premium for an in person exchange.  It makes people feel better. Possibily.  Sam or John could be a miner themselves, or purchaused bitcoin from someone in some thier world nation who couldn't care less about reporting rules. No, because there is no way to hide the connections between Sam and John from Paypal, and by proxy the government overseers.  Sam and John are both known persons to Paypal, whereas Sam and John are just long numbers to the Bitcoin blockchain. All the presentations are archived at agora.io Bitcoin is only anonymous with great care from the user, and advance planning.  The key is that it's possible to be anonymous with bitcoin, while also being fairly convient online.  This is not a possible combination with any other existing payment method. Bitcoin is not deflating.  Bitcoin is inflating at roughly 40% APR, and will not actually be deflating until at least 2129.  This is a non-issue in my lifetime.
Personally, I want Charles Schumer to say the name "Bitcoin" and "currency" together in front of the media as often as possible.  I don't know if Bitcoin is ready for the US government or not, but I'm ready to find out.  In the meantime, any of the talking heads blathering on about Bitcoin adds credibility.   Well, it doesn't really have to be coercive.  Bad money will chase good money out of the market, because while the vendor would prefer to receive his funds in the good money, if the customer is only offering the bad money, then the vendor will take that with a risk premium added on.  This is why dimes made of real silver still exist, but never circulate.  That and inflation has made the silver content worth over $3 apiece.In a truly free marketplace, Bitcoin would never have been more than a transfer mechanism with websites like eGold operating unmolested.  Of course, if eGold was still around, Bitcoin would likely never have been created.  It's the lack of a free market in money that drives the demand for Bitcoin to begin with.  If the governments of the world really want to destroy Bitcoin, all they have to do is (credibily) return to the Gold standard.  I don't forsee that happening, however. Just three years ago, I paid $510 for a brand new alluminum alloy Trek 700.  Now they run about, what, $800 for the same bike? I have pointed this theme out in other threads as the "Wal-Mart" perspective.  When the day comes that either Wal-MArt or one of it's major competitors starts accepting bitcoins, Wal-mart (and competitors) will have an outsized interest in timely processing of free transactions (for themselves not their competitors) so Wal-Mart might fund a mining cluster (they already have partially funded a datacenter) while smaller competitors such as Target would likely contract out to a major mining company to process their customers' transactions for free, so that they don't have to wait for free transactions to process on the open network nor ask their customers to pay a transaction fee.  Wal-Mart doesn't need a 'financial institution', they are the financial institution. No, I speak only for myself.  I represent the owners of this forum in a limited fashion, but that is as far as it goes.  There is no bitcoin "organization".  If there were, this project would fail. We are not Silk Road.  Try talking to them.  Bitcoin is not related to Silk Road, beyond being an enabling technology.  None of us take any responsibility for what they are doing, nor are we responsible for trying to defend their position on anything. I found the offending article..."According to the Bitcoin FAQ, new coins are generated by a network node which spends its time trying to find solutions to a certain mathematical problem. Each time one of its nodes finds an answer  and can demonstrate proof of work  it creates a new block of the currency. The reward for solving a block is automatically adjusted so that in the first four years of the Bitcoin network, 10.5m bitcoins will be created. The amount is then halved every four years, and the total number of bitcoins created is meant to be limited to 21m by 2040. In fact, Bitcoins curators seem more concerned about creating a deflationary spiral than inflation. In that sense, its kind of the opposite mindset to the Federal Reserve."http://ftalphaville.ft.com/blog/2011/06/06/585756/virtual-money-from-real-central-bank-mistrust/ Yes!  Finally someone who gets it!  I've been trying to highlight this for months.  Many of the intelligent forum members don't equate mining to a strong bank vault or other security measures. I don't know, I'm known for keeping my computer way past it's prime.  I might still have a 32 bit cpu in 2038. Yeah, really.  At least the 2038 is a real problem.  mtg must not be MtGox, because there are single trades that exceed that number. The irony of this statement is only exceeded by the wild ass guess that followed. It did at one time. It's not the rest of us having trouble understanding. Don't paint us all with that brush. Seems like you must already hate yourself. I'm hoping for the best, but still prepared for the worst. I'm game, but I'm not going to get in the barrel! If you can buy the World Cup with Bitcoin, would it still be a game worth watching? Consider putting up ads for this on other market sites, including sites not Bitcoin related such as Craigslist; and sites that you wouldn't ordinarily use, such as Silk Road.  There is no logical reason that you couldn't sell a legitimate product on an anonymous marketplace.
Pay of my debts, all denominated in nearly worthless FRN's, and then retire to the first libertarian seastead if the 'launch loop' isn't yet ready to take me to my ranch on the Moon. Amen, brother.  Whatever will be, will be.  When we get to whatever end, I'll be right there too. What? If Satoshi is really a single person (as opposed to a front for an organization) the s/he is a true polymath.  There is simply to many areas of expertise s/he would have required to produce something of this degree of elegance on the first try.  No, not joking.  It's already been shown extensively by others in other threads that difficulty follows price, and that  price is not responsive to changes in difficulty.  Note the search function, it does really work. Yup. You have your cause and effect backwards.  Difficulty follows price, and averages a six week lag.  So the difficulty that would match the current rally won't show up for about six weeks.  The exchange price of a bitcoin is independent of the security level of the blockchain, but the security level (difficulty) is dependent upon the value. I'm not impressed with his track record.  If there were a way to short Harold Camping's predictions, I'd do that. nazgulnarsil was just trolling me.  Sweft was getting upset and using strings of letters in conjunction that some would find offensive, although the majority here would likely have just found his attitude hilarious. You need to check your premises.   It matters to them because Bitcoin represents a competitor that they cannot possiblely undercut.  It's like M$ response to open source software, it was better and potentially free for their userbase.  They had no short term response, and their long term response was to offer a better end-user experience or simply fail.  Windoze has a usability advantage over GNU/Linux (for laypersons, not geeks) to this very day; but paypal is only a payment processing agent for the existing banking system, they cannot offer a better currency because they can't control the qualities of the fiat currencies that they process. No, the block reward will not end in 2040.  It will not end until about 2129. True, but you have to get to it first.  It's probably easier to do that in your own home than it would be to a bitcoin bank server, as I have seen how secure datacenters that specialize in ecommerce are.  Hacking from outside the network really is the weak link. I've actually considered this before.  But there is no way to assess the market, nor is there any way to advertise your services to the local target audience without also risk of alerting the LEO's. Yes. He means that, like a bank vault is more cost effective security than 100+ home fire safes; a single bitcoin bank online secured by the skills of a cryptogeek and the latest and greatest hardened linux os is more cost effective security than those same users witheach running their own client that is continuously accessible to the Internet. Phoneticly that can be confusing.  But using a phonetic alphabet would work...Bitcoin.1 = Alphabit.01 = Bravobit/Betabit.001 = Charliebit/Gammabitand so on. Banks do exist for sound economic reasons.  Convience is a sound economic reason.  Mybitcoin.com is functionally a bitcoin bank.  I have no doubts that once the market matures and the value of a bitcoin stablizes, that Mybitcoin.com and all of it's competitors will offer bitcoin CD's and short term credit lending in bitcoin.  I might even use them for that purpose to a limited degree, but most of my bitcoin savings sits in an independent wallet.dat on a 128 meg thumbdrive locked in a firebox.  That's very secure, but it's damned inconvient.  Banks of all kinds thrive at the intersection of security and convience, and some people are going to use them.But if the government attempts to co-opt them, users will withdraw their funds and/or move them to similar banks out of country.  It's not impossible for the US government to get to mybitcoin.com, but the fact that mybitcoin.com is based in a server in New Zealand does represent an obstacle. Yes, for every successful trade the must be, by defintion, a seller and a buyer.  This is true whether the bitcoin is being traded for US $, Euros, carrots or alpaca socks.  Even the block reward can honestly be considered a trade, of sorts, as there is a definable amount of hashing power (or electricity if you prefer) that had to have been contributed to the security of the system for that block to have been found.  From a certain perspective, all 21 M bitcoin can be considered to exist, it's just going to take some time for the algorithim to pay it out in trade for calculations.There is no free lunch in bitcoin, not even for the miners.  Every transaction and reward in bitcoin represents value in motion; otherwise it wouldn't move. An ecommerce site can simply peg their fiat currency prices into a script that uses the 24 hour volume weighted average price from bitcoinwatch.com, and the script update the bitcoin prices each morning.  Yes, the exchange prices are very volitile as of late, but they were between 5 and 7 cents for months at one point.  The bitcoin rallies go in fits, this one will level off like the rest.You can't really owe anyone anything in Bitcoin yet.  There is no credit system.  You pay the price when you order it, just like you would if you were ordering from anywhere else; using paypal or a credit card.  If the price changes before the product arrives, that is neither your problem nor your gain.  The bitcoins are in the possession of the vendor within an hour, and they can choose to sell them on the exchanges immediately if they wish.If we ever see 20 cents again, the system has failed.  I predict that it'll settle down soon around $25 per, and stay between $20- and $30 for a couple months before it shoots to $100 in the fall or winter.We shall see how good I am at this. 
+1 for Tori CollisKids loved the cats' ears. I'd bet he's tried already.  Tor is actively blocked by most employer access policies these days. You just described a political trigger.  I have already acknowledged this possibility, although I don't consider that likely considering the number of inflation hawk in the House.  I was merely contesting the implication that hyperinflation is a monetary phenomenon, and could be predicted with economic tools. If it were a matter of pretending, I would agree.  I did not have any emotional attactment to Bitcoin or it's success when I learned about it.  I had no opinion about it until I understood it.  But once I understood it, I had an opinion.  Do you understand what I am referring to when I say I'm an INTP?  I'm just about an unemotional in my decision making processes as is likely possible.  I am not driven by emotion, it has taken me decades just to fake it well.This is likely true for most people, but by this point he will be using Bitcoin because that's what other people trust, not because he trusts what other people say.Sans the license to practice, almost a yes.I am neither playing, nor am I particularly young.  Do you regularly see those who hold opinions other than your own to be inmature or inexperienced in your own mind?  If your point was that emotion plays a a role in how people view Bitcoin, I think you were being too vague, but I still would say, so what?  The vast majority of people don't understand how fiat currency works, and don't care.  They only know that everyone else uses it.  Bitcoin takes over as those who care to know, switch; and are followed by those who don't care to know. Age is catching up to me, I honestly can't remember.Yes. I can't say I understand what point that you were trying to make, but I can say for certain that not all people react in the above generality.  I am an INTP, it's not in my personality makeup to reject new data lightly, nor to take much stock in the opinions of others. Just because I'm amused by your opinions and your rejection of logic in public policy, I just have to point out that the above is an 'appeal to authority' fallacy.  It's every bit as wrong for you to expect us to read Nozick and agree with his conclusions as it would be for us to expect you to read Mises and do the same.  If you can't articulate the point without dropping names, you don't have a point.  Did you learn to debate on the Internet?http://dilbert.com/strips/2011-06-03/In addition to being generally offensive, this entire subject is off topic, and if you intend to continue there are better sections of the forum for this debate. Technically speaking, the Forbes article did not make an error of fact by mentioning that one could buy firearms from The Arms Locker with bitcoin, as they never actually claimed that such a transaction was unregistered.  Still, they did commit an error in kind by leaving the question open, which permits the uninformed reader to draw such a conclusion from the preceeding paragraphs. You do realize that 1 & 2 are the same exact scenario, just stated differently, right?  And both of them are also internally illogical.Perhaps you shouldn't be investing in anything. That would be true, if this were a ponzi scheme. Someone was selling Bitcoin stickers a couple months ago, including the kind that can be used by a business to subtlely notify customers in the know.  I don't know if they are still available. Don't the Swedes regard the kind of low level drug trading as can be found on Silk Road to be less-than-criminal, even if they wouldn't care to have it going on at the local playground?  Germans tend to be at least as uptight about other people having fun without permission as those in the US. It's still in there as a form of hashing reserve.  If some attacker with huge hashing resources were to start trying to rewrite the recent blocks, there is still a greater pool of hashing power that can be called upon; even if it's relatively inefficient.Basicly the cpu mining option exists in the standard client as the "ready reserve" to the gpu mining pools' "front line shock troops". The US manufacturing base has increased every decade right up til the present.  We make more stuff, for less cost, then ever.  And we continue to do so.  It's true that manufacturing has fallen off as a percentage of GDP, but it's still huge. Bitcoin has a controlled rate of growth.  That's it's primary feature.  It's so well controlled, I can predict with high accuracy what the monetary base will be years in advance, and never be off on my timing by more than +-.5%.  Does any fiat currency in current use have such a record?Go ahead.  There is no reason that you or anyone else interested in such a bitcoin bank can't start one, but nor is there any need to incorporate credit lending into the Bitcoin protocol itself.So does gold.  Credit is a feature provided by institutions, not the medium of exchange.Be careful what you wish for. You didn't even bother to ask a newbie question, you just jumped right in with "improvements" to the protocol in your mind.  I find that behavior rude.  It's merely annoying when a newbie asks the same questions over and over, but to waltz in here and do what you have is like a buck private walking into the general's pre-op meeting and declaring that you think that it would be a better plan to knock on the front door and share a toke.  The documents exist, as does this forum's search function.  You made no attempt to understand the subject, and nor were you seeking clarification from anyone, much less as humblely as you know you should have been. That is the bias of this forum.  There is some market trading on this forum, but for the most part that doesn't really happen here, as there are many other better market sites for that purpose. You do not understand the system, but rather than spend some time reading and thinking, you jump right in with suggestions on how to "improve" upon how you imagine the system works.  You have been registered for one day.  Do not speak again until you can demonstrate that you have a basic understanding of the functions of the block, blockchain, proof-of-work system and transactions.  I will be watching.  You can consider this the penalty box. The problem with "hording" is that the term has a commonly understood negative connotation, whether we would agree with your benign definition or not.   Perfection is the enemy of the good.  I see a great future in Bitcoin because it's a world better, not because I think it's perfect.  But even acknowledging that it could be improved does not mean that I would favor screwing with it over small gains.
A sovereign debt default by the US is not just remote, it would signal to the world's bondholders that there was no safe haven left on Earth.  Gold, silver and some classes of commodities would shoot for the moon, but that is not the same as inflation.  Inflation, at it's core, is expansion of the monetary base beyond the growth of the underlying economy; which favors those with first access to the new currency.  Hyperinflation, therefore, is the panic expansion of monetary base by political will.  No bankers would voluntarily do this, they would rather have massive deflation because with deflation at least their con game could potentially resume after the crunch.  Once hyperinflation begins, there is no historical evidence that it can be stopped prior to the total destruction of the currency itself; if for no other reason than the public has already lost trust (in the government, in the currency itself) and will actively avoid transacting in the currency at all, and when they must will actively avoid holding that currency.  This results in a massive increase in velocity, as every buyer is trying to spend what they have before the value goes down further.If this were to happen to the US (not impossible) where then would the wealthy find haven?  Financial privacy means privacy from the bank.  Anonymous systems were never instituted in the US because it was never in the interests of the bankers to do so.  If one was willing to do it back in the 1980's, we wouldn't have the same issues today. They will change their minds. @BubbleBoyYour arguments don't even merit a response.  You don't even understand of what you are speaking. Feel free to start your fork anytime.  This experiment is ours. The subgroup gets prosecuted. Actually, no, it's not.  As bad as that is, the hyperinflationary stage of a fiat currency always requires a political driver.  Not to say it can't happen in the near future, but there would still need to be some major black birds landing on Swan Lake.  Mild inflation favors the banks and those closely connected to them, but they know that massive inflation kills the golden goose.  The central bankers would not permit such inflation rates unless they are forced into that position, which for all practical purposes means that political authorities have forced them to do so.  In the case of the Wiemar Republic, that political force came from outside the country.  In the case of Zimbabwe, it was a misguided series of political decisions by an uneducated dictator with tribal tendencies that none of his yes men had enough balls left to say anything. If that is true, then 90% of all transaction fees simply cease to exist.  This is deflationary in it's own right. No, it's pointless to run a cpu miner, because the efficiency is so poor compared to that of gpu mining that there is practically no way to break even. What happens to the difference? Doesn't matter.  CPU mining died months ago.  There is no CPU arch that can come close to the worst of the available GPGPU's. That just tells me that you're male.  One half of the population charges access fees for the other half.  That's the way of the world. Kinda a contradiction in terms. Really?  You would send a stranger a photo of yourself nude for a $10 value?  Wow, you are a cheap date!  His record so far is pretty poor. You are not, in fact, the first bitcoin panhandler. As far as I'm concerned, they ccan go right ahead.  In fact, I'd expect that from a small, responsive and truly representative government such as Iceland.  Most governments, however, can't deal with new ideas.  Stossel is known for being a detail geek, but blog posts are limited in space and time.  I'm sure he has a better understanding of the details than he wrote. I never said it was magic, even though to some it might appear as such.  It's economics.  It's the 'network effect'.  As the Bitcoin economy grows, and thus comes to represent a greater portion of the total economy of any given region, the need of bitcoin holders to exchange out to a national fiat currency will decrease.  In the future, if you can spend bitcoin at Wal-Mart for your daily needs, you don't need to pay transaction fees nor trust some distant counterparty dealer.  You simply go to Wal-Mart and buy what you need directly, probably using your smartphone.  That is the end goal of this whole thing.  Fiat currencies have real limitations that make their use in cyberspace risky or difficult, but the reverse will soon no longer be so.I would be surprised if the Euro existed in 10 years (in any recognizable form) even if Bitcoin didn't exist.  Now I think that not only will the Euro not exist in any dominate fashion, Europeans won't even care.  The US FRN will last longer, for many reasons, but will eventually fade away.  The governments that persist will have to adapt to a world wherein they have near zero control over the monetary system. Only if the campaign can record all of the data that campaign finance laws require.  In effect, no.
I take it you run Windoze?  This is a local error. Um, no? Yes. http://www.itproportal.com/2011/06/02/amd-launches-israeli-rd-center-hints-closer-arm-partnership/ They won't after you offer them enough to sell.  Problem solved! No, it has not.  The fees didn't exist that entire time.  The fees were instituted because the founder of Mtgox got burned by a scammer using a stolen paypal account.  The fees were started just to recover that loss, which I'm sure has long since been repaid; but the current owner isn't that founder at all.  If another market starts up with lower fees, some people will use it.  This will force Mtgox to respond if the new market is comparable.  There are other markets, I just don't use them because I don't like them.  Start another exchange with lower fees then.  The fees at Mtgox are there for a reason.  It didn't start with fees. Sovereignty isn't a requirement for a currency.  Market currencies have arisen from defacto standards in the past.  The (original) dollar is one such standard, before the Federal Reserve stole the term and corrupted it.  The "dollar" was, prior to the US revolution, a mispronuncation of a "Thaler"; which was a silver coin minted by a particular private mint in present day Germany.  The "Thaler" was uncommon in the colonies, as the Spanish silver coins dominated, but they were all roughly based upon the troy ounce as the unit of weight.  So a "dollar" wasn't a particular sovereign's coin, it was a common reference to a particular weight in silver.  That unit of weight was the defacto standard, and any silver coin minted to that weight was such a currency.  The silver content was money, but the currency was the standardized unit of measurement.  Once again, a currency is just an arbitrary unit of measurement that is widely accepted; while money is a commodity with certain characteristics.  The two things overlap in practice, but not in their core meaning.Trade, money and currencies have all existed prior to and in the absence of a sovereign government of any kind.  A government is certainly not a requirement. It's a present cost of aquiring Bitcoins, and adds to the present risk, but it will slowly resolve itself as the Bitcoin economy grows.  So no, it's not really an issue. I think the idea is to have a client that can securely use Tor even if the user is otherwise unfamilier with how to use it properly.  So a client that has a secure, internal Tor proxy is a sound idea in it's own right. Plethora is one of those words that are happy and pleasant regardless of their usage or meaning.  Like menagerie, hubub and brewhaha.I just like saying them out loud. No, Tor should not be part of the standard client.  But feel free to start a fork.  I would suggest forcing the Tor client to use a completely different naming & default directory structure for the wallet.dat, but use the same internal structure for that.  So that a Tor client and a vanilla client can be used on the same computer without great risk of sharing keypairs.  Correct.  If you have the skills, go for it. The word used in English for a "barter good" is "money".  Bitcoin is not a "good" beyond the context of third party exchange and accounting, and is therefore not a "good". Only if the organization is small and has a central command & control that is paranoid about their funds, and keeps them all in the same place.  Like any organization, C&TO's are really just groups of people acting in concert.  Bitcoin lends itself well to the movement of funds in any case, and the most likely use of Bitcoin for any organization is the compensation to their dispersed agents.  A snitch could easily get a low ranking agent's wallet.dat, but how useful that data is to tracking the funds of the organization in general depends on just how savvy they really are.  We've all seen the stupid pot dealers, they are the one's who end up in jail.  But what about the smart one's?  I've personally met a professional dealer that used a day job in the construction industry as 'cover' and was never prosecuted even though he was a 'known' criminal who had been arrested repeatedly.  Capturing an agent's wallet.dat makes tracking of funds possible but it doesn't make it likely or useful; as this requires much classic investigations beyond the digital realm.  A captured wallet.dat only lets the police watch the payments of one guy, it still doesn't tell them who the other agents are or anything about them.  For all the cops know, the wallet.dat that they captured could be the agent's personal wallet.dat, and they could be watching him buy carrots.  By definition, if the cops are watching an agent and have his wallet.dat, they already believe him to be an agent.  The data in the blockchain doesn't add any new evidence to this end, although it could be used in court to prove payments had been made in larger amounts than he paid for in taxes. Don't care.  (S)he wants his privacy, and now (s)he has the resources to enforce that.  Leave it alone. It'd be just as well if MtGox were to publish their static IP, so that anyone with any tech savvy can still get there. This is still easier said than done.  Like anyone else, Silk Road's internal escrow system can use a different address for every trade.  In practice, this means that successful trades simply show up in the blockchain as A -> B, and then sometime later B -> C.  If you can associate B to Silk Road, you can then assume that both A & C are dealing in illicit goods over Silk Road; but not only can you still not prove that, you don't know who they are and you can't find other Silk Road addresses as a result because even teh normal client will use exact value transactions without mixing them.  And if the values are a round number common on Silk Road, say an even 10 BTC, then even knowing who A is doesn't tell you if C was his dealer, as Silk Road could pay out to the dealer from any single matching transaction.  This is exactly how the bitcoin laundry works.  The client doesn't do this kind of thing right now, but it can be done. No, you are confusing currency and money.Money is any commodity that has the following characteristics...1) durability;  it does not rot or rust.2) divisibility; it can be split up into very small divisions without harming the value.  3) transportability; a small amount of it has a high relative value, and can be thus transported relatively easily.4) noncounterfeitability; it's hard to fake.5) fungabilty; any measurable amount is of equal value to any other amount.A currency can have some or all of these characteristics, but these are not what makes a currency.  A currency is simply a standardized unit of measurement.  It's a raw number.  A currency can also be a money, and vice versa; but most currencies are not monies, and this is true also with Bitcoin.  Bitcoin has all of the above characteristics except it is not a commodity, as there has never been an alternative use for a bitcoin beyond it's trade value.  So, from a technical perspective, calling Bitcoin a currency is the most accurate description in English. restart your client, and give it about a half hour.  If it still hasn't moved, post again.
I'd love to see you succeed.  This might compell the local CSA's to accept bitcoin from me. I never said that mining was free, only that energy costs were effectively free if you had a use for that heat.  If I lived in Iceland, where the heating season lasts roughly 50 out of 52 weeks per year, a miner tied to my thermostat is a great thing.  However, if the odds of my success at mining profits were to suddenly jump up due to temporal conditions, I might as well move the thermostat to 72 from 69 and enjoy the warmth.  (F not C, but you get the idea)  The rest of the time I just leave it set on 69 and run on auto.  If it finds a block, I get a bonus.  If it never finds a block, I've not lost anything for doing it, as the heat bill is still the same.I contest your numbers are accurate, as I think that users that want to get their transactions processed will pay more than otherwise, but I'm not willing to do the math to see what that would be.I don't know why, neither do you.  This is the point.  You're just guessing as much as I am. This is true, but it doesn't change anything.  You can search your own addresses and see what you paid for because you have the secret knowledge necessary to make sense of that info because you were the one who did it.  Give those same addresses to your cop buddy, and send him to the blockexplorer site, and ask him if he can figure out what you bought or from whom without your help. Hidden dead short across a pair of pins? Don't assume that all miners have the same primary costs as yourself, or even most.  Mining is literally free if you heat with electric anyway, and it's winter where you are. It's not an issue of feasibility, tracking an address's trades are certainly feasible.  The question is resources.  An entity with unlimited human resources could track down the payments of a person, but there isn't a way to do this without human intervention.  The data just doesn't exist to automaticly tie an address to a human being, although that might be made easier using data mining techniques.  For example, in a normal transaction a human being would be able to look at the transaction and guess that the smaller of the two outputs is the change, but a computer program doing the same thing is going to be unreliable.  The idea that all of the addresses in bitcoin can be traced back to an individual real identity is rediculous because that would literally require limitless human resources, primarily in the form of trained detectives doing classical detective work.  That's simply impossible, and that is why bitcoin is as anonymous as the user is willing|able to be.  Anonimity is inconvient, and most people don't need that much of it.  Bitcoin doesn't really promise anominity, it just makes it possible. No, do waste the nuke on these guys.  They are actually helping, although that is not their intent.I'm pretty confident that real members of Anonymous are reading this forum, and when a real threat to Bitcoin appears, we will see which side they are on. If the hashing power drops significantly enough to drag out the average block time above an hour, than not only does the odds of a particular miner catching the next block increase (even if it takes longer) but the odds of catching transactions due to backups of processing increases.  So there is certainly an economic incentive for a miner on the sidelines to jump in if some major miners were to suddenly drop out, even before the difficulty is adjusted. Two things.1) At this particular moment, the entire Internet seems to be bogged down.2) Tor does run slower than surfing normally, by it's nature.  That's unavoidable.  But you should still be able to get there if your tor client has reported that a circut has been established.  It can take a while for a new install to establish a first circut. Perhaps.  It's a good reason to be suspicious of using an online wallet provider if one intends to do anything that would get your government upset, but for the kinds of trades that one would use paypal for, mybitcoin.com is ideal. Yes, if legally ordered by a court in New Zealand.  How responsive NZ's legal system to the want's and needs of other nations remains to be seen. I've never cashed out, not even a little.  I've bought many things besides other currencies. Why would we delete this?  This is comic gold!  If any fool is stupid enough to send you anything, (s)he deserves to part with his|her bitcoin. Not sure if this is your issue or not, but if by saying card slot #1 you actually mean the first card slot (number zero) then the bios might be misidentifying the card as a bootable network card, waiting for it to initialize. Yes, that is the whole point.  It's true that payments can be tracked from a known user to other known users, and in this manner establish a chain of custody.  The problem for LEOs is that establishing a trustworthy link between a bitcoin address (or even an online identity and a real world identity, as one particular government contractor found out to his own detriment recently due to trying to link members of Anonymous to real users on Facebook) to a particular person or organization is not trivial.  And this issue become more difficult with the increase in data set size (the number of bitcoin users) and economic velocity (how fast the currency travels from one person to the next).  So the difficulty that LEOs will have is that they literally will not be able to maintain the resources to pursue all these avenues of activity.  Only the most important (in the eyes of government) activity to prosecute will be actively tracked, which in practice means "terrorism".  The units with the budgets to actually figure who owns which bitcoin address will not care about some random geek ordering LSD for a rave. Not really, but go ahead. Because they know it's not funny.  That's the mockability rule, if you can't mock it, you're probably wrong. Switzerland is close, but their cantons are even closer.  There is at least one better example, but if you elect representatives, it's not democracy.  Still, Switzerland is a European parlimentary model, wherein voters elect a party not an individual. I witnessed this particular fistfight at a church business meeting wherein the church elders had decided to fire the preacher because that same preacher had a gambling addiction, a fact that they were aware of when they hired him a decade prior.  For nine years he was prohibited from any personal access to the church funds, and then suddenly the elders gave him an expense fund with a credit card.  Three months later he was back into his addiction, exactly as they expected he would be.  It was rude.  The elders had county sherriffs at the meeting, and members were prohibited from entering the church armed.  The fights broke out when the elders also announced that they had called the state police about theft of funds for gambling purposes.  The irony is that the state couldn't get him on charges, because he was a sports gambler and he was good.  Not only was there no money lost, he actually turned a profit.  OF course they ended up getting him anyway because gambling profits are taxable income even if you are exempt from income taxes because you are a preacher, so in the end that preacher spent four years in federal prison for tax evasion while the majority of the church ejected six of nine elders who participated in the event.  Roughly a third of the church membership left with them and started another church down the road about a half mile.  That was six years ago, so by now that preacher is out of prison. Search google for "bitcoin fallback nodes" and you will get a wiki page with a list of stable IP addresses that you can use.  Then start your client with -nolisten to reject incoming peer connections, -noirc to not bother listing on the irc channel so there won't be as many clients trying, and -connect=ip.address two or three times to specify the fallback nodes you wish to use.
Representative republics are not democracies.  Wikipedia is only as accurate at the people who contribute articles.  The distinction between a representative republic and a democracy is not trivial.  I've witnessed real democracy up close, and larger than a church business meeting or a town hall, (roughly 800 voting members) democracy becomes unscalable.  The results are not pretty.  I've actually personally witnessed fistfights at contentious church meetings.  This is why church splits are so common among Baptist congregations.Democracy is one person, one vote; all votes equal.  I challenge you to find that at a nation-state level. It seems you missed the point.  There is no democracy anywhere on Earth, much less a liberal or flexible one.  There cannot be a flexible liberal democracy without a democracy first!And if one were to arise, you probably wouldn't like the results. That is an indication that you can initiate connections, but any other peer trying to contact you is blocked.  It's harmless, anyway. This would be a great post, if a "flexible liberal democracy" existed anywhere on Earth.  But since there is no such thing, it's kinda moot. It reads like an advertisment, not an independent article.  Still, if this "new" micropayments system does have that kind of appeal, they would do well to start accepting Bitcoin as their in system currency before someone copies their model and releases it as an open source project. Should be able to, but I can already see the disadvantage to ArtForz's own version.  This core uses 66 cycles to complete a hash, while ArtForz's is claimed to be a pipelined asic producing a hash on every cycle.  This is probably something intended to be a cheap co-processor in an ecommerce server, off-loading some calcs from the CPU in order to avoid bogging down the main website. Sent them an email just to judge whether they are aware of Bitcoin or not. Well said. I usually see one or two connections, but then I don't mine and I've forced the client to reject peer connections except those I explicitly tell it to connect to and forced it not to attempt to use the IRC channel at all.  If there were some way for clients to know that peers don't want them to announce them to their other peers, I'd use that to.   No, not really.  That is the function of speculation, as a predictive market.  If the speculator is correct in his predictions, then he profits while the market has stored resources that it needs during the crisis.  If he is wrong, he loses money. My thoughts are that you are just another newbie who comes along after hearing a little bit about Bitcoin and then jumps to the conclusion that you, and you alone, have discovered the Great Bitcoin Flaw (tm).Perhaps there needs to be a new rule, that newbies cannot post until their account is at least a week old.  Of course, that wouldn't have helped out here, but still... Then you have no idea how much energy it takes to just refine iron. I would say so, but then I'm not the judge here. I use Mybitcoin.com because it has most of the pros of paypal, but if they were to try some of the things that paypal has done, the mass exodus of the userbase would punish them severely. Sounds like you had some kind of active firewall that was interfering until you explicitly told it not to by opening up port 8333. http://www.derbycityrollergirls.com/Give their website a view, and perhaps ask them to accept bitcoin for their online advance tickets.  It's better if you live in an area that they travel to in order to compete, and could actually attend a match. You can do that now. Ati's are better at raw integer calcs, while nvidia cards are better at floating point calcs.  The former is a better fit for bitcoin hashing, the latter a better fit for scientific simulation. I'm not at liberty...It's generally true.  It's not so straight forward. It's case sensitive.
IT's back up now, and the captcha is slightly different. No.  I had tried to login, and this is the error that I received. http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/11_23/b4231060885070.htmHow's this for an idea.  As the postal system fails, a snailmail delivery system paid for by bitcoin.  Not one post office for every zip code, one central processing center for every city.  User gets an email or text message notice when mail arrives with their shipping code upon it.  User shows up to claim mail, proves who they are by actually paying for it in bitcoin in the office. System is now down for maintenance. Nothing to see here.  There are likely some people with that much coin.  Move along. Isn't that the point of a localized barter currency?There is a very good reason for that.  The potential market for a localized currency of any sort is, by intent, limited.  A bitcoin derivitive isn't going to change that.Be careful what you wish for. http://freedomboxfoundation.org/ There are a number of things that live operators can do to inhibit an attack under way, not the least of which is to bring more hashing power to bear.  An attacker coming in unannounced with blocks would cause a significant revision on the blockchain, not something that can be stopped, but it's a huge red flag.  A watchdog process could alert users to an attack underway, and any commerce site using bitcoin in any automatic fashion should immediately suspend trade to protect themselves.  Also, nodes are not anonymous to each other.  It's not trivial, but it is possible to determine from where the new blocks came from.  Also, and attacker coming in from outside the network needs at least as much hashing power as the whole honest network, not just 50%.  Just having a simple majority of the hashing power is only enough to make the attack possible, it doesn't make it easy.  To build a chain in the dark, the attacker must have significantly more than the whole of the honest network in order to build his dark chain fast enough to get back far enough to overwrite his intended target block. No, because it's not a formal voting process.  It's only the act of downloading a new client and running it with new rules, whichever branch dominates wins. You're really better off going with an electronic LETS system.   What I think that he is really looking to do is start a LETS system that is somewhat distributed, entirely digital and automatic.  Modifying Bitcoin is a good way to do this, because it's already pretty close to a LETS for the Internet as it is.  A blockchain for a LETS need not be secured in the same fashion, however.  There is no need for a currency limit if transactions are based upon mutual credit, nor any kind of currency distribution process as in Bitcoin.  The blockchain would only serve as a distributed ledger system for the LETS, and the difficulty would be largely irrelevent. Sounds like IMF'd! This can be done, but we aren't going to help you do it.  If you try it, change your currency's name and start with an entirely new genesis block on a different port number and different IRC channel.This is doomed to an epic failure, but you are welcome to try as long as you don't intefere with Bitcoin doing it.   He is correct, there are no special rules beyond normal social convention.  If you wouldn't do it to your mother, or wish your mother to see it, don't do it here.  Common sense is the only rule. Send another message.  Use the internal messaging system. Oh, yes I can.I can think of many, off the top of my head.A poet without a rhyme. Different nodes could get their timing from different sources.  It's rational for an Android client to get it's timing directly from GPS whenever it can, and for servers to get their timing from ntp.  Different methods of achieving timing mean that it's pratically impossible for this kind of attack to work, because how it is achieved is dependent upon all the nodes involved in the attack using the same timing methodology.  Everyone is still very much culture dependent.  For example, if you accept that the prostitute in question is legit, assuming that she is an adult and acting of her own free will (setting aside the crap about needing to eat, since that is not the john's fault to begin with)  What if she is 15 years old?  At what age is she actually an adult who can decide for herself?  At 13, as in old tribal cultures?  At the various ages of consent established by laws of various juristictions?  Or not before 18?  What if she is 22, but is mentally impaired enough that no rational person could conclude that she was capable of consent?If she is an adult at 15, is the john still a pedafile?Can you see why I say that ethics is culture dependent, and not entirely an objective determination? I said it "can" be unethical.  Depends on the culture. Bear in mind that Mybitcoin.com is a small business with few people to answer messages, and a large and growing userbase.  Sometimes these things take time.  Plus it's the weekend and the middle of the night in New Zealand.
Well, you're right that Bitcoin is being somewhat misrepresented by the new media so far, but it is very complex so we have to give them a bit of slack in this regard.As for your "criminal unethical" comment...  We libertarians aren't criminals, nor do we suffer criminals in our midst.  We have a very tightly defined interpretation of "criminal" and most of what statists would call criminal is nothing of the sort.  We have a broader interpretation of ethics than the general public as well.  Before you go and insult those whom you know not, take a little time to try and understand us.To give you an example,To a libertarian, prostitution is not criminal and should not be treated as such.  It's a business agreement between consenting adults.  There is no victim.  It can be unethical, however, as I don't know a single libertarian that would wish such a profession upon their own daughters.  But it is better than starvation or incarceration.If there is no victim, there is no crime. Nothing, technically.  But the question is, who would use that system over Bitcoin? now that's just slick The Nobel Prize for Economics is not granted by the Nobel Prize Committee.  It's not really even related to the Nobel Prize.  It's given out by the Central Bank Board in honor of the Nobel Prize.  Basicly, if your economic theories are favorable to the central banks of the world, you're in the running.  Otherwise, you will never win. Bullsh*t.  The Euro is first.  There is nothing underpinning the European Economic Union or the Euro itself beyond faith.  At least the US FRN has an army with a single command structure.  The Germans can't tax Greece if they tell them to bugger off and go start their own national currency again, and France can't buy German goods if Germans do the same. The bank reserves thing is BS.  They can literally lend whatever the Fed lets them lend, there just isn't as many credit worthy borrowers to go around anymore.  The only reason that the increases in the monetary base haven't been worse is because we have had massive deflation in the overall economy due to the massive drop in home prices.  The inflationary period was betwenn 1999 and 2006 when everyone and thier brother were taking out Helocs against their homes and paying for inflated new car prices and vacations, boats, whatever. You can recombine coins that have been broken down across many transactions, but this has little affect on the wallet.dat file.  The bitcoins don't actually reside in any form in the wallet.dat file, your public/private keypairs and references to your transactions do.  In truth, the bitcoins don't actually exist even as a digital object.  Everything is in the transactions. Yes, it's fine.  The default behavior of the standard client is to change your receiving address with each transaction that you send.  Your old addresses remain valid forever, however, so long as the keypairs that relate to them remain in your wallet.dat file.  You can safely continue to use the same address for as long as you like, but giving that same address out to too many people undermines the anonimity of the system.  A good standard is to give a different address to each friend or family member, but keep a record of which address was given to whom.  The client doesn't do this very well, yet.  So if you receive a payment from out of the blue, you can tell who sent it by looking at the address that it was sent to. It was more of a joke than a serious offer, I'm sure.  Search the forum for the 10K BTC pizza. Inflation is actually low if one considers M3 (known monetary base + credit issued, etc) as opposed to simply M1 (monetary base).  The reason here would be because of the large amount of debt that was destroyed due to the real estate crash.  Even with the doubling of M1 since 2007, the paper value destroyed by the forclosures and general drop in home values exceeds the rise in M1.Using price increases as your measurement for inflation, whether you include food and energy or not, is a fundamentally flawed method. Yeah, well.  At least he won't remember that part of it except for an alien abduction dream in a few months. The (non-existant, we really need a programmer to develop this) 'blockchain watchdog' process would ringing alarm bells after the 60% miner had left the network.  Whether that mattered would depend upon what the rest of the network does once the watchdogs are barking. This is an elaborate version of a known attack vector, but one that is limited to a particular target, not the blockchain itself or the network as a whole.  Basicly, it's another way to perform a double spend fraud against a particular node.  There are many ways that a major vendor node could use to thwart this that are not mentioned by the article, probably due to lack of research on the author's part in this forum's thread history.  One defense is mentioned in the article, but he largely dismisses it's value.  "Monitor network health and shutdown if there's suspicious activity.Definitely a good thing, but wouldn't resolve conflicts automatically."This is the 'blockchain watchdog' process mentioned in many prior threads.  It does not exist, but it could.  There are many signs that known attack vectors are underway.  No, this would not necessarily result in an automatic response, but it could notify the user that something is wrong as well as suspend transactions on an ecommerce site."Use the median block chain time exclusively when validating blocks."This is a client issue, and one that can differ between client versions.  If a programmer wishes to come out with a version that does this, he is free to do so.In short, this attack is possible, but very difficult even if the attacker is aware of any secret defenses the target may have already taken.  Nor is it a threat to bitcoin itself.  Why do we need a bitcoin version of Craigslist?  Craigslist isn't centered around a payment model.  Just use Craigslist and post Bitcoin as an accepted payment method. Interesting proposal.  I think that this requires it's own thread, to discuss how to do this. Ah, no.  Economics is, indeed, a science.  It's just that it's not that kind of science.  It's a social science, not a physical science.  As such, it's laws are based on how humans act, and therefore how they think.  Hence the name of the Austrian classic, Human Action.  Anyone who trys to tell you that mathmatical formulas can be derived from the economic data, or that the laws of economics drive the public and not the other way around, (*cough* Keynes *cough*) is full of crap.  Economics is the "dismal science" because it's a social science.  Physics is easy, your experiments (above quantum) are not affected by observations.  Humans don't act that way, they respond differently to the same stimuli, and moreso when they are aware that they are the experiment. http://reason.com/archives/2011/05/26/dollar-store-nationThen either Wal-Mart would be jumping in within a month, or the government would be jump on them within a month.For that matter, a Bitcoin article in Reason would be epic! It's doubtful that they will let him roam the halls with this own electronic devices. This depends entirely on how one defines inflation.  I didn't bother reading your link, but IIRC the OECD defines inflation as the general rise in consumer prices.  This is not how anyone with an Austrian Economic Theory perspective would define it, nor is it how the majority of economists define it.  That metric is only how governments that print money define it. LOL!  What nonsense!  There has been numerous articles from real economists pointing out Krugman's poor prediction record!  One I've seen actually demonstrated how Krugman is only slightly better than throwing darts at a dartboard blindfolded.  If you want to see an economist with a real track record for accuracy, try Mish (http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/)  Peter Schiff (http://www.europac.net/) or Rich Maybury (http://chaostan.com/).  All of these guys actually make money, real fortunes, based upon their predictions.  Krugman makes money selling advice to readers of the NYT.  He's the economic version of "ask Nancy".If you are taking your advice from someone who doesn't make a living from his own advice, you are an idiot.
IIRC, ARtForz mentioned at one point that his cluster had crossed the $200,000 mark back in the Fall of 2010.  So we aren't talking about your average geek throwing this together in his garage.  ArtForz has resources. I've yet to see a machine edition of GNU/Linux that is compatible with every microcontroller brand.  They pay me well to deal with windoze. Wait, there are conservatives here too? I stopped reading right here.  Bitcoin is not wasteful, even now.  It's several orders of magnitude more energy efficient than the fiat currency systems in use around the world. No way that is going to happen, even at an inflated price.  Paypal is insecure, and they don't like bitcoiners very much.  Add to that grief the fact that you are a newbie here with zero history, and no one is likely to trade $5 with you in Paypal, much less $500.  You need to either build more trust with the community, which takes time; or resolve to either trade cash in person or via the postal service, which would mean trusting someone that this community trusts but that you have never met.Considering the user supported nature of your website, try putting up a bitcoin donation button.  Looks like you could get $500 dollars worth without much trouble. That's true, but nearly every supercomputer in the top list are optimized for floating point operations.  That metric is simply an estimate of relative performance, so that the user can, at a glance, compare apples to oranges.  Do you know if you are the only civilian speaker, or is this one part of a more general event? Don't wish too much.  I've been here over a year, and I have never mined a block.  If everyone mined, this wouldn't work. I've had a bounty waiting for this exact concept for months. So that I could have one portable client that I could run natively on windoze clients while at work and on my linux machine at home via wine.  It almost works. I don't understand the question. But it still doesn't completely remove the security, it just makes it easier to brute force crack; but only if you have enough qubits to do it.  Also, Bitcoin is modular, and ECDSA can be swapped out for something more secure against quantum computations.  I'm pretty sure that quantum computers are not a threat to SHA-256 or it's related algorithms. Just so everyone knows, if you try to run a windoze bitcoin client on a gnu/linux machine from your thumbdrive via wine; everything seems to work except the verifying of newly downloaded blocks.  Connects fine, shows proper prior transactions, but cannot seem to get it's blockchain act together. April 2010 slashdot article. No. Colonize space, and this limitation ceases to exist. The possibility of making a profit is not why I participate.  There are other high risk investments that I might participate in that would likely be as lucrative.  Smuggling for example.  I participate because of what a successful Bitcoin would result in for the society that I live within.  It's a semi-passive revolutionary act to transact in this fashion, do you not realize that?  My parents would have. Yes.  It sounds like online banking.  It doesn't sound like Bitcoin. That wouldn't be how the term is normally used in relation to currencies. The last 50 blocks take about 4 times as long on average.
http://m.guardian.co.uk/world/2011/may/25/china-prisoners-internet-gaming-scam?cat=world&type=article"According to figures from the China Internet Centre, nearly £1.2bn of make- believe currencies were traded in China in 2008 and the number of gamers who play to earn and trade credits are on the rise." I'm sorry, but one of us is confused.  Bitcoin crosses parity with the US $ months ago. And no other way to effectively export that energy to Europe where it's really needed. Mining will always be profitable, if you have already paid for your hardware and need to heat your space anyway.  Once again, anyone who lives in Iceland probably cannot be undercut by any miner who lives in Florida. I let that slide because I figure that you can't really help that, and everyone has the right to be wrong.Amazingly, some do not.I'm sure that you sincerely believe that, but in reality it is a matter of degree.  If you accept that a legitimately elected government should have the power to take the resources necessary for survival from one group of people and give it to another group of people by use of the collective force of government, then the remainder is just a concern about under what conditions.  I'm sure that you would reject divine right as a legimitate justification for a nobility to impose their will upon the majority 'mobility' (yes, that's where we get "mob" from); but would you accept the results of a presumedly democratic elected congress doing something similar?  Why?  Because some special group that you agree with, desire to support, or identify with receives the benefits of that ruling?  I'm Cherokee, but wouldn't for the life of me want to live on a reservation for the side benefit of a $300 per month check and food stamps.  You probably wouldn't either, but would you argue in favor of continuing the practice for your cousins?  I would not, and do not.  The conditions that come with taxpayers' money pretty much promises that the mediocre remain where they are.Worse, from their own children.  It's not unjustified, as it can be demostrated as being economicly accurate.  You just don't see yourself as we see you.  That is understandable.  Everyone likes to think of themselves as the reasonable ones, as the moderate.  Few people ever question themselves or their own indoctrination.  The irony of all that, which I'm sure that you will reject out of hand, is that the various flavors of liberty minded are those few.  This is why there are so few of us in the political sphere to begin with.  There is no such thing as indoctrination for libertarians, it's contrary to governments of any sort to promote that.  If you attended a school in the US, public or private, you have been indoctrinated in the church of the state, as you have literally been institutionalized.If you want to say thinks generally about what you think libertarians want, go right ahead.  You are allowed to be wrong, but you have been intentionally antagonizing your opposition, not engaging in a debate.  I have no problem with you openly displaying your ignorance of your peers, no harm comes to me or others by that at all. At best, you and him are exposing an opinion about those you hold in opposition, and know next to nothing about how those you and him make assumptions about actually came to the opinions that they hold.  For myself, I was a true green as a young man, and my parents were real hippies.  I started to question the logic of the green and progressive movements on my own, and never even heard of Mises or Rothbard until those names were thrown at me by my father during an argument around 22 years old.  So I started to read, and then I was changed.  I never read Rand until I was 30 something, and thought it was okay, but I'm not a randian."If you are not a socialist at 20, then you have no heart; but if you are still a socialist at 40 then you have no sense."Yes, you presumed, and failed to understand.  The banking systems of the Western world are not remotely privatized or 'deregulated'.  That's all BS.  It's never happened, and cannot happen, because the bankers own the government not the other way around.  That's the short answer.  Austrian economic thought (i.e. libertarian thought, praxeology) is incompatible with central banking.  Central banking is, by it's own definition, central control of the money markets.This topic is about politics, and no longer about Bitcoin or Spain. this is exactly what I am talking about.  There is no argument here, only hateful retoric.  You have a right to your opinion, but if you can't be more civil, you shall soon find yourself keeping your opinions to yourself. Liberal was already a bad word long before Fox existed as a network, much less before Fox News did. This was a true statement as recently as 2006, but it is no longer true.  The US can no longer afford it's own social safety nets even if the entire military and war budgets were completely eliminated. LotR was a great story, AS only so-so.  Both stories existed to promote an ideology of the author, LotR was just more subtle.And Paul Krugman is a racist. And as for you, you are pushing it.  Intentionally skirting the line so that I don't censor you as well.  I can tell that you are practiced at antagonizing your opposition, but do you have a rational argument to present?  I won't let you continue with your own style of insults for much longer.And this thread needs to split... I understand the frustration of being talked down to about morals by someone who doesn't understand the logical conclusions of what he openly supports, and thinks himself educated enough to consider others to be irrational and uncaring while in reality he is the one who supports human suffering.  I really do.  But he knows not of what he speaks, while you do.  You must keep a cool head while using this forum. In my experience, people who say stuff like this don't watch Fox News enough to even know anything useful about the network or their viewership.  Like those who blab about how crazy Glenn Beck is only know what he looks like from two minutes youtube outakes. No, that work creates value that gives the dollars meaning. I didn't do it, but it's an awesome plan. I don't either, but nor did I see a 100 fold increase in value in eight months when I bought in at 6.5 cents. To be clear, are you saying that you know her personally and will stake your own reputation on her trustworthiness? Wait, aren't the postal workers in Canada civil servants?  Civil servants in the US can't strike, union or not.  Which is how Regan got away with firing all of the air traffic controllers when they went on strike in the 1980's. Hazek, that was way over the line. Sometime after the death of FDR, the "progressive" movement that characterized the entire first half of the last century in the United States was discredited as having largely been co-opted by socialists.  Following this, these same socialist-lite progressives altered the public image during the next several decades by taking the term 'liberal' from what was once the libertarians of the day.  The liberty minded liberals of the 1900's and earlier are often called "classical liberals" today, and that means roughly the same thing as the term "libertarian" in the modern lexicon; which is a word that was made up in the 1970's because 'social progressives' had distorted the term in the view of the US political context.  So when you hear someone from the United States say "liberal" or "progressive" in a political context, Europeans can safely hear "socialist" and be pretty close.  Although Europeans are not likely to look at Obama and think that he compares with the socialists or progressives in European politics, this is because Obama can only do so much without severe political backlash and not a fundamental difference in ideology.However, your understanding of "conservative" in the US context is also a bit wrong.  Generally speaking, a "conservative" in the US political context is not someone who wishes to 'preserve' the status quo, but a 'fascist lite'.
The miners are responding to the rise in the market price of Bitcoin.  If the price stalls, so will the rise in difficulty.  If the price falls, the difficulty will slowly drop off to meet it.  Changes in difficulty tend to follow changes in price with a 6 week lag. I just got my bitcoin client working on my thumbdrive in a truly portable fashion, i.e. so that the windows bitcoin client wouldn't put the wallet.dat onto whatever windoze machine that I was using at the time, and then the windoze machine that I was using at work today had a hiccup of some kind while I had the bitcoin client open and my entire thumbdrive was corrupted.  69 BTC, gone.Don't forget to back up your wallet.dat files, particularly if you use untrustworthy operating systems. There is no such thing as a democratic state anywhere on Earth.  Democracy doesn't work on any scale larger than a church business meeting.  All these "democracies" are representative republics of some kind.  This is not remotely the same thing. Talking about a childish response.... "I just can't get no respect!" They might be testing our response time, to see if we are still paying attention to them. I'm sure that they will think of something, rather than just close up shop.  Still, that does not mean that governments will be able to continue as they have for the past 60 years.  Most governments wouldn't stand a chance getting a deficit budget to work without the central bank's implicit ability to manipulate the value of the currency. This is certainly true.  Do you know any farmers who pay sales taxes because they sell extra veggies at a farmers' market?  I know I don't.  The goverment agents don't get sideways with them because 1) it's a small market with little expected gain 2) it's bad p.r. because they know that the public favors these markets and 3) it would help to come down on publicly advertised farmers' markets because they know that there is already a great deal more private activity that they can't find.  Farmers' markets are like advertising for the farmers that do this kind of thing, they aren't the bulk of the dark market activity.If Bitcoin ever goes truly mainstream, the governments of the "Western" nations are most definitely going to feel the pinch, and most of them already have enough trouble paying for the social services as it is.  Considering that governments worldwide really do consider "national defense" (however they define it) to be their primary reason for existence, do you think that social safety nets are going to be supported while the pentagon has to hold a bake sale? Looks like they removed bitcoin as an option from their "other ways to give" page. Makes it harder to debunk. A side effect of using a currency that is functionally anonymous. Technology is certainly not neutral.  The widespread adoption of Bitcoin doesn't imply any particular ideology with the code, but it does imply a sea change in the idealogies of those who will continue to use it.  Like any other disruptive technology, you cannot be unaffected by it's implications.  That's why we call it disruptive technology.  I've met many a person with enviromentalist and socialist leanings, but I've yet to meet one that refused to own or use a toilet.  Composting maybe, but they definately owned a toilet.To paraphrase the Bible...'Not all dissentors will become libertarians, but they will all be changed.' Why is it our responsibility?  They should know how to research and read, or at least know how to ask a civilized question before chiming in about they alone can see the great Bitcoin flaw (tm).  If Bitcoin requires that everyone understand how it works in order to be adopted, it's already a failure.  But the facts are that the vast majority of people don't know or care how fiat currencies work, either.  When Bitcoin hits the mainstream, most people won't really care how Bitcoin works.  They will simply trust their geeky friend that it does work, and start using it little by little.   Not really, this is a known-known.  The difficulty follows the price; when the price rallies, miners join the fray; and when the price falls, borderline miners drop out first.  It's a self-balancing system.  Feel free to stand around and not participate, however.  That's what I did, and I'm not bitter about missing the rally from 1.4 cents to 6.5 cents before I bought in! This is correct, a node won't forward a transaction that it considers invalid, and by seeing another transaction that spends those same inputs, the second transaction is invalid.  It probably wouldn't need 15 seconds even if the network were huge.  Transactions propagate very fast. I don't know for certain, this is true.  But I do know economics.  I know incentives.  And I know praxeology.  The ultimate test of any science is the ability to make repeatable predictions about the future, otherwise the theory is flawed.  Economics has many theories, but in my opinion, Austrian Economic Theory is more accurate at ongoing predictions than any other theory.  And the reason for this is that Austrian Economic Theory is based upon the concept of the rational economic actor, and the study of how changes in the economic environment effects those rational economic actors and their behavior.  I look at the system as it is, and I see a small oversight in the picture.  I see an "externality" to use the lexicon of the modern world.  It probably will never be a problem.  I've admitted this.  And as such I have made a proposal that would only affect the system if it were ever to become a problem.  That's why I suggested an 'alternative minimum' miners' choice type fee, and not a hard rule.  If it's in place, and never really needed, it would cause no harm.  If in the future without any significant block reward, if it turns out that this really is a concern; those miners would have the choice of enforcing this known rule in order to establish a price floor.  I intentionally thought it out in order to limit the possibility of unintended consequences, another reason to have it as a miners' choice rule and not a hard|validity type rule.  If it were to have some unintended consequence show up, the miners' could simply stop honoring the rule, announcing their intent to do so.  Users won't object to the removal of a counter-productive fee, but they are likely to resist the imposition of new fees. I don't disagree.  I'm trying to create a standard for this that miners can turn to, and in this way also allow capital accumulators to plan out their best course of action before this point arises.  If my proposal, or something similar, is generally accepted by the miners as workable now, then current users will already begin to alter their behavior in a manner that limits their own costs in the future. This will happen anyway, so that lightweight clients can communicate with other lightweight clients offline. I'm suggesting an alternative minimum fee rule, for which any fee offered less than that the miners simply regard that transaction as among the 'free' class.  Either they pay the minimum fee expected for that transaction, based on this rule or any other minimum fee rule that is larger, or the transaction receives no priority bump compared to a free transaction and is not valid for the fee paying sections of the block.  By 'that low' I'm simply saying that I'm trying to establish a standard price floor that (profit minded) miners are likely to honor in general, so that users in general know to pay it.Because I'm trying to address the (admittedly very small) costs to the network for very old transactions.  The blocksize limits might pay for it fine, but that still wouldn't have a direct relationship to the costs of old transactions, but for the new transactions competing for space.  It wouldn't have any effect of encouraging the desired behavior from capital savers, namely the active reduction of resource usage.It's not much of an issue.  I've already admitted this.  The costs to the network required by any one old transaction are tiny, indeed.  But they do exist, and are cumulative in nature.  This cost isn't directly addressed in the current fee structure directly.  I'm proposing, and asking for better proposals, that directly address this long term cost.  The fees need not be large, and certainly shouldn't be large, to have the intended effect on user behavior overall.  I suggested an alternative minimum fee that would have expected only .00000026 BTC per year per input.  That's damn tiny, and it will be decades before this is either a value of any significance or even before the other minimums in effect are smaller than this. It's difficult to know the ratio, but the point is valid.  The standard behavior of the client is to total up as many inputs as necessary to pay the intended his due, and then the change returns to the sender.  Since the default behavior of the client is not to consolidate vast holdings into fewer transactions (the very behavior I'm trying to address) it's reasonable to assume that any transaction with more than one input is sending the larger of the two outputs.  So an average can be derived from the transaction records.
This is doable even in the current state of affairs.  A blockchain that doesn't mine, and has many connections to miners.  But that same blockchain server has to be compensated somehow, and this functionally means that those who use the blockchain server are going to have to pay that service directly.  In fact, I've been thinking about doing this exact business model, and charging a small monthly access fee for users.  The primary users, in my view, would be thin clients that use a redacted blockchain as a matter of course. Yes.  You should read that link you posted.  Again, an unspent transaction does impose an ongoing resource cost upon the greater, collective network, however small that cost may be.  It's right there.  The merkle hash tree is intended to permit the block to be pruned of spent transactions but unspent transactions cannot be pruned.  Hence the cost.  I'm beginning to get annoyed.  I started this thread to have an educated conversation with intelligent peers, and I find myself spending too much time pointing out the basic errors of understanding of others instead.If the (only|most available) copy of an old block is the one that the spender has, this introduces an attack vector not present in Bitcoin now.  The obvious one that I can think of is that Bitcoin depends on the independently verifiable blocks that are provided by multiple sources not connected to the parties involved in the trade, or at least enough sources that it's extremely unlikely that all those peers are connected to either party in the trade.  If the only copy available to the miner of the input block is the one provided by the sender himself, a spoofed block is then possible.  How hard do you think it would be to fake a block and transaction set that could hash to match the merkle root of one block too old for miners to keep?  It might take a malicious node a few days to find the right combo of extra-nonce and false transactions to match the merkle root, but time is of little concern in such an attack.Spending coins in this way is the only way to have a decent risk assessment while using two lightweight clients while offline, but this can never be the norm.Your core premise is false.  Easily proven as such, and you even use some of that evidence to support your false premise.  I find that amazing. Well, that does sound interesting, but I actually need a wallet that is not RFID proof.  I use an RFID security access card from within my wallet for moving about the secure areas of my employer. I suppose that would work, if we were starting over or starting a new fork of code, but this problem doesn't justify a breaking change. It is unsafe.  The consumer (you) need to be more dilligent about the quality of vendors you do business with, as opposed to being dependent upon the chargebacks that other payment methods provide for you while charging the vendor 1.9% of the cost of the item. You're probably right about that, but I dont have the skillset required to modify the source. I'm still waiting for any of the developers to chime in and tell me how demurrage could be done, or if it's even possible, beyond the early idea of an alternate minimum fee upon eventual transfer.  I still can't grasp how lost coins could even  be 'rotted'. I think that it's totally reasonable for users to refresh once a year. I'm trying to set up a bitcoin client to run entirely from a thumbdrive, using the latest MS client.  I find that it puts the wallet.dat, blk0001.dat, and blkindex.dat files in an entirely insecure location, namely on the C: drive in the appdata subdirectories.  I don't want that behavior at all, and need to know how I should go about getting the client installed onto the thumb drive to use the copies of these files I have on the thumbdrive itself and to not write data to the C: drive or the registry whatever.  I was really hoping that you had a better understanding of all this by now. How do you propose to do this?  My understanding of the system doesn't allow for discounting of transactions (or accounts, if you prefer) without significant changes to the technical aspects.This would likely introduce other perverse incentives than what I was trying to prevent, and I would have to oppose that on principle and on economic grounds.  Any demurrage system must scale relative to the real costs to the network scale, and that means per transaction and not per transaction value setting.This is neither economicly sound, nor relevant to Bitcoin.  It's not remotely relevant to the problem I'm trying to avoid.I don't even think that this is possible.No.  Absolutely not.  I would much prefer to leave the potential problem unaddressed than proceed in this manner. Shutup Dude!  You're going to give away the game! This is not so.  The average Joe only cares that his paper currency can be taken to another store next week or next month and buy (almost) as much as he had to give to get it.  For the average Joe, the relative difficulty in counterfitting is only important in that same context. I don't care if it scares of new people.  This is a forum, it is not Bitcoin itself.  I will not sensor civilly expressed personal opinions, personally.  That would violate my own principles. This is assumed to be true, but the prisoner's dilemma was recently put to the test and the results were mixed.  Not all users will only do what is in their own best interests, even if they don't know the others and they are forever anonymous.  Game theory is just what it says, it's a theory. It's provably true that there is a cost to maintaining old transactions, however small that it is.If this were universally true, where would the miners download the old blocks from?  The miners is where those blocks are most likely to be kept.I see this as an unintended consequence of the network providing for free storage indefinitely, and I don't agree that it would be a workable solution, or even generally a positive consequence.Once again, there is a provable degree of storage costs suffered by the network.  If you don't believe that is true, then just consider what you think would happen if transactions stopped.Old transactions are indeed 'using' Bitcoin.  The only way to not be using bitcoin is to sell out all that you have so that someone else is using what you once had.  If you have a positive balance in bitcoin, you're using the system by defintion. This is how we can keep it from "going that low"It necessarily needs it, in some form or fashion.  And the max block size is going to go away.  Too many people are opposed to the artificial scarcity that it imposes, and want to remove it and let it become a true free market.An adaptive max block size is fine for it's own reasons, if a system can be agreed upon, and that really would have to be code enforced.  But that would not solve the problem.  There is little evidence that such compensation will be appropriate to overcome the 'free storage' problem, and much economic theory that suggests that over the long term free storage of old transactions will distort the market. I don't know how to deal with lost coins, or even if it's possible.Yes, it does.  That's my point.  It may not require much, but it does require some resources.That's why I started this thread, to have that conversation.Miners don't have as much control as you think.  There is a market that they have to respond to, so there needs to be published expectations.  This is not an unpredictable issue, it's a very definable economic issue. No, because demurrage would have to scale depending upon the number of existing transactions.  It's the avoidance of demurrage, with the inclusion of a 'grace' period, that encourages major savers to consolidate their holdings. How much would you charge?
That's fine, but it would still be ideal if everyone knew in advance what those rulesets are likely to include.  This means that it would be wise to include storage fees/demurrage sooner rather than later.  It needs to be part of the status quo before the economy grows so large as to solidify that status quo, which in practice means that it needs to be included into the standard clients and miners as a default condition.  Miners could then choose to opt out of charging that fee at their own will, just like they can opt out of limiting the size of the free transaction section of the block now. Because as the network grows, the resources required to store those many old transactions grow at least as much.  New clients must download and verify each of those transactions for as long as they persist.  A single transaction with 400,000 BTC costs exactly the same amount to store as the same transaction with 50 BTC; but one person with holdings totaling 400,000 BTC spread across 8000 transactions imposes 8000 times as much burden of resources upon the network.  The idea is to encourage that person to consolidate his holdings into fewer transactions, without forcing him to do so, as he can still choose to leave them where they are if he is okay with 8000 times as much storage fees as is necessary.  It also has the effect of partially compensating the miners for the resources that those many transactions consume; not just 8000 times as much disk space, but 8000 times as much bandwidth for every new client that connects to that node to download the existing blockchain.  Currently, it still doesn't matter; because the miners are more than compensated for these things with the block reward and blockchain pruning is not yet implemented anyway.  I'm just thinking ahead. Traders are also already charged for this privilege.I don't contest that, which is why I thought the idea (someone else's) to charge the demurrage rear-loaded upon eventual spending was brilliant. It's only so expensive now because the economy that it represents is so small, and the inflation rate is so high.  That ratio will change with the growth of the economy and the first block reward cut. This is not quite what I intended.  Older coins are not more expensive than newer coins.  Several dispersed transactions holding one person's funds is ore expensive than fewer transactions holding that same total.  It just tends to be more likely for older transactions because savers who have more bitcoin in total than is required for regular trade have a security incentive to spend the most recent matured coins before the older coins.  The default client behavior is to spend the oldest transactions first, but this can be changed; and thus it will if the incentive for savers to keep the bulk of their funds in many older transactions as compared to a few consolidated transactions.  I don't want the costs of storage to be very high, because I still want Bitcoin to favor capital accumulation.  It's just that there still needs to be some incentive for those early adopters to consolidate their holdings rather than keeping 400,000+ BTC in 8000+ transactions of 50 BTC apiece.A max limit doesn't make any sense, however.  The fee needs to be roughly equivalent to the problem in order to encourage the desired behavior; which means that it needs to increase relative to the age of the transaction. I think hitting every account for every block is a bit excessive.  Perhaps every account every retarget block instead.  Still, I think that there should be a delay of some kind.  Transaction fees already imply some period of storage.  At least a month, even credit cards give you 30 days "grace".That said, if there were some way to asses this in an ongoing fashion, that would be preferable from an economic standpoint; I just don't think that is possible from a technical standpoint. No.  Inflation is really the limitless growth of the monetary base, and works like a tax upon the currency's user base.  This hits savers the hardest, and is not relative to their costs.  Demurrage does not devalue the currency overall, and I'm trying to compensate the miners/network for the unfunded costs of long term storage of capital accumulation.  It's not a high cost, really.  But there is a cost, and it would be ideal to have a mechanism that can approximate the costs of capital storage found for other sound money systems. That's the issue in a nutshell.  I don't really believe that it's a near term problem, as this probably can't even become an issue until the block reward is pretty tiny.  We are talking about 40 years at least.  Still, by that time the system will be too entrenched to introduce any demurrage.  I'm trying to predict a possible issue, long range. Feel free to do so.  If you can trade keys off network you are not a burden to the network, and someone is going to pay the demurrage fee eventually for them and you. And your mother said you couldn't afford it. I mean put the rule into the default fee structure for inclusion into the fee paying section of the block.  Any transaction that pays less than the minimum is just a tip and still must wait to be included into the free section, if at all.  Not that a transaction that expects a minimum fee fails a validity check and fails to propagate.  Although that could be a form of enforcement of demurrage.Yes, the minimum fees can be ignored by users, but it is not in the self interests of miners to accept transactions that should be paying a minimum fee based on published fee schedules agreed to by miners.  Some will always accept the transactions regardless, but they are a charity, contributing to blockchain security without expectation of compensation. Yeah, there are better ways to earn bitcoins, just as there are better ways to save US $ than clipping coupons.  Start a business.  We need more economy, not more miners. Don't forget, that was two clusters out of an unknown larger number of them, for which the hardware was already paid for capital.  Those fpga clusters that he speaks of were paid for by other projects, and would otherwise sit idle earning nothing between major projects if not for Bitcoin.  And they are way more energy efficient at hashing than even a GPU, which is way more energy efficient at hashing than a CPU. Yes, android is a version of Linux.  Notice that none of the open source programmers here have released anything bitcoin related for the closed source OS's for smartphones. Hard to say.  Too many variables to guess.Depends on how cheap you can get it and what your electric costs are.  It would probably pay for itself if you can get a decent price for it, but unless you have free electric and AC or are heating with electro-resistive heat then it's almost certainly not going to cover it's own AC & electric costs. I don't understand this at all.  Fee sharing doesn't change the dynamics, nor increase the likely total fees, of transactions.  It's just wealth transfer serving no obvious purpose. Long term storage of capital is not free for the network, even though it might seem that way.  The network does suffer an uncompensated cost.  Namely, the ongoing replication of those deep transactions as new clients bootstrap and the ongoing disk storage costs, however small those might be individually, multiplied by the number of nodes.  What I'm suggesting is an incentive for capital accumulators to consolidate their holdings into fewer/newer transactions, allowing the network to 'compact' the blockchain.  Currently there is no incentive for early adopters, or anyone else with any substantial holdings, to spend their oldest transactions first.  This is the default action of the client, and this might be enough, but sooner or later someone is going to mod the client to allow users to spend newer coins first, because the deeper the transactions are the more secure they are.  There does need to be a cost for that kind of long term security, particularly if those holdings are spread across numerous transactions that cannot be pruned.  I do like the proposal of a miners' choice and rear-loading the fees.  It permits the well heeled bitcoiner to contribute to the security of the blockchain in a less direct manner, for the only miner that is likely to accept his old transaction without the demurrage fee is one that he owns or is otherwise closely associated with anyway.  If he is owner of a bitcoin bank, his old transactions can be spend or freshened without fee only if his own bank is doing the processing; implying that his financial actions directly benefit the security of the blockchain because that would have to be true for his transaction to be accepted for free in any reasonable period of time.I have a proposal.  Using the rear-loaded, miners' choice model.  A minimum fee rule for any new transaction with inputs that are older than a year (in blocks) will have an alternative minimum fee based upon demurrage of one Satoshi ( .00000001 BTC) per retarget cycle (2016 blocks) for every input that exceeds one year since it's transaction was recorded.  This means that each input is charged for demurrage from it's inception, not the end of the first year, and the minimum fee for a new transaction with a single transaction exactly a year old would be at least .00000026 BTC.  This isn't much at all, but would still incentivise some savers to either freshen their savings once each year, consolidating their many transactions down to one while doing so, and potentially paying a transaction fee for the effort; or resolve to pay for the network storage costs upon release of funds.  This even gets demurrage upon off-network transactions wherein the private keys are traded instead, because no one saves money to never spend it, so sooner or later that has to happen.This rule need not go into effect until the block reward is cut to 25 coins, giving the early adopters plenty of time to plan out their best course of action, most of whom will be consolidating numerous 50 BTC transactions into a single (bytewise small but BTC-wise large) transaction; permitting the network to prune even the block reward transactions from the old blocks, perhaps all the way down to the headers alone.Also, this rule would be an alternative minimum fee, so if some other rule required a higher mimimum fee, those fees would not be additive.  It's just whichever minimum fee is highest that is required; or a miner willing to process your transaction for free.Alright, I'm ready.  Tell me what you think, but please leave my mother out of it. It's repeatedly hashing a collection of the transactions that have occured since the last published block, a header and a nonce.  It's looking for a hash lower than a target number that is adjusted to make the hashing intentionally difficult.  If it finds a hash that is under the target numer, your computer gets to add a special transaction to the block that it just created giving you a 50 BTC reward, and then it publishes the block that it has created to the p2p network so that other nodes can verify your success. I don't think that it's "shitty", just that the genesis block is unique.   Well, I have to admit that some of the concerns brought up here an in other similar threads have started to make me wonder if the situation can be improved, even though I don't really agree that it's truely broken.  I started a similar threat related to that in Economcs.
I've started a new thread related to this one in economics section. What would it change, really?  Maybe if the transaction fees are shared with a block that is 2016 blocks behind it, so that it's in a relative spot in the next difficulty retarget. This might be better off in a different section, but I'm sure that it's going to go all over the place.Recently, there has been much discussion in many different threads about how the transaction fees as they exist are a "tragedy of the commons".  Even though they are not such a type of resource commons, those threads seem to have awakened a real future concern about whether or not transaction fees will be enough of a reward for miners once the block reward drops to trivial levels.  The part that really got me wondering is about the lack of "demurrage" in Bitcoin's algorithum.  Many will immediately attack me here as advocating for inflation, but let me say first off that I am not advocating for any change that would actually make Bitcoin inflationary.  However, for those who do not know what demurrage is, it is the intentional introduction of fees into an artificial monetary exchange system intended to replicate the 'storage costs' that a commodity money would have.  For example, when physical gold was the primary medium of exchange between nation-states and silver the primary medium of exchange between private entities; both commodities imposed relatively high transaction fees in the form of transportation costs.  This kind of fee structure Bitcoin replicates well with it's transaction fee schedule.  However commodity money also imposed storage fees upon the long term holder of these mediums of exchange, usually in the form of the costs of building a vault or renting a safety deposit box inside the much larger vault of a bank or other highly secure institution.  It's these storage fees that demurrage is intended to replicate, and for which Bitcoin does not have a corrolary.  I don't know if it could even be done, and still keep everything else straight, but I want to ask for ideas about how demurrage could be introduced into Bitcoin under the following ideal conditions...1)  Miners should receive the demurrage fees relative to their hashing contributions, as transaction fees and the block reward are now.2)  Only transactions older than, say 6 months, should be affected by demurrage fees3)  Demurrage fees should be very small, but should be assessed with each block, or perhaps with each retarget block.4)  Demurrage fees should favor transactions with large collective amounts, probably the best way to do this is to asses the demurrage fee by each elderly transaction and not by how much it contains.  (a safety deposit box costs the renter the same if there is 100 ounces of gold in it or just one)The astute observer will immediately notice that this will not likely result in actual demurage fees, but instead in savers periodicly moving their funds to keep them fresh.  This is part of the point, as if it's economicly better for the savers to freshen their funds and potentially pay a transaction fee instead, they still contribute to the security of the blockchain with the side benefit that their old transctions can be pruned from the blockchain once that becomes possible as well as encourage the condensation of many small transaction balances into fewer and smaller transactions.I'm sure that an exception can be added to the demurrage fee system for the genesis block, so that Satoshi can keep his legacy intact for this heirs.Any thoughts on how this could be accomplished, or why it shouldn't?  I'm open to being proven wrong about this concern. Spoken it sounds too much like "qubit" which will eventually be confusing once quantum computers are a reality. I'm afraid that I can't help you. You guys worry too much. What you are describing is a slightly different attack.  This is the double spend attack in a nutshell, and not a denial of service attack.  The DOS requires live participation in the network.Still, it's not about the longest blockchain, it's about the one with the greatest proof of work.  But yes, hashing a false chain in the dark, so long as you have a least as much power as the remainder of the network, will eventually get you ahead of the true chain.  51% of the network still doesn't cut it, though.  This would only give you 2% more power than the rest of the network, meaning that you would only be able to get one block ahead every 50 blocks or so, and if the rest of the network continues to grow as it has for the past two years, your still a loser in less than a day. Too many forum members post this, but this is due to a misunderstanding of what the fable of "the tragedy of the commons" represents.  The classic fable involves a town of sheephearders with a common set of grassy fields for their sheep to graze upon.  This is a commons of a depleting resource that users are incentivized to maximize their usage of, regardless of the impact on the resource.  The relationship between transaction fees and blockchain security is a commons, but not this kind of commons.  The users are incentivized to include whatever fee they believe will save them time, but no more.  This kind of commons contributes to the shared resource, in this case difficulty.  There is also a case of diminishing returns for the transaction fee payer, but that is part of the balancing mechanism. That thing would be awesome in a postcard mailer form factor.  Talk about a real postalnet. Even if there is some kind of shortcut found in SHA-256, this would simply require that the difficulty increase to compensate.  The only reason that we would need to migrate away from SHA-256 in short order is if a method of reversing the hash were found to be feasible, in which case SHA-256 would be broken. This might be possible, but I don't see a real gain to doing this. I would think that a blockchain server would be more useful.  This would allow phone clients to have a local wallet.dat, and query a blockchain service to serve up the blocks necessary to validate a receiving transaction without needing a local copy of the blockchain.  A network drive might be able to do this decently well, but would result in a lot of network traffic for a smartphone. Only if they can get others to join them.  That is the big if.  Bitcoin was lucky in this way, as there was never any certainty that people would join.  Now they are, and even the users sometimes complain about the 'fairness' of it all.  If any institution were to actually start another blockchain, why would the public favor one set of early adopters over another? The idea is that by the time the block reward cuts in half in Jan of 2013, the network will be large enough, with enough transactions that pay a small fee of about .001 BTC on average, that the transactions will already be making up for the lost 25 BTC to the miners.  We have already come a long way in just over two years, so I'm betting that this assesment is generally correct.  Time will tell. Even better would be one of those usb drives in the form factor of a credit card, so that you can actually keep it in your wallet.I'd by that for a bitcoin. I wonder if anyone in the GPU industry has actually noticed Bitcoin yet. Yeah, that will improve things!    No.  Bitcoin has an economic advantage over fiat currencies by reason of it's cash like attributes while in use online.  Decentralization and anoninimity are central to those cash-like attributes.  I can't see an advantage for a centralized blockchain, since the primary reason that the proof-of-work system exists is so that no single institution (or group of institutions working in conjunction) must be trusted for the value of the currency to remain intact.  Wal-coins might be able to make a credible claim towards anoniminty on technical grounds, but would you take that risk?  Would the Federal Reserve suffer Wal-coins to exist if it were true?  The fact that Wal-coins were centrally supported tells those with a vested interest in the status quo exactly which CEO's office to visit, and which board members need a good IRS audit.  E-gold tried the centralization route, and got hammered for it.  And as a matter of quality online money, a gold backed currency is superior on many economic and historical points.  Bitcoin's decentralization says that there is no headquarters to raid, and anoniminty says that end users are hard to find.  Any credible competitor to Bitcoin needs to have both these attributes, and be able to prove it on technical grounds, to even stand an even chance.  If this could be done and also have a credible claim to being backed by gold, silver or even U235, Bitcoin would fade away and I'd be one of the first to sell my bitcoins for the new chain.  But how could that work?  Even if someone could crack that in the near future, it would also have to be a method that Bitcoin couldn't just adopt itself. The difficulty cannot change by more than a factor of four, either up nor down, in any one re-targeting.  This is to limit the damage of a possible attack vector that has never been attempted.  The attack involves a major hasher with much more power than the whole of the network coming in, and rather than attack the blockchain as in the double-spend attack, he simply hashes honestly with abandon up until the next retarget and then shuts his cluster off.  The result being that, without the factor-of-four rule, the period of time between blocks could be stretched to an unreasonable interval.  With the Fo4 rule, this attack would require that the attacker be willing to hash through several retargets in a row; otherwise his attack would be limited to stretching the interval to about 40 minutes, which would be inconvient but not detrimental to the system.  The rule is probably not needed anymore, as there isn't likely any single entity left on Earth with the power to outhash the running network by more than 4 times anyway.  I'm saying that, under the premise that the tech is sound and that there are no major flaws left (a large assumption, I admit) that Bitcoin's large first to market advantage will prevent similar competitors from catching up.  An institutional blockchain isn't really comparable to Bitcoin, because (by definition) there is a central institution supporting the value, and any threats to that institution also threaten the trade value of the currency.  That's comparable to Wal-Mart starting a blockchain to use their actual stock price as currency.  That's a possibility, but it doesn't protect Wal-coins from the issues of centralization, and people from Kenya are unlikely to ever have interest in owning Wal-coins.Bitcoin's first to market advantage protects it from other unbacked and distributed competitors.  But I don't thing there is much threat from institutional blockchains either.  After all, if there was an economic incentive for these institutions to issue their own currencies in direct compatition with the national governments that regulate their charter, they would have already done so.
There is also the possibility that if a major market leading corporation were to set up a chain and start to gain ground on Bitcoin, that corporation's direct compatition is then inclined to do something similar.  Certainly the larger competitors could follow the exact same model, and start their own block chains; but some of the smaller competitors are going to look at the field of choices and chose to simply base their market offering off of the open market choice already in existance, namely Bitcoin.  This effect will all but garrantee that the smaller institutional blockchains are marginalized as many small players in many different industries do the same thing. No, he gets it, and you are still a little behind on the curve.  Having control of 51% of the hashing power of the whole network makes it possible to successfully attack the blockchain for a short period of time.  That period of time being one 10 minute interval.  The whitepaper doesn't go into detail about the odds of success of such an attack, other than to show how it's not really possible at all at less than 50%.  Having just over 50% of the network hashing power doesn't really give you very good odds of success past one block, and an attacker intending to deny transactions into the blockchain for longer than one block has to be able to be certain that no blocks can sneak in under him, for if one gets in and the next is built on top of that before he build one to overwrite that one and one on top to secure his false one then it become exponentially more difficult for him to overwrite two blocks back.  In practice, an attacker wishing to keep this up for an extended period of time needs at least double the hashing power of the network because it's like the attacker is trying to wade up river while the honest nodes are wading down river.  And even with double the rest of the network, some blocks are going to slip in and be covered up again anyway.  At which point the attacker has to choose between trying to overwrite two blocks and then write another before a third is made by the network or simply ignore the one that got away and overwrite the last one to take the network back. It's not sensible for anyone to set up an exchange server in the one nation that is most likely to become hostile to Bitcoin, particularly when an American can set up an exchange in any juristiction he likes. There is no way to fix it.  That is the normal progression of a niche forum going mainstream.  That's the way of the Internet.  The average poster's contributions trend toward the Internet's greater average, which is terrible.  I've seen it happen on a number of forums that I've participated in. The 4x rule was not present in the first several months.  It was added as a security defense later.  Even so, this would not have had a large impact upon the max target. Seems to me that Brazilians have beaten you to the party, but if you want more products from CA or SA, then start selling them!  Depending on where you are, consider selling handmade hammocks.  The kind without spreaders.  I've bought them myself from an importer on Ebay, and I love them. I don't disagree with your general point, but the above statement is no longer true.  Silver in a mined, refined and elemental state (above ground stock, or basicly bullion, coins and jewlry) is much less abundant in our modern world than gold in the same state.  The reason for this is, although gold has been used primarily as a store of value even in the absence of a gold standard anywhere in the world, silver has largely lost it's monetary and investment value as a precious metal (up until last year, anyway) and it's value for the past 50 years or so has been dependent upon it's many industrial uses.  Many of those industrial uses consume the elemental stocks by using silver in chemical compounds that are difficult to reverse, (i.e. photography development) or by using the metal for it's electrical properties in devices that require it and are thus difficult to retrieve (i.e. satellites, aircraft/spacecraft avionics, military equipment and undersea cables).  So over the past 50 years or so, more silver was consumed in industry than is mined each year; although this may change with the recent rise in silver prices.  While pretty much all of the gold that has ever been mined can still be accounted for, as gold has very little industrial uses that cannot be replaced by cheaper materials. Let me know if you ever go on tour near Louisville, Ky. Yes, that's part of it.  Kept it too difficult for one, or even a few, average desktops from reaching 10 minutes between blocks.  Partly as a show of faith that others were desired.Also, setting a max target also creates the metric that we call the difficulty.  The difficulty number is an estimate of how many times more difficult the target is to achieve statisticly as compared to the minimum difficulty of 1, which is defined as the max target number.  Just having the target doesn't help human beings wrap our heads around the concept, but the difficulty provides a relative metric that humans can get used to. An encrypted wallet.dat file as default is in the todo list for the bitcoin client.  Feel free to jump into the fray and help if you have the skills. Mine has not been paid out..."By local transactions, I assume a minimum capability of a local wallet.dat, the ability to use bu.mp (or similar) to transfer addresses, and the ability to create transactions in the absence of working Internet access.I pledge 50 under these conditions"I'm going to add a new condition, the system needs to be working on my Samsung Intercept by July, or I'm cutting my pledge in half.  This pledge has turned into a large chunk of what I have left. Probably not.  But I contest that what you assume would happen once competing currencies exist would actually happen.  Bitcoin has a strong first to market advantage, so any other competing currency based upon it would have to have some dramatic advantages over Bitcoin.  If a large Western government (i.e. the United States) started such a bitcoin copy with legal tender advantages, that chain would probably become more widely used, and thus more valuable.  That's assuming that no other aspects of Bitcoin are changed, most importantly the cash-like ability to trade anonymously.  I would doubt that if the feds ever do a bitcoin clone that they won't put something in there to identify users, which will inevitablely be used against users either by the government itself or by hacker-thieves.  Just the possibility of such a thing would inhibit adoption.  If nothing else, foreign users would be reluctant to use such a thing.  A corporation might not do the same, but such a corporation would become a central target of governments, and thus a victim of their own successes. Is your system clock correct? Slow is irrelevant, if they are efficient.  There are millions of them.  But if it's not possible, it's not possible. You can't make that claim.  You don't know this.  Also, you don't know what others pay even for power.IF they bought it to play games, yes they do.They probably wouldn't have, but some will now.Just because you can't imagine it, doesn't make it wrong.  Again, you need to ask for your econ education funds back.There is a point for any of these guys that continued expansion of their own cluster becomes a case of diminishing returns.  So at some point, they will stop expanding.  I didn't say they would sell the cards they already have installed, but the IP of their design. Supposedly ArtForz has already developed a custom run of asic based pci cards for his mining cluster, he just hasn't released his design. Um, no.  I think that you aren't quite getting it.  There is no owner for the block, the block isn't traded.  There really isn't any object that can be called a coin, not even a digital object.  The blockchain is a massive, collective ledger system.  The blockchain tracks addresses by recording the transactions that grant and remove bitcoins from them.  A complete blockchain has all of the transactions that have ever been recorded, but it can be pruned of transactions that have already had their values spent again by their owners, after those new transactions are old enough to know for certain that they will not be reversed.  This is the purpose of the 'merkel' hash tree that defines the structure of a block, so that spent transactions can be deleted from the block without breaking the validity checks that new clients must perform on the blockchain upon bootstrapping.  The blockchain will eventually grow to a massive dataset, but not nearly as fast as if every division of the coins required that the block itself be duplicated and signed again. May you be touched by his noodlely appendage. This is an issue, to be sure.  However, ASIC's can be mass produced on a level vastly more cost effective than equvilant FPGA's.  So much so, that if the crypto is changed, it would still be more cost effective to buy a second ASIC mining card than to buy one FPGA card. You need to return to your Econ prof and ask for your money back.  You are overlooking some important variables.  First off, professional mining cannot compete over the long term with individual miners, who have near zero facilities costs.  Some don't even have capital costs, because they are presently using GPU's that they would have bought regardless.  Eventually, Purpose made bitcoin mining cards will become available.  For no other reason than once all those heavily vested professional miners (such as ArtForz) reach a point that their profit margins are squeezed too much to continue to expand, they will monetize their hardware designs by selling the cards for individual users.
Perhaps a financial institution breaking ranks, but it could also be the CIA looking to test their intentions for bitcoin on idle hardware. Not unless the rest of the network was willing to change their clients to permit it, and that isn't likely.  Consensus is hard even when it's actually a good idea. It's not like that at all.  It's not a condition of diminishing returns, it's a condition of the highest level of security that the collective users are willing to pay for.  If the security is too costly, then the miners will start losing money and some will drop out; thus lowering the difficulty.  The result would be a cheaper network, but a weaker one as well.  New tech just permits new miners to operate more cost effectively.  If the new tech is efficient, but too costly, the mass of GPU miners with paid for "sunk" costs still have an advantage.  GPU mining isn't going to go away for the gamer who does part time mining while not gaming.  FPGA's may take over professional mining, but professional mining companies have to be able to undercut the amatuers with paid for GPU's in addition to pay for their electric and facilities costs and turn a profit.  I consider the idea that professional miners will take over the network to be rediculous, because there is no possibility that a mining company can be more cost effective than the gamer who mines when not at his computer and has to heat his tiny flat with baseboard electric anyway.  No possible way.  If 5% of the world's gamers turned their GPU's to this end while at work or asleep, the difficulty would be much higher than it is today even if every professional mining pool were to stop immediately.  Co-generation (the act of mining for profit while also utilizing the heat to contribute to space heating needs) will likely be a major part of the baseload mining into the foreseeable future.  Professional mining is still very profitable because the growth curve of Bitcoin economy is still so steep, so the exchange price stays well ahead of the difficulty.  When Bitcoin's market matures, this growth rate will slacken significantly, resulting in a much tighter profit margin that will permit only new miners with alternative sources of income (such as a professional miner with service contracts with major retail chains or banks) or individuals that do not need strict profitability (said gamer in an electricly heated flat) will be able to compete with those miners that have already paid for capital costs. It needs to continue to be the worlds most powerful supercomputer.  New tech moves the bar a little higher.  Bitcoin must keep up with that tech. Read the FAQ or the Wiki.  If you still have specific questions, come back. But if there is a limit, then you can never know if it's the strongest.  Logicly speaking, any limit on the choice of tech will effectively result in a network somewhat less secure than otherwise. Did you really intend to hotlink a hotlinking notice?And no miners do not control my transactions, because all that they can do is refuse to process them, and there are thousands of others who will not. Wait long enough, and someone will be selling plug&play PCI expansion cards and you won't have to understand anything about the tech at all. Yeah.  It's the "these new advancements in technology are going to destroy the weavers!" issue all over again. I'm not a programmer, so I don't know what I'm talking about here, but could such a linux binary permit graphics hardware too old to use the current miners to contribute at a respectable hash/watt rate even if they such at the hash/second rate? You could easily accept it as a payment option without advertising. Even if we could actually deterimine this, we shouldn't limit mining based on tech.  The goal is to make the blockchain as secure from brute force attack as is possible.  If we limit ourselves to certain tech, then there will be tech out there that is fundamentally faster at the task, and an attacker isnt' going to be so inclined to limit themselves to follow our rules.Beyond that, a fpga card in a computer is a very useful thing.  If bitcoin mining encourages the wide adoption of fpga's into desktops then other programs are going to start making use of those same cards.   They don't control mine. I wonder if game consoles would make a good mining platform.   The network doesn't track mac addresses.  Even if it did, pretty much every one of the concerns with IP based distribution applies equally to mac addresses. IP rationing was considered early on, and rejected for other reasons.  There is no way to limit the miners based on their choice of tech, and even the FPGA's will be undercut by the first ASIC based PCI mining card to be released.  And if Bitcoin is even moderately successful, we will see such a card being sold publicly within three years. Seems pretty real to me when I walk on it, eat it or drive with it.  Still, Bitcoins are not physical, so when you call the cops about being scammed in an online bitcoin trade ask yourself, "would the cops do anything if I had been scammed out of cash on the street?" and if the answer is "probably not" then the next question then becomes "should I invite the cops into my life if there is little chance of recovering my losses?"Some people think of the cops with admiration, but they are not there to "serve and protect" the individual citizen.  They "serve and protect" the state.  If you really believe that would include yourself; are you happy when you see police lights in your rear view mirror because they are enforcing the law, or do you tense up and check your speed? Or he could be in jail. That's the one. I ordered the ebook for .3 BTC, but the download didn't work for me.  I just ended up with a screen full of garbage data that I couldn't save to disk. 
@instantBTCIt doesn't matter if he's making a profit off of this project or he isn't.  The only thing that matters is, can he get good quality printing done for less than you can? Have you had any communications since the transfer?And there is a particular thread for putting the names of scammers, although I forget the name of it. Then yes, it's viable. Possiblely, but they will change again with each difficulty adjustment and trade price change.No, why would there be?  It's not our problem if you are immorally stealling clock cycles from your university.  Don't be expecting sympathy if you get kicked out of school over this.Depends on what one considers "viable", but trading bitcoins for actual stuff is pretty easy.I'd doubt that anyone on this forum is going to pin your crimes upon Bitcoin. You could do it by modifying the client to use a new genesis block, a new port and use an access controlled VPN or darknet.  I don't know why you would want to do this for a local currency, though.  It would be too weak to withstand any of the brute force attacks, even limited to known users via access controls.  If you really want a local currency based off of Bitcoin, then you need to set up a single trusted server that issues one time use signed certs and back that currency up with a Bitcoin reserve.  This way your local currency has, at a minimum, the value of the bitcoins in reserve. Brazil is a completely different culture.  Particularly one that doesn't have nearly the faith in, or co-dependency with, their federal government.  Europe's social service programs are terriblely expensive, but they are popular enough for Europeans to put up with the high taxation required.  I would say that Brazilians wouldn't suffer that kind of taxation, no matter how it was presented.  I'm saying that Bitcoin could undermine that faith in governments by collapsing the social services for lack of funding, and make Europe more like Brazil. Link? I still don't really think that a VAT tax is going to work very well for long, either.  There is too much incentive for manufacters to cheat by selling directly onto the dark markets online.  There is already, as reports suggest that Greece's dark (and largely untaxable) markets are roughly 40% of the GDP.  There is no way that Greece, as a nation, can repay their foriegn debts if this trend continues; but in a Bitcoin future with governments dependent upon a VAT tax in Europe, the first real recession and half of the population will  turn to the dark markets just to make ends meet. You're not likey to find such sketchy people on this forum either.  Try silk road. Considering the vagueness of the questions, I'm not surprised that you were generally ignored.  The old salts here get very weary of answering the same questions, and if you want a real answer to an unanswered question you have to frame the question well.Only if you assume that there is a backstop to the fiat currencies that you compare it to.  In practice, this may or may not be so.  Technically there is nothing backing up the US FRN beyond "the full faith and credit of the United States (government)", so in the end what backs a fiat currency is the faith the general public has in the long term future of said government.  If that is enough for you, then that's fine for you.  You should not assume that others share your religion.I disagree with this statement.  A defined 'accepter of last resort' takes upon itself a huge liability by this action, potentially to their own destruction should the government decide to go after this institution.  If the public even believes that the government can destroy this institution, then the currency dies for lack of trust in a future trade value.  Bitcoin is valuable without any openly defined supporting institution.  If what you say is correct, this should have never happened.  The reality is that it did happen, so some significant economic support for the currency presently exists, which implies that it will continue to exist provided that said econimc support cannot be identified and subsequently undermined.That's not an answer, it's a dodge of a serious rebuttal to your statements.  By what premise do you assume that such motivations actually exist?  It's rude to dismiss responders so, please don't do it again.No.  That's the point.  You can choose to centralize for yourself by depositing into a "bank" or website, but no one has to.You need ot read some more and return later.They can have what they want by using a bitcoin bank or online wallet service, but monetary policy is politics.  Bitcoin just makes alternatives to the establishment possible.If I were mad at you, you wouldn't be talking anymore.  But I do consider you a bit rude, coming into our house to crap on our table.  You are not the first to comeup with this theory.I agree completely.Sure.  That's why Facebook never took off, just being a novel version of a wiki after all.  It was doomed from the start. Presumedly from ATI's manufacturing plants in China. It's not as bad as that.  Anoniminity can be had even if your coins intermingle, as the secret data that really needs protecting is the association of your real world ID with those bitcoin addresses, and not the addresses from each other.  I do admit that more control over which addresses the client uses for any given transaction would be a helpful feature in this regard, however.  And yes, at the present time two wallet.dat files is a good idea if one intends to have an open Bitcoin identity as well as a anonymous one.  There are ways to get coins from one to the other without associations if one is purposeful and careful, such as the bitcoin mixer; but it would be useful if this were something that the UI could handle.  Someday it may. Isn't there already an open source Point-of-sale system that could be modifiyed to handle bitcoin payments?  I know that there is a POS system based off of the Ipad that already intergrates Bitcoin, but to what degree that is so, I know not.  And they are not open source. The rise in difficulty is driven by the rise in relative value, not the other way around. Are you saying that wouldn't be a political opinion?I think that I'm actually insulted.  Did you just call me a "right wing conservative"? It's most likely your bitcoin client, as AT&T can filter IRC connections for anything that might look like an automated process using an IRC channel for command and control.  I'd recommend sending a notice to the abuse address to let them know about Bitcoin and how it uses that particular IRC channel for peer discovery, and they can filter out that channel from their watchdog processes. Anonimity is possible with Bitcoin, but it is neither automatic nor particularly convienent. Interesting, but I think that I need more than can be stored into an 1/8" thick wallet would be limited to. I don't have this problem. My faithful wallet is falling apart, and I've been ignoring it for months.  I'm attempting to locate a custom leathermaker, or some other artisan, to make me a custom billfold that can safely hold two ID cards so that they can be seen without removal.  I need one for my driver's license and one for my carry permit, both slightly larger than a standard credit card.  I'll consider other materials than leather, if there is an artisan who prefers duct tape as an example.  I'll expect to see photos of prior work.Barring a custom job, I'll consider a mass produced consumer solution based on price shipped.
Perhaps you need to narrow the scope of the question and try again.  What about the explainations that you have received do you not understand?  In addition, asking about valuations is subjective.  I.E. the answer is relative to the person being asked, and not an objective truth that can be explained.  The only objective truth concerning the "what gives Bitcoin value" is that something does. If the mods can agree on a short list of rules to be enforced, I'll help enforce them as best I can.  Otherwise, freedom of expression is the rule.  If there isn't a direct attack on a particular forum member, I don't intervene. Excellent idea.  New users can't post until they can pass a fairly easy quiz, but can read whatever they like. All life is politics, and Bitcoin is no exception.  We may attribute whatever leaning we desire to the project itself, but he political motivations of the founders are not in doubt.  They are alluded to in the genesis block. Do you have references for this position, or is it just your opinion?  From what I understand, that quiz was well vetted for neutrality, and has been around under one name or another since the 1970's.  It's possible that it's biased, but I've given out dozens of those cards and found a fair distribution of Repubs & Dems that seems to match reality fairly well, with the majority of independents ringing in as libs, but certainly not all of them.  I've had true statists. Perfect.  Thanks guys! We need a sticky faq with these simple questions right on the front page of the forum. Long before that time, transaction fees will have become the norm, and taken over for the block reward as the primary economic incentive to participate. This is a fair assumption, since there is precedent in the digital realm of distributed technologies being largely immune to the will of legistlators. That's because the most extreme "rightist" economists from France are communists. Thanks for the correction.  Then a "stealth" client is needed, that functions as a dark node unless specificly commanded to connect to a particular peer, or accept a particular peer's requests.  In fact, I want this client, portable on a thumbdrive.   Satoshi annouced the project the same day the genesis block was written, and there were other miners in less than 24 hours.  The data is still there, go check for yourself. This is my 2036th forum post.  At least 500 of those posts are me largely repeating myself.  It gets old. Search the forum for the "shy" client.  Someone has already modified the vanilla client to only accept approved connections and never announce it's own IP address. Yes, there is.Only you, try reading the forum, the wiki or the FAQ first.  If you still have questions, come back. Why can't newbies read the forum or the wiki before asking the same questions? Used alone, this is true.  Used as part of a comprehensive security plan, it most certainly is. Amen. @DemandralI reccommend that you do not put anything in to Bitcoin, and take the source code and try this.  If you are correct, then you could do very well for yourself.  If you are wrong, the rest of us will learn from your example. You just pulled that number from your anal regions.  I doubt that it's anywhere near that high.  The Advocates for Self-Government says that their "World's Smallest Political Quiz" implies that libertarians are roughly 30% of the tested population.  If that is remotely representative, it's not even possible for more than 70% of Americans to default to "what is the government going to do about it".
I concede a cultural aspect. It's not that high, but the vast majority do get a significant portion of their income from public sources (governments or their agencies, such as the Fed) either directly (professor at a public university) or indirectly (speaking/consultation fees from such agencies).  It's very difficult to get a person to understand something when her salary is dependent upon her not understanding it. I said, in general.  There are statist Americans and there are classicly liberal Europeans.  In the present state of things, however, Europeans tend to trust their governments.  That's just the cycle of things.  60 years ago Americans tended to have the trust of government intentions and Europeans didn't.  This is reasonable considering that the US had just recently won a World War that was started by European governments screwing with each other. I didn't see a question, only a statement.  Most of us old salts don't think that bitcoin is similar to gold except that it is designed to mimic gold if it could be used in a digital realm.Right?  Well, at least there was a question mark, but there still isn't a specific concern that can be addressed.People say no all the time.  That's the default response even in the fiat currency world.  If you were really coming from an economic background, you would know that the market doesn't function anything like the above scenario.Prices go up, prices go down.  That is the way of the world.  Bitcoin isn't different in this respect, except by a matter of scale at present.Perhaps they will.  That wouldn't detract from it's usefulness as the currency of the Internet.Bitcoin is no worse in this respect than any fiat currency that you can name.  And bitcoin has the advantage that no one is passing laws to compel you to use bitcoin.No, we don't.  Who have you been listening to?The army stops accepting wages in ZIM because the government has printed so much that it's market value trends towards zero.  The death of a fiat currency is always a political event.Technically, yes.  Go ahead a try it.  Let's see how successful you are at playing catchup to Bitcoin.  It's taken Bitcoin two years to reach this point.That is a risk, but is dependent upon the 'accepter of last resort' having enough credibility to make the case that their version is actually better than Bitcoin.Why, indeed.  Why would these institutions start their own currency to compete with Bitcoin?  That's not a trivial question, motivation is important.Not everyone.  Not me.  Applecoins would be centralized, and when the government comes to get their cut, applecoins will drop in value relative to Bitcoins.That depends on whether or not the public actually agrees that Applecoins are the safer option.  I would not.Wait, you actually still expect the Euro to exist in another decade? Europeans, particularly Western Europeans, have a trust of government and government regulated institutions that Americans do not tend to share.  I think that this faith in such social constructs is going to be tested over the next several years.  And although you may not be directly charged for these transfers, there is a cost.  Someone is paying for it.  If it's not you, then it's likely the online vender; which is the Paypal/Credit Card model.  If not, it's your government paying the costs; which means it's still you indirectly.  But what is the catch?  You may feel that your private business is still private because the government doesn't share it, but it's not private from your government.  There may yet come a day when you regret that.The inflation issue is a red herring.  Bitcoin inflates, and currently does so at a rather high rate.  The only reason that the relative value of a bitcoin continues to rise is because the size of the economy is rising at a substantially higher rate.Honestly, I couldn't care less if Europeans use Bitcoin or not.  If Bitcoin needs my advocacy to succeed, then it's already doomed to failure.  There are always going to be those who disagree on anything. Hell, for that matter did she bother to even look at the fundamentals that underpin Bitcoin? You might want to consider another path towards an economics education. Go for it.  Good luck! I have no idea.  I have no intention of converting my coins to cash.  I just spend them. I read the article.  I can't say I was impressed by his grasp of the concepts. Really?  What other method of online exchange system are you are off that can transfer an arbitrary amount of value for seven cents? Unless you are using a "shy" client, one modified to not use IRC and be otherwise cautious about accepting new connections, then yes; the vanillia client will attempt to announce it's own IP address on the IRC channel so that other peers can easily find it.  I'm pretty sure that a "shy" client has already been developed that functions in a "darknet" fashion, only accepting connections or attempting connections with nodes that have previously been approved by the user manually.  These are not likely to show up on any graph or poll of the nodes, and certainly some exist behind Tor or I2P anyway.  The point of the shy clients is to have one or more nodes that has the full blockchain on the p2p network that is intentionally difficult for a malicious node to locate.  Thereby protecting the blockchain, and the shy client's owner, from direct attacks online or in meatspace. Read the whole thread. It's always wise not to put all your eggs in one basket.  I don't own any gold, mostly because I don't have a personal use for it beyond it's trade value.  But I do own silver, because even if society were to completely collapse to the point that even silver had no trade value because no one can eat it or shoot with it, I can still use it for it's anti-bacterial properties by dropping it into my raw milk and keep it from spoiling.I also have a not-small stock of the things one can eat and shoot with, I call that "insurance". This thread has made me realize something new.  My employer has begun to block bitcoin trade sites, including bitcoin4cash.com. No.  At worst, the loss of the IRC channel would delay the bootstrapping of a new client, but not prevent it.  Any client that has already bootstrapped successfully would not need access to IRC in any case.  I've personally tested this, because when I am at work, IRC is blocked by my employer's firewall.  The IRC channel provides quick access to peer discovery, but there is a built in default list of persistant clients to attempt a connection to if IRC isn't accessible, and once a client is bootstrapped it keeps a record of past connections and can search through those for viable peers upon restart.  Also, if IRC is blocked and the entire built-in list of peers is blocked or hacked, the client can be started with a switch to connect to any other peer that the IP address is known.  Which would permit existing users to post IP addresses for bootstrapping on any Internet forum such as this one, and create a set of moving targets for the attackers to pursue. It's entirely possible that neither side is fradulent, but that a failure of the government managed postal system is to blame. General price stabability will come with a mature market size.  Once enough of the public has already discovered Bitcoin that new discoveries become increasingly uncommon, or simply a smaller share of the economy due to a very large user base being relatively unaffected by new users coming in, then the value of a bitcoin will achieve a relative stabability to that of any other "small" currency traded on Forex. If a major pool is ever hacked, it's much more likely to be hacked quietly with the intent of the attacker redirecting the pool's earnings to himself. This thread topic is exactly why I never thought that open pools were a good idea.  That said, the ability to create more pools will lead to a proliferation of said pools competing for contributers.  So it's unlikely that any one pool could ever collect the 50% minimum in order to attack the blockchain even for a short while, as the more pools there continue to be, the less of a percentage that each is ever likely to be able to accumulate.Once again, open source competitiveness comes to the rescue.
No. You would also have to know that your's was the last copy. Yes. Yes, but we need a viable smartphone client to do that.  Don't you think that this is a bit premature?   Actually, the limit is part of the protocol, in effect.  It's an artifact of choosing a 64 bit integer to store the transaction values.  It can be overcome, however. That's a colorful way to put it.  And as I have already pointed out, once even one full node is on a satillite in orbit, even the Madmax scenario couldn't kill Bitcoin even if there were no living humans left to make use of it.Actually, it only takes one full copy of the blockchain somewhere accessible.  It's the Many-Copies-Keeps-Data-Safe method, and might mean that the blockchain is, or soon will be, more safe than the text of the Bible.For that matter, a copy of your wallet file on a CD-R or a flash drive kept in a steel safety deposit box should be plenty safe from an EMP. sure, but not all users pay any attention to the forum today, and most certainly will not in the future. This is not true in practice.  Not only is gold still trading like a money, it's value has nearly nothing to do with it's industrial utility.  Silver is vastly more useful in industry, is more rare in a refined state in the modern world, and is one-three-hundredth the market value per ounce. Delay a response from the bitcoin community.  If the attacker only had 51% of the hashing power as compared to the running network, he wouldn't have it for long after the community became aware of it.  A call to arms would go out for every honest user to generate using any means available, and many would do so even at a loss.  This is the 'hidden reserve' capacity of the bitcoin network, and we really don't have any idea how much the community could bring to bear, and neither would any potential attacker. If you had that much processing power, odds are high that you have many other more profitable uses for it than attacking the blockchain.  Like, for example, mining with the blockchain to capture 50% of the coins produced. I am not interested in publicly announcing my bitcoin net worth onto any public forum, anonymously or otherwise.  I would seriously doubt that anyone else will either. I would also be one of those non-mining users willing to mine at a loss for the good of the system, should it ever come under attack.A plan isn't really necessary.  A 'watchdog' process needs to be developed to notify users should something strange start to occur.  For example, a watchdog process could warn the client owner of the possibility of a blockchain split in progress by watching for a relatively sudden drop in effective network hashing power.  This could be done by watching the interval between accepted blocks, and if the time between any two blocks more than doubles this average, flag a warning.  If the next one is over 180% of the noted prior average time, confidence in a problem increases.  If a third is over 150% of average time, a network split has almost certainly occurred, and users should be aware of a possible double spending attempt.  Likewise, a watchdog process could be set up to look for signs that the blockchain is under attack, such as several consecutive blockchain reorganizations occurring in a relatively short time frame.   You sound like me.  I seem to be quite a bit older than the average forum member here, am a long time GNU/Linux user, a lifelong student of Economics, and it took me about two weeks to wrap my head around Bitcoin.  For a few days, my brain refused to accept it as real, and I had to keep looking for the trick.  But there is no trick, it's exactly what it claims to be.  And it's elegant as anything I've ever seen wrought by the human mind.Bitcoin derived it's initial value from the early users who, upon studying it, determined that it's virtues would lend it's use well towards being a medium of exchange.You shouldn't bother with (generating/mining), your cpu is almost useless to this end.  The client, while generating, is repeatedly hashing a collection of recent transactions, attempting to solve a "block" by being the first to find a hash for that group of transactions that is below a target number.  The target number is chosen by the system every 2016 blocks in order to make the task difficult enough for the entire network to average one block every ten minutes or so.  It needs to do this because the issuing of a block is also how new funds enter into the system in a controlled fashion, as the computer that solves the block gets to keep a reward for doing so.  Which is currently 50 bitcoins.It's an incentive for users to participate in the network, as the hashing (proof-of-work) system is also how the system defends itself from a malicious brute force cryptographic attack.No, this system is elegant, but also very complicated.  Trust me, it's not you.no you should not.  The system can be understood, it just takes a while for most to really grok it.  Don't put a dime into bitcoin until you understand it.  Keep searching the forum archives, read, and ask questions.  Once you do grok it, you will be an advocate.  Everyone is. Bitcoin required the Internet to get started, but it does not require it's continued existance to function.  If Bitcoin becomes as widely used as the British Pound, or even half as widely used worldwide, then Bitcoin would survive regardless of the Internet because there will be way too many people with a vested interest in it's ongoing success, and many of those people would endeavor to establish new forms of direct peer connections, radio nets, or re-establish existing network infrastructure as a priority.  Although we are not there yet, once Bitcoin is mainstream I can't imagine anything less than a nuclear war actually ending Bitcoin.  And even that wouldn't work once the first full blockchain node is in orbit. Ha!  I thought about doing something along these lines with askrol oil, which is used as liquid insulation in large transformers.   Do you?  I was responding to your claim that Americans don't benefit, I was not claiming that anything was equitable.Why should he be obligated to fix all the problems, when the systems that are in place can't do it either?No, we can't.  The social systems are free riders, butwithout any paying riders, there is no ride.We are, every single time.  The fact that other nations benefit without contribution does not change that fact.Actually, you can.  But that's another topic that is already off-topic.It might take a decade or two, but yes.  As soon as some socialite's self worth is brought up in a court somewhere.I say that botox is chargable to Medicid Part II.  Prove me wrong.  Viagra sure is.Not really.  It's called  a "slippery slope", and was predicted before the New Deal even passed, and is true.How much of that do you expect to get back?  I expect less than I have contributed, adjusted for inflation.  That's a loss, by definition.  Forced poverty for anyone who could have saved that same money better than the government, which is just about everyone.Whateer, dude.  this country was wrecked in 1971.  IT just takes that long for the momentem of an entire culture to wind down far enough to tell.  It happens to every empire. You entirely missed my point.  It doesn't even matter if Bitcoin is anonymous or not, only that it's perceived to be.  The campaign can't take the risk that they could be challenged on grounds of campaign finance laws. No, I'm not.  I understand your position, perhaps better than you do.  It's just not a possibility.  It's a waste of effort and resources to impose any kind of "fairness" upon any marketplace.  We couldn't keep the advances in medical science within the US if we wanted to.Provablely false.  I am an American, and I am not rich.  I have a genetic disease that killed my grandmother at 36, whereas I can expect to live till at least 70.  This would not be possible for me if middle class Americans did not benefit from private party medical research paid for by the sick wealthy.Again, provablely false.  The lower class Swiss could only possiblely have access to said medical care if his government would pay for it, and they wouldn't pay for it until after the private party research firm could do the research.  It's true that socialized medicine doesn't actually advance on it's own, but it's not true that Americans do not have access to that same medical care.  It's just that we are the only market left in the world that is still willing to bear the costs.And who gets to decide this then?  Do you really think that plastic surgery or botox won't be required for the "well being" of far too many?Also provably not true.  There were social safety nets prior to the new deal, they just were not paid for with taxes.  They were paid for by appealing to the 'success' guilt of wealthy and middle class Americans.  Often it was called "church".Then don't advocate for systems that contribute to poverty.  I'm sure that you don't believe this is what you are doing, but the most significant contributor to poverty in the 1920's was government intervention into the marketplace.Then you should support Ron Paul in everything that he does. There is an established 'early adopter' problem with a gold standard as well.Now I know that you are not the real Peter Schiff, because he would have never written the above paragraph. Are you aware of the Bitcoin faucet?
http://www.dash7.org/OpenTag%20Webinar3.pdfSlide #47 illustrates the ideal connection structure for Dash7 devices, which is exactly what a p2p mesh network topology such as Bitcoin works well within.  An android client that is Dash7 aware can 'mesh' out any transactions that it creates, accepts or otherwise sees via an ad-hoc Dash7 wireless network on the fly.  It could do the same for block headers, or even entire blocks, but considering the likely future size of full blocks and the 500-at-a-time that clients request while bootstrapping, it would be more efficient for a Dash7 aware Bitcoin client to turn on the wifi radio in ad-hoc mode to directly connect to another such client in meatspace.  Dash7 mode 2 includes inherent relative location data, so even clients that do not have access to absolute location data (i.e. GPS) do know how close to each other they are, and therefore if they are in range of wifi or not.Using Dash7 mode 2, a Bitcoin client trying to send or accept an in-person Bitcoin transaction can either transmit the transaction as a broadcast immediately, wait for a semi-random period of time to do the same, broadcast the hash of the transaction and wait till another client requests it, or any combination of the above in order to get that transaction out into the network.  If that Bitcoin client does not have ready access to the Internet (and therefore the Bitcoin p2p network), spreading the transaction out to any other Dash7 aware Bitcoin clients increases the odds that one of those clients will have, or will soon have, access to the Internet in order to get that transaction onto the p2p network. If the US bans bitcoin, much of the rest of the world would gravitate towards it because it irritates the US government.  Including many US citizens. Easy to remember, difficult to get confused in common speech or in text.  I like it.+1 For practical reasons, it's best to refrain from lumping soldiers in with the others.  After all, odds are high that if there is going to be any shots fired at dawn (or any other time) they are going to be doing the shooting. Ironicly, I'd bet that he doesn't even have 10kBTC anymore. If there were a way to secure the network while also contributing to useful computational projects, we would likely do that.  But there isn't any way to do this.  The compuations can either be useful for some altruistic project or be useful for blockchain security; but not both. In a way, yes.  But mostly because any monetary system has to have the initial distribution somehow, and distributing the currency based on the contributions towards blockchain security is about the most equitable as can be devised for an anonymous, digital currency.  Eventually that initial distribution cycle will taper to zero, and then miners will be "paid" to process transactions, but the method of processing transactions also contributes to the ongoing security of the blockchain in like manner. Added to that, once those early adopters finally decide to take those profits, then those bitcoins are loose in the system, and no amount of gaming or lobbying is going to give those early adopters their advantages back.  It's a one time advantage, whereas fiat currencies are constantly being screwed with to the benefit of some insider or another.  Hell, even the gold and silver markets are manipulated to some degree. The obvious difficulty of getting current users to agree to such a tax collection mechanism to be added to their clients aside.  Which government would this tax be collected for?  Any government entity that you could choose will 1) not have the jurisdiction to tax all bitcoin users and 2) will have citizens of other nations that would desire to actively undermine the collecting government's ability to collect any taxes. Only if they can learn to do it the same way that everyone else before them has, without a subsidy. Hell no.  Those professions require years of committment to master, and flooding those labor markets are going to crash the skilled labor value. I think you don't really understand what you advocate.  What defines "basic health care"?  Health care is an abstract concept, a collective service provided in small portions and in different ways by many different people.  None of whom are obligated to do anything in particular for anyone in particular.  If "basic health care" were to be defined as whatever form of health care that was available to the richest person 50 years ago, I'd be for that form of socialized medicine, because whatever knowledge hasn't been updated in 50 years of medical science is dirt cheap.  I do agree that there is a social problem with public health, but I don't agree that there is an ideal solution.The rich always benefit from scientific advances before the rest, medicine notwithstanding.  That is the way of the world.  Do you think that you would have your smartphone today unless overpaid Wall Street wonks were willing to pay way too much for crappy wireless cell service in the 1980's? Maybe, but then this either becomes a digital 'arms race' as the vendor's programmers come up with new ways of flagging frauds, or simply new ways to identify fraudsters.  If the vendors cannot keep ahead of the fraudsters one way or the other, vendors will simply default to requiring confirmations, and online wallets will truely become required for 'instant' transfers. Most captive portals allow the owner to permit certain ports at will, so whitelisting port 8333 would allow the user to connect to whatever bitcoin client he desired prior to payment, and then tentatively allow access with the receipt of a valid transaction.  If the transaction turns out bad (double spent, or whatever) during the next 20 minutes, cut the user off.Confirmations are not required for small value payments.  Take a look at the 'vending machine' threads.  Online e-wallets are one solution, but a double-spend is a tough thing to do, and not something a person is likely to attempt for small value gains. No, it only requires that you recreate the circuts repeatedly to identify as many of the nodes on the network as is necessary to narrow down the possible locations of the target.  Most hidden services use a few highly trusted nodes in order to defend against this attack, as victory is defined as establishing a circut with an owned node in direct contact with the target.  Still it can be done by first identifying those trusted nodes, and then literally breaking into those nodes to directly locate the target.  It's not an easy attack, but the CIA certainly has the resources to do it.  I doubt that the FBI would do it, for no other reason that such an attack wouldn't likely lead to untainted evidence for a trial.  But the CIA's goals don't usually involve a prosecution. My problem isn't with the idea of socialized medicine per se.  My problem is with advancements in medicine.  Sure, there are some nationalized social care that does a respectable job overall, but every last one of them depends upon the innovation in medical science in order to improve.  And every last company that does the research depends upon the US's semi-open market in order to pay for that research.  Government cannot replicate market based innovation, no matter what they think they can do. It's similar to triangulation.  The hunter sets up an number of intermediary nodes that they can modify to track packets, then repeatedly make circuts to the target.  Since they know the starting content of packets, they can identify their own packets as they cross their nodes, even encrypted, by timing and packet size.  Then they note which node the packets are going too next.  The idea is to identify the path from different directions, narrowing down the geographical location of the target by progressively locating the nodes in the circuts. Woodwick candles, at a competitive price shipped.Badger bug balm.  what if another neighbor considers you a threat because they don't see it the same way as yourself. In many fiat currencies, a particular denomination of note displays a particular important figure, with the lower the value (and therefore the most commonly used note) is the most important person.  Of course, these people are usually already dead, and as far as we know all of the important persons surrounding Bitcoin are not.  But since Satoshi is IMHO the most important person, and Gavin is very close these days; .000001 bitcoin should be a Satoshi and .001 should be a Gavin.  There should not be a name for a bitcoin denomination beyond the sixth decimal place.
I suppose that depends on how one defines "criminal".  The halls of prisons are filled with unsuccessful  and ignorant sociopaths, alongside the non-violent drug offenders.  While the halls of Congress and the Pentagon are filled with successful and intelligent sociopaths. Who gets to define abuse?  Again I must bring up the example of Islam and the 8 year old daughter being married.  Certainly we would agree that if the father were forcing his daughter into marriage then she would have a claim against him, but what if she is convinced that marriage is what 8 year olds are supposed to do?  She's eight.  Can an 8 year old even consent?  If not, then who can on her behalf?  By any legal standard, the normal person who can consent for anything on behalf of a child is the parent.  The only exception are statutes defined by government decree.Saying that children are the property of their parents doesn't solve the issue, I admit, but that is the functional default in every body of law in the world in any case beyond the scope of some legal statute established by a government.  A better way to say it is that the rights of the child are vested in the parents until the child has achieved the age of reason and is able to claim them.  But when does that happen?  In most modern states, that event is an abrupt transition from ward to citizen somewhere around the age of 19.  In nearly every case this is years behind the reality, as the age of reason is actually somewhere around the age of 13 for normal people, but can be as early as 8 for some and as late as never.  Nonetheless, there is no body of law that would say that this 5 year old child who was caged for months in her own crib is old enough to reason.  So who says that being caged is a violation of her rights?  We can both look at this and know that this is abuse, but what makes it criminal under an anarchy?  What profit motive would a private security firm have for taking this case, the parents didn't have anything to pay restitution with; and what they did have was already under due claim because of the theft that led to this discovery. I've never cashed out, but have bought many actual goods.  I've bought handmade jewlrey off of etsy, a yard sign, bumper stickers, an mp3 player, prepaid phone cards, among other things.  This still doesn't address the problem that I presented in the other thread.  If the parents harm their own child, who then is responsible for bringing justice?  What would define harm in this case under a state in anarchy?  After all, Islam openly permits a father to marry off his daughter at eight years old. For all practical purposes, you cannot donate cash to a campaign.  Bitcoin makes the autonomy thing even worse for campaign finance tracking, because even if there were a bitcoin donate button that provided you a newly generated bitcoin address after you identified yourself, those addresses never die.  So if an opponent wanted to set you up for a campaign lawsuit, all he would have to do is find one of these addresses and send too much money to it.  The campaign couldn't keep it, and they can't really return it either.  Creates a huge legal mess, so It's just easier (for now) to ignore Bitcoin for campaign finances.  It'll come someday.  But not yet. I still consider private security/defense and 'phyles' to be sort of government in it's own right.  These kind of solutions aren't anarchy.  BTW, I've read many of the documents that anarchists point me to, and this is one objection that I've never seen well handled.  I'm not saying that what we have is any good at identifying criminal sociopaths either, but once identified the system we have does a very good job of punishment.  That is, in fact, the one thing that it's good at.Even in the 'phyles' type of voluntary minarchy described in The Diamond Age, a phyle wouldn't have the right to take these children away from their parents, even if they had the motivation.  At a minimum, the parents would have to be compensated for the children taken from them, because in that imaginary system children are legally and economicly the property of their parents. How do you figure that these people are conditioned to keep one child in a cage and possiblely kill another and bury it next to the shed?  Do you think that they were raised this way? I tried this long ago.  Bitcoin is a non-starter for politcal donations, because the campaign has to go to great lengths to be able to prove where all of those donations came from, due to campaign finance laws.  You can't even donate to a PAC with bitcoins. My point here is that people like this exist.  And it is because of this fact that the collective, and hopefully restrained, legitimate use of force exists.  To identify, capture and contain sociopaths with criminal tendencies.I cannot accept the arguement, however rational, that a society of entirely self-governed people can exist peacefully or sustainablely until there is a solution for this kind of person. Those with the most bitcoins aren't really even paying attention to the price, because they aren't really interested in selling. ...that I don't think that anarchists on this forum, or anywhere else, have any realistic argument.http://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/2011/05/04/2011-05-04_virginia_girl_found_eating_herself_in_cage_in_mobile_home_parents_brian_and_shan.html?obref=obinsite How does one define "millionaire" in this context?  If anyone actually has a million bitcoins, their net worth is alreayd 7+ million USD.  But I doubt that anyone actually has a million bitcoins, not even Satoshi.   24 hours is not enough for Paypal, to be sure one would have to hold it back for 30 days.  Paypal is pretty much a non-starter.  Try searching the forum for the city that you live in, to see if any forum members live near your city. Mine refused to install onto a Samsung Intercept It might help if you were willing to tell us a story as to why you are in a hurry, and perhaps willing to identify yourself to your potential customers. Not the kind of work that I need done.I wonder if Bitcoin would work with taskrabbit.com? I am too old to learn these new tricks.  I can't make heads or tails of the stock trading site, and I don't think that I could use it at work anyway.Anyone willing to be a broker? Alternative future revenue stream for major miners with persistant peer connections to other major miners....Small peering fees for direct connections to vendors who desire that their transactions hit the bitcoin 'backbone' in very few hops. Not safe for work, dude. http://www.lewrockwell.com/orig10/galland28.1.html
He's trying to screw you, I'll offer you $4.10 for all of you coins, provided you have at least one. I don't disagree, but I suspect that there are more factors than the obvious ones. Sometimes it's hard to tel... Different pledges have different requirements.  An android remote control client has been developed, and I believe has been paid out.  Mine has not. If governments drop the pretense, they will no longer have a monopoly on violence.  Not in places wherein privately held firearms exist in an numbers anyway.  Whether those same firearms are "legal" or not.  And those that fancy themselves as a legitimate ruling class know this very well. It does for me, and my previously stated conditions, to my stated bitcoin amount.  When I pledged it, 50 bitcoins was a tip.  Now it's a day's wages. Yes, that it what I call fun.  What did you think that debating with unknown persons over a public Internet forum was about?Probably, but sometimes just annoying the "Spock" in the room is the fun part. That did not exist when this thread was alive. Every fiat currency system that has ever existed and failed, has done so in nearly an identical manner.  vladimir's statement above sums it up nicely. Sorry, I was thinking only of the US again.Does Internet really cost that much in airports?  I smell an opprotunity.  I have a line of sight from the back of my garage to the local airport, and I could hit it with a high quality beam antenna. A classic quote, indeed.  But to be clear, I'm not an anarchist, either.  I'm not because I view anarchy as a transitional state, not a sustainable one; and one that tends towards an even worse stable political condition than what you might call minarchy.  As flawed as the idea of government is, I also have come to believe that it is human nature to trend towards identifying authority that we can relate to.  So no matter how rational anarchy might be for 20% of the population, there will always be that 2% of the population that will attempt to take advantage of the system, and the other 78% of the population will look to anyone who asserts to be able to do something about it as an authority.In the end, the best we can hope for is a vibrant and innovative "market" of authorities to choose from; such as is imagined in "The Diamond Age", but even choosing your government from a number of 'phyles' or chosing to go it alone and unaided, is still a government. In the second paragraph you use an actual example of the cost/benefit analysis of widespread use of a vaccine that moved dramaticly from positive to zero as an example of "any reasonable cost/benefit analysis will favour giving them to all the kids who can have them".  It should be obvious that the cost/benefit analysis of continuing a vaccination program beyond the eradication of said disease from nature does not favor (Can't you English spell English right?) giving it to all the kids who can have them.My own cost/benefit (risk/benefit, really) analysis isn't nearly as clear cut, admittedly, but it's no less real.This is more fun. Was this after she asked you to fix her cupholder? Then you want what has never been, and can never be.  No matter how one might look at it now, the establishment of the United States as a federated republic was an experiment to do exactly what you profess you desire; and that experiment was a failure by any metric I can imagine.  Yet, it was also literally the closest any nation in the history of the world has ever come, and that includes modern Sweden.  After a point, a rational person looks at the evidence and concludes that the concept of government itself is fundamentally flawed, and therefore the ideal is impossible.  The irrational person convinces himself that the implimentation (or some other detail) was flawed, and in this way continues to advocate against his own interests and those of his principles.  Have you ever stopped to consider, what if my premises are wrong? An astronomical unlikelyhood.  I don't live near a border, an international airport, or even an ocean.I don't assume this to be so, but I do consider it likely.  If a new form of often fatal childhood disease were to be found in Kenya, and spreads to other nations before a vaccine could be developed, do you think that Kenyan children are going to be vaccinated before American, British and German children? Again, reality isn't fair, but it is reality.You assume this to be true, and it likely is, but you can't know to what degree it would be true in advance.  No one can.Apparently you would.I'm the parent.  The one persson most directly responsible for my child's well being.  How I define the benefits are not really relevent, because I'm "the Decider".I made a small attempt, but as expected, you were unable to process it.EDIT:  You neglected to explain why you want brown people to pay more for vaccines. I doubt this really.  Governments everywhere had other methods of taxation before the income tax, which only came to the US in 1913.  Prior to that, the better part of the US federal revenue came from excise taxes on alchohol.  Bitcoin just makes the income tax difficult again.  It doesn't abolish a governments abilities to tax.  The US might end up with a liquid fuel importation tax, which would work similar to Europe's VAT taxes on fuel.  The results would be to vastly favor oil pumped and refined within the US is economicly favored, but it's impossible to supply the US on domestic production alone.  This creates a bottleneck that the government can watch (ports) and collect taxes. You pretty much just summed up the nature of government across all of human history.  This problem isn't limited to the US government, they just happen to have bigger guns and more resources for bullets. That was the memoir of a former CIA operative. That one is true, in a relative sense.  Can a quote be stupid if it's also accurate? This topic has been covered extensively in past threads.  Search for the vending machine thread, Dash7, QR codes, Poker chip tokens, and the power failure thread.EDIT:  And search for the Iphone and Android apps & widgets, they already exist in beta development.
Yes, the difficulty would rise, but there would also be a disconnect from the difficulty and the real security.  But the hashing algorithm could be swapped out for something not-yet-broken.  For that matter, one of the two hashing cycles could be exchanged for a different secure hashing system now, and the system would remain secure even if one or the other were broken.  But then all of ArtForz's ASICs would become worthless.And even if the hashing algorithim were broken, that doesn't necessarily expose the whole of Bitcoin to exploitation.  That would depend upon how it was broken, and still only expose the blockchain to manipulation in the worst case.  The vast majority of users would still not lose their coins. And I would have plenty of warning in order to get my kids vaccinated if that were to occur, but the most likely cause of such a thing would be a mutation that renders the current vaccine ineffective anyway.  How would getting a vaccine of questionable benefit help my children, here and now?  And calling me complacent implies that I'm doing this out of laziness.  The lazy method would be to just get all of the vaccines that are recommended and not worry about the details.Not really.  My kids have had MMR, but lets use that as an example.  Measles can be fatal, but isn't likely to be fatal without a compromised immune system.  Measles is pain and suffering, but the vaccine can cause permanent nerve system damage if you turn out to be the unlucky one.  I live in a city that hasn't seen an actual case of measles (discounting the cases that are systomatic responses to the vaccine itself) since 1995.  Tell me how it's better for my child for me to risk a one in 50,000,000 chance that the vaccine will cause paralysis (or other less significant complications) when the odds of just being exposed to that same disease in this city is one in 50,000 or better, and the odds of lifelong effects from the infection itself (with access to 1st world medical care) are longer than with the vaccine?  I admit, getting the vaccine would be cheaper for me, and likely far less painful for my child, than for my child to get infected and be treated to a two week hospital stay.I understand the point, it's just not an absolute.  At least I'm not competing with children in third world nations for those same vaccines.  You do know that, by not participating, I make those same vaccines cheaper for people who live in places where these diseases are still common, right?  Why do you hate brown people?There it is again. I don't think most businesses would be interested in a pay portal for their customers, most already offer free internet as a side benefit to being a paying customer.  I think that will eventually become the norm, much like being a paying customer entitles you to free use of the bathroom, but it's still rude to walk off of the sidewalk to crap without buying anything.I would find this kind of thing useful at public events, say with a WiMax WAN uplink, some QoS code to keep things even among customers, and a built in Bitcoin client that all attempts to use port 8333 are redirected towards.  I don't want those new BitcoinJ clients trying to repeatedly download even the blockchain headers over the WAN when they would be available locally.  Put the entire system into a large lunchbox or cooler, with a couple of decent antennas neatly sticking out the top.  A decent battery and/or a solar cell on the top of the cooler, and roll it all up to the highest point one can get to early in the day before the (air show, tailgate party, race, outdoor concert, fireworks show, whatever) starts, fire it up and let the crowd discover it.  Some people are going to have 4G/wimax accounts anyway and simply won't care, but if the price isn't too high for a day's casual connectivity or a not-to-bad per MB rate, then those who have metered data plans are going to be intrigued.  And I know that it's downright painful for some young people to have connectivity problems at any event with long periods of calm before the main event. Sometimes, having it mounted to the top of my minivan would be even better.  Another system with just the piratebox, so that both of these things can coexist in the same space, would be ideal. Quick question, concerning your population reduction theory.If the super rich are out to kill off the "little people" then who will buy the crap they sell in order to pay for the air-conditioned bunkers?  And concerning the bunkers, are they there to protect the super rich from the remnant?And for the record, I'm not anti-vaccine.  I'm anti-blindly-accept-the-opinions-of-your-betters-crap. And my kids have had MMR.  Again, it was a cost/benefit analysis.  If you stop and look at the list of vaccines that many public school districts require, you'll notice that many of those are on there for historical reasons or political ones.  Some of them are very expensive, and must be paid for by your medical insurance plan; and then the vaccine company will "donate" those same vaccines to the public clinic in the city so that those who couldn't afford it anyway don't bring attention to the fact that the company is making a fortune for a vaccine with debatable benefits for the public.  A perfect example of this kind of boondoggle is Gardasil, the HPC vaccine.  It's relatively new, comes with very real risks and very real benefits; but then it only protects against the eight most common forms of this disease, all of which are sexually trasmitted diseases.  If it were simply reccommended for teenagers, I'd say it was a great thing.  But it's required for public schooled girls as young as eight years old in some districts.  Why, exactly?  Does the public school system have a free love clinic for eight year olds?  When this first came out, my daughter was seven and it is "approved" for as young as six.  Our pediatritian, at her checkup, asked us if we wanted to consider it for our daughter.  He explained it all to us, and then admitted that his clinic gets a kickback for every one they administer.  I think he already knew that he had better come clean with his homeschooled clients, at least.  I thought, new vaccine therefore not much data outside of the lab on it's effects when combined with other drugs or conditions; daughter is homeschooled and years from puberty, and is devout Christian to boot; costs $80 per dose.  "I think I'll wait a few years and see how things work out, or at least for the price to drop."  Turns out to have been a good idea; for it's neither as effective as was claimed nor as safe as believed.  It's price is much lower now though.I agree, but they are just another tool.  Choose wisely, they aren't magic.The Unibomber was a disgruntled INTP with an ax to grind against former coworkers.  I'm also an INTP, and you shouldn't meddle in the affairs of INTP's; for we are (usually) subtle and quick to anger. Is this your first time on the Internet? No, he is still wrong on this point as well because he started by misrepresenting the argument altogether.  He simply burned a strawman.  Online banking regularly uses 128 bit SSL session encryption,(between the customer and the bank, not between each other) which is different enough from the way Bitcoin works to be apples to ornages, but the argument is usually, "Won't Bitcoin be broken by faster/quantum computers?"  "No, because if that were to ever become a problem for bitcoin, encryption for the finance industry would also be under threat long before Bitcoin was, and new algoritims would be found that Bitcoin could use." You used the example of a high risk vaccine being used to eradicate a higher risk disease from nature, and the subsequent removal   of that vaccine from use; as the support for the ongoing use of moderate risk vaccines intended to prevent moderate risk childhood diseases that have already been (statisticly & effectively) eradicated from the society that my children live in.  I shouldn't need to follow any step by step explaination, it's self-evident to anyone that doesn't have your cognative dissonnance. It's notable that you chose the IPCC reports to make this point, particularly since the vast majority of scientists that contribute to the IPCC reports are not meterologists nor climatologists, and those that are work directly or indirectly for government agencies, not as scientists in research.  Using the IPCC as evidence for anything displays either an immediate political bias or an inforgivable ignorance to the politics that contribute towards the IPCC.  A couple of years ago, a climatologist had to sue the IPCC for falsely claiming that said climatologist had reviewed and/or contributed to one such report and upon pointing out the "error" the IPCC refused to remove said climatologists name from supporting documents and website pages.  Before it was over, there were over 60 scientists who discovered that their professional reputations were being falsely claimed by the IPCC.In short, the IPCC is not a credible source of scientific information, either for or against the debate about climate change.  It is only a political action committee cloaked in a false shroud of impartial scientific retoric. I didn't mention my own position.  There is no such thing as consensus in science, there are respected PhD's in Physics that still doubt that the Big Bang Theory is an accurate discription of the early universe.  There may be a majority of climatologists who agree that the climate is warming up, but it's provablely not a consensus.  And even then, they don't agree on the root causes of the climate change.  Solar cycle theory is still a significant minority position among meterologists and climitologists that can fit the data as well as human causes do.  i'm not a master of this field, and I would wager that neither are you, but I would hazard the guess that human activities do play a contributing factor.  The question is, how much of one?  I think that it's a bit rediculous for us to assume that human activities have a significant role in climate change based on 120 years of records, particularly considering the Earth has been much warmer in the past than it is today or is likely to get in 100 yeras. You just contradicted your first paragraph with the second.Yes, it's a true "Tragedy of the Commons" situation.  Those other parents aren't acting more responsibly, they are largely compelled to vaccinate their children because they send them to government schools.  The first responsibility of the parent is to the child, if the conditions of the modern world make the risks of the vaccine equal to that of the benefits, it's irresponsible to give it to one's children.That was considered, and if any of these diseases start to make a comeback, odds are very high that we would have time to return to the pediatritian and take care of it.  They have had all of the low risk vaccines, it's a risk/reward calculation which is different for a child growing up in the modern world wherein most communicable childhood diseases have been supressed or eradicated.  They hav also had all of the diseases that have high long term risks.  When I was a child, my mon intentionally expossed my and my sister to chicken pox, because it's less life threatening to a child than an adult.  My children have had all of those vaccines.Yes, Thank you!  It's good to see that you acknowledge that a parent's first responsibility is to his own children.    Take a look at the Buffalo 'Air Station' 300GN wireless router.  It does all that you want except maybe the 2 ssids.  It has three independently functioning transceivers, a fully capable usb port, and dd-wrt. I've thought of this one as well, and the simplest way to allow users to pay in bitcoin is to whitelist mybitcoin.com and port 8333, and have a captive portal splash page that is one of those "pay with mybitcoin account or pay with other bitcoin" setups.  There is next to nothing else that users could do without first paying you except update their local bitcoin blockchain or send coins to someone else from their local client. Because other people whom those people want to deal with are already using Bitcoin. I have no idea who Adam Curry is, but if you think that there is anything close to a scientific consensus on the climate, you're deluded. Don't be so sure about that, Satoshi hasn't been very involved for months. I sent Bruce an email about Bitcoin back in September.  If he reads his email, he is aware of Bitcoin.  I never had any response. Wire-size?Scaling isn't really an issue if the system is suited to compensate the network for the resources, that 's what I'm concerned about.  If we choose an algorithim that just permits limitless growth, then we might as well just remove the blocksize limit altogether and cross our fingers, because the result is the same.  We don't have the option of "just build a few datacenters" because this is the method by which we must pay for those datacenters, and ours need to be bigger and faster than any others. Personally, I don't see the value of a headers-only smartphone client in places that most users have nearly continuous Internet access on those smartphones; because those who can't stand to let their app update can just use a smartphone client that can remotely control a full client at home or their Mybitcoin account.  The real value in a headers'-only smartphone client is to be able to spend coins from that smartphone in places that the sender does not have (secure and/or reliable) Internet access at all,(think blackout) by directly communicating with the vendor via some ad-hoc method.  (ad-hoc wifi, bluetooth, near-field, Dash7, whatever)  Such headers-only clients don't necessarily need transaction discovery, if whenever the client is 'connected' to another client (full or light) transactions to the headers-only client are 'pushed' to the client and the blocks that support the inputs.  Say you have a full client at home (or are at a Bitcoin bank branch) and want an amount available on your home client (bank account) onto your phone's light client.  You connect via some ad-hoc method (or simply over a wireless router in infrastructure mode) and the full client 'pushes' the transaction and supporting blocks to the light client, and the client can still verify that it's extremely unlikely that the data is either false or corrupted.  Then when it's time to spend those coins, the light client can likewise 'push' the new transaction, the old transaction and the supporting blocks to the next client.  If the next client is also light, it can also verify that it's very unlikely that it's being defrauded by checking those blocks against the matching headers, and a full client can simply check the transaction against it's full blockchain.This does not require a 'trusted' node in any case, but still requires that the 'pushing' client know at least one of your phone's account numbers, and in practice requires a 'trusted' node, even if it's your own at home.  Once the light client has spent all of the funds, it simply no longer needs those blocks, and discards them.  Such a client functionally does not participate in the p2p network at all, excepting to fetch the most recent headers; and does not forward any transactions or blocks except for it's own. What's the average size of a simple transaction? That wasn't really what I was asking.  I'm not a math geek, I'm an econo-geek (and a radio geek, but that's not relevant).  I think that a simple equation to predict the trend in order to set a blocksize has the incentives wrong, and almost certainly trends toward infinity because both those paying for transactions to be processed and miners have an incentive for every transaction to be included in every block, and then we truly do have a 'tragedy of the commons' situation as the blocksize shoots to the moon, senders no longer have an encentive to pay anything over a token fee, and miners start dropping out because the fees can't cover the cost of bandwidth and electric; resulting in a difficulty level that is too low to defend itself as the block reward is reduced.  There needs to be some mechanisim that resists arbitrary growth of the blocksize, even if only a little.  Tying the max blocksize to the difficulty in some linear fashion is a smooth way to do this.  I'm not married to the details, but the implementation just seems smooth to me.  Although I have no concept of how difficult that would be to impliment into the code, because I'm not a coder, but I imagine that it would still be easier than a rolling average or a predictive algorithim, because it's just linear math.
A bitcoin bank. At one time, I was paid to live in California.  Southern California is a continuous slum.  I lived near Oceanside, and it costs a fortune to live anywhere within walking distance of the ocean, and the water is freezing.  The best views are from the "Coaster" commuter train, but if you get off and walk over the berm from the tracks, nothing but slum. I'm guessing you think that Bitcoins could become the next defacto international reserve or common trade currency.  I think that the quantum leap in transaction costs versus current systems is so dramatic that most fiat currencies might not even have a reason to exist. In which case, the US FRN, the Euro, the Pound, etc don't collapse so much as fade away. Children have died because of taking vaccines, which is why not all of them are given to children in developed nations anymore.  Polio is a great example, the illness is deadly, if you get it.  But the vaccine is potentially deadly, again if you get it.  The idea of vaccinating everyone is to wipe out an illness from the face of the Earth so that no more children have to risk death or injury from the vaccine, but most illnesses cannot be wiped out so simply.  My father was messed up by the polio vaccine, and he was an adult at the time.  But back then, nobody really told the parents the real risks of giving their children the vaccines.  Now this is more widely known, and some parents refuse to give their children risky, or any, vaccines.  My own children have only had about half of the "reccommended" set for school children, because they are homeschooled and I can do as I want.  My wife and I choose between them based on the risks of real harm if infected times the odds of actual infection in the modern world and weigh that against the odds of a particular vaccine causing harm.  We live in the US, which means that our children benefit from the 'herd immunity' effect from being in a city wherein most of the other children are vaccinated, and therefore there is no infection vector that could likely reach them anyway.  The public school kids bear the risks, while my kids benefit.  It's not fair, but that's life. Everyone considers themselves to be the rational moderate. How does this do anything but grow? I was thinking about all this on my commute to work, and I have a proposal.1,000,000 + (Difficulty * Byte * K) = max block sizeWherein K= some factor high enough that the max block size is never really an issue, say K=2.  But some analysis is due on that.But here is another change to the default fee schedule, granted that individual miners are likely to have tighter requirements themselves than this...First, the max block size calculated above becomes the basis metric for a set of soft max block sizes.  I suggest 16 tiers of equal size.0 to one-sixteenth of max block size, no special requirements, miners can include whatever valid transactions they desire up until this point.1 to 2 (sixteenth) at least one transaction paying a fee equal or greater than the minimum fee required for unusual transactions must be present.  That transaction can be one wherein the fee was required or not.  As long as at least one is present, miners can include whatever else they desire up until this limit.2 to 3  At least one transaction paying a fee double the fee for the above class.3 to 4  At least one transaction paying at least double the rule above this one must be present.And so on, so the fee paid by the highest fee paying transaction sets the bar for the block, and then the miner can include whatever other transactions that it sees fit.  This not only encourages the use of -sendtomany whenever possible, which is more efficent for the network anyway; most of the fee paying transactions (and free transactions) are then competing for the fill in space left by the one transaction that is paying for the bandwidth.  And this also sets a method of ongoing price discovery, as any client can look at the last block and it's own transaction queue and predict how much it will have to pay in order to get into the next block (probably equal to or higher than the highest single fee in the last block, if the queue is steady, slightly more if it is growing, slightly less if it is dropping) as well as establish a bidding mechanism for the 'median' transaction to be included in a block in the near future; as all other transactions besides the high transaction are then bidding for the remaing space by looking at their own queue of transactions, guessing which will be the high (and therefore the sixe of space available) and looking at the second highest to outbid if it wishes to be included in the next block.In this way, the well-heeled senders set the bar.  Imagine if Wal-Mart, which has half a million employees to pay each week, were to compile that entire paylist into a single -sendtomany transaction.  They would be able to definitively determine the minimum fee they would have to offer just to be considered, based solely on the actual size of the transaction, and then be able to guess how much more they should offer based upon how many large senders there were in the previous several blocks.  Say in this transaction had a million outputs (probably 10 million inputs) and was 3.2 Mb once done.  The difficulty was 2 million at the last adjustment, so wlmart knows that the max block size is 5Mb.  In order to fit their 3.2 Mb single transaction into the block, they have to offer a fee at least 16 times the minimum fee (5/8=.625, 3.2/.625=5.12, so 6th tier, first tier is free, second is equal to the minumum fee, so 6th tier is 4 doublings of the minumum fee).  If the minimum is .01, then Wal-Mart pays at least .16 just to qualify.EDIT: somewhre I switched my numbers in my head from 16 teirs to only eight.  So my numbers are wrong, but hopefully I conveyed the idea. I agree with this perspective.  This simple rule maintains scarcity, prevents scalability issues, and is likely to find it's own equilibrium via transaction price discovery. That's awesome.  And I agree it's sledgehammer simple.  I like that rule better than mine.  The free section, and the tiered fee schedule, would have to become percentages of that number; also sledgehammer simple.  No fudge factors.  Elegant.EDIT:  Rule (b) might have to be some agreed upon multiple of difficulty, however.  If the blocksize does not naturally increase until difficulty is over one million, I'm afraid that we really would have some scalability issues.  Can anyone think of a metric that can be used for that multiple, or must it be fixed?EDIT #2:  And Rule (a) should be reduced by half at least. The article is largely about how the Euro was intended to unite Europe economicly and politically, and is failing economicly in part because currencies are not political. Because sometimes they will have to.  There is a set of rules that limit how large the block can be based upon the largest single fee.  Currently this "fee schedule" is so harsh that hitting the 'hard' blocksize limit of (currently) one megabyte is functionally impossible.  Off the top of my head, a block more than a third of megabyte would almost certainly have more bitcoin in fees than the block reward.  If the minimum fee, the max block size, or the fee schedule were to change in the near future (which I think is likely) then that is also likely to change. I have already laid out my plan for a self adjusting limit, based on the average number of blocks a fee paying transaction spends in the average queue, but with some fudge factor to allow for different miners having slightly different averages across the network.  To account for fee rates, the average could be weighted by the amount of the fee in such a manner that a fee larger than the minimum gets affects the average more than the average transaction fee.The space available for free transactions could be set static, or as a percentage of the moving blocksize.  The blocksize could be adjusted when the difficulty is adjusted, and the winning block first after the change encodes the calculated max limit into that block in some fashion.  If the network accepts that block, then that max limit becomes a fixed limit for another 2015 blocks. Is that right?  Well, based on your deep understanding of this subject, what color am I? I suppose that you could start a charity that subsidizes the cost of ATI video cards for minorities.Nothing beyond it's own economic characteristics; which are certainly colorblind. http://www.econlib.org/library/Columns/y2011/Jasaycurrency.html No, not at the same time.  Just before hitting that limit were to become a regular event.  We could change that rule in the next vanilla client release, so long as everyone agreed that we should, and voiced consent by downloading the new client.  At the current rate we still have months, if not years, before hitting that limit regularly.  As far as I know, we have never come close to it.If we wait until every other block is hitting that limit; however, implementing such a rule change is going to be problematic. Well, yes.  But the talk recently is about how maintaining the transaction fees in order to maintain the hasing power of the network, not scalability.  This particular thread was mostly about scalability, and in such a case the max block limit can be raised or removed.  It's only present as a backstop against the possibility of there being some presently unknown exploit that would permit limitless transaction spamming of the blockchain, and not as a means to support the transaction fees.  The short answer to the scalability issue is that it can be easily removed long before the network traffic is high enough that the max block size becomes an actual scalability issue. It never really was a real problem except for future scalability. That is how it is now.That could be done easily.  The hard blocksize limit is only there as a backstop in case an exploit that permits limitless transaction spamming is found, not as an artificial scarcity.  The max block size limit could be increased to 10 megs or 100 megs right now an not have any noticable effect. Others are wrong.   No, this is where this error keeps coming up.  It's a commons, but not a 'tragedy of the commons'.  The collective security of the blockchain is the commons, but the incentives for senders to add a fee are different from the commons resource incentive.  The fees are competing for a time limited resource, inclusion in the next available block; while miners are competing for those fees.  Those are not commons.I have made such a case, it's the 'Wal-Mart' post.
Why does this keep coming up?No, not all miners have the same incentives, and not all will be motivated solely by direct profit (i.e. mining fees).  Some will have an indirect motive to mine, making transaction fees a secondary revenue stream.  You can search for my "Wal-Mart" posts related to this subject. Assuming that the trade value of a bitcoin is more or less the same on one side of the halving of the block reward as on the other, and also assuming that there is zero revenue from transaction fees in order to take the worst case scenario; the drop in the block reward from 50 bitcoin to 25 bitcoin is mathmaticly the same as a sudden doubling of the difficulty from the perspective of a miner.  This is something that they are all going to know is coming from far in advance, and almost all of them will have a pretty good idea whether or not mining will still be profitable.  So those that would no longer be profitable might stop, and logicly that cannot be more than half of the miners in total just before the cut.  Those that remain would be profitable again by at least the next difficulty retarget. Why does Mybitcoin, or anyone, have to offer you recourse?  Bitcoin is cash for the Internet.  Would you walk into a corner store and pay cash for a candy bar?  What is your recourse there?  If the vendor took your money and then told you to buzz off, what would your recourse be?  Call the cops over $1.50?  What would happen, do you think?  In the end, you would be out your money and a candy bar, and would simply never trust that vendor again.  Don't send bitcoins to untrusted vendors.  If you get screwed, tell people about it, and name names.  Sometimes the risks of getting defrauded is just part of the costs of doing business.  There are steps you can take to limit those risks, but none of those things are intergrated into Bitcoin, nor should they be. Doubtful.  At worst, half the miners will give up because they suddenly became unprofitable, and the interval between blocks would stretch to 20 minutes. Most will not, but we can expect that there will always be the altruistic miner to catch a block every now and again.  There are other motivations for certain groups of miners besides the direct profit from mining fees.  For example, I posted at length in another thread, my "Wal-Mart" theory.  Wherein if Wal-MArt ever starts taking Bitcoin as a major currency, Wal-Mart itself has a strong economic encentive to make certain that their own transactions, which would be a huge ongoing volume, are processed quickly.  The cheapest way for Wal-Mart to do this would to either build a mining cluster of their own, or directly sponsor a professional mining company to act in their behalf.  In part, because their direct competitors could do so and intentionally exclude Wal-Mart's own transactions as a matter of course, whether they paid a fee or not.  At this point, adding in free transactions (that are not from a competitor) is trivial, and becomes a public relations bonus. There doesn't need to be a solution, because you don't really understand the problem yet.  Even so, much of what you are concerned about is negated by MyBitcoin.com's system.Let the buyer beware. Yes, but the hardware improves for the common user at the same pace as the massive attackers' does.  There will always be new supercomputers being built, each faster than the one just before, so the happy target goal is always moving anyway. True.  And dedicated ASICs would move the bar yet again. Actually yes.  Although I'm impressed that all that research has it's basis in the Folding@Home project, I did notice that most of that same research were subjects with real economic value.  Said another way, Folding@Home seems to be used as a means for research companies to get research done on the cheap.  If the Folding@Home contributiers knew that they were being exploited for the profit of others, particularly "big pharma" would they still participate? Really?  Did Bruce really predict that there would be such a rapid response from the remainder of the Forbes readership that actually reads print? In fact, the difficulty has doubled 16 times since Jan 2009.  If it doubles another 16 times, we would be around 7,187,333,120 difficulty (if not more) and roughly 1,113,784,320 TeraHashes per second to get there.  I don't consider this likely, as I expect the growth to mute as Bitcoin's market matures; but I would consider at least two more doubling to be likely.  The question is, how much hashing power is enough to secure the system?  That's not really an answerable question, but I'd have to guess that having a hashing power in excess of the total power of the top 20 known supercomputers is a safe goal. I'm sure that all that processing power that is contributed to folding@home makes the contributers feel good and a part of something, but what has come of that project?Bitcoin, on the other hand, has tangible benefits for both the community and the contributer.  It is no shock to me at all that Bitcoin's total power leapfrogged right past them. The world is full of unfair advantages.  This isn't a Bitcoin issue. And the confidence in the Bitcoin system increases by one Brownie point. And, last I heard, ArtForz's mining cluster is set to accept all free transactions regardless of the standard blocksize limit for free transactions, so it all evens out in the end.My opinion is that the rule should be changed to drop the minimum fee in the default client and set back the minimum free transaction as well.  The massive growth we have seen recently has moved these limits from really tiny amounts to non-trivial limits, and the growth isn't likely over. We are quite sure that more hashing does not lead to more bitcoins in the long run.  We are also quite sure that the market is a self balancing thing, and if there is a profit to be made on hardware arbitrage then someone is going to try it.  I doubt that it would ever be significant enough of a problem to really impact the Bitcoin economy once it is big enough that hardware manufactures actual are tweaking their products for hashing performance. Hmmm, I see what you are saying.  Good eye.  This might be a possible exploit, indeed.  You deserve kudos if this is true.  This could be fixed by requiring that the transaction as a whole be signed by the first input private key.  This would still require absolute isolation to work consistantly, but might work often enough by forcing a double spend type event to be a worthwhile criminal endeavor.Gavin, thoughts? Try it, and you will find that it doesn't work in practice, even if it is theoreticly possible.  Most likely you won't even be able to isolate a client in order to actually steal from it's transactions in the start.  In any case, this is an attack upon a particular user of Bitcoin, not a flaw in the system itself.  This kind of theft attack would only affect one user.As you describe it, the modified transaction would fail a validity check anyway because the transaction must be hashed as a whole after being 'signed' by the sender's private key, which you don't have.  If you cannot sign the modified transaction, the transaction would fail on that point. Quiet dude!  You're cuttin' into my game!    This is because the US monetary system was pegged to a defined weight in gold.  This is not the case anywhere in the world today.
Um, yes there is; but it's the market price of the bitcoins that drives difficulty later.  Cause and effect.  The rise in the value of the block reward, which is sneaking towards $200 per block, encourages new miners to join the game.  When I got into all this, a block was worth about $1.30. You can't know who it's profitable for, or it isn't.  Mining was never profitable for me, and in general I don't, but I can envision conditions that I would mine for short terms.  There are many users who mine in their winter months because the cost of electric is either the main method of heat, and therefore running a miner is just a possible bonus to paying the heat bill; or they functionally have near free electric. It probably makes him nervous because exponential growth might imply an exponential slide. There is a commons issue, but it's not a 'Tragedy of the Commons' for several reasons repeatedly pointed out to yourself.  In the case of Wal-Mart and it's competitors, or any other large retailer and it's direct competitors, Wal-mart does benefit from the generic security of the blockchain that it's competitors contribute to, and vice versa; but what motivates Wal-Mart to contribute directly (by running or sponsoring mining clients themselves) or indirectly (by paying transactions fees to motivate third party miners) because Wal-Mart's competitors can ignore Wal-Mart's transactions whether they are fee paying or not.  Wal-Mart can do the same to it's competitors.  Granted, it wouldn't be easy to isolate the transactions produced by Wal-Mart's competitors from those of the network at-large, but if anyone has the ability to do it, Wal-Mart does.  I can think of a number of ways that a competitor's addresses could be automaticly identified, with varying degrees of success.  Even if this were not possible, if Wal-Mart is running their own miners then they can simply ignore any transaction below a certain fee and still have an economic incentive to run miners in order to process their own transactions for free.  Wal-Mart's competitors have the same incentives.This is not a 'cartel' problem because Wal-MArt isn't a cartel itself, and the fees that they would charge others for transactions would exist primarily to hamper the successes of it's competitors, not collude to increase the price.  Independent miners would still be able to set their transactions fees lower than Wal-Mart, collecting all the transaction fees that Wal-Mart and it's competitors forgo, but this would not really undercut Wal-MArt because they are not in the game for direct profit but to defend their business model.  Wal-Mart alone has enough transactions per second to justify running some major miners just to process their own transactions; all others aside.And they are just an example of how this would work.  This is an example of any market player who has an outsized interest in the system, there are many others that would have similar motivations to process transactions beyond direct profit.  Another such example is the "Bitcoin Bank", which has a motivation to sponsor miners, directly or indirectly, in the same fashion that present banks have the motivation to spend a million dollars on a bank safe.  In the case of a bank, however, direct profit is also a motivation. This is one of those classic questions that regulars get tired of answering.The Bitcoin network can scale significantly, the 1 meg hard limit is only there to halt 'transaction spam' if an error in the code is found and exploited.  That limit can be raised or removed as the userbase may deem necessary.  Even if it can't, much of the future transactions will still be off-network, like the transactions that occur between MyBitcoin accounts are at present. Exactly.  And this is why I brought up Wal-Mart and it's competitors.  If Wal-mart accepts Bitcoin, it has a strong incentive to directly participate in the security of the network.  And then so does all it's competitors.  And the reverse is also generally true.  The mom&pop  vendors may not feel motivated to participate in the mining directly, but they are going to want to see their transactions processed in a timely manner as well. I didn't do it.  Is it still a compliment? It's not a contradiction, at least one of your premises is wrong.  Namely, that the size of an attacker can be known in advance.  It cannot.  But the proof-of-work system exists to make a brute force blockchain attack to be as expensive for the attacker as the network as a whole can afford.  What the total network can afford is always changing with the size and overall bitcoin wealth of the Bitcoin economy & userbase.  The beauty of the current system is that it associates a personal need of certain particular users to the collective need of the userbase.  Namely the personal need of well-heeled users to rapidly confirm large and/or high risk transactions with the collective need of the userbase to maintain as high a level of blockchain security as is reasonablely possible.  Your assumptions are that the current protocol cannot maintain the level of security.  I assert that you have failed to show this in any fashion.  Show me how you might guess the level of a future attacker, and I might be willing to entertain flights-of-fancy; but thus far this has all been about how you would have done things differently.  Feel free to go do it.  I'm sure others will try it.  Hell, I might even try it.  But based on what you have written thus far, you still don't really grok what Bitcoin is actually doing to protect itself.  There is more to it than you have expressed, and the smaller rules have an interlocking interplay with the major part of the protocol that actually makes the task of attacking, DOSing or spoofing the network so much more difficult to achieve in practice than it is written into the white paper as a matter of theory.  One such rule is the blockchain release benchmark.  With each new release, the new client contains a list of particular blocks whose confirmed hash number is recorded in a hard coded list in the source.  At present, that list is the same for each client because they are pretty much all the same client.  In the future, the benchmarks would be different for each independently maintained client.  The reason for this list is to protect the history of the blockchain from a successful brute force attack of the blockchain, because in order for an attacker to rewrite the history of the blockchain before the newest benchmarked block, the attacker would have to produce a forged block, that could pass the validity tests, that still had the same hash as the original benchmarked block.  In order for an attacker to continue to succeed, he would have to keep doing this for every benchmarked block in the list; because it's not something that can be changed in the running nodes.  This problem is compounded further if, in the future, alternative Bitcoin clients use an alternative list of benchmarked nodes; as the attacker would have to either do this magic with all the benchmarked blocks in all the alternative clients as well.  The mathmatical difficulty of doing this is probably quantifiable by some of the math geeks on this forum, but my back of the envelope numbers tell me that the odds of being able to do this is so astronomically against the attacker and in favor of the network that, (even ignoring all of the other problems with it such as the near impossible task of just getting back that far with the current ability of the network) the attack would be so many orders of magnitude higher difficulty than the simple single block rewrite that the cost of building such a supercomputer would likely exceed the total wealth of the top 20 wealthiest nations on the planet, and perhaps the entire wealth of the planet itself.  Which, of course, effectively makes such a thing a literal impossibility unless there is some alien race that arrives on Earth in the next 120 years bent on the task of breaking Bitcoin.And that is just one of the checks beyond the protocol itself that exists within the Bitcoin client. There is more than one way to look at that, but if one is restricting oneself to the mass weight of each in an "above ground" (i.e. already mined) and elemental (i.e. refined to an elemental metal) and in a quantifiable form (mostly means it's in bullion or coined form) then there is much more gold in our modern world than silver.  The reason for this is that there are many industrial and commercial uses for silver beyond it's use as a store of value.  Such as, up until the relatively recent takeover of digital photography, silver was a necessary component of photo development chemicals, some trivial amount of which always ended up permanently in the photographs themselves.  Silver also has excellent electrical properties, and is therefore the ideal conductor for mission critical devices that weight is a severe limitation; such as spacecraft, satellites and high-altitude military aircraft.  Silver also has well documented antibacterial properties in it's elemental form, and for this reason is the traditional material that the food implements used by the wealthy.  In today's world, that use isn't as significant, but many surgical materials still contain silver in non-trivial amounts.All of these uses, and others less significant, tend to 'consume' elemental silver; unlike it's use in jewelry or as a store of value.  On the other hand, gold has relatively few industrial uses that cannot be met by other means.  For example, gold does not corrode, so a gold plated steel hulled ship would be largely immune from saltwater corrosion; but zinc corrodes in a manner that actually protects steel (it's an electro-chemical thing that I don't understand, but I know that zinc used in this fashion is called a "sacrificial anode").  The zinc needs to be replaced periodicly, but over the expected lifetime of such a ship, zinc is by far the better deal.So, the result of over a century of the industrial age, almost all of the gold ever mined is still known to exist, more or less.  Whereas much of the silver mined, although it's 16 times more abundant in the Earth's crust than gold, no longer exists in any economicly recoverable fashion. No. Usually it means "away", as in 'Go forth, young man." You, Sir, are a walking self-contradiction. Yes, it can.  Confirmations are exactly what they appear to be, confirmations.  Specificly they are confirmations that this is the one-true-transaction that will ever be.  They are not confirmations that the transaction is valid, nor are they confirmations that the person in the drive through was the true owner of those coins just a moment ago.  Those things can be verified by the McD's own client by scanning the relevant blocks and the transactions waiting in it's own queue.  The double spend attack is technically difficult, and made more difficult by the fact that vendors such as McD's have a strong vested interest in making certain that, not only is their blockchain accurate to the moment, but they also are looking for opposing transactions in the mining queue.  If they don't see such a transaction (or are not notified that one exists by a contracted agency) by the time you make it up to the window, it's very unlikely that any other transaction would be able to trump their transaction even if you had attempted a double spend.  That is, so long as the Internet connection for the McD's wasn't down.  And if you had the skills to do this to McD's, would you go to all that trouble over a free lunch?  Not likely.  Bitcoin banks will exist, but they will not be necessary for the vast majority of small retail transactions.  No, it does not mean that.  The most profitable attack that anyone could perform on the bitcoin network if they controlled more hashing power than the entire remainder of the network would be to reclaim coins that they recently owned and spent.  They could not take coins that they never owned, not even from the most recent block.  Nor could they make bitcoins beyond the parameters of the system, legitimately or not.And this attack, as difficult as it is, only lets the attacker respend his most recently spent coins because it allows an attacker to rewrite the most recent block.  However, the difficulty for the attacker goes up dramaticly the farther back in the blockchain the transactions that he wishes to overwrite might reside.  Otherwise the honest network will continue to outpace his total-proof-of-work, based upon how far back he must go to get at said transactions. I want one. peg the bitcoin price to the 24 hour weighted average from MtGox, and have a script update the price once each night. Diving into my wireless router, I find that there are options built into it for a 'captive portal' like one would encounter in a public hotspot.  Wifidog seems to be able to supply my needs fine, with just a splash clickthrough screen and copious logging and stats.  However, it seems to require an outside server for the spash and clickthrough portion.  Does anyone know of a cheap/free solution for this?  I want users to see the disclaimer, references to the EFF open wireless movement, and notice of logging of activities.  I do have a linux machine on the same intranet, using the same router but wired, so that might be a solution. I don't know about all that.  What about the online system for PapaJohn's pizzia?  I'm sure that their online ordering system uses some kind of API that could be connected to, if they will let you, which is a big if. Yes, the initial hash-checking of the blockchain is also building a local database file that your client uses in the future to quickly find older transactions.  This takes massive amounts of disk I/O.  It would be better to bootstrap onto a regular hard disk and then copy the resulting database file and wallet.dat file to a new instance on a flash drive if you are looking to make it portable.  Ongoing updates are not as bad, but could still take a while over USB. this is a local arrangement, but I have seen it done.
The client downloads the old blockchain in sets of 500 blocks each, and then proceeds to hash-check everything in each of those blocks before proceeding to the next set.  So it's not neccessarily the speed of your Internet connection that is the limiting factor.  Are you using an old machine? If gold or bitcoins become the next international reserve currency, you will likely know roughly how much purchasing power 6830 ounces of gold or 6830 bitcoins would have.  Because you would be conditioned to think of value in reference to gold or bitcoins, as you have be conditioned to think of value in reference to the national fiat currencies. This is an oversimplification, really.  It doesn't consider the effects of velocity of money on the trade value.  Bitcoin has the potential to have a very high average velocity, as compared to currency fiat currencies.  The effect of a higher velocity is similar to the effects of expansion of credit, both of which temporarily lowers the trade value by increasing the apparent availability of the currency. I like glass art.  I live in Louisville, Kentucky; which is a glass art city, having at least five independent glassworks that I know of. Perhaps I do. I can agree the profit margin on mining will tend toward zero, and if it drops below zero, miners will drop out and the difficulty will stagnate or drop until it's mildly profitable again.  This is the self-balancing process that I was referring to. will influence fees to some sort of equilibrium?That tiered fee structure does exist already.  It's part of every client at present, and it's why there are 'soft limits' on free transactions.I don't know why you don't think that it won't exist.  Users are likely to pay the minimum that miners will accept unless they have some personal reason to pay more for speed of confirmation.  This will only be so if there is significant transaction traffic, and so far there isn't enough to force this issue; even though free transactions can already be delayed.It's irrational to assume that this is the case.  Show me the math that implies this and I'm willing to listen.  If you can't show the math, you don't have a case. Because you were attacking his character by referencing a Nazi propagandist.  Disrespect for his viewpoints are fine, disrespect for the person is unacceptable behavior.Notice, if you will, that it was just a warning; and you have not been censored so far.  You have a less than a dozen posts on this forum and you are already sideways with part of the existing membership.  That is not a good sign. I can't seem to do that either. That's the ideal outcome. still broken for me. I'm saying that the adoption rate of Bitcoin in some locales does not limit it's future success in those same locales.  If Bitcoin is going to succeed, it will do so eventually regardless of how long particular governments might be able to hold back the tide.  The only way that I can forsee such intervention actually preventing Bitcoin from anything, rather than simply delaying it, is if all the world's governments were to agree to use force against Bitcoin users collectively.  I don't consider such international cooperation likely. Is WPA not widely used by smartphones, then?  Where is the downside to WPA that the EFF makes the complaint without mentioning this? Only for the moment.  Stability comes with market maturity. The premise in the first sentence above does not lead to the conclusion in the second sentence.  Certainly Bitcoin adoption will be hampered in nations wherein the powers that be can threaten users with real violence for doing so, but this will do little to prevent adoption in locales where this is not so. I don't know what you mean by "cost of verification".I believe that the desires of users to have their transactions processed quickly will drive a market price for fee paying transactions.  Free transactions are charity, and there is nothing that compells miners to include them at all.  When the network is more heaviliy used, the competition for inclusion will drive the transaction fees, and the transaction fees will drive the difficulty.  This is a barely visable effect at present because there is so little traffic on the network compared to it's capacity, but it's already present.  Furthermore, not all transaction fees are voluntary.  Oversized, scripted or other unusual transactions require a fee; for very good reasons.  The -sendtomany transaction used by the mining pools, or something similar, is likely to be used by employers to pay their employees in one action, and a small fee is reasonable.  Any idea how much employers have to pay for those transactions now?  It's a lot higher than .01 bitcoin each week.  I also believe, that at the current rate of adoption and growth of the Bitcoin economy, the transaction fees will compare favorablely to the block reward by the time the first block reward is cut.Because I understand how it all works, perhaps?  I consider that a silly question, honestly.  Transactions are not a Tragedy of the Commons situation.  Sure, all the other users benefit from the security that your transaction fees pay for, but that is not why users pay for the transaction fees.  If the system required the altruistic commitment of users, I'd agree that the system was broken, and then we wouldn't be having this conversation because I'd have never been here long enough.  But it is not dependent upon the altruistic support of users, but in the rational self interests of users who, for reasons of their own, desire rapid confirmations of a legitimate transaction.  Part of the core complaint, as I understand it, is in a future without a hard blocksize limit; under the assumptions that 1) this limit must be raised or lifted soon in order to facilitate scaling up the Bitcoin network (I agree with this one) and 2) that the raising/lifting of this limit will cause the transaction fees to crash even as the transaction traffic grows.  Yet, we have already seen that transaction fees pop up even long before we approach this limit, even as the very low transaction rates we presently see.  Part of this is likely because there is much more to the transaction fees than just a hard limit.  In fact, the hard limit only exists at all in order to prevent the catastrophic spamming of the blockchain if an attack vector were to be found, and isn't part of the transaction fee schedule at all. In an attempt to return back to the question posed...If governments succeed to ban the use of Bitcoin within their realms, as I'm sure that some will, so what?  Has the illegality of contraband actually stopped it's trade in meatspace?  By what method would the government actually be able to stop Bitcoin's trade in netspace? @robmThis is pushing it.  Don't cross this line. This will hold true only so long as the value of the bitcoin is increasing at a rate faster than the ROI of the potential home loans.  This will not continue forever.  In fact, it's almost certain to level off to a much more stable relative value by 2020.  That or crash into oblivion. Not for making copies of it. Just offer frozen pizza, shipped in a cooler.Won't be cheap, though.
I think you misunderstood my point.  Even in Bitcoin, trust is gained by direct interactions, but with those same interactions come identities.  A web of trust works well as a means to identify trustworthy counterparties.No, the Bitcoin system is.  You have made an accusation that something is broken, I disagree.  I am the status quo, so it is your job to prove me wrong or end the libel.  Your opinion on how things might go wrong does not qualify.You have failed to show how your equilibrium problem is actually an accurate discription, while others have already attempted to highlight errors in your viewpoint.The cartel problem has been debunked repeately on this forum.I won't ignore real problems, but nor should we just start freaking out because one guy thinks that he has found the great error in the system.Again, it's not my problem to show you anything.  And I don't think that it will end up at a nice value, I think that it is a self balancing system that will continuously find it's happy point largely own it's own, and I don't think that it's going to be unmonitored regardless.There isn't one.   Your problem is that you cannot define why there needs to be one, much less what the minimum dificulty level should be.Actually, yes.  And that has been pointed out already.  And they are not proposed, they are presently functioning.Maybe they are, maybe they aren't.  Still adjustable.And I see no advantage and much potential downside to your proposal.Really?  You seriously can't see the problem with this proposal?We could actually add that to the protocal of the running network without much trouble, I think, but depending uon that for the security of the blockchain is far worse than depending upon the hashing strenght of the entire honest network. Sometimes false.True.Wildly false.  Do not use this statement!Only true if you have Internet access anywhere in the world.Probably false. Prove the mixnet isn't a honeypot. This is an awesome idea, but as far as the exchange rate goes, why not peg the prices to the 24 hour or seven day moving average once each day? Because the problem that they are trying to solve in privacy for the individual surfer, and if everyone knows the password, anyone can still see everyone else's packets.  Tor is a good solution, but so is a private VPN to connect to.  These are good practices anyway. Or simply an open hotspot that is blocked for all ports except for bitcoin's, and any users' attempts to go online redirect them to a webpage to send the hotspot owner a bitnickel for access for that day, which then opens up that mac address to the Internet for 24 hours. (or the month for a full bitcoin?)  If you live within a line of sight of anyplace that people congregate on a regular basis, such as a major bus stop, or a public park without many trees, something along these lines might just be a fine business model.  But for the concept of the project, it's still too restrictive.  I might be willing to redirect the users to a bitcoin donations page the first time each day that they connect with any particular mac address, but I wouldn't be willing to require any payment. Unlike previous analysis I've seen on this forum concerning certain aspects of Bitcoin's system, I actually agree that mutual wireless bandwidth sharing is a commons situation.  Honestly, I don't care.  I know full well that there will be people who freeload off of my network.  That is, after all, the point of it all.  Certainly there will be people who do not open their networks in kind, and as a result I'll be places that I cannot get an Internet connection.   I never heard back from him, give it a try if you want. If, in the future, the particular crypto systems that Bitcoin presently uses are defeated (or even appear at risk) then the Bitcoin network can transition to a more secure version of each of those systems.  The old transactions that are left unclaimed then basicly become salvage to the first person that actually breaks those accounts open.  History tells us that there are no crypto systems that a deterministic computer can do effectively survive indefinitely. with the arguable exception of the vernon cypher. which doesn't have an application in Bitcoin at all. The usual idea is that the cash is either hidden, or simply placed into a public locker with two keys. I wouldn't know how to cash out of bitcoins, I've never done it.  However, if anyone here lives in Kentucky, I'd be willing to pay you cash in person, if you are not too far. In the near term, I'd be more than happy with just being able to pay my electric bill without a postage stamp or a $3 "conveince fee" I can't hazard a guess.  I could say, "yes" and eventually I'll be right anyway, but the downside to an anonymous currency is that you can't determine with any certainty if the trades seen on the Bitcoin network are speculative currency trades or the reflection of the commerce of (non-financial) products or services.  The only analysis that can be done is basicly raw market data analysis, such as Elliot Wave theory.  So far, it's made me some money on trades, as I've racheted up a small sum of US $ on MtGox up about 64%, but I find myself still surprised at the very next surge.  If most of the rise in price is due to the influx of new market players, then it's primarily a speculative rally, and it has to run out of steam eventually.  If most of the rise in price is due to some Bitcoin aware drug cartel demanding their customers use bitcoin for transactions; then, for good or for bad, a significant pullback (say, back below the 7 day adjusted average) is unlikely.If you ever find anyone who will tell you he can call the top of any market rally, assume that he is full of crap. Well, if they are still designing it, they are going to be chasing our tail by the time it's operational anyway.  At this rate of growth, anyway.  I expected to see $4 per bitcoin around 2013.  Not before May of 2011. http://www.foxnews.com/scitech/2011/02/15/ibm-battles-china-worlds-fastest-supercomputer/This article says that the next supercomputer will be about 10 petaflops.  Is that 10,000 teraflops?  If so, and assuming that the estimates on bitcoinwatch.com are accurate, the Bitcoin network is already faster than the next top supercomputer.  As of this writing, bitcoinwatch.com says that the Bitcoin network is ringing in at 12,755 teraflops. A competing chain has a chance only if it offers a distinction from Bitcoin that is an obvious advantage over the Bitcoin network, and one that the running network is incapable of adopting.I find that unlikely.  Even if such an advantage is discovered, the first to market advantage is huge. Older people who tend to die with money are more likely to have a plan for that money.  Add that to the fact that old people who don't have a will when they die, are also likely to die broke anyway.I don't think that this is a problem worth worrying about.  At least not before 2133. You could end up in a court room because some jerk-off downloaded kiddy porn over your network, but you could end up there because you share a name with someone on a watch list.  At least you could log your connections, but changing your name doesn't help because by the time you know about the problem, you're already looking at the judge.Perhaps some kind of hotspot managment system, that requires users to acknowledge that, although access is free, illegal use violates the terms that grant the random user permission to use the network in the first place.  And simply notifying users that connections are logged is probably enough to compel the freaks from using your wifi network for illegal activities.Or how about a nanny filter running directly on the wifi router, such as Dansguardian? And transactions are far less expensive in Bitcoin than MPesa. Bitcoin's system is anonymous, in the sense that identifying information is not available from the system itself, and that such information is not neccessary for it's function; unlike credit cards and the like.  However, bitcoin does nothing to prevent the user from breaking his own cover.  Whoever desires to remain anonymous must take some rather drastic steps to maintain it, such as never allowing coins to mix from a published address to any that are intended to be used for anonymous business.  So basicly, to remain truly anonymous, care must be taken that two distinct wallet.dat files (presumedly with two clients) never intermingle.  This is so that a user can have a public business personna with Bitcoin, while maintaining an additional set of funds for cladestine business transactions.  However, transactions can easily be traced as they flow from one address to another, which is why it is difficult to maintain an anonymous personna with only one Bitcoin wallet.dat file.  The client mixes account funds by default, and the current client makes no attempt to maintain any kind of seperation of funds.So the short answer to the question is that Bitcoin can be anonymous, but it's the actual people who are not.
We still have yet to open the black box and see if the cat is alive. Okay, I understand now.If you are shopping online, say at Thinkgeek.com, you would have to provide them with your creditials and payment info so that they could trust that they were who you said you were, but do you demand that the ownership of Thinkgeek.com prove to yourself who the owners are?  If you don't trust an online retailer to abide by his word, would you send him your name and credit card number?  Trust is an issue, but in most online commerce, the trust issue tends to be one sided; and with Bitcoin the untrusted party is paying up front.  If you don't trust an online retailer enough to send you your paid for items as agreed, should you be buying from them at all? Could you elaborate on what risks you are talking about?That's pretty much what Bitcoin is.  Perhaps you still don't quite grok the system? Could your virus software or Windows security settings be interfering? Yes.  And that will persist for as long as they can maintain it.  However, Bitcoin is regulation resistent, and international by design.  There is really no way to effectively enforce any regulations that the market would deem to be oppressive or unneccesary.Some of their consumers already do use them.For the same reason that Walmart's have tax, finance and money transfer services inside the store.  Because Walmart is only a small step from being the bank itself.  Walmart can still accept cash in person, but walmart's online and international presence are no small part of their business model.I know that Sears functions as it's own bank.  I'd say that Walmart is more than big enough to do the same if they wish.  Walmart is certainly large enough that they don't need a bank to stand in for them to do currency conversions. If they can show a direct association between an address and the suspect, then yes. Yes, the transaction fees will be relatively light on the average consumer, because the costs of maintaining the security of the network will be spread across many more users.  But we have a ways to grow, and a couple of years of high inflation, before we get to a reasonable level of costs.Well, banks and individuals transfering large sums. @antivigilantie, who are you complaining about? How did you come up with a top of $4.54? Almost certainly not going to happen. And you think that makes it more likely that Bitcoin would be officially recognized? Except that's misleading as well.  The computing power does not provide the proof of time, the block order does.  The computer power only provides security against malicious reordering of previously accepted transactions. It's obvious to me that Satoshi doesn't want to break his cover, and isn't available.  Gavin is an independent entity, his service to Bitcoin is not binding upon his labor time.  The CIA didn't want you, suck it up. Study up on the subject, you'll be alone. If that were the case, then Gavin was chosen because he was functionally promoted by Satoshi to take command, as it was Satoshi that added Gavin's email address to the main contact page of Bitcoin.org and then removed his own. Sure, but all these things also apply to Iceland, and they have a smaller population than most cities, much less nations. By "the wallet crashed" you mean the client crashed?  Make a copy of your wallet.dat file, move it, reinstall the Bitcoin client.  Before you start it, copy your wallet.dat file back to it's proper directory, and then fire the client up.  Let it run until it catchs up to the current block.  If you still can't see your bitnickel, it's likely gone. Cuba?  Really?Hot, poor and socialist?  They still have '50s Ford trucks on the road, how the hell are they going to jump onto Bitcoin as a nation even if they wanted to? You would still be dead, even if the possibility of revival were high. Maybe so.  Memory fades....
True, but Mybitcoin.com is almost a bank already.  There will still be a role for bitcoin banks. The basic nature of a bank is bound to change somewhat, but the core concept of a bank as an institution that lends deposits out for interest is unlikely to change. Sometimes a spoon is just a spoon. And it doesn't really have to be an actual bank to start the trend.  If Wal-mart starts accepting Bitcoins, even just for their site-to-store purchases, then every one of their compeitors is going to have to follow suit quickly.  If Target does it first, Wal-mart might be able to resist for a while longer.  But once any major retailer such as these try it, resistance from the banking industry would be counter productive for their continued existance. Search the archives for the term Dash7, but there should be no automatic deductions or transactions, or someone is going to make such a transponder and hide it in the airport terminal. So a distributed sequence server?  Order server?  The end goal of Bitcoin is to enable you to buy anything anywhere in the world without currency conversion at all.  Oh, sorry.  The square root of negative one.  There is an unconfirmed story that such numbers were central to a mathmatics cult centered on a Greek island, wherein secrecy of the math was maintained by the threat of death to anyone who would share the secrets with the greater Greek cultures.  There is some evidence of the use of such "imaginary" numbers in the complex architecture of Athens, but no evidence of how the designs were calculated were ever found upon any building plans ever recovered, so this story is plausible.  I'm having trouble remembering the name of this math cult, so Google isn't helping me out much. If you are running miners on the cpu's, you are almost certainly losing money due to the costs of electricity. They've adjusted their price, it's now only 18 bitcoins delivered. I wish I could buy XXX with bitcoin...Oh, wait... Could your ISP be traffic shaping? And a carrot. https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/04/open-wireless-movement10 bitcoins for a good yard sign, designed, printed and shipped to my home, to advertise this project and the fact that I'm participating.  I have never encrypted my wireless router, because of the reasons presented in this article, but have turned down the transceiver power to limit it's practical use to people on the sidewalk and in my actual yard.  I don't want someone to be able to wardrive and park behind my house in the alleyway and download something that would get me sideways with the police. Interesting, yes.  We will all be dead before this day comes, however. The Singularity? Need more info.  Are you behind a firewall?  What OS are you using? The difficulty seems to follow the 6 week moving average of the price very closely, so as the value of the bitcoin rises the difficulty increases with a lag.  If this holds true, your predictions about the rise of difficulty is irrelevent. People were murdered for attempting to tell people outside of the fold about the square root of one. Yes, and I have.  And I have a substantial volume of bitcoin there myself.  I rarely fire up my client.
I bought my daugher a necklace off of Etsy a couple months back. You can't assume that it will maintain this pace.  Bitcoin muddles along for long periods, then has massive rallies when new articles are printed. The points against China are....1)  They are a large population, and therefore not prone to quick changes in monetary policy.2)  They are a command economy, and would therefore likely view the rise of an un-managable currency (from outside their own culture, and worse from a Japanese national) with contempt.3)  They are deeply vested in the international fiat systems due to international trade, and would be wary about losing much wealth with the decline of those reserves. Patience. Already did. And you know this, how?  Can you see the trade volume on Silk Road?  In Russia?  In China?  Just because the visable market is small, doesn't mean that the trade volume is entirely speculation. Ripple doesn't define the unit of value the IOU's are based upon, while a LETS system must collectively define this. The burden of proof is not on me to show that the system is not broken.  And I have seen enough to believe it proven for myself, what you have seen or not seen is, likewise, not my problem.Incorrect.  Your proposal is about the blockchain, and node identity spoofing would be the equivilant of hijacking the identities of trusted miners, but Bitcoin doesn't presently depend upon trusted nodes, which is part of the point of it all.Again, incorrect.  The scorched earth attack involves a node developing trust as the network builds, and only turning malicious after the WoT has grown to such a size that the value of such an attack outweighs the value of continued growth.  Said another way, the scorched earth method is most profitable when the network is mature.This is likely true in most cases, but not provably true.  Satoshi's white paper proves that similar attacks are not possible with Bitcoin so long as the attacker has less hashing power than the honest network.  And this is the status quo here.  If you don't like it, prove it.  You are long from that goal.  As I understand it, you don't contest that proof; you just believe that the transaction rules don't promise that said hashing power can be maintained.  And I disagree.[/list] Time really isn't an issue.  It's not like Bitcoin is ready for mass adoption anyway. Not if they openly approached him.  If they weren't going to play nice, they wouldn't have bothered with a ruse.  Like I said, openly inviting him to speak and offering him a speaker's fee tells me that they intend to play nice.  It's a very bullish signal. Not well, but how about a quote and a link?"This cost comes as a choice between rising unemployment and rising debt.　 The mechanism is fairly straightforward.　 Countries that seek to supercharge domestic growth by acquiring a larger share of global demand can do so by gaming the global system and actively stockpiling foreign currency, mainly in the form of, but not limited to, central bank reserves.　　 This allows them forcibly to accumulate domestic savings while relying on foreign demand to compensate for their own limited domestic demand."http://globaleconomicanalysis.blogspot.com/2011/04/bogus-threats-to-us-reserve-currency.htmlBasicly it's about the current account deficit.  Foreign producers can export to the US and accumulate US $, but unlike under a gold standard, this requires that the US become a debtor nation.  This works fine as long as the economy keeps humming along, but contributes to the public pain under a recession, like now.  Prior to the US $ becoming an international reserve currency under Brenton-Woods, the vast majority of the debt of the federal government was held by wealthy private citizens rather than central banks of foreign nations or sovereign wealth funds of dictatorships.  Of course, national debt is bad, because the 'debtor is slave to the lender'; but at least if the government is owned by the wealthy class of it's own citizenship, these same citizens have a vested interest in a stable social order and the legitimacy of the government.  Foreign investors do not, always, mind the losses if they can sow difficulties in the 'great Satan'.  Not all of them mind you, as China doesn't want to do it because it would harm China to a great degree, which was the strategic beauty of Clinton making China a 'most favored trade nation' back in the early 1990's.  In this way, he led to the Chinese middle class becoming dependent upon the economic health of the United States; and he foresaw a future that China could become the only single nation on Earth capable of challenging the US military in a conventional ground war if only by shear numbers.  Of course, he didn't foresee the adventurism of his successor nor the harm this has caused to the readiness of the US military; but if we were not presently in three major open conflicts at the same time, we would still be the most "effective" military on Earth.And, of course, the present stability of the Chinese ruling class is highly dependent upon the quality of life of that same middle class. Kenya already has p2p cellphone banking.  And "good" Internet access for Bitcoin is relative, as there are other solutions.  When a decent lightweight client for Android is developed, expecially if Android phones start shipping with a Dash7 mesh radio, a casual user in Kenya might not ever need Internet access.   I wonder how the recent revelation that Gavin Anderson is doing a presentation on Bitcoin for the CIA would trip up these mental giants, but I'm not willing to join the fray to try it.Honestly, I would have expected the membership on an overclocking forum to be a bit more tech savvy. I can't watch the video, but the idea that there has been zero reporting in the media is false.  I've seen it.  Unless you don't consider Fox Business News channel to be "mainstream". No, I don't.  I think that there are plenty of people in government capable of seeing the trends, and motivated enough to act towards benefitting from those same trends.  This is true if the trend in question is the stock market, Federal Reserve dominance, or the rise of cryptocurrency.  Nor do I doubt their capacity to obscure their true motives. There is probably a way to do this.  What if the client were to track the average number of blocks that a fee paying and free transactions were to persist in it's own queue, and increase the blocksize limit by 25% when it adjusts difficulty if the average wait blocks for fee paying transactions were over 6, and the free transaction section limit if free transactions averaged over 30.  And a client wouldn't reject an oversized block if it's own calculations put the averages over half of those numbers.  I just pulled those numbers out of my rear, so I'm not suggesting they are ideal, just throwing out an idea.  If transaction congestion became a problem, this metric could stretch the blocksize to accommodate without undermining the scarcity value of the blocksize limit, and it would take months to grow significantly.Likewise, if the average block wait for a fee paying transaction were under 2, or the average wait for free transactions were under 10, those same size metrics could be reduced by the same factor until they returned to the current limits. I don't agree that this is a given.The government has many other ways to generate revenue.  The income tax is not small, but has always been more about social engineering than government revenue.That said, I was saying that I would be surprised if Bitcoin were a government project. I have suspected for a couple months that this forum was being watched, and that a couple of forum members were agents keeping tabs on us; but I'd be very impressed if Bitcoin were a CIA project or that Satoshi turns out to be a government agent.  I've been careful enough that most average forum users aren't likely to be able to discover my identity, but not careful enough to prevent the feds from doing so.  I would consider that futile.  And considering that I've personally mentioned that I have worked for the federal government in the past, they almost certainly know the real me.  These guys aren't surprised easily.Yesterday I would have agreed with you, but as I mentioned, the CIA openly reaching out to Gavin in a friendly manner implies that they intend to "play fair", if they intend to play at all.  Hands off is almost certainly not an option now, and probably never was considering what the goals are. This is only true for certain sectors of government.  Domestic monetary policy is not a concern for the CIA.  That's doesn't mean that the monied interests of other sectors won't interfere with whatever the CIA might have in mind, but the CIA doesn't care what cyberpunks are doing in the dark corners of the Internet in general.
I find this revelation to be supportive of Bitcoin's future.  If they are openly asking a major representative of the Bitcoin community to speak, that means that they not only have looked at it fairly closely and have judged generally that it's not a threat or a crime (meaning they are not going to commit resources to destroy the network) it also means that someone has a use for Bitcoin.Keep in mind, they have a use for Tor, and if every Tor node were owned by the feds, it woundn't be very useful to them either.It might also explain some of the mystery money that has been flowing into MtGox and driving the price.  If the CIA has a use for it, they are going to have to have some of it.If this presentation goes well, and tells them what they really would like to verifiy (they don't ask questions that they don't already have strong opinions on, like lawyers never ask questions in court that they haven't already researched, the CIA has access to some truly high class programmers themselves) then just imagine the level of hashing power that the feds could bring to Bitcoin.I know that most people think that the fact that the US FRN is the international reserve currency is a major boon for the US economy, but there are some very notable downsides.  In some ways it's in the interests of the US to gently back away from that role.  Bitcoin could help that endeavor. There are several android clients being worked on presently.  This topic has come up with regard to third world usage of Bitcoin before, please search the archives. What do you base this statement on? There already is, but it's sort of a sliding scale.  Free transactions can only be so large individually, and take up so much of the blockspace in total.  Beyond that there is a hardcoded fee schedule, the more transactions in a given block, the higher the transaction fee included must be in order to qualify to be added to that block.  This fee schedule is enforced by the network because if a block's size is over any of those 'soft' limits, there must be at least one transaction within it that pays at least the minimum for that tier, or it's rejected as an invalid block.  So even without the hard blocksize limit, there are mechanisms in play to strongly encourage senders to add a transaction fee if they desire their transaction to be processed quickly.  It is this mechanism that has delayed free transactions in the past, not the hard blocksize limit.  We have never come anywhere near the blocksize limit.There could be, but I doubt that either of us can come up with one.  If someone does come up with one that is significantly better than the proof-of-work system of Bitcoin, a better cryptocurrency will come into being.The whole point of the proof-of-work system is that any direct attack on the system is expensive relative to the expected gain, so that crime doesn't pay.  Perhaps this still leaves Bitcoin open to an attack intended to outright destroy it by some malicious entity with vast resources, but even though I can acknowledge that such an attack is possible; it's far from cetain that it would be successful.  There are simply too many unknowns.  In the same vein, China could have long ago destroyed the American monetary system by the simple act of dumping US currency reserves and US treasury bonds upon the market, for they have more of both than the whole of the US public does.  This would probably cause massive inflation of the US FRN, if the US government does nothing, but this is not a certainty either; and would be expensive for the Chinese economy as well.Attacks upon a WoT system are more subtle, and potentially much less costly.  One is simply the act of 'node identity spoofing', faking the identity of a trusted node.  Another is the 'scorched earth' event, wherein a node develops honest trust, and then turns bad once the opprotunity is presented.  You can make both of these attacks difficult technically, but you cannot make them impossible, nor particularly expensive since I do not need any great resources for either attack.  Other attacks requiring coordination are possible as well.  This does not include the basic network attacks upon the hosting servers themselves, the security of which is importan in a web of trust.  Bitcoin's collective security is not dependent upon the level of security of any given node.I suppose we can address that issue when it comes up.  If Bitcoin is still the cryptocurrency of the Internet in 2130, feel free to bring it up again. good plan A cartel is difficult to maintain in a true market, because the smaller members always have an incentive to cheat.The percentage of relative power of the cartel must rise in conjunction with the delay.  If the delay were actually ten minutes, the cartel would need at least twice the computational power of the entire remainder of the network.  A 5 minute delay would require at least 50% more than the entire remainder of the network.  Even a delay of a few seconds puts the cartel at a disadvantage.And the cartel will need access to the rest of the network as well.Incorrect.  See above.In your presented case, the cartel would be very fragile, even if it could ever even develop the dominance.  The network is currently very small, projecting the size of the network when the userbase is ten times larger tells me that the network will become very difficult, indeed. Yes, exactly.  Many of whom thought they were anarchists.I used those descriptors because I don't have better ones.  Of course there are "European" anarchists in the US, and "American" anarchists is Europe.  Nothing is absolute.See above.By name dropping?  Not really.I can accept the possibility that I'm wrong, but I've read all that you have presented on this theme in the past, and probably much more than you can produce, and IMHO the most likely possibility is that you are confused about your own role. It can, it just doesn't.  It's on the future features list.  Feel free to contribute a patch. That's funny! Not at all.  The European version of anarchism is indeed socialist, but they are not libertarians.  European anarchists are statists who oppose the factions in control of the state and the ideologies that they represent, but not statism itself.  Which has much to do with why American anarchists tend to use other terms, such as 'volunteerist', so as not to be associated with the European understanding of the term.  Certainly there are those in Europe who believe themselves to be actual anarchists, but those are those whom Stalin called "useful idiots".  Violent or chaotic anarchy is always a transitional political state, and one the Marx himself advocated as a stepping stone to socialism.  And although some/most libertarians are truly anti-state, most are not under any illusion about the fragility of the rule of law under a stateless political society, and any solution is basicly a mini-state.  Notice, if you will, that American anarchists, no matter what they call themselves or how badly they might want to, never riot.  They have not since the Weather Underground of the 1970's, who were quite openly anarchists of the European sort.  They don't riot because the destruction of private property (any property owned by anyone not their target, whether they like them or not) would violate their principles concerning non-aggression and the rule of natural/common law. Not really; unless you are saying that you are a libertarian except within your own family, and then you are socialist, which pretty much means that you are a libertarian.  You cannot be for liberty and socialism at the same time, they are opposing ideologies.  Heads would explode. Down or not, the client will attempt to connect to it's internal list to fill out it's connections.  It doesn't depend on any one source for data, so such an attempt to prevent new clients from bootstrapping the blockchain would be short lived.  Clients that have already bootstrapped remember their past connections anyway. Which is a contradiction in terms. Not for long, and not likely to any useful degree even in the short term.  The current client no longer requires the IRC channel even for initial bootstrapping.  I don't even let my client connect. Did you guys ever consider that it's just some guy trying to break up his coins into change? And yet, as ugly as it may be, that's how nLockTime transactions work.  They form a kind of pseudo-escrow, allowing the sender to prove to the seller that he actually has the funds, without actually sending them. None of these three attacks would do a thing to the running Bitcoin network, and aren't even likely to do much to prevent new users. The assumption in intended is that there was no such case, but only the intent to cause a panic. Freedom of speech is a negative right, that the federal government does not have the authority to limit your ability to say what you wish about it.  And it does not.  You can say these things, but once you do you can be persecuted based upon the content.  Not by critiquing the actions of government in general, or the actions of government agents in particular; but by advocating harm being done to another person.  Generally such things are taken more seriously when the person in question also happens to be an agent of the state.  Freedom of speech doesn't imply you have the right to scream "fire!" in a crowded theater any more than the freedom to keep and bear arms implies you have a right to shoot your neighbor if he stumbles drunk into your backyard and pisses on your lillies.And that is considering places wherein the public actually has a freedom of speech. Ripple is not a currency, but a web-of-trust based credit system.  It still depends on a common reference of value.  Said another way, Ripple users can use any common metric; such as ounces of gold or silver, fiat currencies, or whatever; as their medium of exchange, but the system itself does not establish one.  Bitcoins could be traded well in this manner, but in the end, Ripple is credit; if the buyer had the bitcoins, he could just pay for it.  Ripple does permit people to trade online relative to hard money, without needing to ship the hard money itself; but it is neccessarily not anonymous.LETS stands for Local Exchange Trading System, and it is a local "mutual credit" based currency.  It does not involve scarcity, as the credits are created at the time of the trade deal by a double entry type system.  I.E., there is some central book, and when someone buys something from a local vendor, the account of the vendor shows a credit while the account of the buyer shows a debit, but all debits and credits in the system balance out to zero.  The system requires an external peg of value agreed to by the whole of the userbase, which can be a national currency, hard money, or hours of unskilled labor.
You could start such a site on Tor, but this would likely be illegal in many juristictions. That's pretty much how the proof-of-work system works now.  Feel free to fork the Bitcoin code to attempt what you are advocating.  And after a little while, I'll come help break your web of trust system.Oh, yes.  I can. I'll be one of your first users. The IRC channel is still in use, but it is no longer a critical part of bootstrapping.  It makes it easier for a fresh install to identify peers to connect to, but if IRC is unreachable for any reason, it will use an internal list of IP addresses of known, persistant peers to bootstrap with.  Further peers can be identifed over the network protocol, and whenever Bitcoin shuts down it saves a list of it's most recent peers and attempts to reconnect to those peers upon startup.  Without IRC, initial bootstrapping can take a long time, because the client is not only starved of peer links but is also trying to aquire the blockchain and hash it all as it goes.  I've done it this way, and it's a tad faster to force the client to connect to a major known peer. Ah, no.The Bitcoin protocol does not exist to make things easier on pool miners.  If this is really a concern, perhaps you shouldn't be pool mining. Even your smiley makes me think of a mime. Wait, are we talking about raising the hard blocksize limit, or the free transaction size limit?  Or eliminating the fee scale?Assuming that this is a correct assesment of the situation, there are other reasons that people mine than direct profit.A cartel isn't required, as this is how things function right now.  It would take at least 50% of the generators to agree to a rulechange (by upgrading) in order to lift the limit at present.  Even if Gavin Anderson said, "I'm raising the blocksize limit" and changed it in the vanilla codebase, if more than 50% of the miners (by hash power) just refused, there would be nothing that Gavin could do.  I don't agree that eliminating the blocksize limit would create a "tragedy of the commons" scenario, but nor do I expect that the Bitcoin mining collective are going to simply decide to drop the only source of artificial scarcity in the system without great consideration.Basicly, this could only be a problem if the future miners were generally inclined to act contrary to their own interests.ASIC's wouldn't raise the barriers to entry in the long term.  Only increase the overall security of the system for roughly the same cost.  ASICs continue to exist in the modern world because they are cheap in quantity. And why do you think they will be too low? Or to restate an idea of my own from a few months back, someone will make a heat trace cable for water lines that has bitcoin asics in a strip. @sThis is an open forum, and you get into a flame war with one member.  And then paint the entire membership with the same wide brush.  If you have something to contribute to the community, please stay.  But if you really are a 10+ year veteran of this field of study, then you should have thicker skin than this.  Your assesment that this forum is dominated by teenaged libertarians is likely correct, but irrelevent.  I was annoyed by that comment, because you used the phrase as an insult, implying that teenagers or libertarians are contemptable in some fashion.  I've known enough of both to know that is not a rational perspective.I've been following this thread, and have yet to see either of you post any significant personal attack.  If Goatpig annoys you, ignore him. I think that you are projecting now.  I guess I'll say that I don't understand what you think the problem is.  Could you restate your prediction? I think your conclusion is incorrect, but am still posting here to be able to follow this thread. Nonsense.  There is no such thing as third party generation.  I'm on the same tier as ArtForz, I just don't have the same kind of hardware.  You can't generalize your situation and project that upon the rest of the user base. This is true up to the block size limit. The most likely scenario is that major Bitcoin banks (Mybitcoin.com x1000) that are generating more for the security of their own members than for profit will be motivated to have interlocking agreements to process the free transactions of each other's members, even if they would otherwise ignore free transactions.  It is unlikely that free transactions would actually ever be completely ignored by the whole of the Bitcoin network.  It's a form of charity to process free transactions, particularly if the miner must choose between fitting a free versus paid transaction into the block, but there are other reasons to generate than simply profit.  For example, a minority of hashing in the past has been done by users who have a need for electro-resistive heat, and therefore lose nothing by generating even at a loss.  Also, major charities might support Bitcoin mining so that the donations sent to them will be processed in a timely manner rather than wait for an indefinate period of time to see it done.  Such charities would have an economic incentive to support free transaction generation, and even if they only included free transactions sent to themselves in the beginning, interlocking agreements between charities would have similar effects as the interlocking agreements between banks noted above.Another similar example is companies themselves.  Imagine how much Ford Credit would save by switching from a bank that supports sales of Ford vehicles to a Bitcoin processing center that exists primarily to support feeless transactions sent to Ford?  Or Wal-Mart might be a better example.  It's in Wal-Mart's own best interests to absorb the costs of transactions for it's customers, and after a certain point, it's cheaper for Wal-Mart to generate for their own transactions than to ask every single customer to tack on a transactin fee. Those are Chinese, not China.  The only scenario wherein China recognizes Bitcoin in any positive context is if the US government begins to assault Bitcoin discretely. Hard to say.  In fact, impossible to say.  But I would guess that you are correct, at present.  As hashing becomes ever more marginal on a straight for-profit basis, and the user base continues to grow, the reserve hashing power will continue to climb.  If there were some way to estimate the number of non-generating nodes, we might be able to take a fair guess at the reserve capacity; but as far as I know, there is no credible way to count non-generating nodes.Oh, certainly not.  There has been many before you who have come up with variations on the basic 'overpower the network' attack.  None of which have proven to be particularly advantagous.  I encourage you to keep thinking about attacking the network, however, because if one of us can think of a vector of attack before a hostile entity does, we can mitigate such an attack.How do you know that?I still think your numbers are off.  How are you coming up with this estimate?  Are you including the ongoing costs of power?  Are you considering the islanding effects of Tor and I2P?  Have you considered possible countermeasures that the Bitcoin network could actively respond with?  Have you considered the possible actions of other governments generally hostile to whatever government happens to be hostile to Bitcoin? Yes, Bitcoin definately benefits from the 'network effect'.  The more who adopt it, the more the meme is spread.  The more the meme is spread, the more who adopt it.  And the more who adopt it, the higher the price tends to go.  The higher the price tends to go, the more secure the system becomes.  The more secure the system becomes, the more faith current users have in the system.  The more faith the users have in the system, the more that each is willing to risk in the system.  The more that each user is willing to risk in the system, the more valuable that bitcoins become.I expect this to continue until Bitcoin reaches an equilibrium of new users versus users leaving, at which point it will either be mainstream and stable, or an epic failure. Although I agree that social engineering is the greater risk for Bitcoin, I don't agree that governments can do to Bitcoin what it did to hard money.  First, they don't have that kind of time.  Bitcoin is maturing faster then supporters expected, and if it gets anywhere near the mindshare of PayPal, the public would call 'bullshit' on any kind of propaganda that any government agents might produce.  Bitcoin is running on Internet time, governments cannot.This also isn't 1933, and the public might call 'bullshit' on it anyway; since we all have the truth button only a click away, and the young are inclined to use that button a hundred times a day.  Any mention of the term "Bitcoin" by any government agency or representative might just have the opposite of the intended effect. This would be a good reason to change one of the SHA256 hashings of the block headers to a completely different secure hashing algorithem now, preempting this possibility completely.
And I don't agree with your perspectives upon the implications of such an attack.  As already stated, hijacking the blockchain as a DOS of the network, would not lead to the destruction of the economy.  Such an attack would have to be maintained for some considerable period of time and against a group of honest participants who all have varying degrees of vested interests to negate such an attack, and who are not generally any more idle than the attackers. This is not so.  The function of the Bitcoin network is to be the transaction processing agents (Visa, PayPal, banks) but a central bank does not exist for this function.  The central bank exists to manage a fiat currency, and the management of Bitcoin is in the codebase.  No attack that fails to change a majority of the running codebase of the p2p network has near zero chance of long term success.  All such attacks are either local in scope (double spend, affecting the vendor who is defrauded), limited in time (blockchain fork) or both.  If you can't change the codebase, you can't "manage" the currency, and any changes that you make to the protocol are destroyed after you lose your majority cpu power status.  Which could happen in very short order, as there is an unknown amount of reserve hashing power that could be convinced to come online in defense of the honest network even at a loss.  I am one such person.  If a credible attack of the system were underway, and I was aware of it, I'd be more than willing to hash at a loss.  I'm sure that I'm not alone. I see.  I don't consider this a real problem, even though it is relatively cheap at present.  The big reason is that the network is very young, and the whole value of the currency relatively small; so the primary motivation of such an attacker would be the outright destruction of Bitcoin.  The only group with such a motive would be powerful western central banks and their governments.  No small group, but the rest of the world's governments then have a vested interest in anything that stands to weaken western central banks, which includes relative heavyweights such as Brazil and China.  Also, this attack would have to continue for a significant period of time to actually destroy Bitcoin, and has nearly zero chance of altering any significant portion of the blockchain history.  Savy users are going to suspend their transactions if such an attack were underway, and less savy users are likely to learn about the attack in the media, also suspending transactions.  Suspensionof activities is not the same as abandonment of the currency, and any such attack, even now, is going to require the comitment of sustantial resources.  This would be something that would be hard for government agents to be able to justify to their budget aware leadership for very long, considering that there are much bigger thinkgs in this world for spooks to be throwing processing power at.  In the future, if Bitcoin grows to become a real threat to the status quo, it would also be too big to break. Thank you for clearing this up. Are you refering to the attack vector that requires over 50% of the hashing power of the network, with the intent of overwriting recent blocks?  The forced double spending attack? random entrophy data for a cryptographic stream cypher? If major corporate mining of bitcoins were to develop in Iceland, something that I consider likely if Bitcoin ever hits anything close to mainstream, as well as something that is likely already happening; this would be economicly equivalent to importing energy from Iceland. What am I missing then?  An incorrect mining reward invalidates the block.  Presently, full clients do check for this, and violators are ignored.  The net effect being that it doesn't matter how much power the colluding violators throw at the problem, the honest network simply ignores anything that they come up with.  The violators can, presently, either mine honestly or attempt to rewrite the recent blocks of the blockchain, but that's a different attack vector.  The claim that I saw basicly says that the collusion problem is because future clients will be dominated by lightweight clients, which presumedly wouldn't pay any attention to the actual blockchain reward; and this would permit a small cabal of well heeled miners to collude into changing the rules and segmenting the other honest miners into a minory blockchian because the majority of clients would blindly accept blocks produced that were invalid due to an overly high block reward, but reject the minority chain being produced by the honest miners that remained because they would have a shorter proof-of-work chain.Yet, if the lightweight clients even occasionally check the validity of the block reward, or even only a fraction of smartphone clients did this; the attack is undermined.How am I wrong? No, because each client would only have to download however many hashes in the tree to lead to that transaction, and then that transaction itself.  In a huge block, we might be talking about three or four dozen 256 bit long hashes and one very small transaction. (no inputs, one output, nothing special to take up space).  Yes, that would be much more bandwidth than just the headers; but still much less than downloading a full block with 3000+ variable sized transactions in it.  Once it was downloaded and checked, the light client could simply throw it all away except the 80 byte header.Interesting idea, but this could be a breaking change.  Better to make certain that such a thing were actually required, and if so, simply alter the headers to include the special transaction. Unknowable.No.  At best, they would have the power to steal bitcoins from individual accounts.  Both the merkle tree inside of the blocks, and the blockchain itself, uses secure hashing, not public/private keypair encryption.  So if SHA256 (the hash that Bitcoin presently uses) were broken in the future, this would not expose the individual account balances of all users, but only those of the most recent blocks in the blockchain.  Likewise, if the public/private keypair encryption that Bitcoin presently uses was broken, this would expose the accounts of individual users that the attacker was willing to commit resources to break open; but would not expose the blockchain itself to attack, nor the whole of the Bitcoin user base.  If both are broken at the same time, we would be in trouble.  However, if either is broken (or even appears to be subject to breaking in the near future) then each is modular and can be replaced with another method within the same class of encryption.  Bitcoin is not 'married' to elliptical curve encryption, per se. Also, the hashing methods used for the blockchain can be different than those used for the merkle tree, or even two different secure hashing methods used for each block; because the blockchain is currently secured using a SHA256 hash of a SHA256 hash of the block's header.  Which would further seperate sections of Bitcoin from the risk of any one part of the system being broken. Amen to that. Sure it would.  The first transaction in every block is the special transaction that gives the miner his 50 bitcoin reward.  If every light client were checking that transaction to keep the miners honest, there wouldn't be any way to collude, as the lightweight clients would reject the blocks themselves and keep searching the Bitcoin network for blocks that used the proper reward amount. Those questions are irrelevent.  None of us have control over how the power is produced or it's effects are mitigated, regardless of the system we are talking about.  It's also a bold-faced lie.  Solar tech would have to be less than free to compete with coal at the present time, because solar requires vast expanses of real estate to produce on any scale.  I would wager that less than 0.01% of the population has the real estate to produce their own power consumption in this manner even if the tech were 100% efficient.  Currently an efficiency rate of 20% is great.Don't forget to include the energy costs and environmental impact of the manufacturing of those panels before you decide that solar is a good environmental choice. This should scream "profit opprotunity" to just about anyone. I think that this premise is wrong.  I don't believe that individual miners will ever cease to exist no matter how corporate or consolidated professional mining becomes.  For a couple of notable reasons.First, and foremost, because mining does not have to be profitable to be rational.  I use the example of the lone gaming geek in a cool climate, who lives in a small flat that is heated entirely by electro-resistive heating.  This geek doesn't have to live in a cold climate, just one that has a fairly long heating season.  He is going to own a high-end gaming rig regardless of the existance or success of Bitcoin, and has to pay the electric bill to heat his tiny apartment anyway.  So why not mine while away?  The capital costs are covered by other endeavors already, any bitcoins said lone geek were to get from mining are effectively free.  This doesn't consider the wear that heavy usage imposes upon a GPU, but odds are high that his GPU is going to get upgraded before it dies anyway.Second, in a successful Bitcoin future, financial institutions are not all going to be into mining for the profits of mining, but also for the digital equivalent of a bank spending half a million on a bank vault.  For the security this contributes for their own membership.  Nor will all these institutions be banks, as credit unions and non-profit institutions exist now and therefore it's reasonable to expect them to exist in the future.  These institutions will participate in the Bitcoin infrastructure for their clients' comfort and benefit moreso than the possibility of (direct) profits.  And these same institutions are likely to develop interlinking agreements to process the transactions of each other's clients for free even if they were to refuse to process free transactions in general.I contest this premise as well.  The only requirements a mining operation for profit will be reliable and relatively cheap Internet access and electric service.  Both conditions favor developed nations presently, but I can foresee no reason that such operations couldn't cluster in developing nations if the economies of scale would permit said mining operations to bring these things with them. Not if you consider the amount of energy it takes to run other monetary systems.  Just because your cash doesn't require energy to use, doesn't mean that it didn't take energy to create.  It took quite a bit, and considering the network of banks and institutions that exist to support the electronic flow of those same notes, the energy costs of the US FRN are astronomical compared to Bitcoin.In some ways it's comparable to the energy required to dry your hands in a public bathroom.  Which takes more energy, the paper towel or the hot air blowdryer?  The answer is counter-intuitive, because we see the energy that the dryer uses; but we tend to overlook the energy required to 1) grow the trees, 2) harvest the trees, 3) produce the paper, 4) ship the rolls of paper towels, 5) and repeatedly replace the rolls as they empty. The hot air blowdryer is orders of magnitude more energy efficient than a paper towel dispensory, as long as the dryer itself is reliable.Good planProbably not so good of a plan; unless you live in a desert or otherwise want the solar panels for some other reason.  I've looked into this for my own home, and the panels never make their own cost of production back within their life expectancy.  And only make sense in remote conditions. or if you expect that the power grid will fail sometime within your lifetime.Please add, "Bitcoin mining is not energy intensive compared to alternatives" to your poll, please. For that matter, how easy is it to aquire US FRNs?  Sure, they are common enough, but you still have to have a job and work hours for the few that you get, do you not? I don't see how all miners suffer from lower transaction fees, since it's presently provable that free transaction fees are possible with a working Bitcoin economy.They are already zero, but you are overlooking time preferences.  Space in a block is effectively of zero value, since there is presently plenty that a zero fee transaction can get into the next block.  However, if Bitcoin ever reaches mainstream acceptance comparable to PayPal; the space inside a block (which is limited by convention) will start to command a premium.  As such, users who have a need/want to see their transaction included in the next block will be motivated to provide a fee towards that end.  And forcing all transactions that pay a fee less than them to wait until the next block or longer.  Such traders will be relatively rare, such as buying/selling a car from a dealer or stranger, or other high value transaction wherein confirmations are the only acceptable risk limiting mechanism.  Even relatively rare, such transactions are likely to justify enough of a transaction fee to motivate miners to incude as many of them as they can find.  Perhaps even motivating miners with marginal profits to jump into and out of mining based upon the collection of fees in the transactions in their queue.  This would create a short term "flexability" in the processing of transactions, as blocks would come faster than six an hour under high demand and slower than 6 per hour during off peak times; still averageing out to 6 per hour over the two week adjustment period.Then we are back to where we were about four months ago, when transaction fees were rare.I'm not even sure how you get to this conclusion. A transaction is only valid to the network if it's inputs are transactions already in the blockchain.  I think that it is actually impossible to referrence an input transaction without it's permanent block number.  (transaction hash + block number, I believe,  Someone correct me if I'm wrong)  So any other transactions sent after the first one, fee or no fee, would be rejected by the sender's peers as invalid and never even forwarded to a miner. For now, the block reward is enough of an economic incentive for miners.  In the future, as the reward goes down, it is expected that the transaction fees that some people choose to contribute will add up into a block to a respectable amount and take over as the primary incentive.As it is, there is no advantage to mining an empty block, because the hashing is done against the 80 byte header only; and thus adding more transactions to the block is trivial.  So miners add free transactions out of kindness.  It's a form of charity that will become less common in the future.  There will likely always be miners who are doing it for more reasons than simply the profit from mining itself, and these people are unlikely to reject free transactions.  So in a successful Bitcoin future, traders who have a high value transaction are likely to be contributing a transaction fee in order to have their transaction processed in a timely manner; whereas small transactions, transactions involving external trust (i.e. from friend to friend), and basic donations are likely to have to wait to a lull in the network.  Furthermore, free transactions are prioritized based on how long the (youngest?) input have been in the blockchain, oldest being of the highest priority so that spamming of the network can't significantly delay an honest transaction lacking a fee.
I was just having a conversation with a friend about death notices, as he had two of his other friends die in the past three days.  He discovered them both in the traditional way, by reading a print newspaper obit section. (insert classic joke, any day that you can wake up and not find your own obit in the newspaper is a good day)And then it immediately occurred to me that legal notices are an Internet oversight.  Governments and other entities must pay a newspaper to print legal notices because a legal notice must not only be widely distributed, which is trivial on the Internet; but provablely dated.Any developers have my permission to take this idea and run with it.Online legal notices, via a parrallel blockchain, paid for by bitcoin wherein the payee's transaction incorporating into the Bitcoin becomes the legal proof of timestamp.Or something like that. This is actually likely to happen in the long term, if the public/private keypair system Bitcoin uses is to ever show signs that it might be cracked.  Bitcoin can move to another, more secure, version of the same thing without skipping a beat; and users would be pretty much forced to go back and claim all of their old transactions in order to move them to the new system in situ.  However, lost coins would be obvious shortly after such a changeover were complete, and easily recovered by the first person willing to write the crack program using the new exploit.  It'd be like treasure hunters racing to claim a Spanish Gallion, first to get the address cracked and moved to his own new address wins.It might be decades before anything like this occurs, however. Because speculators can look at the system, and in particular the ultimate cap on the monetary base, and speculate that those bitcoins that they can gather and keep would be worth much more in the future.  If it were permanently inflationary, those same speculators would be able to assume that even if such a support economy were to develop, those same coins would eventually be worth less in the long term.So again I ask, how would an openly inflationary version of Bitcoin actually bootstrap?  Not like Bitcoin has, this is certain.  Such a currency would have almost zero chance of overcoming the first value rule.  Bitcoin's first value was a potential future value to speculators, but an inflationary bitcoin would never had that first value. This is actually true, in the sense that bad money chases good money out of the market.  This is one reason you don't see silver dimes anymore, even though they still exist.  The difference is that, without some form of outside force compelling the consumer to deal in the bad money, why would they ever buy it in the first place? Don't need to refute it.  It's an opinion. Wait,  there are still print readers who use the Internet? Bitcoin is neither.  Bitcoin is simply a monetary system.  There is no ideology there, and any that people project upon it is their own doing.I doubt that, seriously.  Just looking at the ongoing hashing power doesn't tell the whole story.  I'd wager that there are plenty of people with respectable hashing power that do not presently participate, that would be willing to generate at a loss if an ongoing attack were to become evident.  That includes myself.  Granted, there is no way to know how much hashing power remains in reserve.  But is is easily false to assume that there isn't any.And my my rough calculations, an attacker would need roughly 31K GPU's just to overtake the honest network at this writing. I'm not sure if I missed it, but I'm really surprised that no one had pointed out that Bitcoin currently inflates at around 40% APR, and will continue to be inflationary for as long as some of us could hope to live. No, I wasn't around here then.  And neither were you.  Did you intend to say $0.05? Because "normal" markets are closed. I'm not shocked, really.  All governments are functionally owned by the wealthy citizens, and a good show of social solidarity would generally encourage the middle classes to not complain later if the wealthy are willing to put up now.  Of course, the middle class is who pays for almost everything anyway, and the wealthy will get their taxes cut again later on, but it's always a horse and pony show anyway. Why would anyone want to go out there? Twilight seems to not have cared for the response, since s/he registered in order to post once, and logged off never to return. Have you seen the Asus Transformer? Of a weekly show involving two New Yorkers talking about money?I would have to say yes. A user of an independent, lightweight client can either have one trusted full client he intentionally connects to, such as his full client on his home PC; or can connect to a number of random untrusted peers.  The end result is the same, since your full client at home is ultimately connected to numerous untrusted peers itself.  The trust comes from polling multiple sources and comparing the results until it becomes statisticly remote that you have been spoofed.  The point of forcing the mobile client on your smartphone, lightweight or not, to connect to your single trusted client at home is so that you can move the resource consumption issue to the full home client and off of your wireless data plan.  Likewise, the lightweight client that only keeps the block headers locally does so to reduce local storage consumption; but for now, this really isn't an issue on the home PC.Perhaps I misunderstood.Your freinds presumedly already have your trust, so there isn't really a need for the lightweight client to be able to verify that independently in real time.  Likewise for moving funds from your full home client to your mobile client, as you can presumedly trust yourself.  The lightweight clients still need to have copies of the blocks that contain your coins, so that they can properly create a spend transaction; so if two light cleints are connected ad-hoc so that one person can send the other funds, a copy of the referancing blocks can move in the same manner, but you had better be able to trust the person giving you the transaction.You could do this, but then the light client wouldn't really be independent, and it's practically the same as using a remote control client to tell your full client at home to do the transaction.The privacy issue isn't an issue if you own the full client also, but the point of a lightweight client is to be able to transact sans Internet. No, not certainty, but high probability.  If the POS owner chose his peers well, it would be a quantifiable probability; but it would be pretty certain under random peer selection as well.  High enough that I'd be willing to offer vendors insurance against a double spend fraud, and I'd be running the POS super-node.  I can forsee an niche industry of Bitcoin processing companies offering such insurance to small vendors, but chains such as Walmart or Sears are going to do such thinkgs for themselves.That's it exactly.  In the short term, Bitcoin vendors are likely to have normal clients running in the store, but ultimately such functions are likely to be consolidated into datacenters with special POS light clients in the store.  This is pretty much how credit card transactions are handled these days.  The important part is that an independent vendor always has the realistic option of setting up a local full client if his service company ever gets uppity, and the customer also always has the option of setting up his own full node if he ever has reason to distrust his online wallet bank.  Keeps these groups honest. When the block reward drops to 25, and transaction fees begin to matter, these mining profit calculations are going to become much more difficult than they already are. I'm not talking about remote wallets, just simply a remote full client that you can query whom you already have a relationship with before walking into a transaction.  You don't have to trust another machine or user to hold your wallet.dat file, you just have to have a party that you know isn't interested in the outcome of your transaction.  An untrusted third party, if you will, but each party to the transaction needs at least one of such a client; and if you set up a full client of your own back at the house, I'd bet that you could trust it.I don't disagree, but the above list is ideal for a client intended to convieniently spend coins, not accept them.  The spender doesn't need to be able to verify anything, at least not in real time.  It's the vendor selling things that is taking the risks.  Again, I ask the question; in what context would a portable POS system that needs to be disconnected from the Internet be useful?  Even hotdog vendors have Internet access. Or simply an open wi-fi connection with common ports blocked, but not Bitcoin ports.  It is in the interests of the vendor to make sure that Bitcoin users have ready access to the Bitcoin network, even if they wouldn't want to have warwalkers mulling about the store downloading porn over thier Internet connection.
If such things start happening, the methods of double spend checks would become more complicated, and fewer vendors will be willing to accept unconfirmed bitcoin transactions without ID and/or insurance.  The fraudulent user is then in a digital arms race that he cannot win, and repeatedly doing these kinds of things is still going to get you caught eventually. The regular client doesn't perform a check of the live transaction queue, but it could be done.  I'd be willing to bet that it will be a standard check on POS systems long before Wal-Mart starts accepting Bitcoin at their registers.  And a slick POS client could also send the transaction to all of it's peers except one, and if that peer offers back that same transaction then it's safe to assume that the transaction is good.  Even if there is a double spend attempt underway, if your own POS system has a decent spread of peers and your last peer then sends you the correct transaction, odds are high enough that your transaction was first (and therefore most likely to come away with the actual bitcoins) and therefore acceptable.  This would be acceptable risks for sales values under $50, and is similar to how credit card companies handle charges under $50.Such a check wouldn't take nearly 15 seconds under normal network loading conditions, but a 15 second timeout would be reasonable. Have you considered the additional air conditioning load during summer? Is there some way to download this video?  My downloader plugin cannot see the file. That link works without complaint, thanks. And even clients that do not generate get a vote, by simply refusing to propagate rejected blocks to their peers.  Much of the network wouldn't even see those modified blocks. I can't watch it, what format is it in? Yes, this would work, because an honest client will not propagate an invalid transaction.  But if a smartphone had Internet access, what advantage does an entirely independent lightweight client have over a lightweight client that uses a trusted full client back at the office?  I can't imagine a situation that such a client, for the purpose of accepting payments, would be useful. Well, it can be enough, depending on how much you trust the counter-party.  However, the normal situation of a lightweight client sending to a full client (i.e. a customer inside a brick&mortar shop) mitigates the double spend risks by limiting the window of time that can be done into miliseconds, because the full client can not only check the transaction's validity but also scan the live transaction queue for transaction that use the same inputs.  But this trick functionally requires a full client with continuous Internet access. I've been thinking about this further, and I think that a lightweight client (such as would be found on a smartphone) would be one geared toward spending coins rather than receiving and verifying transactions.  That said, a lightweight client, or any client, that was disconnected from the Internet could still check that a transaction was valid by pulling the relevant block headers and merkle trees from the sending client via the same connection that the transaction itself was transmitted across.  Granted, this isn't safe, as it would be possible to spoof, but it certainly wouldn't be an easy thing to do.  Even if both clients were lightweight, the sending client would need to have at least a skeleton copy of the blocks that confirm his own balance.This, of course, could only tell you that the coins were once owned by the sender, within a reasonable doubt; but not if the transaction is actually valid, as there still seems to be no way to check for a prior spend without scanning all the transactions in blocks that have occurred since.  Such a transaction could still be accepted with the risks. Well, after you send him the link, he will have been right all along! Which is why I mentioned an RFID chip as well, which could contain the address that the private key (keypair) hidden inside refers to.  So anyone with an RFID reader could check the address against a blockchain to see if the address still had the coins. Bitcoin use in an other-than-first-world nation?  Unpossible!Let this thread be an object lesson to those detractors who claim that Bitcoin can't work in such places; not only do we have Chinese nationals on this forum using Bitcoin, but we now have a real communist!   Relatively speaking, this is questionable.  Warren Buffet has been quoted as saying that he pays less in federal income taxes than his own secretary.  The point he was trying to make was that the tax code is so complicated that one needs a professional in order to utilize it to one's full advantage, which he can afford and his secretary cannot. Sounds like a portable POS system, wherein the light client is only used to accept payments, not send them.  Under what conditions would such a crippled client be useful?  You could do exactly the same thing using a remote client, as long as you had real time access to the Internet.   This goes both ways.  When I was a newbie here, I chose to sit back a read for a while before posting anything, and once I did post it wasn't "is Bitcoin a scam"?  That's comparable to seeing a hot chick in a bar and opening with the pickup line, "I guess you don't put out?".  It's pretty much certain to attract an impolite response. Wait, are you in Cuba? Yes, it does look crazy until you understand what the client is actually doing.  Please ignore all of the frustrated 'oldies', but honestly you should have tried to answer your own questions before posting this.  We see this kind of thing every week, and it gets old.That said, "generating" or "mining" doesn't create money, it is a continuous attempt to solve a proof-of-work compuational problem before anyone else does in order to be the first user to verify the next block in the blockchain.  The blocks contain transaction records, and the blockchain is a huge ledger of all the transactions that have occured between cryptographic accounts, ever.  If your computer is the first to solve a block, and that is accepted as a fact by the network, then you are rewarded for your success with 50 newly issued bitcoins.  In 2013, this block reward drops to 25, and continues to half every four years so that the total number of bitcoins in circulation approaches 21 million.  This proof-of-work combined with a massive, collective and distributed ledger is how Bitcoin can be both distributed without any single point of failure and still prevent double spending of digital funds. "Is Bitcoin a scam?"Yes.  So send me all your bitcoins, and you may leave unharmed. There are some singular miners that you can't undercut.  I don't really understand why I have to keep pointing this out, but much mining occurs in the tiny efficienty type flats of young gaming geeks.  Who live in tiny flats with only electro-resistive heating, and would buy an high end graphics card anyway, most of whom already had one before learning anything about Bitcoin.  This may not be your situation, but there are certainly people who do live in such a situation, and there is no professional mining setup that can drive these guys out of the mining business.  I'd have thought that the market experiences with GNU/Linux and other open source software would have long proven that for-profit companies cannot compete with geeks who don't expect to make a profit.And when the heat demand for those guys drops off, then the heat demand for their peers in the Southern Hemisphere will go up.
Yes, I have.  Considered getting a set put on my roof.  With government subsidies and a purchasing contract from an Ohio power company, ROI was just over 7 years.  Without the subsidies, ROI would have exceeded the average life expectancy of the panels themselves.  Of course, I wasn't considering them for their investment value, but more for their ability to limit my own family's 'detrimental reliance' on the electric grid. Plastic casino chip like tokens would work well too, and could use RFID tags inbedded into the plastic to hold the public key.  And even the private key could be micro-etched onto a thin piece of metal imbedded into the plastic, so that the holder of the plastic token could tear it apart to get at the private key. I can't find any details about Bitcoin on the Shopkeep.com website.  Anyone have a link to where this came from? It's even worse than that.  Sex offender laws are so broad, that there are people that are on the lifetime registry lists for having sex with their legal spouses, for "mooning" and for having 'Sweet 16-Happy Birthday' sex with their 15 year old girlfriend only 10 days younger.  I almost got my nephew labeled as a sex offender, because at age 11 he pulled my daughter's pants down in an argument.  Not as any kind of sexual thing, but to tick her off.  She was four at the time.  My wife and I called some childcare 'hotline' for advice on how to deal with the issue, because it wasn't the first time that he had used this tactic to run her off.  The operator told us that if he was 12, he would have been obligated under law to report our nephew as a potential sex offender, which would have certainly caused a visit from Social Services.And, of course, it doesn't matter what kind of crime that you have been accused of, if you are on a sex offender list you are automaticly assumed to be a child predator by the general public. Not even a block, but only one bitcoin address keypair.  The block as a whole does not use a unified cryptographic scheme. This is a really good idea, and would be a great way to measure velocity. That's not entirely true, as a quantum computer requires a qubit for each encryption bit, but it's true enough.  Still, if quantum computers ever become a realistic threat to Bitcoin, then online commerce and electronic banking will already have been laid bare. If online wallet sites similar to Mybitcoin were to collude to attack the system this way, what happens to them once the depositors get wind of it?What would an online Bitcoin bank run look like?  And why wouldn't the threat of same limit collusion to start with? For the time being, yes. For that rate, you could be my next door neighbor and I would mow it myself. Who would that be, and under what charge? You assume there would be better antibiotics, but in my opinion you are more likely to just end up with a lot of academic researchers chasing grants, not producing useful research.  The most likely outcomes of government managed scientific research is either focused towards developing more effective ways to kill brown people or an accidental viagra, which then gets buried in paperwork only to be rediscovered by some paper-miner in two decades and bought up by a private company anyway. Only that the merkle tree is not in the header so that the tree can be 'pruned' of long spent transactions, until there is nothing left but the 80 byte header.  If the merkle tree itself were included in the header, then the header would not only be potentially significantly larger, but of a variable length.  We do not want a variable length because we do not want to introduce a condition that it becomes advantageous for a mining client to ignore a transaction; because it would make it's hashing more difficult compared to another client that simply ignored all transactions racing for the block reward. The problem that I see with this is that this system just moves the wallet.dat security problem from a machine that the end user can control to one that he cannot. I can't say for sure, as it's been years since I've read either book, but I might be getting Objectivism confused with Agorism in this manner.  Nonetheless, the is certainly no way that Ayn Rand ever got back from SS as much as she was compelled to contribute.  Getting back as much or more (adjusted for inflation) involves either an exceptionally long life, permanent disability by mid-life, or some other statisticly unlikely scenario. Try asking them, but I was under the impression that they are agorists, and as such could not abide by vendors using their site that are known to steal the property of others in order to sell it on their website.  Being against victimless laws that prohibt the free trade of particular plant products, sexual relations or other contraband is not the same as being against true crime. NZ is good.  Urban is probably good.  You might want to consider setting up a mesh node filtered for only Bitcoin traffic, and annouce in the area that you are doing so.  If users join the mesh, bitcoin traffic to the outside world can be shared (if you're careful about it) and most of the traffic that your personal node would see would be coming across the mesh.  The trick is to force your local client to only permit one or two connections from the ISP and the rest from the mesh, and as long as others agree to do the same and don't freeload (not a given), your own personal chargeable traffic from Bitcoin should be managable. You should throttle the ISP Bitcoin traffic anyway, down to modem speeds; or set it up to only connect to ISP side nodes at particular times of the day.  In the future if you have a portable client on a smartphone, set it up so that it only connects to the mesh clients via wifi and never over the cell network.Better yet, try to convince your ISP to set up a node of it's own that you could connect to without charges.  If traffic beyond your ISP is what is getting you charges, they might be willing to do this because such a local node can function well as a caching gateway, permitting the ISP to block outbound Bitcoin connections without actually interfering with the Bitcoin network.  As the Bitcoin network grows, I have no doubt that ISP's are going to want to control bandwidth consumption.Of course, I have no idea how receptive they might be to the idea, but it's worth an email. Do you mind telling us the nation in question?  I might have a solution for you to pursue, depending on where in the world you are.  And are you an urban dweller? What kind of fork?  If you mean a network split, a seperate 'watchdog' process can detect when the intervel between blocks suddenly doubles, and issue a warning.  Each successive block that is over 80% longer than the prior average increases the certainty that a network split has occurred, and that you are likely on the wrong side of it.  If you are on the majority side, it doesn't really matter.If you mean a blockchain split, then such a event can be detected by the clients because some of the clients will receive two valid blocks, and has to keep both until the next block is created, which then breaks the tie by being built off of one or the other.  The loser is discarded. Not unless he freely sold his kidney to you.
That is regrettable. I think that, since MtGox is a website in Japan these days, the most that the US FBI can do in the short term is steal the domain name.  DNS lookup says that the IP address is 69.64.54.59, but direct use of that address does not lead to MtGox.   When did it go underground?  It was pretty far underground from the start. My daughter likes pretty rocks, any photos?EDIT: Nevermind, I saw the site. Oh, that kind of quartz crystals.I was thinking that you were offering radio parts. I'm on another forum, where this exact concept came up.  The idea was presented in the context of a human future similar to Serenity wherein a true free market exists on the leading edge of an ever expanding front of human occupation.  The theory being that those who seek freedom are always leaving the comforts of society and venturing outward to found new colonies, and for several generations those new colonies function as anarchist societies in a similar vein to the "Wild West" Western territories of the US before they were states; but eventually as the population grows on the colony, the society becomes ever more statist until those who seek freedom are driven outward in search of a new colony. Not for long.  IRC is not a critical aspect of the system.  IT's not even part of the protocol, and is only used as a peer discovery method that is not exclusive. So define property without exclusivity of use and without exclusivity of resource, and you might be able to define it such that the term is can both refer to historical examples of property and IP. This is true, but what the disconnect here is what defines property. This is not an argument in favor of copyrights.  Your opinions on the quality of products are irrelevent. Yes.Okay?  I don't know if it's okay.  As a generality, it might be immoral and an unethical business practice; but what if that product was a cure for AIDS but the same company that sold it at an inflated price did so while selling a much cheaper maintaince drug?  I could think of any number of strawmen to burn here, but the point is not whether it's okay to intentionally compete with an inventor by reverse engineering their work.  The point is that it's not ethical to advocate for the use of force to punish said unethical behaviour.  You can take steps to prevent your trade secrets from being stolen, including using force against anyone who tresspasses to that end, but once the cat is out of the bag, use or advocacy of force to punish said person is easily as wrong as the original "crime".  I wouldn't do it, nor would I support anyone that I knew did it, but nor would I support the original inventor if he decided to hire a group of thugs to tear down his competitors' factories.The "right to copy" is not a right, but a privilage, and as such cannot be seperated from the current government/corporate collusion. It seems that MtGox was sold to a person living in Japan, who has had limited contact since the tsunami.  MtGox has apparently been mostly running on auto-pilot since the tsunami.  No advice as to how you should proceed. That's fairly normal.  The client downloads old blocks in groups of up to 500 at a time, and then proceeds to hash-check all of them before moving onto the next set. Why? Yes, it's theft.  But only because 1) the data is his and he made no attempt to publish it, so by default he intended to keep it; and 2) the wallet.dat file has only one function, and therefore copying it without the owner's consent can have only one motive.  I.E. to spend another person's funds.I don't think that this is comparable to "intellectual property" because the core point of copyrights and such is to maintain a market advantage over other publishers, not to protect secrets. That's as good an idea as any, but it still doesn't solve the problem with regard to the state enforcement of a monopoly. It was never a violation of objectivism to take advantage of the system that exists. I don't disagree, but the question becomes "when?"  Austrian economists have been predicting this for decades, and they are right, but all that have provided a time frame have been wrong.No, I have not. You should probably go ahead and withdraw your investements then, since generics are a well established industry.  And since the only thing that prevents this 'pirate' industry from undercutting the market price of any drug in existance is an international network of government enforced monopolies; should any of these major governments fail and be replaced with anything else, none are likely to be too concerned with enforcement of patent laws for a number of years. After all, many of the world's most successful financial institutions have their roots in various black or grey markets.  Bitcoin certainly isn't the first system to depend upon nefarious activities in it's infancy. I take a dim view of the idea that a barrel of oil is going to ever hit $10 anytime soon.  Not that I don't somewhat agree with their analysis, but if such massive deflation occurs (this would be roughly a 10x increase in US FRN trade value, which almost certainly requires an equal drop in the monetary base) it's not going to be occurring in a sudden manner unless some very unlikely events occur.  Such as an asteroid impact takes out the entire credit system of the US while leaving the US federal government largely intact.  In a slower deflationary perioid, as we were in between 2008 & 2009, a deflationary contraction of credit can (and was) be largely balanced out by the increase of the monetary base (printing, electronic creation, quanitative easing, etc) so that the consuming public doesn't really see a great deal of changes of prices.  This creates other inbalances, which eventually can lead to an inflationary period (which we have been in since at least Jan of this year).That said, hyperinflation simply isn't in the cards, unless the US federal government actually ceases to exist.  Hyperinflation is, always and everywhere, a political event not an economic one.  Since the House of Reps control fiscal policy, and at present the Federal Reserve still controls monetary policy, and the House is presently dominated by fiscal conservatives; a political trigger for hyperinflation would truly be a black swan.
Actually, more likely the other way around.  Said dodgy tool manufactures originaly sold vastly more AS toolsets than Metric sets, although that's likely no longer so.You're quite welcome. The client does not require access to IRC to bootstrap, it's just quicker.  The clients communicate directly with one another in a peer-to-peer fashion, and do not require IRC or any other client-server protocol to act as a network intermediary. Speak for yourself.  I'm not about to sell the silver that I presently own, but hedging in Bitcoin is much easier than trudging down to the local dealer to buy more metal.  That and I also get the possible benefit of speculative gain.  Speculation isn't an exclusive motive. Not anymore.  Gavin Andresen is the lead programmer on the main client.Less than a day, I believe.  Both started sometime in Jan of 2009, but the exact details are available on the wiki.No, and it's pretty obvious that his machine wasn't particularly powerful, as in the very beginning (looking at the charts from blockexployer) it would take hours between blocks in the very beginning even at the minimum difficulty of 1.  It didn't take long at all before others were jumping into the game and mining alongside of Satoshi.  For perspective, the difficulty is a ratio metric, and the currenty difficulty of 92,348 means that the current "target" is roughly 92,348 times more computationally intensive than the minimum.  I have no doubt that Satoshi mined a large number of coins, but there is no way to know if he still has them. I guess I'm not being clear.  Every tape measure that I've seen in the US has both inches and cm.  When I say 'tooling' I'm not refering to measuring devices, but to actual machine tools designed and built with the intent to be used with a particular part, in turn designed to fit withing a particular system of measurement.  A common example is a socket wrench set.He's not talking about conversion from AS to Metric, but about the division of an inch into hundredths.  At least that is what I thought that he was talking about.Inches are normally shown divided into eighths on a common ruler, which is simply three halvings.  Furthur precision is gained by continuing this process; one-sixteenth, one thirty-secondth, one sixty-fourth, and so on.  The precision is base 2 and infinite.  I've not seen a tweevlth used on any such measuring device within my career.  I'm not saying that they don't exist, but they are not really an American Standard issue, perhaps a throwback to British Imperial? Why is this?  Are you on a wireless ISP plan?  Or do you herald from a nation with poor access in general? Bitcoin's transactions confirmations are relatively fast, actually.  The banks and credit card companies maintain the illusion of instant transaction processing by simply making an advance guess on the likelyhood that your transaction isn't fraudulent, but then takes days to confirm.  Bitcoin could use a similar method to have instant transactions as well, but doesn't necessarily need such a method.This shows that, at present, there is no gain to adding voluntary transaction fees.  It is strange that your transactions took so long to process.  Was your client connected to the Bitcoin network at the time?There is no way to garantee that any particular transaction will be in the next block.At present, this is an accurate understanding.The protocol includes a couple differnet methods of mitigating the expansion of the blockchain, none of which are presently implemented.Traffic is quite open, and easily identified or blocked.  However, there are other methods of hiding the traffic, such as TOR, I2P or just a SSH tunnel. Wait, are you saying MtGox is hosted in Japan?  I though that the founder was from New York State. Among other things, yes.  Almost being the operative word.  I know for a fact that not all metric tool manufacturers stick with mm, and not all of them are up front about it.  Chinese tool manufacturers are particularly bad about this, in addition to sloppy fit in general, but they also happen to be the cheapest toolmakers in the world.  In my experience, Chinese tools following the American Standard aren't as bad about fit, but that might just be me.I can imagine why.  This can only be because he has experienced the order of magnitude error that can occur because of this.Well, there is no such thing as 'common' sizes smaller than a mm in any context, but yes.  The procession of dimminishing sizes is very orderly, and can be understood intuitively to anyone that has experience with the larger tools that use fractions of an ich.That pretty much says it all, right there. Yes, but only in an engineering context, using a micrometer.  Even then, the workmen tend to object to decimal fractions, and insist on plans using halving fractions.  Even tool/die makers hate using decimal fractions, and they almost have to because if modern machinery isn't made in Germany, it's designed there and made in Japan. I agree.  Also, there remains no Japanese translation of the primary documents, nor of the main Bitcoin webpage. I'm not going to research it for you, but he ran the first demostration model on hemp oil, and marketed the engine as a means for third world nations to become less dependent upon foreign energy companies.  Try Google, I hear it's pretty good at this kind of thing.I think that you are getting slim data out of your rumors.  The mostly likely cause of his disappearance was the German government (his own) as it was apparent that he was marketing his engine to the British navy in the leadup to the first world war.  The German navy already had the tech, and likely desired to keep the advantage.  He boarded a ferry to cross the English channel, and never disembarked, and his body was never found. Length is an exception to the 'generally halving' rule, which is why I didn't include it.  It could stand to be fixed, and yes, most such measurements are mixed.  However, fine measurements are always measured in fractions of an inch (tool sizes for example) and tend to be significantly more precise and easier to think about than metric units, which can be rated in cm or mm and often do not mark which upon the tool. I think that it depends upon the definition of conservative and liberal, which means differnet things to different people.  I would guess that Gavin's intended the term conservative to be a synonym for "luddite" or "too old to understand the interwebs".  It exposes a bias in Gavin, if I am correct, but not a fault per se.  Personally, I don't think that Bitcoin has political connotations beyond what individuals attribute to it.  It neither favors the status quo, or any particular economic system.  It simply is, and it's attributes lend it well to being disruptive of the status quo only because it currently isn't included.  If the 'powers that be' can adapt, Bitcoin will change little beyond the efficiency of p2p exchanges and online commerce.That said, history has shown that the status quo is usually too deeply entrenched into it's own mythologies to adapt; and usually gets replaced altogether as a result. That will prove true, eventually.  In the meantime, 'normalcy bias' limits the logical conclusions here.What you are discribing is "decoupling", and might yet happen, but there is little evidence that it's going to happen in the next several years.  As it is, China's industrial base is strongly tuned to the manufacture of products intended for export, and it's no small thing to retool such an industrial base to serve a completely different culture.Again, normalcy bias prevails.  It's been a bomb for decades, and yet it is inarguable that the Chinese people are overall better off today than if they had simply never started working for the Western nations in this capacity.  The risk is real, but the possibility that their is still much more gain to be had is also real.  Like playing Russian Roulette and you are on the fourth pull; sure it's dangerous, but there are still two more chambers left.Yes, there are certainly signs that the Chinese are hedging against a future wherein the US FRN is no longer a trusted reserve currency.  This does no mean that they are willing to be the first one's to take the leap. In the course of my life I've had to use both systems quite extensively.  Base 10 and base 2 are great with regard to engineering and computers.  Yet they, at best, add nothing to the (general) halving of measurements that American Standard uses, and at worst make thinking in such metrics more difficult and therefore more prone to error.  This has nothing to do with Bitcoin, of course, since it's a computerized metric; but think  about it....Even the metric system is based upon entirely arbitrary units, such as the meter, liter and gram.  AS is mostly taking an arbitrary unit and repeatedly halving it.  Some examples...Dollar, half-dollar, quarter, bit (no longer used)  (The dime and nickel were introduced only due to decimalization, the same is generally true in British Pounds)Peck (2 gallons), gallon, half-gallon, quart, pint, half-pint, cup, gill (4 fluid ounces)If you grew up using meters as your primary unit of length, have you ever found yourself thinking in half-meters instead of 50 cm?  For example, measuring a wall of your house with a tape measure, if you need precision you write down meters and centimeters, but then you are really measuring in centimeters.  But if you are just shooting for a general measurement, say for example, judging the area of a flat you intend to rent to see if your funiture will fit, do you think in half meters?For that matter, have you ever thought in half centimeters?What about when you buy petrol?  Sure, the pump measures in liters and hundredths of a liter, but when the pump says 11.51 liters, do you think "eleven and a half liters"?While driving, do you think of a driving distance as km's and meters?  Or do you think, "it's about 3 and a half kilometers to the next turn"?  I'll concede that metric is much more uniform, and there is much to be said for that, but AS is easier to think within. There could be a number of motivations, not the least of which is geek vandalism.  Comparable to a graffettii artist.  Basicly just because one could.  Secretly strike back at the new "Man" in a Bitcoin future.  Seven.  Of nine? It's not a belief that keeps things the way they are.  It's the fear of loss.  Loss of reserve value, loss of the reserves themselves, loss of their social position (civic leaders in control) and ultimately loss of their lives in a revolution.  Every one of these guys would pile on if one major player were to start dumping their reserves, but none of them wants to be the first to take the leap.  China's reserves alone could send the US FRN into massive inflation, but in doing so the Chinese government cuts their own throat.  They know that their populations' recent well being is built upon a house of cards called "international trade" and fear a great "chinese recall election" if they are seen as even remotely connected to the fall.  Sticking it to the US isn't a powerful enough motive. Wow.That's so contradictory to evidence I can't even imagine how you arrived here.So, in this theory, how does the character actor at Walt Disney World fit in?
They're probably right. Amen to that, but America the government has actually tried. Iceland.Of all the sovereign nations, Iceland has a highly educated populace, high network access, low electricity costs and high heat needs, a currently weak national currency, and is not (yet) part of the Eurozone (and may never be now).  They also have a small population and therefore an elected government that is very subject to public pressure.If any nation can directly benefit from openly accepting Bitcoin as an international trade medium, it's Iceland. Any closed source client would be prodded and reverse-engineered by the open source community.  Even if this somehow doesn't expose the backdoor controls, any use of code that can be shown to have been taken from the open source community would expose the closed source client to using the copyright laws against them.   This would not be the first time that China had been caught doing such things.In short, I'm not worried about it. Well, no matter how allinvain may feel about it, it's not part of my job here to pass judgement on the accuracy of forum members' statements.  I guess we are going to just have to trust that most forum members will muddle through somehow. Why?  It is the readers' job to vett the accuracy of the posts. Did you run md5 against the package to verify that you have the correct one? Well, that's not true with the US as a whole, but more than half of Utah, by area, is "legally" the property of the Federal government.  This sounds rediculous, but it is so. This is generally true with just about every city.  Those things are illegal in Vegas as well. Wait, do free apps have to pay this fee also? Airlines would be using the least dangerous tech regardless of what consumer protection laws might say.  It tends to be bad press when airlines kill their customers.It's a less than ideal example, but I wasn't the one who brought up CFC's in refrigerators. My house is 2400 square feet, three bedroom, two story 'four square' built in 1919 within one of the largest urban historic districts in the US; with a detached garage and 800 square foot apartment over it, that I bought three years ago for $110,000.  I don't need the apartment income, so I 'rent' it to my younger brother for $410 a month; which just covers the cost of water, sewer, heat, electric, 10Mbps Internet, basic cable and telephone service.Why does everyone always assume that real estate costs where they live are comparable to places that they don't live? What about those governments that choose to help Bitcoin because of the potential threat that it poses to the US $ hegemony?  China doesn't want to see their $3 Trillion in reserves suddenly drop in value, but if they did they could destroy the US$ value in days by simply dumping all of their treasuries upon the market.Iceland, however, would be vastly favored by directly supporting Bitcoin, openly or otherwise.  Bitcoin would be far better for their own small economy than the Euro. Depends upon which side of government that you are talking about, the public side that is honestly serving the public, or the shadow side that desires to continue to control the monetary system. Well, I did oversimplify the situation, but the basic premise is true.  Air cycle refrigerators do not exist because prior regulations into the industry makes research into alternatives unattractive for manufactures.  How much does the risk of getting sideways with some nitwit government oversight board cost?  That seems worthwhile with aircraft, mostly because the risk of a freon leak in a pressurized cabin at 3000 feet could kill your customers.  I doubt that it's worth the risk with consumer devices that usually depend upon profit margins measured in a few dollars each. If it's that smart, then why would it even be noticed by the user?  It should be able to throttle the GPU so that it's running just below full fan heat and stop whenever the screensaver dies. Whoa!  Hold on there!  You're going to have to support that statement, I will not accept it as a given that gas companies overcharge you.  And by what logic do you claim that there is no competition?  And which companies are we talking about, exactly?  The oil companies that pump it out of the ground, transport it from angry & sandy locales, convert it to petrol, transport it to your local station, or sell it to you at the station? Price and difficulty are 'coupled', but I would be inclined to think that price drives difficulty, not the other way around.  Miners can't simply raise prices to cover costs any more than Wal-Mart can, which is to say, only as far as the market will bear. But you do value your dollars in their trade value.  Said another way, you value your dollars in what you can trade it for.  You could be valuing it in the dollars/beer-can metric or the dollars/hooker-blowjob metric or the dollars/pot-ounce metric; but we always value anything as compared to other things, not itself. It's funny that you should mention this because...(wait for it)...they still do!  And it's largely because of government regulations that they do!  Did you know that common air is a refrigerant?  It is....http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air_cycle_machineSo why isn't air cycle refrigeration used for household refrigerators?  Two reasons...1) Air cycle machines were inefficient as compared to the ozone destroying refrigerents banned in the US in 1992, but modern advancements have improved their efficency so that they are competitive with the green(er) (still CFC based, just less destructive) refrigerents used in consumer devices today.And the big reason...2) Air cycle refrigeration is, by definition, and open cycle.  And the same law referred to above also banned the intentional release of any refrigerant into the atmostphere related to the production, use, repair or destruction of a consumer device.So it is against the law to manufacture a refrigerator that uses any open refrigeration cycle, including one of the few modern refrigeration cycles that does not use CFC's!  There's your govenment at work!The airlines get to use open cycle refrigeration because they are not consumer devices!
It's what we deal with everyday, so it's kind of natural.  But you are right, it would be more accurate to value bitcoins in gold. If we are talking about a working card with an asic (or any other method, for that matter) that gets those kind of specs, I'd be willing to depost $50 up front if I was fairly convinced that the offer was for real and the cards were ready for production. Fascism is single party political control over a heavily regulated marketplace.  Okay, you're right, the US is now fascist. Nonsense.  Do libertarians riot?  No, socialists do; and fascists are socialists. I think that might be just your perspectives.  I don't see real people becoming more fascist, just government and media. I can't wait to see it either, but I've actually read the book, and I'd say that the movie is bound to be better.  T the book was okay, but I though it read like a screenplay anyway. Installed fine, and fired up at first, but after inputting the neccessary data, I now get..."Sorry!The application BitCoiner (process net.lwl.bitcoiner) has stopped unexpectedly.  Please try again.(Force Close)"It doesn't seem to matter how many times I try. Charging what the market will bear (before customers switch) is not the hallmark of a monopoly.  In a true monopoly, customers cannot switch.  Once upon a time, this may have been practically true with Microsoft, but it was a temporary monopoly permitted only because of copyright laws.  It's obviously no longer true regardless. I don't have access to IRC at work, care to share? Actually, no.  It's not possible to "counterfit" bitcoins, nor to exceed the designed creation rate.  That's a little oversimplified, but in practice it's impossibleThe blockchain could be overhelmed by any attacker that can outhash the whole of the honest network, and for as long as the attacker is willing to keep it up, the attacker could (under the right conditions) rewrite the most recent block or prevent transactions from being processed.  To rewrite farther back into the blockchain history requires significantly more hashing power than the whole of the honest network.  To rewrite as far back as the 100 block requirement to spend 'new' coins would require orders of magnitude more power than the whole of the honest network.  Which is why the system doesn't let new block rewards be spent until they are 100 blocks deep.  If such an attack were to occur, the most recent blocks might get overwritten and their rewards taken by the attacker, and teh attacker would be able to retake coins that he recently owned and spent; but at least the number of people affected would be limited to very few and the rest of the network would recover without much fuss.  However, anyone with that much hashing power is better off to hash honestly for the future block rewards than try to reverse recent ones to take rewards away from honest miners.  And if this is ever done, the addresses of the attacker would be widely known, because the evidence would be right there in the blockchain. Sure.  But they are just as likely to eat each other, and after I shoot the first one, the survivors are going to be very wary of me.Anyway, why would that be an issue? It is only an assumption that the "mystery miner" is a single person or group.  That's is actually unlikely.  More likely is that what we attribute to intentional action is a statistical outlier, and not any specific event.  Even if it is an event, there may be a trigger causing many different users to jump in at the same time, creating the illusion of a single powerful group.  Perhaps more than one person has already hacked the mining code to track the price/difficulty ratio, and only burn clock cycles if the ratio is above a certain value.  I'm not a coder, but compared to the complexity of the miners themselves, hacking the client to cycle generation on and off based on a simple calculation should be trivial.  I just wish whoever has done it would release their code. I'm using the term in the economic context, not the common usage. That's one way to look at it.  Rent seeking is the pursuit of any market advantage via government influences. Which is one reason I'm not inclined to run out to buy a new GPU.  I'm not a gamer, so have little additional reason to upgrade.  However, if a relatively cheap dedicated mining card is developed, I'd be all over it. How does that affect me? "What about stray dogs?  Are those a negative externality?"I don't understand the question. Yes it does.  Cruel as that might be.  Do I smell straw burning? What about the cost of production of that much ink? Microsoft has 95% of the desktop market, not the software market, nor even the operating system market.  Once upon a time, MS was a market maker in software, but if they were ever really a monopoly it was one founded upon copyrights, which is a government supported monopoly by definition.  Microsoft is still a major player, but is no longer the only market maker.  Linux is the big dog now.  Everyone uses Linux, whether you know it or not.  The vast majority of Internet servers, smartphones and embedded devices (such as Tivo) are Linux devices.Nicotine is, however.  We don't see people knocking over convience stores for a nic-fit, either.
That's just another form of employer/employee relationship.And so is this. If you can think of some way that it wouldn't be futile, then Bitcoin is in trouble. Um, no.  Rent Seeking does not require capital.  Taxation is rent seeking.  Corporations lobbying for subsidies is rent seeking.  Enimnet Domain is rent seeking. Rent seeking is not when a landlord charges rent, that's a contract.Yes, but if parents wish to have their kids educated by others, then those others still need to get paid.  Even homeschooling parents need to earn a living, so if homeschooling interferes with that ability, the kids' education will suffer or their quality of life will suffer, and probably both. The difficulty is a relative metric that tells us how powerful the network hashing power is over a two week period.  The harder the hashing is, the more difficult it becomes for an attacker to overwelm the blockchain by brute force computation.Yes. Then you oppose yourself.  Do you own any tools, or any property whatever?  If you are really a priest, do you own a bible?  Any property that is required to earn a living is, by it's very definition, capital.  Ownership is defined by primary possession, not some government edict on a piece of paper that says someone (or some corporation) owns something.I could, yes.  However, if you are not willing to have an open mind and, at a minimum, read a book; then I'm not willing to waste my time repeating the work of others.Must?  Of course not.  Why would that be a requirement?  Opposing natural laws (of economics or anything else) are achievable so long as those who wish to do so are willing to dedicate resources to that end.  It's comparable to sailing up river.  Sure, it can be done; but it's naturally easier to sail down river.I wasn't claiming that either.  I said that the political structures are not capitalist.  Those who participate in the political structures are capitalists in the same manner that you are, but exist within a system that is most demostratablely anti-capitalist.You really don't know of what you speak.That's called "rent seeking", and is not capitalism.  But it can't.  The educators must make a living.  Said another way, they must make a profit, otherwise they will have to find some other way to eat.  It's unavoidable.There is no such thing, and there never has been. See above.There, I fixed that for you. That's a hard one to answer, but the first question would be, how much is enough? Based on who's determination of value?  Yours? Please keep this on testnet. We were not discussing the code, but the protocol. Outstanding!  I stand corrected. Not strictly correct.  Anarchism is an anti-state philosophy, not necessarily anti authoritarian.  After all, Father, what is the ultimate authority, if not God?"You keep using that word, but I don't think in means what you think it means..."In practice, perhaps.  Not in ideology.  The problem that persists with your conversations is that the word "capitalism" is different for different people.  What you rail against is actually corporatism.  Capitalism is not an ideology, but a definable set of natural economic laws.  Capitalism exists in every human society, whether the people involved wish to acknowledge it or not.  In places where capitalism is respected, societies prosper in general.  There are some downsides to capitalism, but overall it is always best to go along with nature rather than fight it.  Really Father, you should actually read some of the recommended reading on the subject that has been presented already.  I particularly recommend Economics in One Lesson.Case in point, political structures are, by definition, not capitalist structures.  The political rulers in the UK are not capitalists.  The same is true for every other nation on Earth.  There is no such thing as a capitalist nation, and there cannot be.Why would it make sense?  Education has always been a for-profit, vocational venture.  If they were raised to understand the natural laws of God, then yes, we can.  Probably we should not. Okay, then who are you?  Are you a professor?  Where are you published?  And in what way have you publicly supported Bitcoin? I, for one, never assumed that until after I understood the system, and realized it's elegance.  I seriously doubt that anyone can come up with a better system. It's not that no one will mine, it's that only those who are already vested, and those who have particularly favorable electric rates, will continue to mine.  If every marginal miner stopped mining as soon as it was economicly unfavorable for them to do so, the difficulty would stagnate at that level until something changed.  The value of the bitcoin could go up, which would make mining profitable again at the same difficulty level; or the difficulty level could go down.  This is how the balance is created.  As it is, there is already evidence that balance has been found, as the difficulty appears to track the 6 weeks rolling average price closely.  Said another way, as the price goes up, more miners join the network; and as the price drops, the most marginal miners drop out first. Sure...www.PayPal.com I can't see this. The defining characteristic is this...If you refuse to pay the gated communities fee, what happens?If, at any point, you risk physical harm done to you by officials of the gated community, or incarceration, then the gated community is a government and the fee a tax.If, instead, everyone you know simply asks you to contribute or leave, then it isn't.  Consent implies the practical ability to withdraw consent, in which case the community can withdraw the benefits of consent.  The worst form of punishment that a non-state could impose upon you is to walk you to the front gate, and insist that you pay your dues if you desire to re-enter.  This is exactly how it works if you don't pay your condo fee in a secured urban condo building.  Anyone who enters the building does so with the invitation of a member in good standing, whether the person is a vistor, a family member or the dues paying member himself.  Even the employees of the building manager doesn't enter without the implict invitation of the condo association. By any metric, governments are the largest polluters.  Yet they are universally exempt from damage claims. Please define "fair" in this context. I am.  I have one of those and I never even though to attempt it.
Anyone who is buying an entire truck load is willing to wait 10 minutes. Yes, but this was the kind of thing that I was thinking of...http://www.sustainabletable.org/shop/csa/...except that CSA's are an ongoing agreement.  Such a farmer could pre-sell half of his crop via a weekly CSA agreement, an additional 30% on an ad-hoc basis on the website two days before the Farmer's Market, and any other marketable crops at teh farmer's market itself.  In this way, the farmer gets the advantages of futures support without the futures, and sells most of his weekly product before he even picks it.  The Farmer's Market trip then becomes mostly an active advertisment for the service as well as a chance to unload the remainder of his product. In the modern world, nothing.  That is unless someone intends to settle Antartica. Certainly not, but the ararchists in Europe are not true anarchists.  They are not opposed to idea of a state, just the one that exists.  Most of those that are rioting over education costs are actually socialists, because that is the kind of state that most of them think that they would want to form after the current one fails.Honestly, the individual who advocates for anarchy as an end is a very rare creature, even in the US.   Local websites that function as the farmers' market are a great idea.  No need to get up early on Saturday to drive to a parking lot full of vendors in hopes of getting fresh tomatos before they are all gone.  A vendor could simply put up on Thursday 80% of his expected pick for Friday, to be delivered to an agreed central location at noon on Saturday.  If his pick is greater than expected, then people could still offer to buy more once they arrive. If you could actually know this to be so, then either you are the dealer or the system doesn't work. There is no way to know. Any miners are good for the community, because the point of it all is to get the maximum cryptographic security possible for the blockchain for the lowest cost possible.  These two contradictory goals result in the balance that the difficulty reflects, and therefore the difficulty always reflects the greatest amount of security that the network is collectively willing to pay for.  Big miners simply do the heavy lifting because they have found some way to gain efficiency slightly by economy of scale.  If those large miners didn't exist, the difficulty would most certainly be lower, and therefore the blockchain more suseptable to takeover by overwelming computational force. No, the state subsidies the costs of higher education in Britain, and they were protesting austerity plans that would have reduced the state's percentage of support.  Thereby increasing the cost borne by the students.   Although I agree it would be wonderful if this were real, I have to point out that we cannot see the back of his collar in the floating photo.  If I were to make a hoax website, I'd start with some obscure genius character that the Western world would not have heard of, and putting him into the former Soviet bloc is a great start.  And then photos like this, taken so that the reader's eyes are pulled away from the only part of the photo that a support cable could be seen and making certain that any such cable is not in the camera's view anyway.  Even if it were in view, such a photo could still be faked today using a few of those clear high-test fishing lines. This is already taken care of.  The IRC channel is no longer critical for bootstrapping, as the vanilla client has a built-in list of persistent node addresses to try if it cannot reach IRC, and the network permits node discovery.  If you block IRC and try it, you will find that bootstrapping takes much longer, but it does not fail. It helps in the sense that "many copies keep data safe" in the event of a direct blockchain attack, such as a virus moving across the Internet attacking Windows machines, but not Linux machines, or vis-versa.A modified client that can be triggered to turn on generations automaticly by some defined signal might be a good modification to have. I'm okay with this.  I would agree that calling it "generate coins" gives the user the wrong idea.  "Support Network" or "Donate CPU Cycles" would be a better option, and it should be buried deeper into the menu and not on the main GUI screen by default.  But I do think that it should remain on the vanilla client. Care to offer an alternative? And you make this conclusion, how? Ask me what, exactly?  Do you think that all the native american tribes got rolled? Didn't a remote client for Android already exist?  I thought someone had that one licked back in July. Ironicly, I'm on your side in this debate.  However, I feel the need to point out that the United States is not a democracy, it's a federated republic.  That may seem like semantics, but it's not.  The framers considered democracy carefully, and intentionally rejected it as a model to be emulated; precisely because of the ills of mob rule.  As far as I know, there is no true democracy at any nation-state level anywhere in the world. In part, because it's no more scalable than communism.  Both can work very well at the size of a small town or large church, but both break down at larger member sizes.  The effective limit on any parlimentary democracy making a decision is roughly 800 voting members, and anything over 500 is in gridlock territory.A democracy is one citizen, one vote.  The US doesn't even have a direct vote on the President's office, much less the decisions of Congress. I agree with this statement on principle, but this is exactly why I consider anarchy an unsustainable political condition.  Even if you could convince the majority of the people that they do not need the state, which is already true in reality; the need for the collective use of force will shortly present itself again due to the minority of sociopaths that will take advantage of the absence of a state.  Nor are the odds that an anarcy will beget a peaceful republic particularly favorable, as the vast majority of anarchies result in a more authoritarian state rising up to gain control.Personally, I don't consider the possible gains worth the risk.  At least not until there is some place to escape towards.  And if there were, those who seek freedom would desire to move to the escape society in order to experience freedom in their own lifetimes; rather than work within their own society for the future chance at freedom.  This is why we have seen so much immigration towards Western societies over the past 30 years. In the long run, it doesn't matter much how any of us here might imagine the "optimal end-game" might look like.  Reality doesn't care what we might think, but it does care about economics.  If pool mining is the most efficient way of doing things, then it is here to stay and will dominate forevermore.  But it's not the most efficient way of doing things, because pool mining must charge fees to cover group expenses as well as the risk of a fraudulent exploit of the system.  So pool mining will only appeal to those willing to lose those small amounts for non-economic reasons.  Even if pools dominate in the future, their continuing existence depends on satisfying their contributers, and so they really don't have any more control over the system than anyone else.  For as soon as the contributers get a credible report that they are being used to manipulate the network, or for any other underhanded activity, those contributers will simply stop contributing.  Some will mine alone, some will join other pools, and some will simply quit; but the power available to a pool operator will drop to zero shortly after it is misused only once.I can't foresee myself joining any pool, ever.  Mostly because; if a malicious computer geek wanted to steal the bitcoin wallet.dat files from a lot of people all at once, how would he build up his target group?  Answer: start or steal a pool, and your target demographic will simply tell you who they are.
Then it's probably 50 KB, I know that it's not much.I believe that the fee structure is a condition of validity, but miners are not compelled to include free transactions at all.  In a future that there are enough paying transactions to max out the total blockspace, free transactions are likely to be ignored my profit minded miners.  Although there will likely be some miners that always include free transactions on ideological grounds, there is no way to know if free transactions will continue to be processed on any reasonable timescale.Probably, but the 1 meg hard limit was an arbitrary rule included early on as a method to limit harm in the event of a 'transaction flood' spam-type attack.  It was never intended to remain in effect, and to my knowledge, could be removed without effect now that the transaction priority score rules and the minimum transfer fee rule are effective.  As far as I know, we have never even come close to the 1 meg hard limit anyway.   The number of miners do not affect the block rate in the long term, because the system adjusts to changes in the network's total hashing power every 2016 blocks, or about two weeks.  However, within that two week window, it is expected that increasing transaction fees during peak periods will eventually create an "elastic" processing rate by drawing in miners who are marginal with just the block reward.  The idea being that during the high transaction periods, the accumulation of fees that are seen unprocessed on the network will trigger automatic generation to try to process those fee paying transactions, and the average time between blocks will drop.  The flipside being that on the weekends, and the off periods of the major Bitcoin trading areas, will end up having an average time between blocks longer than 10 minutes to compensate.In short, "will there be enough miners?" is not an irrelevant question, even outside of the context of security.  However, the answer is always "yes" because the ebb and flow of the transactions and their average fees will create a fast moving market that will adapt to the conditions consistently. It's not limited by number of transactions, but by individual and collective size in kilobytes.  I can't remember the exact details, but I'm pretty sure that the total free transactions are limited to 25 KB and then fee paying transactions increase the minimum required fee to a maximum hard blocksize limit of one Mb.Up to the artificial scarcity limits mentioned above, yes.Increasing fees attached to the transactions.No. That can be done. Economics.  The altruistic motive to help defend the blockchain, in a crisis or otherwise, cannot continue beyond the willingness or resources of the altruistic individual.  Excepting such a crisis, the userbase willing to mine at an ongoing loss is always going to be a vanishingly small percentage. Are you serious?  More efficient miners are going to be pushed out of the market by a few guys running miners on old laptops at a loss?Honestly, Theymos; do you make up b.s. for fun? It does help, simply because they could find a block.  Like raindrops form a river, every little contribution strengthens the blockchain a little.  If we look at it like you are, then we should stop all this other wasteful searching and just look in the last place we would have! And merchant law. http://whiskeyandgunpowder.com/currency-controls-and-the-war-on-money/ No, it won't. No.  Cityhash is not a secure hash, as I understand it.  The hashing function must be securely irreversible. I does help the network, but whether it's worthwhile is up to you.  As far as efficiency, a laptop cpu is going to be terrible. There already is, to some extent, as the signing and hashing process involved in sending a transaction does put some weight on the sending cpu.  More would be a burden for collective wallet systems like mybitcoin. See the quote above yours.  That is what I was responding to. By "state" I mean any collection of people that form a collective form of security for themselves, and either offer or force others to contribute resources to that security.  It may, or may not, be based upon geography; and may or may not be coerced.  So I would consider a phyle to be a state, even if citizenship is voluntary and services are not dependent upon a citizen's geographical location.As for considering it necessary, I don't consider it necessary.  I believe that others will consider it necessary, for protection against threats both real and imagined.I addressed that comment directly towards the prior post that suggested that an anarchist society consisting of members who were all morally opposed to the use of force could exist.  Basicly, I believe that this is a contradiction, for no other fact than that sociopaths willing to use violence exist; and therefore such a society could never arise in the first place.I'm saying that most people are actually indifferent to the state, and very few people are actually dependent upon the state as a matter of practicality.  These people would adapt to the disappearance of the state better than the average statist primarily because the average anarchist is not a threat to a dying state, and therefore will be much better able to stay out of the mad arm of the state.  Also, in part, because most anarchists that I know believe in forming a stateless society rather than simply allow one to evolve naturally, and so (by my own definition above) are really intent upon co-opting the state, not abolishing it.EDIT:  I ment tht the average statist is not a threat to a dying state Only if the pro-rapists in the argument were the pacifistic anarchists.Which, BTW, is pretty much the Brady Campaign's argument against the licensing of firearms for young women; that since rapists exist, the presence of a firearm only increases the odds of death.To which I would respond, damn right it does. Well, I use the term "state" a bit more generally than that, but would be open to the evidence that such a non-state society could actually exist, and that a path of change to that end could exist.  I've read much, and seen much, that supporters of such a society have presented; and have yet to see an argument that I couldn't undermine.  And if I can undermine the theory, a sociopath could undermine the reality for fun and profit.This is the case, it's just that very few people realize that it's the case. What some people would call something is irrelevent.  Some people would call Mormanism a sect.  Some people would call a Buddist a godless heretic.  Some people would call what you are doing here in this tread, trolling.All of those people have a higher claim that they are correct than you have to claim that you know what I should believe, based upon what you believe about the proper definition of a word. You didn't read the thread, did you?  I wasn't saying that other methods didn't exist, nor did I make any comments about the levels of risks.  All that I did was comment that glass is an effective vapor barrier to the smell that drug dogs are trained to locate. And until there are no others who seek authority over others, or are otherwise willing to use violence to achieve a political end, the above society remains impossible.  And that, right there, is why I am not an anarchist.  Not because I don't believe that 99.9% of the human race can co-exist in an entirely peaceful manner sans Big Brother, but because the remaining 0.1% will refuse to comply.Yes, exactly.  The reason for this is that the majority of the population are already functioning peacefully in society regardless of the nature of the state; and would, therefore, readily adapt to the absence of the state.  Their own political viewpoints concerning the utility of the state notwithstanding. Who is being paranoid?  If you were in this business, wouldn't you consider intelligent steps to avoid detection a prudent use of resources?
Perhaps only mining companies will have their clients set to run as full nodes; but even if end users don't want their client running in full node mode, doesn't conclude that it won't have the capacity to do so at the user's will.  Those projections are highly speculative anyway, and depend upon the dual assumption that Bitcoin grows to nation-state-economy levels while never developing parrallel systems to mitigate traffic along the way.  Large assumptions, particularly since mitigating systems have already been considered by this forum. It only took 3% of the population to fight the Revolutionary War and defeat the British Army.  Anyone who believes that theft and violence is incompatible with their beliefs must also be willing to use violence in kind in order to prevent same.  Anyone who believes that violence have never solved anything isn't a student of history.That said, my own experiences with anyone who is willing to self-identify as any form of anarchist is anti-this-state, not necessarily anti-state.  The vast majority of whom wouldn't know how to act in a real condition of anarchy, while the majority of the remainder of the population probably would.  The sudden absence of the state is only dangerous because of the kind of people that don't have the will or capacity to govern themselves.  Because belief is all there is.  No matter how certain I may or may not be about my own perspectives, it is impossible for me to prove (even to myself) that I'm correct so long as I live.  Likewise, you cannot prove that you are not in the Matrix.  This is true for anyone.  Just because I state my beliefs, doesn't mean that I have any significant doubts about them.I can't see images, BTW. Outstanding work. A gnostic is a gnostic because he believes that the details are important, and therefore seeks the knowledge of those details.  It does not imply that he already has said knowledge.An agnostic will refer to himself as agnostic, not simply because he doesn't know the answer, but because he has come to believe that there is no answer.An incorrect interpretation. That's funny!  Poor bastard. That's false.  And much like a Catholic trying to tell a Baptist what his preacher believes. Stop and read what you just wrote, and the try to tell me what you think might be the differences between "I believe" and "I know" to a gnostic. What can I say?  This is serious business. Glass will though.  A proper mason jar can defeat a drug dog, so long as the seal is proper, the top tight (and made of metal, not plastic) and there are no hairline cracks in the glass. Obviously you have never actually tried this, because the result is some crappy product.  It's the female flower bud the produces the majority of the THC, and production dies if a male plant is nearby and the females are pollinated.  And growing outdoors means that plants are subject to being eaten, and there are a surprising numbers of creatures that really like to eat mj, from bugs to rabbits to deer.  To have any success at all, females need to be isolated and protected, which means "cultivation" in any practical sense. Unless you are actively generating, then an end user only needs occasional access to the internet.  Or to be precise, occasional access to another client with greater access to other clients.  An end user doesn't need live access to the Internet to spend his already confirmed coins.  At present, only the receiver needs live access to the Bitcoin network in any given trade, so long as the two parties' devices have some digital method of communicating otherwise, (i.e. Dash7, Near-field or ad-hoc wifi) and only if he has need for independent confirmation that a valid transaction has just occurred.  IRL, the vast majority of cash in person transactions do not need this level of certainty to happen as it is today.  There is no reason that, in a Bitcoin future, an established shop in Africa couldn't accept a transaction produced by a walk-in customer's smartphone based only upon checking it against his local copy of the blockchain to make certain that said customer owned said coins the last time he updated his blockchain.  The double spend attack is technically difficult on many levels, so unless it were to start to become a common form of fraud in the distant trading posts, a blockchain a day out of date is unlikely to be a problem for the purchase of a coke and a candy bar.  In a future where only 3% of the population uses Bitcoin once or more a week (which would be a dramatic success) a continuous digital broadcast of the blockchain, via sat downlink or shortwave data undercarrier methods (i.e. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Radio_Mondiale) is downright likely in places where Internet access is rare or insufficient, and not out of the question even in North America.  Imagine if XM radio were to commit one channel to a continuous feed of the blockchain.Even that level of Bitcoin infrastructure might not be necessary if Dash7 radios were to become as common as wifi radios on smartphones, because of the nature of Dash7, an aware Bitcoin client could (and therefore would) mesh with most of the other Dash7 devices within a max kilometer radius, trading blocks and transactions in an open and dynamic network.  A network dynamic enough that nodes move around a cityscape throughout the course of a day, constantly trading said packets whenever more recent data is discovered.  I don't know if you're a radio geek like myself, but to a radio geek, the opprotunistic mesh network that has an average node range of over half a klick, and the potential for wide and deep node penetration, is a surreal concept.  If only 2% of cell phone users in NYC had Dash7 phones, and kept them on all day, there would literally be no place within the city that was beyond the reach of a signal; excepting (maybe) the sewer system and a closed bank vault.  One would literally have to be standing in a faraday cage to not be able to see at least one other Dash7 node with an average radius of half a click, and there is great likelyhood that a well made Dash7 node would do far better than half a klick.  Network saturation is a different issue, of course; since Dash7 is limited to about 200kbps sustained transfer rate. I'm not a 'type', not one that has a name that you are likely to know, anyway.I'm an old Earth evolutionary creationist.  Which means that I think that the Earth is billions of years old, and that natural selection is one method by which God creates.  Perhaps one out of many, yet unknown, ongoing or former processes.I believe that reincarnation is possible, and may be probable.  I think that the "born again" verses in the gospel refer directly to this.  I don't believe that this is intended as a punishment, so much as an educational tool. I believe that hell exists, but it is reserved for for the unredeemable. I do not believe in the 'doctrine of divine preservation', and judge each bible text (canonical or otherwise) independently upon it's own merits.I do believe in free will, and believe that God has rules that functionally prohibit there to be proof for or against the existence of a spiritual component to the universe.  For if proof exists, then there is no real freedom to deny the result.I believe that some form of higher order spiritual beings do exist, let's call them angels for reference, that know and abide by the rules of God, or violate them at their own peril.  But I also believe that they have free will as well, but largely function as God's agents.  I will not speculate as to their origin or nature.I believe that it's part of human nature to desire personal freedom in every aspect of it that we can pursue, and the ambition towards greater power over other men is a perversion of this aspect of human nature.I also believe that the pursuit of knowledge is part of human nature, and it's the relentless pursuit of knowledge of creation (gnosis, literally in greek) that draws humanity closer to it's own creator; destined to become a higher spiritual being.I believe in the duality of mankind and of creation itself, the "as above, so below" reflecting pool symbolism so common in gnostic documents.  The ying-yang symbolism of eastern cultures illustrate this nature well.I believe that certain books in the canonical bible are written in coded language, and as such cannot be interpreted literally or symbolically.  One such book is Revelations.I believe in the Trinity, i.e. the three (at least, why would there be a limit?) primary 'natures' of God.  This was once a uniquely gnostic doctrine, that defined an entire class of early Christian Gnostics.  These days it's the majority perspective; but for about 300 years, just expressing this point of view could get you declared a heretic and potentially killed.I believe that one of these 'natures' literally imbued it's nature into a human form, by the most 'energy cost effective' method possible.  A natural birth and human growth process.  Literally 'popping' into a human form was not out of the question, it was just that it wasn't the most subtle or efficient possibility available.  And if there is no other thing that gnostics can agree upon, we can all agree that God was an engineer, and a very efficient one at that.I believe that the pursuit of 'gnosis' (i.e. spiritual knowledge) is a primary mission of mankind, both collectively and individually.  (It's this doctrine that pretty much defines a gnostic, whether of the christian version or otherwise)  History has shown us that we are not very good at maintaining such momentum collectively, and that often devolves into something that is often called "organized religion" in the modern lexicon.  This kind of spiritual stagnation is not simply a delay in the process, but is actually counterproductive, and has resulted in many of the worst periods of injustice across human history.  As such, the individual method is preferable.  Which is why gnostics are rare and do not proselytize, as a general rule.  In part, because the search depends upon the limits of our own reason, and thus we can never be certain for ourselves, much less lead others. I believe that my salvation is my own problem, and your salvation is not my problem.  This is another reason that gnostics don't proselytize.  Because it's a waste of our life to attempt to convince others of their errors, assuming that we are even certain of the errors.  To gain knowledge (gnosis), it's a fundamental principle that one must desire it enough to seek it; and if you seek, so shall ye find. So you're a European moderate Democrat, then.  By "farthest from it" you mean complimentary?It was never a bet with you. Back to the point, do you consider yourself a moderate Democrat? I beg to differ.  Natural selection is well evidenced.  The theory of evolution presumes that natural selection has been the dominant process of genetic change across history based on the evidence that it is the dominant process of genetic change today.  There is so many things wrong with this scale, I'm not even going to address it.  However, based on the premise that everyone views politics with themselves as the "center", I'd bet dollars to donuts that you consider yourself a moderate Democrat.And I can relate.  I was a Green as a younger man, then I studied the science and learned that the Greens were full of crap.  So then I thought that I must be a Democrat.  Even became a state delegate, where I learned that the name was a misnomer, and democracy was nowhere to be found within the Democratic Party.  But I knew that I wasn't a Republican, who (ironicly) believe that democracy works.  I assure you, a Nolan chart is far better at representing ideologies compared to one another than the left-right spectrum. Cognitive dissonance. I don't understand the goal.  What advantages would Bitcoin bring to a MUD? Blade Runner, anyone?
It usually is, in my experience.For starters, because the US $ is the international reserve currency by both treaty and defacto results of the second world war.  And because Satoshi has personally made allusions to this intent, not the smallest of which is encoded permanently into the genesis block.Take a look for yourself.  Just because Americans always assume that everything is about them doesn't logicly lead to the conclusion that they are generally wrong. That goes without saying, unless the two of you share an apartment, and you used his toothbrush. Wow.  This is the largest example of mental masterbation that I have seen in a long time, and I read a lot on the Internet.This is an unresolvable disagreement, simply because both sides talk past each other because neither can really agree on the definition of critical words.I have a question...Whatever it may be called, and based on the given that, whatever it is called, basicly every "Western" society largely shares the majority of characteristics of the same whatever.  Do you believe that your lifestyle today is better, worse or about the same as your grandfather's? My mistake.  Thanks for pointing this out. That's not entirely true, as there are other steps that can be taken to mitigate such risks without access to a local blockchain.  Yet, the client does not attempt these other methods at of yet, so your statement is practically true at present. You have a higher tolerance than I. Bitcoin is not tailored for anyone, but nor does it discriminate for anyone either.  That alone means that Bitcoin is a more favorable monetary system for third world nations than anything that the UN or the US has presented them with thus far.  Your claim about electricity is false, as there are forum members who have reported very low power costs in Russia, Iceland and elsewhere. If you have 200 different investors, you are going to want to standardize the payment methods.  Otherwise you are going to be spending too much actual labor time sending the payments each month. I highly recommed the body cavity search if you are into that kind of thing, but the cost of loosing all of your cash certainly makes a visit to an S&M brothel the greater value. I've already explained it.  Please read the thread.  If you are just thinking about what you personally gain from mining, then it is pointless to you.  If you consider the altruisic value of mining, particularly in a crisis event such as an ongoing attack upon the blockchain, then it's not unwise to have every possible cpu still have the ability to mine.  Even if there is no possibility of profit. Unless you are mining, eight is more than enough.  It probably is even if you are mining.  Unless you are determined to get more, it's likely not worth the effort of tracing down the blockage. I think that is a workable solution.  Such an agreement pretty much removes investor currency trade risks.  Would the USD be in MtGox $, PayPal $, or some other method? That is the general idea. It's not useless. Looking again, I see that the startup messages refer to a GeForce 4, which is probably too old to make the cut.Thanks anyway guys, I just thought that it would be worth checking. Although there will be 'lightweight' clients in the future, most likely those will be on consumer devices without the capacity to support a full client.  Future users of Bitcoin are as likely to have a client running on portable devices and home computers.  There is no reason to expect that future users are going to prefer lightweight clients on personal computers. Yes.  Like raindrops form a river. Can I mine using this GPU? What you are proposing is essentially a one year business bond.  The problem is that it's unsecured and includes currency risks.  3% isn't enough interest.  However, I also understand the concern for yourself, because if the difficulty shoots to the moon, you might not be able to pay back the installments.  But I think that I have a solution.Start by bumping up the APR to something more in line with a high risk bond, say 12%; but include an escape clause.  For example, an agreement to the monthly payment, but if the difficulty is set to a number higher than a certain limit, all future payments are waived.  This protects you from a spike in the difficulty, while also permitting the investor (myself) assurances of a reasonable profit margin.  It works because there is a strong corollary between the difficulty and the market price trendline.  So if the limit is breached in six months, I only receive half of the bitcoins but it is a fair assumption that the trade value of that half of bitcoins had significantly increased during those six months.  At this time, I'd be willing to set the high difficulty limit to 250K, roughly triple the difficulty at this point.  Run your math, if you are interested, to judge your risks.  On risk to me is that it's possible for the bitcoin price to decouple from the difficulty, but I would say that the odds of that occurring within any one year period are remote.   I like the idea, but not the terms.  Even at a 3% ROI, Bitcoin is still inflating at about 40% APR.  There is still room for great losses.
That was quick.Pity, I would have loaned that much, to a forum member with your history, for 32 bitcoins in two weeks.5 bitcoins interest is about 16% in two weeks, or an APR over 400%, roughly ten times the inflation rate.Even 2 bitcoin would have been a harsh rate of about 6% in two weeks, or over 150% APR.We need a bitcoin version of Prosper.com for a short term bitcoin credit market, as it seems we really are approaching the point that is viable. Most likely cause of the price of bitcoins falling is that the growth rate of the userbase/marketplace has stalled while the rate of new bitcoin creation continues at a rate roughly 40% APR.  This is a high inflation rate, that won't settle down until 2013 or later.  Until that time, the value of a bitcoin is subject to wild swings.  This is not yet mature technology. I am most interested. Now I wonder if one must start the client with the large keypool settings in order to maintain said large keypool, or if doing this once only will result in the client using the very large keypool until it's down to only 100 unused keypairs.  This would be a reasonable way to back up for archival purposes, as such a large keypool would take most people years to consume. In the future, may I recommend that parties agree upon an escrow and/or mediator with large contract deals?   Not handy, but I'll try to find it again later.   You are correct that I cannot fault the logic. You can drive with the leftovers, true.  But you literally cannot eat it and drive on it.  There are people in this world that literally depend upon cookies made with vegetable oil and dirt.  Ultimately, biofuels still compete with human fuels, no matter their nature. Correct, the pool of appointees for the board of governors is limited to employees of the Federal Reserve, or high ranking employees of member banks. 11 for Bioshock There are exactly two positions within the Federal Reserve that are paid for by the government.  Needless to say, those two positions are not essential for even the functions of the Federal Reserve, much less the nation as a whole.  The only way that the Federal Reserve shuts down is if Congress votes to end their charter. I think that has more to do with the change in the political climate than any far reaching stragedy.  BB probably drank himself stupid after learning that Ron Paul would be the new chairman of the house financial oversight board.That doesn't mean that QE3 wouldn't happen in a heartbeat if the political winds changed.This statement assumes that the FedReserve wouldn't functionally be in control of said one-world currency.  Tell me, what countries dominate the UN?I'm not willing to contradict your conclusions, as I think that you might be right in the end; I'm just not quite as certain as you seem to be. Not usually, but it's a fair retort to my statement.  I suppose that it's fair to blame God for the great wrongs that his creation has done if it's fair to give glory for the other great deeds of his creation.I'm not so easily offended.  And I'm a gnostic Christian, we don't evangelize. Perhaps, but deflation requires a more deliberate act on the part of the Fed to invoke than inflation, because it's harder to mop up the water than to pour it out of the bucket. Search the forum for the term, "Dash7" With virgin oil, the buyer has to choose between using the oil as fuel for a diesel truck or as fuel for his body. Too late.  I had a sidejob of collecting WVO from a local bar for over a year, but that ended about three years ago.  Now you can't even buy their WVO, because most of them have exclusive collection contracts.  Maybe that is just around here, though.  I live in Kentucky, where half of the vehicles on the road are some variation of a truck, and half of those are diesel.  Almost no one uses heat oil to heat their homes, but a crapload of the stuff is still sold around here.Did you know that the red dye the feds put into heat oil (untaxed #2 diesel) can be filtered out pretty effectively with a filter that uses a roll of toilet paper as the element? 1)  His parents were married and...2)  by my belief system, God gave mankind the minds of a maker, created in his image and all that.  You really didn't think that "image" referred to a old white man, did you?  Christ wasn't even white, but almost certain a fairly deep shade of brown.  Not all libertarians are agnostic.  From my own experiences, the agnostic and atheistic subset of libs aren't even a majority; they just happen to talk more about it. I doubt it; since the FedReserve is functionally owned by the membership banks while also being beholden to the federal government due to it's charter monopoly.  If BB ever openly screws either side, the game is up.Personally, I keep a significant portion of my savings in things other than US $ denominated assets, but admittedly not a majority.  I have silver rounds (no gold, can't use gold, can use silver for it's antimicrobial properties), more guns & bullets than everyone in my family could use at the same time, a well stocked pantry, tools and the means to make other tools, (makerspaces are an awesome resource) and a relatively small value in bitcoins.  I actually buy stuff in bitcoins, but save in material objects. So is this a local market, like an online version of a "farmers' market"?  That's simply ingenious!
Funny!I ment that they are a good bartering item, and those three calibers are the most commonly used in the United States.  22lr is the king by a wide margin.  And if the future ever looks anything like Zombieland, finding a handgun in one of the two latter calibers should be relatively easy.  At least in the land of 'Life, Liberty and you can have my gun when you pull it from my cold dead hands'.  Places other than the US are probably going to have more difficulty, but those places don't let civilians buy bullets to begin with. So would every other currency as compared to the US $, so long as a functioning federal government exists and people continue to expect that to persist.  This isn't an issue unique to Bitcoin. Investing in any currency is a bad idea if you think Armageddon is near.  Even gold has near zero utility under such chaos, but at least silver still has antibacterial properties that makes it worthwhile to keep some of it around.  Before the modern era of safe city supplied water, most people had cisterns.  Americans would take a 50 cent silver piece and drop it into the cistern.  Powdered silver was used on wounds during the Civil War, and up until WWII, field surgical devices were often plated in silver to reduce the need of disinfecting of the devices between surgeries in a combat situation.No currency is useful without a functioning market, and that requires a civilization.  Bulletts are a good idea, though, even if you don't own a gun.  22lr, 38special and 9mm are the best choices. I went to the website and couldn't make heads or tails of it, but as I was there exploring I was struck by what I was just doing.As little as two decades ago, even if the Internet were available then, having this conversation about trade with players within Russian territory would have earned me a visit from the US Secret Service.  You kids probably have a hard time understanding a world wherein geo-political interests trumped free trade and business interests, but for the majority of my lifetime that was simply the way it was.  And we couldn't have imagined the world since the breakup of the Soviet Union and the rise of the global Internet.As a child, we would have to regularly participate in 'drills' at school.  Wherein the children would either flee the classroom and huddle in the halls crouched into a ball, or under our desks.  As an adult, I rationally realized the shear futility of doing such a thing if the US had ever gone to war with the USSR; but as a child it was truly frightening.  I can understand how such propaganda could condition a majority of those children to ever distrust foreigners.  Fear is a huge motivator, particularly in children.  I have no doubt that the USSR used similar tactics with it's population.Thank God for the Internet. keypair transfers will probably be possible in the future, but they are not a secure way to move bitcoin. So you would be selling ag futures contracts in Bitcoin? Excluding the delay that bootstrapping the blockchain imposes at startup, then yes, it is possible for any computer to pull a hail mary at any time after it starts generating. Disk space, but if you are an online merchant, a keypool of 20K might be a reasonable number.  It would take the client quite some time to crap out so many on an average desktop, but this would only be an issue upon first startup. Amen.   The answers that you seek are written in the forum's archives, as well as several different wiki's, at least one FAQ, and the technical white paper.  I'm more than happy to point you in the right direction if you are confused, and answer questions that arise from reading those documents.  However, neither myself nor anyone else who can answer those questions have the time to repeat ourselves for each newbie who misunderstands how the system works.  If you really wish to know and/or have this debate, then at least attempt to educate yourself on the details before you come to the table. Funny!Imagine how old this kind of stuff gets to those of us who have been here a long time. What does it do when you are not trying to generate coins?  Do you show any connections? Bobr,I've just been reading through your post history, and I can count the number of posts that were directly relevant to the topic in question as being about 20 total.  The rest are you either engaging a flame war, continuing one, or simply being rude.  Why are you here?  Do you enjoy hijacking threads?  Is this what makes you happy?  I, for one, do not enjoy spending my online freetime deleting flamebait.  BTW, I've had to spend time reading the histories of others in this thread as well, and you seem to be a common denominator.  If I wrong about this, show me; but until counter evidence is presented I will assume that if it walk like a duck and quacks, that it is a duck. It's like moving cash from your left pocket to put it into your right pocket, except IRL your left pocket can't make more at will. No, it's still different.  As the sender, you have the data, and therefore the ability, to claim the coins yourself; regardless of who might receive the card.  Even if you are honest, that doesn't mean that a dishonest customer can't claim that you aren't.  If the story is plausible, and it is, then PayPal isn't going to cover you for this more than once. It's a limited term offer.  Jump on it before I take my meds!BTW  The intrinsic value of every fiat currency on Earth is very near zero, and ever approaching that value in the market itself.  So I would extend my offer to $ and Euros as well.  I'll gladly pay $.05 for every Euro that you possess or .05 Euros for every one of those US Federal Reserve Notes. I'm sorry, but are you agreeing with me in opposition?If I'm wrong, correct me.  But make sure that you know what I'm talking about first, 'kay? The transfer of the bitcoins wouldn't even be proof that someone received the card.  You could redeem the coins yourself without anyone else being able to tell. I doubt that you could get seller protection this way, but if you can, go for it. Doubtful.  I'd wager that even Satoshi doesn't still own that many.  No way to know, however, which is part of the point.
Well, they you would be wrong.  Not only is it possible, it's actually done.  It's not common, but a European can offer Euros to a vendor, and the vendor has the right to accept foreign currency, but not the requirement, as settlement of debts.  What is questionable, is whether or not a business with public access can quote prices in foreign currencies; but I'd bet that McDonald's isn't interested in a menu board that displays prices in Euros anyway.BTW, the founder of the Liberty Dollar was recently convicted of some kind of fraud; but none of the associated businesses that accepted the Liberty Dollar could be charged with anything, nor none that sold same without advertising that fact.  Because a private business could accept payment in live chickens, if they desired.  Private local currencies such as the Ithica Hour depend upon this for their ongoing existance.EDIT:  Also, I think you might be right about the future price of Bitcoins, and as a show of friendship, I'll pay you triple ($.03) your quote for any of those worthless bitcoins you might have.  This is a limited time offer, however, so hit me before I come to my senses! That's correct, GetWork implies that you are using a pool miner, not an independent client.  So if you are successfully mining with a pool, you are not in control of the nonce anyway.EDIT:  And yes, you can use a pair of pool miners to mine independently on your own machine, if you also have a client that is running that is modified to manage pool miners.  Either way, pool miners are probably the best route with a machine with multiple GPU's Case law, however, does exist that basicly means that if US$ were offered in settlement of debts, but were rejected because of a contract that required some other form of settlement, any court will hold that debt as void.So, in practice, any business that allows a customer to acrue a debt first (as an example, a sit-down resturant, where you eat first and pay on the way out) must accept US$ as payment of that debt, even if they had a huge sign on the way in that said, "No gold or silver, no service".I've used this to my advantage in the past, as I don't use credit cards.  I had reserved a particular tool from Home Depot's tool shop, and went in to rent the item.  Advance reservation is free, unless you cancel, so they didn't ask for anything more than my name and address on the phone when I called.  I went to pick it up, and they asked for a credit card for the security deposit.  The clerk insisted that he couldn't rent me the tool without a credit card, and I said that I was certain that his computer system did have a cash deposit option in theer somewhere, because that was the law.  He ended up calling his manager, and after going through the whole ting again, the manager called some kind of corporate office, who proceeded to tell him how to access that part of the POS system.I left with the tool, and did not need a card despite their insistance that only a credit card was acceptable. Not unless your starting nonce is identical.  If you are using a pool miner, the pool should be managing the nonces of the miners so that they are not duplicating work, although I'm not certain that this is done.If you are mining locally, are you using two independent instances of the mining client?  If yes, then it's very unlikely that they are duplicating work. I can assure you that there are academicly trained economists that are watching Bitcoin.  I can also assure you that none of them that you would want to review Bitcoin is going to be willing to stake their professional reputation yet.If all you need is the script reviewed, either post it here in the economics section of this forum; jump to one of the many economic forums elsewhere.  I think that you'll find that there is no real consensus that can be achieved on any of the questionable parts. I'm surprised no one has mentioned Atlas Shrugged  yet, even though that's not quite what he is asking for.Alongside Night  (The defining agorist novel)The Moon is a Harsh Mistress Cryptocromicon & the Baroque Cycle Trilogy, in that order.Basicly anything by David Brin, but in particular Glory Season and Infinity's Shore of the Uplift SeriesFountains of ParadiseAll of these are fiction that illustrate one or more libertarian concepts in some fashion.  In the first three, such concepts are central to the plot; in the rest they are incidental. It's also important to keep the ability to mine via cpu's in the vanilla client, should there ever come a day when the system is attacked, and the userbase is called upon to mine at a loss in order to defend against an ongoing blockchain attack. I'm aware of the science, and I'm telling you that we have not hit that peak.  Hubbert's Peak has limited applications to resources that have a significant recycle use anyway, because it relates only to the economics of resource extraction.And if it even apraaches the spot price in silver many of the major uses of copper (electrically related mostly) can be easily repalced by other materials. Because Windoze sucks?I can't help you here, as I don't use Windoze if I have a choice. Fiction, non-fiction or both? And this is a good argument for establishing a legal defense fund for the day that the government decides to make a test case out of one of these, otherwise indefensible, exchangers.  With many small exchanges, it is indeed impossible to stop it from occurring.  However, as we can see with the pot industry, they can sustain a persecution campaign for a long time; and we could lose years if the precendent is unfavorable. This used to be true, but try it now and you aren't even likely to harm a modern hard drive, and might not even disrupt a running (GNU/Linux) server enough to get a kernel panic.  Modern magnetic drives have pretty effective shielding. What makes you think that the government has the capacity to monitor your mail in such a way? Yes.  If you have a good backup of your wallet.dat file, just reinstall the newest client and put a copy of your backup into the proper directory before starting it up.  It should find both your new and old funds as it bootstraps the blockchain. True, but Bitcoin is subject to overwelming computations anyway.  Which is why the system is designed to encourage participation in the hashing that keeps the blockchain strong. We are not past the peak in copper.  The prices for copper are more volatile than simply the cost of production, and very little of it is consumed in industry.  Most of it still exists in a refined form within electrical conduits everywhere.  The big cost driver for copper over the last decade is the increases in the construction demands of China and India. That's a not so recent joke.  I've seen versions since about 1998. This sounds like the old joke, "I always give 100% of my efforts at work!  10% on Mondays, 25% on Tuesdays, 50% on Wendsdays...."Tell me this, if any single entity had access to the kind of hashing power to make this work, why bother with such a complex attack vector?  Why not just simply dominate the network? For the attack to work once, it already requires that the attacker have control of at least one of the blocks wherein the difficulty is adjusted (perhaps both) that buffet a 2016 block set.  To do this attack twice in a row requires that the attacker be able to reliablely control at least two of these critical blocks in succession.  If the attacker has that kind of processing power at hand, then the 50% takeover issue is probably within reach.The majority rules cannot be changed in such a fashion.  The only way that the protocol rules can be changed is if the majority of the potential generating userbase (which is larger than that actuall generating base) we to agree to change the rules, and vote by downloading a new client that repected those rules.  It couldn't just happen during a relatively short time frame, because once that attack ended, which it must eventually, the entire network would revert to the existing protocol stack, and any temporary changes made by the attacker by brute force would simply be undone, and all of the attacker's new blocks rejected.  Resulting in the atacker gaining nothing for his efforts.Honestly, it probably woulnd't harm the Bitcoin network at this point, but in the future it might make getting honest tranasctions into the blockchain difficult, which could impact further adoption. Yes, it's sarcasm.Is English not your first language?
Not really, it was just a spike and follow-up drop in the hashrate a couple of weeks ago.  Someone just referred to it as our "mystery miner" and it just stuck.  We don't have any evidence that it was a single entity, or several with bad timing.  My best guess about the whole thing is that someone tried renting out the cloud to mine for a bit, before having the facepalm moment when they finally realize that it's going to be hard for them to pay rent five times higher than the value of the bitcoins and make it up on volume.  Another credible possibility was that someone with a botnet was benchmarking their network.  The truth is that it is actually impossible for us to ever know any details, so we are all just guessing. http://bitcoinwatch.com/It's near the bottom on the left column. I seriously doubt the owner of the visable website is directly connected to whoever runs the Silk Road hidden service on Tor. I saw the first season of Prison Break on TV, but after that they quickly lost their muse.  The plot of the first season, the idea that an intelligent person would first engineer a new prison, arrange to get his brother transfered there, and then get convicted to be sent there, and have his break-out plan encoded onto his skin as a tatoo is pretty cool.  But once they were out, it was just like so many other drama shows I've seen before. I'd wager you 50 BTC you can't actually find it's physical server location. That you can see, that is.  I quetly wonder how much of the BTC exchange price is black or grey markets like Silk Road.  Certainly such markets exist, even if we here couldn't access them, and even a small percentage of those who could access them using Bitcoin as their medium of exchange could explain the large run up over the past 8 months. Except that can't work.  As I mentioned earlier, there is a difficulty adjustment parameter rule that prohibits the difficulty from adjusting up or down by more than a factor of four.  So the max that can be expected is that the Google can do is move the difficulty by that factor of four, which may or may not actually be worthwhile, but if the attack cannot be repeated in consecutive cycles (maybe, but I would say that it would be very unlikely to work out that way) then it's probably not a worthwhile means of manipulation for profit motives alone.  What kind of harm to the system itself could such an attack cause? Yeah, it's been surprising to watch it all unfold.  It never really was destined to last.  Still, I would contest the assumption that there are no wealthy players involved in Bitcoin.  All that we can really say is that no wealthy players have invested excessively in Bitcoin. Stopping at 8 connections implies that inbound connections are being rejected.  If all you did was add the wifi router into the mix, it's probably configured by default to deny incoming connections on unknown ports. That assumes that there is collusion, when there isn't a need for it.  The stand-alone complex theory is more likely. DVD-R's are a pain in the ass.  What about a mailable USB drive with return postage and an address label?I can see a usage based opp here for some teen with cheap bandwidth. Yes, for no other reason that before they were in power, they were those people.  And more of those people are the greatest threat to (now their) status quo. Are you implying that the 'Mystery Miner' was such an exploit?  Okay, so how would this attack vector aid in a double spend fraud?  How? This is the issue with relying upon a marketplace that represents a minority of the trade in question, but as far as I know, the MtGox spot price is the best metric of this kind that we have.  Getting funds into and out of such markets have always been a limiting factor. I think that he was talking about my post concerning a collective defense of a true anarchist society.  The problem being that those people or groups with the greatest resources to contribute to the collective defense against a foreign threat also are the most mobile among society, and as such, their own greatest-self-interests are unlikely to lie with the collective defenses, but rather with flight and re-establishment elsewhere.  Leaving the anarchist society gutted of capacity (relative to it's prior state) and only the lower classes to it's defense, and only because they were those who did not have the capacity to vacate before the invading hordes.  Think Katrina with an invading army. Hmm, Would you have space, and electric heating needs, to accomodate a server rack?  If you could afford to build such a system, you would have already done so; but there might be major mining groups on this forum willing to partner. Even if this were a realistic exploit, the difficulty has an adjustment rule that prohibits an adjustment of greater than a factor of four in either direction.  So the difficulty couldn't be cut down to less than a quarter of the prior difficulty.  It's still something to consider, as this is one attack avenue I don't think that I've seen discussed on this forum before.  But before we consider how difficult the attack vector may be, we need to determine what the goal would be.  If the goal is simply to spoof the difficulty calculations in order to make it easier to capture some blocks in a short period of time, (perhaps someone decided to buy a couple of hours of mining capacity on Amazon's cloud?) then really no great harm done, and if such things were to become an ongoing thing, a tighter difficulty adjustment parameter could undercut such activities.  However, if the goal was to actually harm the network in some fashion, the impracticality of the attack may not be a great defense.  How might this harm the network. or introduce another fraud vector?  thoughts? Bitcoin miner hosting opprotunities. The latter. Honestly, looking in the rear view mirror, one can see signs of a breakdown of an empire as far back as 1970.  And the same could be said for the USSR as far back as 1955.  The problem of a collapsing empire is that it takes quite a long time, and there is no reason to suspect that the modern world will be significantly quicker at such things than the Roman or Ottoman empires.  The risks are in the transitional periods anyway, at least to the individual.  Clans will fare better, as happened to Roman enclaves as the Roman empire imploded.  The small independently functioning regions loyal to Rome preserved the culture for generations longer, functioning as city-states.
Even that only applies to direct trade of crude between Russia and China.  Which, admittedly, is a pretty large market; but by itself is not a game-changing event. Not an official one. They're having trouble with covert ops funding due to the impending budget shutdown. Because property rights have a direct relation to 'primary use'.  Said another way, it's theft to steal my bike, because I can't use it.  You have harmed me by denying me the use of my own things.  Data doesn't have the same issues, as I can copy your bike design for my own use and never deny you your own bike.  The state monopoly that is copyright originally existed to incentivise the producers to produce more, by offering the possibility of making money for a short time off of the works, but even that ended after 15 years originally.  Now it's the life of the author plus 70 years, and doesn't benefit the author except by proxy, as the copyright holders are invariablely a publishing company.  Companies don't have rights, only people do; and even the children of the author don't have a right to unearned benefits.Nonesense.  Spotify works because it's actually more convenient than doing the work of searching for the desired ringtone.  Spotify's business model is dependent upon access, not copyrights.  They could charge for public domain ringtones as well, so long as it's easier to get the desired MIDI version of Bach than it would be to either find an artist who has already done it or do it themselves. I'll say it again, some people who mine do so because their conditions negate the effects of consuming electricity.  Most are people who live in small efficency apartments heated only by electro-resistive heating, and have neither the room nor the resources to set up a rack of machines, but do have a decent gaming class video card.  Some people live in areas with below average costs of electricity, and have a comparative advantage as a result.  By definition, roughly half of the bitcoin network exists in places with below average electric costs, but some can be very low. That makes even less sense than calling copyright infringement "piracy" in order to compare it to the violent mugging of a trade ship at sea.The events are not comparable.  Copyright infringement is the violation of a state granted monopoly on data.  No physical harm, or threat of harm, comes to those who claim the copyright.  Nor are they denied the use of their data themselves for it.  Copyright has moved far from it's original intent of the framers, and of it's use in the Constitution; and even they were wary about copyright, and were very clear that they did not consider it property, nor the control of it as a natural right.  Lacking the support of the state, private data is only protected so long as the owner can do so.  By publishing it, they are making it public by definition.  A person can protect their personal or trade secrets with strong encryption, but protecting data that has been released to the public is much harder to do, and cannot be reasonably enforced without an unnatural state supported monopoly.  I said before that IP would be the first to pass away because in anything close to an anarchist state, the public would be unconcerned about the violation of laws that only exist because of the monopolies granted by a prior state. I didn't claim that it was. I suggested that, but she chose what she did for her own reasons.  She didn't feel the need to share with me.   Nina Paley, the artist responsible for Copying is not Theft and Sita sings the Blues has put up a Mybitcoin.com donation button on her blog site.  (http://blog.ninapaley.com/)  It's on the right hand side.  Please show your support for a fellow traveler. I can pretty much promise that copyrights would have no force in a true free market. Could someone buy bitcoins from the ATM? Very good point.  In my defense, they didn't exist when I brought this up.  Perhaps bitcoinusa is a solution. Hasn't stopped me yet.  And from what I can tell, it hasn't stopped anyone else either. A data haven might yet prove to be the killer Bitcoin app.  The idea has been tried on several occasions, all have been crushed by outside forces.  The Principality of Sealand being both the most successful and most rediculous recent example that comes to mind. I don't disagree, but those niches have been filled.  I'm not sure that the world needs another international trade hub.  Liberty is great, but the people still need an income, more so if the city-state they live in cannot support itself sans trade.  If it were not for the trade of the harbor, Hong Kong would starve.  Seasteading, as many challenges that if faces, seems like a more viable possibility because at least such a city-state can technically move.  The human soul strives for liberty, but the human body toils to eat. Sorry, I can't.  But what happens if a very small nation recognizes bitcoin as an official tax currency?  I think that if Bitcoin has any successes at all, such a recognition is only a matter of time.  There are precedents for such a maneuver, such as the many small South American nations that peg their own national currencies to the US $ despite having no control over the value of the US $ whatever.  The first hurdle that Bitcoin must get over, is to reach some level of acceptable monetary inflation rate without getting crushed.  This will take till at least 2013 when the first block reward drop occurs.  That is a major weak moment.  If we survive that, then the next hurdle is achieving a fairly stable market price.  It won't take much longer than that before some tiny coastal nation that depends heavily on international trade (think taiwan) for their own local economies to support Bitcoin, even if that is only on an unofficial basis.  I can't even hazard a guess how long that would take under the best of situations.  But once one small nation was willing to openly support Bitcoin, then that means that the threats of bigger nations to suppress same were already doomed to failure, and Bitcoin will outlive us all. http://thedailybell.com/1957/G20-Considers-Global-Currency.htmlJust because it is a conspiracy theory, doesn't mean it's wrong. Be careful of confirmation bias. Looks interesting as a thought experiment; however, there is always a reason that unproductive regions are largely uninhabited. That's against the law?
Corporations, unions and PACs have different political donation rules altogether.  I don't know them well, but I doubt that this would work. I'd be willing to bet his son Rand does first.After all, it was Rand that was willing to bitch about how his toilet in Kentucky has to abide by California's water conservation laws, and doesn't work on a single flush. Jesus, Bruce!  That was mean!I saw that title and thought "Yeah right, april fool me" then read your post and though "aw, crap!" Patience... No, it could be done.  It's just not (perhaps, yet) worth the work to set up a bitcoin donation system that will not provide the donator a bitcoin address until s/he provides the data, and asking for that data tends to offend the kind of person who might otherwise donate to a Paul.  Using credit card donations, the credit card company provides most of that required data. 1)  I wouldn't call Obama's average donation "small" and...2)  the campaign finance laws require that they cannot accept donations from anyone that they cannot show is an American citizen; which in practice requires disclosure.  Bitcoin undermines disclosure. That post wasn't really for your benefit.  I can already tell that you have spent time thinking about such things. I'm with the April Fool's joke.  Considering that I live in Rand Paul's district, campaigned for both him and his father (2008 presidential run); and that I am a Kentucky State Delegate, I have more to say about this than the average bear.  I can say for certain that 1) the Pauls are aware of Bitcoin (as well as other alternatives) but don't think too hard on that,(gold is another subject) neither has a couple hours to spend talking to anyone outside of their family or professional teams, and Bitcoin cannot be accepted for a political campaign due to campaign finance laws.  (I checked). I can accept that, but I still think that it's confusing.  I have to admit that it's pretty counter-intuitive to think of gold as not capital and US $ as not real money, but that is the way it is. You are simply describing the Misesian concept of "emergent order".  Anarchist meetings aside, have you ever gone to a Meetup?  Who is in charge?  Usually the guy that pays for the hosting fee on Meetup.com, and only so far as that goes.  Once the meetup is up and going, there really isn't a 'leader'.  If there is a crowd getting onto a city bus, there is no leadership, but rare is the event where someone is cut or pushed to get onto the bus, and never is anyone left behind.  No government authority is necessary. I've been thinking along similar lines.  Considering that I once worked for these bastards, I certainly wouldn't put it past them to hire trolls.  They are probably relatively cheap.  Hell, they might even be outsourcing to India.I've been busy lately. I've lived in many places, and have never had an apartment that was not heated by baseboard electro-resistive heating.  The only alternatives that I've ever had was in single family homes I've owned.  I'm sure that I'm not an anomaly. A person entering your home without your permission is trespass, whether violence is used or not, intent of force is implied.  You don't own a city, but the same thing would be implied if an army marched in uninvited.Once force is initiated, a force response in kind is justifiable.  If your trespasser has no weapons for which to threaten your family, your justifiable response is to 1) demand that he leave, and 2) if he does not (or cannot, drunk perhaps?) you can throw him out or hire someone to throw him out for you.  (such as a cop or hired security)You cannot, however, justify shooting him while siting in your chair.  Like all things, the justifiable response is relative.  Only children and madmen deal in absolutes. Carsharing networks...http://www.zipcar.com/http://relayrides.com/http://www.getaround.com/Dynamic ridesharing...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_ridesharinghttp://www.flinc.mobi I recently got one of these, as they are suggested hardware for a PirateBox.  The device is impressive. If they are using an automated system to dynamicly block ports, as has been suggested, but don't take the time to check the system, it's possible that Bitcoin looks like a botnet or worm to such a system that is otherwise unaware of Bitcoin. Have you tried calling your ISP and asking them to unblock port 8333 for your machine, or simply asking them why it is done? That's not true.  ISP's block ports all the time, but usually incoming ports, or ports of known worms; for security reasons.  It would be a violation of the privacy act to redirect your datagrams without your consent, but that does not seem to be the case here. Yes I have, and the answer is yes, sort of.  Based on the assumption that your ISP is blocking incoming connections, presumedly for your own protection;  you must start the client with a command line flag to tell it to connect to a known node.  It should be able to connect to that node explicitly, but other nodes will not be able to connect to you.  You will be hamstrung, and mining would be futile, but sending and receiving coins will work, slowly.  Initial bootstrapping across one connected node can take as long as a day.  And if it drops off the Internet, well you're going to have to start all over.Another alternative is to port forward over SSH, or use Tor.  Either method is just a work-around, is not simple, and incrediblely slow.EDIT:  I just re-read the title, and feel kinda silly.  How do you know that they block 8333 outgoing connections?  That is very unsual, unless you are trying to do it over an employer's network, or a university's. No, even 50%+ of the network power isn't enough to break Bitcoin, only to defeat a particular portion of the system security for a period of time.  The only known way to actually break Bitcoin is to shut down the Internet, and unless that is total, then that only works for as long as the sections that are dark remain so.It may seem that way, I'm sure.  But "education" has been surprisingly effective at it's original goals.  Horrance Mann is widely considered the "father" of the American education system, by both his supporters and critics.  Read what he said about the subject, and it will become bluntly obvious that the "education" system was never really intended to educate the children of the middle and lower classes in America, but to condition them.  The next obvious question then becomes, condition them for what?You will not like the answer.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Underground_History_of_American_Education
If there were no other greater state that also had claim to the same 'turf', then I would agree, but a cartel is not a state so long as it remains in contention for that same 'turf'.No, a phyle.  Like a tribe, but more politically structured....http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phyle"Phyle (Greek φυλή phulē, "clan, race, people", derived from ancient Greek φύεσθαι "to descend, to originate") is an ancient Greek term for clan or tribe. They were usually ruled by a basileus. Some of them can be classified by their geographic location"In the modern sense, they are used to describe a type of mostly voluntary city-states from the fiction of Neal Stephenson's The Diamond Age...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Diamond_Age#Phyles"The world is divided into many phyles, also known as tribes, distinguishable by either ethnic, religious, political or other emerging cultural markers....Most societies depicted in the novel have become globalized, and maintain enclaves throughout the world....The phyles coexist much like historical nation-states under a system of justice and mutual protection, the Common Economic Protocol."Not for me. Nonesense.  Most of the individual miners use the waste heat to contribute to their home heating, and many would be contributing to Folding@Home or SETI if they were not running Bitcoin.   You might be very intelligent, but it is our experience that most of what people believe is true about "money" is wrong.  Much of it is counterintuitive.For example; in a literal sense, I'd be willing to wager that you have never (directly) used real money to buy anything, and may not have ever even touched it.US $, Euros, Yen; none of these things are money.  They are currencies, as is Bitcoin. You really need to stop and think about what you mean to say, before you type.  Capitalism is simply a concept that pulls together several economic laws under one word.  Laws in the "natural" and "God created them" kind.  The first being, the individual has a right to the fruits of his labor. (i.e. the capital) and he also has a right to trade it freely without coercion.  The value of the two items being traded don't have a set value, the value of each thing is subjective to the perspectives of he who trades.  The law of supply and demand also comes into play; as these two could be trading things on the (original) Silk Road, one trading silk from China and the other trading whatever it is that Europe made that Chinese people wanted.  Each item is moving from a region that has more of it, and therefore it's market value is lower, to a  region where there is less of it, and therefore it's market value is higher.  That's called 'arbitridge'. Another law that you don't know is comparative advantage.  Go google "the island trading game".What you think is capitalism, is corporatism, and a far cry from capitalism.  A free market, by definition, is capitalist in nature; but that does not mean that capitalism only exists in a free market.  As has been noted by another, capitalism exists always and everywhere, it's just illegal under certain political conditions. Just the history of the Roman Empire alone refutes this claim. Oh, for Pete's sake!Capitalism isn't a political ideology!  It's an economic model!  Capitalism is indifferent to the ideologies! A cartel isn't a state as normally would be defined, as they tend not to have geographical bounderies.  A drug cartel could be considered a phyle.Inevitable is a good word for it.  Not desirable, nor irresistable; but certainly inevitable. I'd prefer $1000 in silver or copper myself.   Now that's an idea.  Like a crowdsourced version of insurance.256 The max block size is currently a hard limit of one megabyte.  The current fee structure is designed to make hitting that limit prohibitively expensive, by limiting the free transaction section (to 20 kilobytes, I believe) and an exponentially increasing set of required fees for transactions to be included above certain arbitrary soft limits.  I don't recall the actual fee schedule, but a block larger than half a megabyte would be very profitable for the miner that solved it. Yes. This just moves the legal risks from the site owner to the mule. They most certainly do not all mean well. Not necessarily a monopoly, although that is likely to occur, and it may be difficult to tell any practical difference between such a collective force structure and a state.No they don't.  At least not without the aid of a state, and they do still exist in the absence of state support.Just look at the drug cartels in Mexico.  Do they need state support for an employee structure?  Do they need state support for financing?I never said anything about tolerating them.  I said that they exist.  Just because you (or I) might not agree that human societies should function this way, it's an objective fact that they are and arrived this way in a straight forward (and probably entirely natural) way. Case in point.Capitalism has nothing to do with authority or influence over other people.  It is entirely about authority and influence over resources.  It's the 'anarcho' part that deals with human relationships. Perhaps I should have said that it wasn't an insurmountable issue. I can't speak for him, but I think that it's proof enough that it doesn't really work long term."Either the Constitution explicitly authorized the government that we have now, or was powerless to prevent it..." I would seriously doubt that. You still are, you just don't really understand what the term means. Landlords and employers can both exist sans a state, and have historicly.  I'm not sure what you mean by usurers, but if you mean money-lenders, then they have existed without state support as well.Regardless, this thread highlights the problems with debates among lay thinkers using technical jargon.  Your defintion of capitalism is too broad to even have a conversation about the merits or faults of such an idea.
Not even then.  Neither gold, nor any other commodity money, is capital unless it's being used in production.  The capital that such gold could be traded for is the only capital, and is valued in gold. Divisibility isn't really an issue, because these days we can encapsulate metals down to grains.  So you could use thorium coins struck down to dimes, and anything smaller coudld be sealed into clear Pyrex glass.  Sure, one would have to destroy the glass case in order to audit the mint, but that would still be a workable solution.  On some level, metal coins still require some level of trust that the mint that produced it is honest, and isn't trying to pull a fast one by wrapping a depeleted uranium coin i na 2 mm layer in gold; and the only way to know is to occasionally cut such a coin in half.  Granted, Bitcoins are much more divisable and much easier to audit, which is why bitcoins make such a great currency.  But bitcoins are not a money, and probably make a poor store of value in the long run. Gold is not a "means of production" unless you are a goldsmith, or maybe a banker. Perhaps.  I didn't find it funny, so I assumed that there was some element of seriousness. Both fascism and communism as political ideologies would qualify as capitalist under such a definition.  This is in line with the political defintion of "capitalism", but not the economic one, which is notablely different. And that is exactly why I consider anarchy of any form to be an unstable political condition, and therefore not something to be strived for, as it results in the weakening of the social cohesion that comes with national identity.  I can think of no case that an archarcy (or anything close to that) survived a serious external challenge to that status quo, for no other reason than those inhabitants with the greatest resources to contribute to the collective defense often found it in their own best interests to simply pick up and vacate before the new power made good on his claims.  An anarchist state, by it's very definition, does not foster a national identity or sense of national loyality with it's citizens.  This is why they are often defacto anarchies by transitional happenstance, and not outright design.Anarchy isn't to be strived for, not because it can't be a great society for the present inhabitants, but because the form of governance that follows is rarely better than a stable republic could have been.  This is exactly the reason that the framers of the Constitution sought to move away from the Articles of Confederation under the threat that the British Monarcy would attempt to reassert authority, which they eventually tried in the War of 1812.  That was a close call, and could have turned out completely differently if the one or more of the less affected states had declared neutrality and refused to contribute to the war effort; which is something that could have happened under the Articles. Not a good example, since the mass hysteria around Fukushima was fueled by piss-poor journalism and a government that has a history of not being quite forward with it's own failures. If it were ever cheaper to generate coins on rental hardware than buying them on the exchange, then people would either be doing it until the rise in difficulty negated the advantages, the price of bitcoins would fall until doing so was no longer profitable, or a combination of both.  Such a condition would be Bitcoin's version of 'backwardization' and can happen for short periods.  It has been shown that the difficulty and the market price are closely linked, and I believe that difficulty follows the total market value of solving a block.  (price * block reward)  And that difficulty will drop roughly in half when the reward cuts in half.  This would be Bitcoin's weak point. Wait, what?The only person on this forum who lives in a communist society is you, Nefario.  And from a technical perspective, even China isn't really communist anymore; but closer to fascist.  I.E. single party political control over an otherwise capitalist economy.Capital is the means of production. The threat of prosecution will certainly dampen the value, as well as the rate of spread, of Bitcoin; but will ultimately fail to destroy it.  Politicos aren't stupid, they look at these kind of things deeply before acting.  If they attempt it, they would have to know that it's a stall tactic. Gold is not capital.  Neither is money.  Capital can be bought with either, and therefore valued in either, but money is not capital.  Capital is literally the tools and resources necessary for production of goods and services to be sold or consumed.  For example, a shovel is capital to the ditchdigger, but not to the accountant; whereas a calculator is capital to the accountant, but not the ditchdigger.Bitcoins are currency, and don't even meet the bar for a commodity money, such as silver and gold do.  Bitcoins can never be capital, even though capital can be valued in bitcoins.As Neil Stephenson so precisely wrote in Cryptocromicon, "Gold is not wealth, gold is the corpse of wealth." That's the biggest example of corporatism that I have ever seen.   How can you have outgoing transactions if your client is still bootstrapping? Now I'm confused.If/When a true thorium fuel cycle is established in India, thorium coins become a viable alternative because thorium isn't very dangerous and the energy content provides for the most basic of use values.  Honestly, I'd be kind of surprised if someone like the Hunt or Koch brothers don't already have thorium bullion waiting for the shift.  Thorium is radioactive, but it's half-life is so long it was only theoretical for 100+ years until it could be observed.  99% would still be here when the Sun overtook the Earth as a red giant. The Great Substitution Wall of China? Apparently the priesthood doesn't teach economics in seminary.  Hey, Father; would you mind attempting to define "capitalism" in your own words?  It's really hard to debate with someone speaking another language. Some people are easily confused. Okay....Done.Now what? Silver, copper?   Rats and cockroaches tend to be the wild game available in prison.
Yes, Bitcoin is a self-balancing system.  Well thought out. There has always been some group making such warnings for as long as I've been alive. The two laws of civilization...1)  Do all that you have agreed to do...2)  ...and to not encroach upon the person or property of others.This shall be the whole of the law.The question is, how does this translate to an Internet forum community?I've seen other forums that had a section for self (or moderator forced) segregation without outright sensorship or banishment.  Some forums call this NSFW, but some call it "The Thunderdome".  Some members could be confined to posting in those sections for a period of time for flaming, baiting or NSFW posting.  Like being put into a 'penalty box'.The "common law" of the Internet is widely known these days.  I.E., don't (persistantly) flamebait.  No personal insults.  No words that you wouldn't speak in front of your own children or parents.  No photos that you wouldn't let your children or parents find on your computer.  Nothing that would get the site owner sitting in front of a prosecutor, or even close to that.I'm not sure if a policy should be written or not, that's up to the site owner.  If a policy is written, I will enforce it to the best of my ability; but even then I think that the mods should have much discretion. Anarcho-capitalism isn't a contradiction in terms, because capitalism isn't (in it's original meaning) a political ideology.  What most people think of as capitalism in our modern age is actually corporatism/merchantilism in new clothes.  It's not new either.  I said that anarcho-socialism was a contradiction in terms, not because I consider any variation of anarchism viable, but because anarchism and socialism are two political ideologies that are diametricly opposed to one another.  Anarchism is the absence of government external to the individual, while socialism is a social & political structure explicitly designed to impose a form (i.e. governance) upon society at large.  No matter how one feels about either ideology, no rational person can consider the fundamentals of the both of them, and conclude that they can coexist. Certainly some of them, probably even the majority.  But they are the pawns in the game.  The useful idiots.  Those who have an ideological goal are predominately some variation of marxist/socialist/collectivist.   I still think that there will be non-generating clients.  I've been working on a project that would put a client on a Pirate Box (http://wiki.daviddarts.com/PirateBox) that would function in all respects just like any other piratebox, but have an Internet connection for the blockchain.  The point of it all would be to update smartphones over wifi.  The point being to test the possibility of smartphone clients like BitcoinJ in a production environment for the ability to do POS type transactions with the aid of a vendor provided wifi connection, without providing for a complete Internet connection.  I've got a router for the purpose, but have yet to put a pirate box system upon it, much less figure out how to redirect wlan side bitcoin connections to the local client.  In this case, generating is futile, but full handling of transactions are critical.  IF Bitcoin takes off, and then makes the jump to brick&morter vendors, such clients would be everywhere; and very well might outnumber generating clients. Also sent. You mean besides the fact that Anarcho-Socialism is a contradiction in terms? Basicly every other client that the owner doesn't have enough incentive to bother with making this kind of low-level code change in order to potentially nab a few extra bitcoins.  Any regular client, whether they are generating or not.  Any future 'lightweight' client that can't generate.  And any future client modified as a clearinghouse service for commerce, which would have a vested interest in undermining such self-serving behavior. From the Fed's own site..."As stipulated in the Banking Act of 1935, the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board are chosen by the President from among the sitting Governors  (emphasis mine) and must be confirmed by the Senate. They serve terms of four years and may be reappointed as Chairman or Vice Chairman until their terms as Governors expire. The Chairman serves as public spokesperson and representative of the Board and manager of the Board's staff and presides at Board meetings. Affirming the apolitical nature of the Board, recent Presidents representing both major political parties have selected the same person as Board Chairman."http://www.federalreserve.gov/generalinfo/faq/faqbog.htmGranted, it's all kind of circular.  The sitting president can appoint board members from within the Federal Reserve structure itself, but the law of averages says that no sitting president can ever appoint a majority of board members until late in a second term.  So no president can ever 'pack' the board, which has it's value, but it also means that the board is functionally unaccountable to the president or the senate.  Also, who decides who works for the fed?  The banks that are members of the federal reserve system do, not the president.  It's next to impossible to find any documentation about the "from within our own ranks" rule explicitly stated, but there has never been an appointment to the board from outside of the federal reserve system itself since initial board appointed in 1914.Here is the list...http://www.federalreserve.gov/bios/boardmembership.htmIf you can find an exception after 1928, feel free to shoot me down. Perhaps, but I would think that if this were to start happening, something could be done about it.  I can think of a couple of different ways that repeatedly doing this kind of attack could bring the attention of the rest of the network to the attacker's IP address.  It's not that an individual node cannot be discovered with the help of the majority of the rest of the network. http://www.cracked.com/blog/the-8-most-ridiculously-badass-protesters-ever-photographed/ Actually, that's a false flag.  The president does appoint the board members, but can only choose them from a very short list provided by the sitting board itself.  He cannot, for example, choose his favorite econ professor.  As for the Senate, they can only vote yes or no; and if they vote no, then the President must go back to that same list.  Yes, I could refute his scenarios.  They are based upon assumptions he has made about how the protocol actually works, and in turn how a victim's client must work.  He doesn't take into account the possibility of 'watchdog' processes alerting vendors (or their clients) to suspicious activities on the network.  (which can exist, but as of yet do not)  All his attacks basicly combine the 50% attack with an assumption of victim ignorance, and some of them aren't remotely feasible even assuming that he could afford the 50% power from Amazon.  The 'slow motion' attack was downright laughable. You can't really assume that all nodes will ever see both transactions.  Since nodes won't propagate invalid transactions, and your two starting nodes send their transactions to all peers by default, none of their peers will ever transmit those other transactions to the two vendor's clients.  That is, unless those two clients happen to be connected to one another directly, in which case the double spend would fail from the start.  One way to mitigate this, is for ecommerce clients to randomly choose one peer to not send the transaction to, and listen to that peer for the transaction that they sent to echo back.  If their transaction comes back, it's incrediblely unlikely that said ecommerce site will get shafted, even if a double spend attack was attempted, because if they see it, then they probably have the wider dispersed transaction anyway.  If they see any other transaction come across that peer trying to spend those same coins, the sale is simply denied.I believe that it would show up as 0/unconfirmed in the client, and that those coins would never be added to the total balance displayed by the client.Only if your ecommecre client is configured to assume a valid transaction is good, which is certainly not the default way of doing things thus far, but not unreasonable for smaller value sales.  Say, anything under $50. Doesn't really matter.  What you would have to do to attempt a Finney attack is have a script that can spend your coins the instant that you find a block, withhold that block for half a second, and then hope that no one else solved that same block within that half second.  Faster hashing just means that you don't have to wait as long to try it.Like the double spend attack, the Finney attack can be defended against without confirmations; simply by delaying the completion of the sale for a couple seconds and watching for a block and/or transaction that competes with it propagate across the network.  Both attacks would be futile for any site that sold products that physically shipped, since the sale can be cancelled if the transaction is found to be false. Although it would be difficult to have more than 20 years experience with Linux, it is possible with BSD. I'll match that pledge.How much is the price to release the entire library onto http://ftp://livefreeordie.dyndns.org?EDIT: I have no idea why this forum adds the http:// onto the above.  I'm not doing it. What is really best in a currency is predictability.  The undesirable characteristics of deflation or inflation have to do with their unpredictable nature, and their magnitude.  Either condition, in moderation, isn't really a problem.  Bitcoin will be very stable in the future, because it's monetary base is entirely predictable out to decades.  While the economy that it represents isn't nearly as stable as the monetary base, once the economy grows to something comparable to Paypal's, the voltility of the spot price will dampen on it's own.  Even modern fiat currencies are unstable compared to one another, and float constantly on foreign currency exchanges.  This is not really a problem.  Bitcoin is actually inflating the monetary base at a rapid rate, running just under 50% APR right now, but will drop over the next two years to about 6.25% APR just after the drop in the block reward around Jan 2013.  The rising value of a bitcoin over the past several months is a reflection of the rapid growth of the economy. (i.e. more people are getting into Bitcoin, and want a starting sum)  We can see the effects of the changing economic size because the economy is still very small, but as the tech matures, which I predict will occur between 2013 and 2015, the economic growth rate will start to experience deminishing rates of ongoing growth.  And even if it doesn't, the effects of the change in economic size will be dampened by it's much greater size.  All things considered, the trade value of a bitcoin, as expressed in another currency or gold, silver, whatever; will settle down to something much more akin to the relative trade values of fiat currencies on the forex. I would be willing to contribute to a bounty to put them up on the FTP sharing site mentioned elsewhere.
Research done, with the Laffer Curve in mind, strongly suggests that the optimal tax rate varies between 10% and 16%, depending on many variables largely outside the control of government regulations.So after all this time, the old testament 'tithe' rule, which was originally a form of voluntary fundraising for the government (the religion and the government were inseperable), continues to prove itself as the wisest course of action. That data is wrong.  If all of the civil power plants in the world were replaced with PWR type uranimum reactors (i.e. everything that powers the grid, and excluding transport fuel) then the world would run out of the presently known reserves of economicly extractable uranium in about 70 years, at a continuous demand relative to current demands.  There are a lot of assumptions there, not the least of which is that we never increase in demand, nor ever find any more veins of extractable uranium.  Furthurmore, uranium isn't the only nuke fuel known, and isn't even the best one.  Thorium is a far better civic reactor fuel, but uranium reactors were demanded by governments in order to produce weapons grade plutonium.  We know now how well that all worked out.  Thorium is vastly more abundant, nearly all of it is burnable (as compared to uranium 235, which is only about 0.7% of the natural volume of uranium).  Thorium is not naturally fissionable, and must be 'transmuted' within a reactor core before fission; and transmution of thorium takes about 28 days from first nutron bombardment.  So a runaway (supercritical) reaction is, although not actually impossible, orders of magnitude slower in cascading.  (Uranium235 is naturally fissionable, and U238 is transmutable into plutonium in seconds)  So instead of a race against time to get the pumps back online like we saw in Japan, the same kind of system breakdown would have to have months of inaction before there was a threat to the containment.  And that is not even considering that reactors designed for thorium can take advantage of it's inherently safer characteristics, such as a pebble bed reactor or the LFTR (Liquid Floride Thorium Reactor, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Molten_salt_reactor) that intentionally uses a molten core.  If those kind of cores make it out of their containment, they seperate from the main mass core, loose critical mass (if they ever had it, an energy amp is a sub-critical reactor that uses a particle excellerator to maintain a critical reaction) and then cool off.  Which results in the liquid core cooling off and solidifing, never to move again in a thousand years.  (If a reactor has a catastrophic systems failure, like we saw in Japan, the most likely result is that the core cools off inside it's own containment by convection over a period of weeks.  If the systems cannot be brought back up in order to maintain enough of a reaction to keep the core liquid, that core is probably a loss, but it still wouldn't get out.)  I would, for no other reason than to limit the 'detrimental reliance' that I have upon the power company, but there are cheaper ways to accomplish this.  A reactor can be built as small as 5000 watts, and made to last for decades.  This is exactly how the continuous mission to Antartica heats and powers it's base camp buildings.  An entire city block can be powered from a reactor site the size of a quarter acre home lot.I think that the 4S would be a huge boon, but I don't think it's going to happen before the thorium LFTR (Lifter) reactor is built, and during all of the recent news in Japan, the media completely overlooked the news that China has announced that they are going forward with a domestic thorium energy amp reactor design.The US has fallen way behind, and will continue to do so as long as governments and NIMBY types continue to inhibit progress. If you had a high school civic teacher, s/he should be fired.The United States is a Federated Republic, each state chooses it's own structure, but most are either a federated republic directly copied from the federal level, or commonwealth republics.The US is a far cry from a trade federation. Well, I do it solo.  So your probably right that no one in their right mind would do it.Of course, I do it (in part) to heat my study.  And no, I have never solved a block. The only alternative beyond a theoretical stage is 'testnet', which is almost exactly like the main blockchain except it exists to get hammered.  I believe that you can join the testnet with the regular client by way of a command line switch, but if it isn't -testnet I wouldn't hazard a guess. What about keeping the hard limit, but adding an occasional exemption, say every retarget block can be as large as necessary to clear the backlog. (or ten times as large, or 100 times, whatever)  That way, the longest delay that a cheap/free transaction is a couple weeks, and the clients without much bandwidth only has to deal with an oversized block occasionally and on a predictable schedule.This way. the near term scarcity that would drive transaction fees in the future would still be present, and donations won't languish to unrealistic terms.  I'm willing to volunteer to be the bad cop. You have an impressive ebook library. Silly statement, since Filezilla logged onto it in under a second just now, and I didn't so much as reboot Filezilla. I can't disprove a negative.I'll just say, give it a try.  See how it works out. The European 'anarchists' are not in favor of a stateless society.  They are, largely, socialists.  Intentional chaos is an intermediate stage outlined by Karl Marx, and in detail in Rules for Radicals.  Karl Marx noted that the majority of any nation has a vested interest in the status quo, even if that same majority can recognize it's flaws.  Thus, the status quo must be disrupted before any substantial change, in this case a socialist revolution, may be successful.  Certainly they don't all believe that they are socialists, but all of those who are rioting are contributing to that end, whether they know it or not. For the largest botnet ever discovered...Just sayin'.If you think your botnet is up to the challenge, give it a try. Not if the user was running a pool miner, or the 'shy' client.  The clients don't need to bootstrap with IRC, it just makes initial connections to the network quicker upon startup.  If someone was running a client 24/7, IRC would become irrelevant after a couple hours. For a limited time, sure.  However, even if you could isolate every known node from one another, you would still have to be (or connected to) the largest of the isolated networks.  A botnet can't realisticly stop these nodes from generating while isolated.  Artforz, alone, once represented 5%+ of the network and his setup is on a private network, not a pool.  So even if a botnet was large enough to fracture the network, the botnet owner's clients would have to be able to out run Artforz, any other miner of equal or greater capacity, and the total of the clients that it couldn't blockade.  For the blockade must end eventually; and when the network reconsolidates, the blockchain with the greatest proof-of-work still wins.  That could be the botnet owner, but it might not.  Participating honestly in the mining is still the best overall business plan.  This is actually part of the point of the way the mining system was designed.Sure, but by the time it's not, the size of the Bitcoin network will be much larger than any botnet.  And this kind of plan assumes that the major players in the network right now just sit back and do nothing while a DDOS attack persists upon the network.  This is unlikely, and all that it would take to completely deny the botnet owner his ill-gotten gains would be for Artforz to set up a couple of modems on his network and connect directly to a couple other major players to directly trade blocks.  Furthermore, there is no certainty that such an emergency physical peer connection network isn't already up and running.  How would we know if Artforz and the other major miners have privately discussed this or not?  With the capital costs that these miners have already commited to their systems, a few modems and a script to call one another directly over POTS (even if it were long distance) would be a small additional cost.If they haven't already discussed this, they will be shortly after seeing this thread. If that is all that is done, the two sets of clients will each be trying to claim the current blockchain for their own after the reward drops to 25 BTC.  This will force an ongoing blockchain split, causing other network problems.  If anyone wants to do this, they need to build a separate network like 'testnet' is now.  Otherwise, I would be more than willing to participate in a direct attack of nodes that used the 'other' client.  Bruce!  Where have you been?  I was beginning to wonder if you had burned out on Bitcoin.Any progress that you can report with regard to the POS system that you were working on in November? Humans are a herd animal.  The concept of a true democracy is impossible, because even if everyone truly could have an equal vote, there is always a significant minority of the voting public that seeks an alpha male. No, that's not a threat.  This just goes to show that it would be profitable for a botnet owner to mine using the botnet, which wouldn't harm the network at all, and would actually help it grow stronger.  What he was describing was blockading a majority of the honest network (probably by identifying the largest pools and other large miners that share an IP address) and denying those nodes access to the network in some fashion.  My point was that this probably isn't possible, because although a botnet could DDOS a large number of those major players, all of the smaller miners that the botnet isn't aware of (or simply doesn't have the size to attack) benefit as well, so the attack isn't viable.  As you have pointed out, it would be vastly more profitable for the botnet owner to simply bend his stolen clockcycles to actually mining in a 'honest' fashion.  For all we know, this is already happening. Appears unreachable to filezilla
The network-at-large is pretty large.  I would doubt a DDOS attack would be effective. This is a bad idea, at least from the perspective that you might not want to host files beyond your personal review on a machine in your home.  Because dynamic dns is easily backtraced to your actual address, if you are the right person (or agent of the state).  A hidden service over Tor would be wiser. Is this on your home machine? The .01 BTC transaction fee is probably because this is what the system requires to send if the amount sent is less than .01 BTC.  This fee exists to make transaction spammers pay for the act of cramming a block.  Are you certain you didn't enter the amount too small?I wonder if the daemon translates the user entry into the raw bitcoin number by default, if it takes the input without 'moving' the decimal point. They don't have to make anyone pay it.  There will be those who are willing to pay it for the advantages that it holds.  The 'free' section of the block is very limited, and in a successful future, very few people will be willing to wait for those free transactions to process, as they could take weeks in a future that Bitcoin processes at a rate comparable to Visa.Bitcoin is actually pretty crappy for micropayments, but variations on the online wallet service isn't the only way to do instant small value sales.  The double spend attack is relatively difficult to pull of, due to timing issues, so it's very unlikely that anyone is going to attempt it for a free soda and a bag of chips.  Even so, a vending machine client can reduce it's own exposure to such an attack in a couple of different ways.  Blockchain confirmations aren't even important in this context, as the transaction (once verified for validity) can be accepted at face value with as much confidence as it can accept a quarter dropped in the change slot isn't a slug.  Honestly, it's just a machine, and can't know; but the vending owner includes a risk premium to cover his own backside.I personally know someone who owns a number of vending machines and video games at a few local bars, I need to have a talk with him about Bitcoin.  It might be time to put theory into action. Too many outside variables to know if this would actually happen. The are, in fact, private banks operating under a government charter.  So, by definition, they are privately owned.  The idea that they are owned by the public in any context is false. +1 Such a thing does exist, but it happens to be pretty expensive. If someone were to develop such an ASIC and put it on a small SOC, and networked a bunch in a ribbon, they would make great heat trace cabling for water lines.  Parking garages (which still have to have fire suppression systems) have heat trace wrapped around water lines and mains, which are then insulated over that.  These water lines have to be heated continuously anytime the outside temp is below 35 degrees, so that cold spots don't freeze & bust the water lines.I considered making a Linux cluster like this about 10 years ago, but never did anything with the idea.  These might sell well in high latitudes. That has probably already happened, perhaps more than once.  That would be one reasonable cause of the spike and drop in hashing power about two weeks ago. Actually, there is no such thing as a national bank in the true sense.  Banks must be within a given state, and even when there are identical bank branches across state lines, they are legally two different bank networks.  I've run into this before, when I used to work in Cincinnati and live in Kentucky.  In order for me to have funds on both sides of the border at my favored bank, I had to have two checking accounts, and they had different routing numbers.  I would literally have to wire funds to myself, which was a pain in the ass.  It's some kind of interstate commerce law.  It often took more than a week for my paycheck to clear, for this exact reason. Actually, that's the point.  Accidents do happen, and I want her to learn how to deal with them while she is young enough to experience them while we are still there to be able to step in if need be.  Small cuts from a small two inch blade aren't going to get her killed, but never learning how to handle dangerous tools before adulthood just might.  It's like teaching a child about the hazards of water; is it better to teach a child to stay away from the pool, or to teach the child how to swim? No, she doesn't.  She's an urban child, but I grew up with a Swiss Army knife and used it daily; and have carried a series of 'multitools' (currently a Leatherman Wave I've had for ten years) which I use daily.  I tell my kids that the ability to recognize and use basic technology is what sets humanity apart from the remainder of the animal kingdom.  My wife objected to me wearing my "belt tools" to church (multitool & small holstered flashlight) until after 9/11.  Once the story about how one guy lead his entire office floor out of the dark building using an Indiglow watch, I said, "see!  Imagine how many more could have survived if they simply had a flashlight!"I've worn my "belt tools" everywhere I go since that day.  I've literally never left my house without them, even having to check them before entering the courthouse on a couple occasions.About a year ago, I heard about a case wherein an elderly woman got her excessively long scarf caught in an escalator, and was strangled in a panic because there was no one in earshot who had a pocketknife. You were doing fine until you conflated anarchism and libertarianism.  For the record, they are not the same.  Ideologically speaking, an anarchist is one who believes that he can govern himself, and that all individuals can rationally do so as well.  A libertarian is someone who believes that government is an evil that attracts the worst kind of person to be trusted with it's power; but that it is a necessary evil, and that there is a few minimum functions of government that are legitimate, and the kind of people who shouldn't be trusted are also the same kind of people that tend to be very good at actually performing those core functions so long as they can be restrained in expanding the scope of their authorities.  (i.e. sociopaths make great generals, but crappy overlords)Personally, I'm of the latter camp.  I can see the potential for success in anarchism, but I can also see the potential for an epic failure.  I believe that violence is not a legitimate means of social or political change, but I also believe that there is such a thing as justifiable use of force, either collectively or individually.  I also believe that the founders went through this same kind of discovery process; which is why they chose to replace the Articles of Confederation with the US Constitution. moving from an almost anarchist society of states to a more uniform, but more restrictive, libertarian state.  Not a perfect example of either, mind you.Still, even as I contest the idea that anarchy is sustainable, I can accept that it is possible; and perhaps one day technologies that we can't even imagine today will make a stable anarchy a reality.  That could only come if technologies make the primary functions of governments obsolete.  But as we have all witnessed over the past 20 years, we can't really fathom what may yet be.If Neal Stephenson is to be believed (and I am one to wonder if the man is really a technological prophet, not a sci-fi writer) then the emergence of a digital, anonymous and distributed monetary system is the technical precursor to an entirely different form of political association, based upon voluntary social and cultural identities, as opposed to to geographical association and imaginary lines on a map.  Time will tell.  I have a small collection of custom knives, and would be very interested in what you have to offer.  Are single piece knives all that you make, or do you make folders?  Right now, I'm looking for a small folding pocket knife for my daughter's 11th birthday.She got her Marlin rifle at eight, which really got a rise out of my mother, but that stays in the gunsafe.  I think that she's ready for some real responsibility.  Any recommendations from the forum?  What kind of pocketknife would you buy for an 11 year old girl? If he were to sell all of his investments, convert to cash, and burn it all in a public pyre; then all of the remaining cash in existance would be, temporarily, slightly more valuable.  Not to any extent that would be noticable, however, and only for however long it took the Fed to replicate those destroyed bills.As for injecting it into the economy, that is exactly what he does with most of it.  That's what investing is. You don't.  My client has never asked for that. I think that you guys are forgeting an important point about Bitcoin.It's not a US centric system.  Just because the US government might choose to stamp it out, doesn't mean that it dies in Russia or New Zealand. I think that you are both arguing on the same side, but from different perspectives.
Food and energy both had a large jump.  The prices in consumer products are lagging as compared to oil, because they were made with last summer's oil.  We see the prices in food rise quicker, in part, because nearly everything that we eat takes a great deal of energy to transport from where it is grown, to where it is processed, to where it is sold.  We will see prices rise in consumer goods if the current oil price maintains it's present levels. What do you base this upon?  Are you assuming surface area of geoengineerable planets?  Because I seriously doubt this is accurate.87.3% of statistics found on Internet forums are made up on the spot.Again, based upon what? That depends upon how much existing trust you have with the counterparty.  Credit card transactions of less than $50 at a gas station are regularly approved automaticly without even waiting for the credit card network to respond.  The double spend attack is quite difficult, as it requires good timing; and there are other ways besides the blockchain itself to increase your confidence.Still, I don't know how the simplifed system can discover payments that are sent to it from afar (as opposed to in person) without downloading full blocks before triming them.  Otherwise, how does it know that Grandma sent you 50 bitcoins with your eCard on your birthday this year? The coins are made up of transaction records, which can be any value up to the full 21 million BTC possible and down to 0.00000001 BTC.  The coins don't actually exist as a digital artifact independent of the transactions that relate to them.  When coins are spent, the client will add up different transactions to greater than the total needed, and then output those coins to two new addresses.  One would be the address that you are sending coins to, another will be a new address of your own for the change.  So transactions merge as easily as they are fragmented, and this is done my the client by default.Blockchain forks likely occur quite often, but it isn't problem unless the fork were to persist for more than 100 blocks, which is both very unlikely to occur and very unlikely to go unnoticed.  Short forks, of one or two blocks each, likely occur about once or twice each day, and will likely occur more often as the network latency grows with the user base. Which is why some kind of solution such as the local / archived blockchain split that I mentioned will eventually become necessary.  In order to keep the chance of collecting transaction fees a valuable enough incentive to keep someone from altering a client to produce empty blocks just for the reward.  A two year local history wouldn't be any more difficult to keep locally than what we have right now, and would cover 99+% of all transactions that miners are going to ever see, no matter how long into the future we are talking about.  In a couple decades, there might be special clients that exist for the sole purpose of archiving the blockchain, and when the rare event occurs that a transaction is referenced that is older than two years, all of the generators are going to need a copy of that block.  So the specialized archive client would then be handing out copies of that block hundreds of times from ram.Alternatively, the pruning process could still be employed by generating clients to great effect, since transactions wouldn't be pruned from the local blockchain until they have already been spent; and if they are not there anymore when a transaction calls for them, then the generating client can assume that the transaction is invalid anyway. New feature request...Blockchain broken up into distinct files, by year or half-year, so that really old blocks can be archived onto less-than-local storage while still be accessible to the client. The transactions in each block are hashed into a merkle tree, and the merkle tree root becomes part of the block header.  Each header is 80 bytes long, and in the simplified version, a "lightweight" client can verify a transaction that is being sent to it is valid by downloading the block(s) that the input transactions referenced by the transaction to be verified from another peer that is not the peer that the transaction is coming from.  This does not need to be a trusted peer because the lightweight client can then check the hashes in the merkle tree to verify that each block sent to it is correct and complete.  It could also download another copy of each block as needed from another peer, but this probably isn't necessary in the transaction values that Joe Average is likely to ever keep on his smartphone anyway.  If the user has a trusted client, say a full client running on his pc at home, and a continuous Internet connection (which he probably needs with a lightweight client anyway) then even keeping the headers locally isn't necessary, as the trusted client could verify the transactions; acting as a remote app server for the smartphone client.  The simplified client mode doesn't even require that the client download new blocks in full, until such time as it needs to verify a transaction, and can wait to download the headers in groups up to 500 in a set, so bandwidth usage is greatly reduced as well.If I got the details wrong, hopefully Gavin will set me back on the straight & narrow path.A generating client must have ready access to all blocks referenced as inputs into all the transactions that it is including into it's block, because it must verify that all of those transactions are valid before working upon the block.  Otherwise, if a bad transaction is included into their block, that transaction will invalidate the block and all other nodes will reject it.  Which means that said generating client just wasted a great deal of time and energy on trying to get a block.  Currently, 'ready' access means that a full local copy of the blockchain is prudent, but there is nothing stopping anyone from using some kind of network file system for their blockchain storage.  I/O delays would put such a generating node at a disadvantage.  Perhaps someday the blockchain will be split up into a series of files, (perhaps one file per year) allowing the clients to keep the last couple years locally and still have access to the archives on another machine should they need it. A fractional reserve bank could exit at up to a 50% reserve ratio, by openly stating that all deposits, including 'on demand' accounts, are used as reserve funds for loans.  Simply loaning out what they actually have on deposit, plus what they have in 'on demand' accounts, would be an advantage over a full reserve bank that had to be able to cover all 'on demand' accounts in full. Yes, they do.  So do I.  It's not particularly difficult to build a small faraday cage to store your ham radio in, while it's not in use.  And I learned the cheap & easy tricks to do that while in the USMC attached to a Communications Company Now I'm really curious. It doesn't even need to be a separate network.  A major vendor (or a vendor associaction) has a dedicated server for a client without connection limits, and has established persistent connections to as many major generators as is possible, but also has a list of regular clients that are attached to it, or even a list of 'lightweight' clients that are multihomed.  When the vendor receives a transaction from a customer in the store, before approving the sale at the POS station, the vendor's client sends out a copy of the transaction to every major generator first, and then every regular client except for *one* randomly chosen multihomed regular client.  Then the vendor's client waits to see what transaction the randomly chosen client sends him.  If the chosen client sends back his transaction, the sale is golden.  If any other transaction for those coins come across, the sale is denied.  If nothing comes across for, say ten seconds, then you are in limbo; but probably still not at great risk because the client chosen randomly could have lost it's connection, etc.  It is necessary to not send the transaction to one client because clients don't forward transactions that are invalid, and the second transaction seen in a double spend attack is invalid.  If you send that customer's transaction to the generators, those generators will regard that transaction as the valid one anyway, and will not report to you any conflicting ones.  So by keeping one connected client in the dark, you can see if that client sees your transaction from the network at large, or another one.No need for a parallel network, no need for a generating cartel, no need even for anything special beyond the function of the modified vendor's client.  It is likely that  insurance could be developed to protect against frauds, and this special client would be the insurance company's, but dependence upon a third party wouldn't be a practical requirement. Not by any definition of that term that I have ever heard.  Even an American gold Eagle isn't legal tender because of the gold content of the coin, but because of the face value stamped into the side of it. Who are you talking to?  It looks like you are trying to respond to me, but I didn't even address gold as a currency. JA37, it is a basic root premise that the state, and by state I mean any persistent political structure that a citizen doesn't explicitly opt into, is based upon violence.  Violence is both it's reason for existence (national defense being the largest part of that) as well as it's means of support.  Taxation, even by representative democracy, is the use of force or a credible threat of force to extract wealth from someone who (presumedly) honestly earned it.  In any other context, this would be theft.  So when you openly support the state, or the taxation required to support the state, you are (indirectly) supporting violence against others.  I'm not an anarchist, myself, and generally agree with you that there is a minimum degree of government required to maintain liberty, order and prosperity in any society larger than the average church business meeting, but I also understand that I do advocate the judicious & minimum use of violence to achieve those ends.  This is, at it's core, the primary function of law enforcement.  This doesn't necessarily make such support bad, but you do need to be honest with yourself and others about what your support of the state actually means. Well, let's examine that situation.  Could a convenience store accept bitcoin in real time?  I say certainly.  You walk in to the store to buy a candy bar, if you pay cash the attendant is likely to use a cash marker as a quick check for counterfit cash, but this is only a relatively minor means of avoiding such fraud.  In a similar fashion, a POS bitcoin client can check it's (presumedly recent) copy of the blockchain against the transaction that you produce for bitcoin.  If this check says that you honestly owned those coins up to the last update, it is unlikely that you are trying to double spend.  If we are talking about something a bit pricer, such as a grocery shopping trip in the 100's-of-dollars-range or so, the POS client might also be connected to a private VPN that exists to monitor for double spends in real time, (does your credit card transaction get approved in less than three seconds?  Even if it did, would it be unreasonable for the POS system to wait three seconds, looking for a competing transaction?  Longer than three seconds, and it likley doesn't even matter if a double spend is attempted, because the odds are extremely high that this transaction would be the one to get into the blockchain anyway.) signs of network divisions, or other possible frauds.  Some store chains, such as wal-mart would be likely to do this for themselves; but smaller stores and chains could join a VPN sponsored by their association.  Anything bigger, such as buying a new car, is likely to justify the increasing certainty of one or more blockchain confirmations.  Have you ever bought a car wherein the negotiations & credit process took less than a half-hour?My point here is that it is possible, and likely, for a vendor to have a reasonable degree of trust that a valid transaction is legit without any confirmations (depending upon the relative value of the sale) and that increasing confirmations only add to the certainty. That on top of local network latency.  A 2.5 second round trip delay is more than enough to put a node at a disadvantage. This is starting to feel familiar...http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=723.msg8019#msg8019http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=691.msg7283#msg7283 Credit card charges less than $50 are not normally even checked at a Point-of-sale, such as a gas station, within a reasonable distance of the card owner's home.  Bitcoin permits a great deal better verification than the credit card companies provide the gas station owners.And if the vendor is an online shopping vendor, there is no good reason to not wait for 6 confirmations before releasing an order for shipping. www.mtgox.comYes.T.I.M.T.O.W.T.D.I
There are some serious issues with such an idea, not the least of which is network latency, which is the main reason that the target interval is ten minutes to start with.  Another is the complexity added to the protocol.  And then I can't even see how it's necessary.  Transactions are complete in milliseconds, it's the confirmations that take ten minutes, which are way faster than how this is done by just about any other online method.  Credit card transactions are, likewise, nearly instant; but it can take up to 60 days before they are final.  So I have to ask, what is the problem trying to be solved? This sounds like an agorist wrote it.  However, there is no way to know if this author is representative of Anonymous, since they seem to reject anyone who attempts to speak for them. And that is why most people can't understand libertarianism. Basicly, yes.A client could detect when it is on the minority side of a network split, although none presently do, by tracking the average time interval between blocks.  If the interval is more than twice the average for several blocks, or more than 6 times the average once, that client is almost certainly disconnected from the majority network.Still, the clients cannot just decide to lower the difficulty. No, and if they tried then their blocks would be wiped out each time that they reconnected to the majority network, and those transactions would have to be included in another future block anyway.  The chain split that it would cause wouldn't be a problem for anyone outside of the ship. Bitcoin can be a reliable store of value, as can gold, silver, US Savings Bonds, or many other things.  There are investment vehicles that exist specificly as a store of value, such as US Savings Bonds, but even that isn't a certainty, and I can think of no such intentional structures that do not have counter party risk.  Commodities do not have counterparty risk if one takes delivery, but there are storage risks. That's probably because modern OS's can be trusted to handle any ram overusage by some form of virtual memory paging, but Android doesn't do this.  So some form of substitute needs to be created.  Perhaps bitcoinj can be modified to treat the blockchain as a series of records, of say 500 blocks apiece, and only keep the latest one in ram; and the rest as flat files on storage.  Odds are high that it would be rare that bitcoinj would have to check back farther than a couple months for anything, so beyond 20 such files, the client could then hash the entire blockgroupfile so that it could recheck it if it needed to redownload it from a support server.  Such a server could support thousands of such client, as downloads would be uncommon.In fact, this might be a good feature for the main client.  No need for a regular client to prune at all, and even keeping the headers would become optional if it had the small database of archived blockchain hashes. That has been called 'pruning' by others.  It was intended by design for a future 'lightweight' client that could still stand alone, without the need to trust a remote server. Not really true in this case.  The risk of double spending is if there is a person on the sub trying to send coins from a wallet to another person on the sub, while another person in the greater Internet has a copy of that same wallet trying to spend those same bitcoins.  This excludes the possibility that the sub was trying to generate while under water, which would be futile and therefore should be suspect anyway.  There would still be a near zero risk that coins could be double spent on the sub itself.  A disconnected client is at risk of a double spend, but a disconnected client can certainly itself spend. No, not really.  But any independent client will need to have access to a full blockchain at some point in order to even know that it has any bitcoins to spend.What about a remote blockchain?  A symlink over the Internet, or a blockchain 'server' that can scan the blockchain for these Android clients whenever the Internet is available. Indeed.  Currencies, in general, make for poor forms of savings.  That's not why they exist.  Bitcoin exists as an Internet cash equivalent, and if performs that function very well.  If you are looking for a store of value, there are much better choices. It will some time before a node could exist on the Moon, and the SoL delay would mean that any generators on the Moon would be at a distinct disadvantage.Low Earth orbit is doable now, but neither option actually protects the blockchain from a solar flare.  The current model  is easily as safe as can be expected. Not in my lifetime. Pay Kentucky taxes instead of Illinois taxes? I would like to be able to see my client running on Fluxbox WM.  I'm guessing that it tries to minimize to a tray, but does not show up in the Fluxbox tray.  Some command line switch to prevent auto-minimizing would be helpful. Great idea!  Then I'll write a script that installs a new client, transfers the free 1000 BTC to my other client, deletes the new client and repeats forever!  Give everyone free money, and we will all be rich! Canadians are forced to use metric when dealing with their governments, much like Europeans.  Where I live, the freeway signs have both miles and kilometers, and so does my car's speedometer.  Everyone else's speedometer has a kilometer scale in the US as well, because the government forced that upon the auto industry decades ago.  Yet miles remains the dominate scale; because then and now, Americans prefer to think in miles. Neerus sucks, too.Look around you.  Unless you are an engineer or some kind of scientist, the majority of people who are around you at this very moment have been educated in both systems, and continue to choose American Standard for daily functions.  They can do so because they are free to do so.  Their local, state and federal governments have to deal in whatever metric that the pubic insists on using.I hope you realize this is not an argument in favor of the free choice of the Metric Standard, since in most (if not every) cases, the public must deal in Metric because either their governments refuse to deal in any other system, Metric is the only system of measurements taught to children, or more likely both.  I can understand how Metric was better in Europe than the differing standards that were similar to Imperial, but different than the nation-state next door.  But that is not the case in the US, as we have been using the same standard across a land and culture vastly more intertwined than anything Europe could replicate before the European Union, but the Metric Standard was a great leap forward for interoperability and clear communications.  Not because it was a base 10 standard, but simply because it was a cross-border standard.  As far as consistency, American Standard is broken.  But it's never really been about consistency, but utility.  And for Americans, being the only significant population taught two different standards of measurements, the utility remains decidedly on the side of the American Standard.  Brokenness aside, American Standard is mostly a base 2 (or base 4) standard based on fractions, which is easier for lay people (and particularly those who are math illiterate) to understand intuitively.  For example; Gallon (1/1), Half-Gallon (1/2). Quart (1/4), Pint (1/8), Cup (1/16), Gill (half-cup, 1/32).  Beyond either end of the range of that example, things get broken, but this range alone covers most of the useful range (utility) for everyday measurements of liquid volume.  We do the same thing to all other units less explicitly, but we do it.  Half-mile, Quarter-mile, half-inch, quarter-inch, half-pound, ounce (1/16th), dram (1/256th lb), etc.  The greatest advantage Metric had that led to it's adoption in Europe, and most of the former colonies of Europe, was it's cross border interoperability.  Metric did not have an advantage over American Standard in this regard, so it has never gain common usage outside of professional fields.  The fact that Metric doesn't dominate in a large society free to choose it is evidence that it was not superior enough for a free public to choose it over what they already used. Good, God.  I would hope not.  Talk about 'newspeak'; free market = monopoly and force = freedom.  If I were king of Wikileaks, I'd still choose him to be the frontman, for no other reason than to stir controversy to keep the ire of governments turned in his direction and away from what my left hand is doing next.  Much like the president of the universe in 'The Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy'. Atlas Shrugged is best understood as a political philosophy disguised as a work of fiction.  All the main characters are representative of different classes of people, which is why they all seem so sterile, so completely vile, or utterly perfect.  Pretty much all of Ayn Rand's work followed this pattern.  It's still a pretty impressive opus, considering English wasn't her first language.
You're thinking, but there is no economic reason for any financial institution (bank or otherwise) to choose bitcoin as a reserve currency and then start another blockchain, for any blockchain requires a great deal of system overhead.  A bank might choose Bitcoin as the backing for a digital or physical currency of their own design and administration, but it would not likely be another blockchain.  If there is a central trusted party (the bank) there are other ways to handle the double-spend problem better than a parallel blockchain. Metric sucks, and would fail without explicit government advocacy and support.  Case in point, most Americans grew up learning American Standard (very close to Imperial, but not quite) because all the adults used it, and also learned Metric in school, because the government wanted people to use it.  Most everyone, if they have a choice, prefer American Standard in regards to the kinds of useful metrics lay people use; i.e. miles for traveling distances, feet/yards for sight distances, and inches and fractions of inches for fine distances.  The fact that an adult can convert traveling distances (km) into sight distances (meters) in their head is generally a useless feature, because people rarely have any reason to do so.   Shifting the decimal point does not create new coins, it only alters the representation of the coins in the client.  Every bitcoin is already divisible to 8 decimal places, shifting the decimal point over two places simply resulting is a trade unit that is accurate to 6 decimal places.  Everyone still has exactly the same measurement of value as they possessed before the shift.  The only effect is that it might be easier for people to understand. Actually, I'm not positive, but my own understanding was that all generating nodes calculate this independently.  Whatever differences that could exist would be very small, not likely to cause rejections. For a time, yes.  But that is how it works already.  Bitcoin is a parallel currency, that's not a future condition, and it's not the end result either.  IF you think about it, there are already many currencies that function in parallel with fiat currencies, but are not those currencies themselves.  One good example of this is Paypal.  They may express a user's account balance in their own national currency, but that balance is most certainly not that currency in any real form.  Paypal uses bits and bytes as much as Bitcoin does, but Paypal ties those bits and bytes to a currency, and takes the exchange fluctuation risks unto itself, which is one reason that Paypal must charge as much as a credit card company even though Paypal doesn't have the overhead of maintaining a massive transaction network itself.I could give a dozen other examples of parallel currencies also pegged to the national currency, but in every case there is no harm to the national currency because it's pegged, and users think about their value in relation to the national currencies.  In this regard, Bitcoin is different.  There is neither the need, nor the realistic ability, to peg a bitcoin's value to any other currency.  So as laymen begin to discover and use it, their thought processes on value calculations change; from using a national currency as their sole common reference of value, to using more than one reference of value.  In doing so, it becomes impossible not to compare those frames of reference, and one will appear "better" to each individual.  If Bitcoin appears "better" than the fiat currencies, and is useful in this regard, then those fiat currencies begin to fall out of favor.  And it is favor alone that supports their value.  At this point, the values of those same fiat currencies crash, and then there is no more parallel currencies, or there will be, but they will be expressed in Bitcoin as their common value reference instead of the national currencies.This process could take decades, but I doubt that it really will. The difficult is a multiple of the minimum difficulty level, which is just an arbitrary 64 bit binary integer that the hash must be less than to qualify.  The leading zeros thing is an approximatation of the method, but not entirely accurate.  If the clients were just counting leading zeros, then the difficulty could only increase as a log of 2 ( each additional leading zero doubles the difficulty).  Basicly, the 'target' is a 64 bit integer that the binary interpretation of the sha-256 hash must be less than, and the target number is adjusted up or down by a process similar to a 'fuzzy logic' type of system; always seeking it's balance.  In this case, the balance point is 6 block per hour, and every two weeks or so, the system makes a calculated guess as to how much the target must be raised or lowered based upon the average blocks per hour seen during the prior two week span.  All of the clients make this calculation independently, but because it's a deterministic calculation based upon a shared set of data, they all come up with the same answer.  The clients don't use the 'difficulty' at all, but use only the 'target'.   The 'difficulty' is just a metric devised to allow us humans to make sense of it all, because for us to look at the targets, it would be difficult for us to draw useful information from the target or it's changes over time.  Since the difficulty is expressed as a ratio (number of times more unlikely for a given hashing attempt will produce a hash below the target) it makes it easier for humans to look at the difficulty number and prior difficulty numbers and derive useful meaning from it. There are probably network admin who use bitcoin for benchmarking, or idle time.  Bitcoin is ideal for Condor in a commercial network environment. Could be done, but it would be expensive, and still very risky to the actual participants. If a 'big fish' like you describe were to jump into bitcoin, such as Warren Buffet (unlikely), they would be wise to not announce that fact until well after they have accumulated as much as they intended to.  Considering that much of the reason that such 'little fish' follow 'big fish' is that they are perceived to be wise in matters of money, I would be shocked to find out that any such 'big fish' openly advocating for Bitcoin before they were well entrenched. Considering that I'm a strong INTP also, I accept your conclusions as correct, intuitively. Doubt it.  Despite popular opinion, it's not illegal to posses uranium in small quantities.  Regulated, yes.  Prohibited, no.  That's just Hollywood.  Much like firearm suppressors.  Difficult to get, and expensive, but not prohibited. u-232?  I'm not familiar with that one, it must be rare.  U-235 is depleted, and I've held it in my hand.  It's not particularly dangerous, but I made sure to wash my hands before eating.  U-238 is the hot stuff. Where are these 9mm ammo boxes located? The immediate issue that I have with this statement, is that privately ran public safety organizations have existed in the US in the past, and in many places they still do. But I am a dick, can't change my nature.  It was a snarky way of me expressing my doubts. Nobody's perfect.  He's lowballing, but your offer is still too high.  There is just too much risk because 1) you have no reputation here and 2) paypal is rife with fraud.  The risk premium would be high enough that if you accepted it, then anyone would be suspicious that you were using a stolen paypal account.  Paypal isn't the way to get started in Bitcoin. Looks like MtGox's server got pwned.  Here's hoping that he did regular backups! Honestly, MtGox isn't in your country, and must abide by the laws within the country that it's owner resides; which I believe is the US.  Regardless, he would still be liable in the US for civil actions if he was aware of theft or fraud and did nothing. Anyone who can't get Ubuntu Linux to work should stop trying to install it onto their toaster and surrender their 'mancard'.  You do know that you need a computer to put that card into, right?
Providing liquidity is neither saving nor investing. Considering when the lecture was recorded, it'd entirely possible that Satoshi had already heard this before releasing Bitcoin. No one inherited bitcoin. It's  not going to work too well considering there is no mention as to what city the fridge is located. Notice, if you will, that WU still does business this way, and people still accept WU. Mostly because it would introduce an exploit path and reduce security.  Think about this; whether you use time, or confirmations, or whatever to age an account, how would you go about writing such rules into the vanilla client so that all honest nodes could collectively agree when an account is lost or abandoned as well as stop malicious clients from being able to take advantage of that?  Currently it's impossible for any lost coins to be recovered, honestly or not, so it's equally impossible for that to be an attack vector.  Add to that, what would be the gain to the network to be able to recover lost coins?  As already mentioned, lost coins are not a problem for the network's function, and everyone else's base value increases slightly when you lose your wallet down the memory hole.  So the only loser in the event is the owner of those coins.  The rest of the network has no incentive to risk such an attack vector.And deflation does not discourage investment, although it can alter the risk/reward calculations of an investor.  Any deflation that Bitcoin would experience after all 21 million bitcoins had been dispersed would be very gradual.  Actually, we are experiencing a great deal more deflation right now, due to the size of the bitcoin economy increasing at a vastly greater rate than the currency is currently inflating.  Considering that Bitcoin is currently inflating at about 50% APR, it says a lot that the value has been increasing at the pace that it has. Actually, it's been happening all around us gradually over the past two years.  The budget crises in the many states are a side-effect of this.  Hell, the very recession itself is a side effect.  This is one reason why the value of the USD has been fairly stable despite the near doubling of the M1 monetary base, because as the M2 is collapsing (Monetary base plus credit outstanding) due to defaults and the attitude of austerity the FedReserve has been printing new money at almost the precise pace that credit has been destroyed.  This, of course, cannot continue; as the balancing effects are relatively short term.  As soon as we hit bottom in the recession (which I still doubt we are very near) the velocity of money will increase towards the mean and the long term effects of all that debasement is going to be felt in earnest by the public, and the value of the USD then has only one direction that it can go.  I have no idea when to expect this, and I doubt that anyone else does either. Deflation happens.  With Bitcoin's high divisibility, any permanent losses of the monetary base simply makes the remainder more valuable; literally the reverse of the debasement of a currency (i.e. inflation)No.  Not anyone here who has an economics background, or has been here long enough to understand it, anyway.  It really isn't a problem, but I understand that me saying so doesn't really help.  Please search the archives on this topic, as it has been beaten long since dead. A court system can exist independently from a government, in fact that is preferred.  No.  Transaction fees are independent from the block mining reward.  Transactions fees are currently quite rare, as there is plenty of space in an average block that there is no need to pay a transaction fee in order to prioritize your transactions.There isn't a difference, but the 50 bitcoin reward that a miner gets for solving the hash and processing the transactions is how Bitcoin issues new currency into the network.  Any transaction fees that may be found would add to that reward.You're pretty close, but if miners drop out, and the average duration between blocks increases, paying a transaction fee would only speed up a transaction confirmation if there are enough transactions coming in during that time period to force that issue.  Currently, we are way under the blocksize limit, and have plenty of space in the 'free' section.Yes, it can.  It's a limted, but self adjusting algorithem, kinda like 'fuzzy logic', that tries to adapt the difficulty of the hash problem to the availability of hashing power so that the entire network averages 6 blocks per hour.   Search for a description of a 'phyle', and let us know if this is close to what you are imagining. A Common Economic Protocol?ReleaseCandidate-Alpha-0.0.1 Why not a bond issue? The trade, dark or not, is affected by the market rate.  Once the dark trade is complete, it likewise affects the market price and therefore other trades, dark or not.And you know this how?  Are you inside MtGox's head to be able to know what his intentions are, beyond what he has already stated were his intentions?  You may not believe his logic, but you don't know his thoughts.The truth is that anyone can set up a market and set whatever rules that they desire.I do mock you though, on your inability to present an argument at all.  Can you define "red herring" without googling it?  Based on how you are using it, "I don't think it means what you think it means".You may not see any reason to set an arbitrary participation limit on it, but you are not he-who-gets-to-decide. And the Devil knows the Bible better than any preacher, and uses it to justify his position.  That neither makes the bible wrong, nor the Devil right. Fort Know hasn't been audited since FDR. That's correct, but it's also how the system limits the total bitcoin that will ever be, as the block reward halves every 210,000 blocks, the total number of bitcoins issued approach a  mathmatical limit, never quite reaching 21,000,000 bitcoins.  At the inflection points, the difficulty will almost certainly drop, but by that time the value of those 25 bitcoins will likely be much higher than 50 bitcoins is right now. I've dealt with Madhatter on many occasions, and I will attest that he is as honest a man as one could expect to find.  However, the transit between the US and Canada is slow.  We all have real lives that must be attended to at times. You might just live to see the day that 1 BTC is equal to 1KG of gold, but I'm doubtful that the US government actually has any left. Deflation is no more disruptive to commerce than inflation, and both are only disruptive to the degree that they exist at the moment.  What is most desirable is general price stability, but only to an extent.  The deflationary design of Bitcoin, after about 120 years of course, is *very* gradual.  Between 2020 and 2130, Bitcoin will still be in an inflationary stage, but will be inflating at a rate less than every fiat currency on Earth has averaged over the past 50 years.  This means that Bitcoin's monetary base will be so stable, that price fluctuations will be much more affected by real market forces.  That is the ideal.  Very likely, none of us are going to be alive, and if Bitcoin survives in it's current state till 2130, it will have outlasted every fiat currency that has yet existed.  Even the US Dollar isn't even quite 100 years old as a fiat currency.
Procrastination can save you sometimes, too.  If I hadn't procrastinated in my plan to deposit into Icesave, I would have lost my ass.  A week later it collapsed.Did you read this whole thread?  What do you think of the plan?  And what is the local power rate per KWH? Perhaps, but whatever the case may be, your opinions are worth about as much as mine on this matter, which is to say, none.  The only opinion that is of concern is that of MtGox.  Even if you could convince a large number of people of your position (which you cannot) there would still be nothing that you could do to compel MtGox to change his policy.  Even if he came out and openly agreed that dark pools favor large investors in an unfair manner.It is, ultimately, his property.  That is the definition of freedom. I don't agree with your viewpoints here.  Transaction fees are and will be a market.  Currently the market price is zero, pricely because network data volume is relatively low, and therefore the cost to the network is almost zero.  There are some limiting factors on the growth of the blocks, however; both intentionally in software as well natural limits due to scale of the network.  As the transaction volumes increase, the average fee will also increase dynamicly.  Some people will be trading in a manner that requires that they get rapid verifications for the transactions, and they will need to provide higher average fees to encourage miners to include their transactions.  Others will be trading or donating in a manner that does not need quick verifications, such as a trade with mutually trusting parties, donations to a charity, or very small purchases; these transactions will not pay transaction fees nearly as high, or not any fee at all, due to the fact that they can wait for days, even weeks, for inclusion into a block.Nor do I agree that this is a commons situation.  If it were a commons, there would be a resource that can be extracted, without additional costs to the node, without any practical limits; which is not the case here.  Every node must contribute to the overall network just to participate, but not at an equal amount.  In the future, some nodes will be 'lightweight' clients that receive full blocks, but then trim their blockchains for their own needs, keeping only the 80 byte headers to verify transactions that relate to their own trading activities, but neither generating nor maintaining full time network connections.  Also, 'ultra-light' clients that keep no blockchain of their own at all, and depend upon network connectivity to a trusted provider capable of verifying transactions on their behalf.   Neither of these two types of nodes contribute much to the network, nor do they require much; but they give what they get.  Most users will likely use such lighter clients in everyday life, and the majority of the network will be supported almost entirely by the generating clients and other full clients whose owners have their own reasons to participate in the network as a full node, such as bitcoin 'banks' like Mybitcoin.com and verification services for the 'ultra-light' clients. If the demurrage rate was small enough, then it might work, but it would be no different in practice than the fees system.  Either way, the over-parity bitcoins end up in the possession of the miner who found the block hash.  Without looking into it further, one possible problem that I can see is that demurrage rates would be detached from actual block creation, so it's possible that they could occur at significantly different rates, resulting in an unbounded monetary base.  Also, demurrage would also make free transactions impossible, and that would be bad for shifting funds around personal wallets, donations and such. Is there an Ncurses frontend to bitcoind?  If not, could one be made?  That's what I really need. As dark pools are currently done at MtGox, trade data is public after the trades occur, so the pricing metrics are not affected.  The fact that orders can exist without public knowledge is not any different than if those same orders had been placed just before completion.  A script could perform the same function, waiting until the right offers hit the open pool before issuing counter-orders automaticly.  There isn't really anything special about dark pools other than anyone can use them without needing a script to do it. No he is not.  He has a right to his opinion, but that is all that it is.  Apparently both of you need some remedial economics education. Why would that be?  The owner of Mt.Gox doesn't want to deal with the additional work for dark pools for small trades, that doesn't prevent anyone else from setting up dark pools without those conditions. Still an order of magnitude higher than 8 months ago.  The year-over-year percentage increase probably measures well over 2000%. That's udder nonsense.  Transparency is not equatable to freedom, in fact, privacy in private exchanges is the definition of freedom.  If gay porn were legal in Arabia, but everyone had to register with a publicly accessible website to do so, how free would they really be?  Dark pools are just a formal manner of private trading, I've done the exact same thing via pm, email and cash in the mail.  None of those trades are recorded on any exchange metric either. Yes, and basicly everyone does this to some degree, but there remains a limit as to how well hedged any single nation can really be because ultimately the contracts have to be settled in US currency per international treaties.  This is a *major* part of the artificial demand that supports the value of the US dollar, but this will not ultimately prevent the US dollar from collapse. I have not.  This is my first attempt at Fluxbox, but that is because I prefer Blackbox 0.65.x.  Unfortunately, there is no more maintance of blackbox, and I really don't have the time to tweak everything anymore.  I used to use Blackbox on Gentoo, starting back around 1997 on a 486-66.  First those silly people at the phone company tried to tell me that anything slower than a P166 couldn't connect to their ADSL, and later others told me that it was impossible to play episodes of Stargate-SG1 on a 486.  Not with Gnome or KDE running on anything, but Blackbox on Gentoo, and nothing else running, I sure as hell could.  This computer is new to me, and is probably about four years old, but is still the fastest hardware that has ever entered my home.  It could barely move with Windoze XP running on it, but that didn't survive long in my home. I don't know if this is a Fluxbox issue or not, but I downloaded the .3.19 linux version onto my new Linux Mint 9 Fluxbox setup and started it.  I know it's running, I think that it's downloading the blockchain, but it does not produce a window.  Nor is there a process tile in the dock bar.  It's causing some serious 'thrashing', and I don't know if it's going to attempt to generate against my will when it's done with the blockchain.  It's bogged down my system so much it's now almost as slow at a Windoze 7 machine.  Anyone else experience this? Not quite.  The freedombox idea is about getting private data off the "cloud", but still accessible, with or without the Internet.  Part of the concept is that the freedomboxes could mesh in the absence of Internet, forming a citywide ad-hoc network even if the Internet 'kill-switch' is thrown. I sent Bruce just such an email a couple of months ago.  He never responded.For all we know, Satoshi could be Bruce's alter ego, but if he actually reads his emails, he is aware of Bitcoin. I'll pledge 5 bitcoin for a video of you in a stormtropper outfit, on a public street, with pedestrian traffic, for at least 10 minutes, promoting bitcoin in whatever manner you feel is most appropriate. First off, the scenario of 50% of the network power being able to create a false blockchain with a greater proof-of-work is practically impossible, as the attacker would need vastly more than 50% in order to gain enough on the honest network in order to perform any kind of attack.  50% would just let an attacker maintain a chainsplit for as long as he could maintain 50% of the network, shortly after he dropped to 49.9%, his false chain would be obliterated by the rest of the network.  Second, it's a strange thing to say "fake" bitcoins in this context.  If you had a modified client that could pre-calculate the proof-of-work (let's call it a magical client, since part of the design of the blockchain makes pre-calculations of blocks, if not actually impossible, astronomicly unlikely sans a shortcut error in sha-256, and if you found an error in sha-256 you would be famous) then your client would functionally represent itself as a much more powerful node than it really is, resulting in the honest processing of blocks being your least risky and most profitable activity, neutering similar efforts by unknown attackers.  Even honest generation takes 100 blocks before the owner can spend them, and a dishonest node is going to have a hard time maintaining a chainsplit for 100 blocks even if he precalculated some of them, and is otherwise limited to the same number of coins per block as if he came by them in the honest manner, because other nodes will immediately reject blocks that tried to create more than the proper reward, or any blocks that the transaction signatures didn't match. You are a perpetual pessimist, Shadow. This is false.  The demand for drugs is not as hard as energy.  The price of drugs is a ratio with respect to it's supply versus it's demand.  The legality of drugs effects the risks of production and importation, resulting in a lower supply, increasing the price.  The risk premium of drugs is so high, that it is not unreasonable for the street price to be half or less if all drugs were decriminilized.  This is why, even though tobacco is not yet illegal, that Illinois can only raise their sin taxes so high before there are cases of otherwise normal Americans getting caught "smuggling" a station wagon full of tobacco products from Kentucky. Nowhere.  Even Europeans have to buy oil inUS$ due to the Bretton Woods Treaty.  The Russians & Chinese would buy/sell oil in gold or their own currencies in a heartbeat if that wouldn't get them sideways with the US fed.
That's interesting.  Imagining a homeless vagabond with a MacBook makes me laugh.  Of course, in the city that I grew up in, and returned to, homelessness is (almost) a myth.  I grew up a urban child, and only encountered such in posters and on television.  When I lived in Ohio, Illinois or California; it was not such a myth. Another newbie with the sole insight into the great bitcoin flaw.  Seriously guys, this gets old.  Don't you guys ever think that we've already considered all this before you arrived?  Search the forum history before opening mouth/insert foot.  We get tired of explaining this stuff repeatedly. Couldn't you just force the second one to connect to the other via localhost, and benefit from the first one's connections? So if the NYT's runs an op-ed about bitcoin and the author estimates more than 10K people using it at any given time period, you when?  How could you lose, is there a time limit?  Does the Mayberry Register qualify, or TheBlaze.com?  I could esimate that more than 10K people have used bitcoins for something since Jan 2009 right now.  How is "success" defined for this wager? No.  The number comes from the combinations of the initial block reward (50 coins), the target blocks per hour (6) and the halving period (4 years).  There will be 10.5 million created in the first four year period, and then the reward will be halved while all other metrics remain the same.  As the reward continues to half again with each four year period, the total number of coins issued will trend toward the mathmatical limit (as in a logrithmic) of 21 million.  The numbers that define the outcomes are the initial reward, the target block interval, and the halving term.  All of these were design decisions that resulted in the outcome of 21 million, not the other way around.  The interval could have been 9 minutes, or 12, or anything; same with the halving period or the initial reward.  The interval needs to occur quick enough to verify transactions within a rational amount of time, and be long enough for a huge future bitcoin network to propagate transactions and blocks without significant latency issues; but why 10 minutes and not 6 or 15?  Mostly it was an arbitrary design decision, and 6 or 15 or 525 seconds or anything else would have worked.  The same is true for the initial block reward, why a round decimal and not a round binary, such as 64 or 128?  Why 50 and not 100?  Why an even four years and not 3, 5 or a moving term?  (i.e. why half only the reward?  why not two-thirds of the reward and two-thirds of the halving term?  too complex?)  In the end, someone had to make decisions before this all began, and their merits are arguable, but in the end they are still arbitrary. Indeed.  The first-to-market advantage is a tough one to overcome.  Betamax was certainly superior to VHS, but not by a large enough of a margin to matter. There is an android app on the market that is intended to track the spot price on MtGox.com.  It downloads & installs just fine on my Samsung Intercept, but it will not run on it.  It may be because the in Intercept has a non-standard screen resolution, but beyond that I couldn't guess.  Was this developed by a forum member? This request is functionally identical to my previous request for an 'export to file/import from file function', except mine included transaction data as well.  I don't understand why this is such a difficult thing to implement, since GnuPrivacyGuard can import and export public and/or private keys to files, which I can then attach to emails if I desire.  Granted, this is extremely dangerous with private keys; but it's going to happen anyway. I voted yes, but am particularly interested in the modern geek on the streets angle.  What tricks do you use to gain Internet access?  How do you keep your devices charged?(mintyboost?)  Are there any apps that are particularly helpful?  These kinds of things.  Yes, I would be willing to contribute a small sum in bitcoins for useful information; but I'm looking for info, not storytelling. I think the whole deal took less than ten minutes,not counting lead time, but part of that is because I don't know how long till I noticed I had a PM.  I would have slowed it down if I didn't already trust my counterparty's prior rep, but not by much since I could see the deposit in under a minute anyway. You can get craploads of 128 meg drives on ebay, cheaper by the dozen, but tere is no safe way for the receiver to know that the disk contains the info that you claim it does without actually plugging it in to his own computer to look at it. It's a bit of both.  Think of it as several conspiracies all competing for similar, but conflicting, end goals.  And don't forget that there are several such multi-generational conspiracies that are open (not secretive) about their end goals.  The Muslim Brotherhood is one such conspiracy that has taken on much activity as of late, as their stated long term goal is the establishment of the 'Califate', basicly an Islamic empire worldwide. Playing?I've witnessed tabletop fusion first hand.  I know it works.  I also know that the trick is getting over parity energy out, other than just added heat.  Heat alone is useful, if someone where trying to heat a home beyond the arctic circle, but the tabletops emit beta, gamma and some nutronic radiation; so they are not something you just set up in one corner of the basement and let run.  And H2 isn't easy to come by, either. What's the point?   This offer is no longer available. I have 100 bitcoins, and need $85 into my paypal account soon.  Any takers? Transactions are stored within a block in a merkle hash tree, so the block can be pruned of long spent transactions and still be verified as being authentic by it's merckle root hash within the block header.  It only takes a dozen or so kept history to be certain that a transaction is real. There will be some centralization, but what you really fear is a de facto monopoly.  This is, for all practical purposes, impossible.  The size of the blocks is irrelevant, since the only part of the block that is permanent is the 80 byte header.  The rest can be purged eventually, after the transactions have been referenced. If the library doesn't have it, request it through inter-library loan.
Campaigns can't accept anonymous donations due to campaign laws.   I've already suggested even simplier, by recommending Whatever Happened to Penny Candy from the Uncle Eric series, which is also based on praxeology, but no one would bite. Nah, that's just a myth.  Wasn't that on one of those public service videos we had to watch in high school? Wait, What?Where is this? Regaining control is as simple as regaining the majority of network power.  This kind of attack is dependent upon either honest node operators not noticing the shift in computational powers, or simply not reacting.  Neither case is particularly likely, but the idea that honest nodes wouldn't be able to quickly respond once such a takeover of the system was apparent is silly. There are numerous major players just on this forum that would have the ability to quickly add power to the network, if they had some compelling reason to do so at a loss, by purchasing & setting up bitcoin daemons on 'the cloud'.  There are quite a few people with much to lose under such a situation as may be willing to spend some of that in order to protect the remainder, and many more still willing to contribute to that end to protect their own smaller nesteggs.  Ultimately, it then all comes back to how long can an attacker maintain the advantage; and which group can continue to commit escalating resources, the coordinated attacker or the collective of honest bitcoin nodes.  No matter how much computational power any particular government may have, it is practically impossible for any single government to be able to possess >50% of all the computational power of the Internet combined, or even >50% of all the computational power available to all of the world's governments combined.  Bear in mind also, if Bitcoin is bad for the nation on top of the fiat currency scheme (USA) then it is, more likely than not, good for almost all of the others.  A slow moving attack upon the Bitcoin network from one government is likely to prompt the (open or cladestine) support of many other governments eventually.  Whatever you are on, I want some. I'm sure that's true, but considering that libertarianism isn't part of the thread topic, you still don't know what you are talking about.  Hell, you don't even know what you should be talking about.I would have to read a different thread, the only ideology in this one followed you here.I'm not.  I'm not an anarchist, nor a Marxist.  I have proposed nothing, and if others have, it is only in response to your thread highjacking. The right to keep what you produce is a fundamental human right.  It may be control, but no one else loses any honest freedoms when the owner does what he will with his own property.  There is no such thing as collective property, even in the former USSR the trucks may have been bought by the government, but the drivers held *possession*.  Real capitalism existed in the USSR, it exists everywhere, because it's not an ideology.When you boil it down, there are only two laws of civilization..."Do all that you have agreed to do, and do not encroach on another's person or property."  (Mayberry's Laws)This is the whole of the law.   Notice, also, that these are laws concerning individuals, not all of society.  Ideologies aside, any society that generally honors and supports these two laws, tends to prosper.  Yet, once a society no longer honors these two laws, it tends to decline.  They are not absolutes, and can be violated often before the society begins to show it's rot, but they never will be denied.  Marxism cannot exist, simply because it fails to honor these two laws.  Democracy fails this test also.  Capitalism, even as defined in the context of control of the means of production, does not neccessarily violate these laws. Not if you don't know what you are trying to critique.  And complaints about various political ideologies is a weak critique of an economic theory.  You have pulled this thread way off topic.  Go start your own tread elsewhere so that the rest of us can properly ignore you.  Also, you keep saying that it is trivial to prove us wrong.  If it's trivial, why don't you actually offer evidence in support of your positions? I considered buying one of these for my kids when they were new.  Could it run a bitcoin client. Then you do not understand what capitalism actually is.  The word, ironicly, was coined by Karl Marx.  He made it and 'ism' because he wanted to paint it as an ideology.  It's not an ideology, it's a collective description of the free exchanges of individuals within a working free market.  There is no example of true capitalism anywhere in the world that I can point to, because the closest thing to capitalism that still exists is the illicit drug trade.  State capitalism isn't capitalism, it's merely a soft form of national socialism. Like so many things, the term 'anarchy' gets lost in the nuances of semantics.When anarchists speak of an anarchist ideal, they are not speaking of lawlessness.  What they really mean is a society without any persistent institution with a monopoly on the use of force.  Asking how it would work out is asking for wild speculation.  A better question  would be, "has it ever worked before", for which the answer would be "yes and no".  Yes, because we have numerous examples of societies that existed that functioned for generations without any persistent institution forming that filled such a role, but also formed such institution on an improve basis due to threat of invasion or internal conflict.  The 'old west' is a somewhat recent example.  Even though there was, literally, a federal government; the closest thing that most residents of the western territories ever encountered to a government was the county sheriff or the federal marshal.  Judges were elected by the counties, and traveled from town to town to adjudicate crimes and civil disputes, but even judges were hired locally and their enforcement was as local as the sheriff's willingness to abide by the judge's decisions.  Still, it was a far more peaceful and law abiding society than contemporary cities such as Detroit or Oakland.  Disputes were rare, and more often than not negotiated between neighbors.Another example is the 12 tribes of Israel of the old testament, prior to the establishment of the king.  Another is the Swiss from their foundation without a monarch around 1250 A.D. to at least 1450 A.D. and arguably much longer.No, because those examples no longer exist.So the question needs to be updated.  Can a society exist without a persistent institution developing with a de facto monopoly on force in a modern society with modern technologies, social interactions, and population densities that are common today.  I'm inclined towards no due to intuitive reasoning, but no one can really say for certain because no one can really predict how such a society might develop. I can't speak to the GPU generation thing, but in my experience switching to Linux from Windoze gets you more of everything worth having on the exact same hardware. I'm sorry, but what does radical nationalism mean in this context?  Because from an American perspective, it doesn't sound like something I would support. Based on a quick google search, there doesn't seem to be an active makerspace/hakerspace in Iceland.  However, I'm sure that there is something that we could work with.  Even a GNU/Linux users group would a good lead. It's decided then, we shall focus our advocacy upon Icelanders.  Are there any bitcoiners from Iceland already?  The rule of six degrees of separation says that someone in this forum will have some kind of indirect access to Bjork, the trick is discovering who that might be.  If there is an Icelander in the forum, that would likely be the person with the best personal access, considering the size of the Icelandic population is smaller than a mid sized American city.  All it might require is a phone call, an appointment and a bus ride to make this happen.Let's not be subversive, however.  Whoever ends up making this pitch also needs to make it clear that the existing bitcoiners stand to gain if Bitcoin takes off in Iceland.  This should not be presented as an entirely altruistic enterprise. Iceland is an ideal choice.  Not only do they produce a majority of their (non-transport) energy needs from geo-thermal, they have a year round heat demand.  Their own currency isn't particularly well accepted elsewhere, either.  It would be, in many ways, good for the population of Iceland to embrace Bitcoins. It might happen this way, but I would doubt it.  If the world could reject the US FRN as the international currency without great harm to their own economies, I suspect that they would already do so.  The result of so much cash returning to the US would result in massive inflation, but would also harm most other nations as well. I contest that the US FRN is actually falling in value.  That would depend on how one looks at it, but every way that one can look at it is relative.   Do you mean something different than www.mybitcoin.com?
That would be because the US Constitution didn't create a democracy.  Not even a democratic republic.  The US was intended to be  federated republic.  The parlimentary republics of Europe are far more democratic in nature.  Senators were not elected by the people until 1913, and our head of state (president) is neither directly elected by the people, nor indirectly through parlimentary procedure.  It's done through an entirely independent body called the 'electoral college'.  I'm pretty sure that no other nation functions in like manner.  As a side note, Abe Lincoln was fourth in the popular vote, and wasn't even considered a contender before the electoral college met. I was referring to studies done before co2 was considered a pollutant, so I'm pretty sure that refers to spills, dumping, runoff, fumes etc.  I might have to review those studies. I'm unconvinced as well, but I'm willing to keep an open mind.  What I am concerned about are those who are not willing.The 'old West' territories before statehood were functionally stateless and seemed to do fine.  Either discipline isn't a requirement, or self-governance leads to self-discipline, or both.  I'm leaning towards both.The largest polluters in the United States, by any metric, are government agencies.  And they are largely insulated from civil actions.  How do you deal with that? That sounds backwards, as the larger customers tend to have bigger discounts.  Why is it this way, is residential electric subsidised? Such a thing would force bitcoin's developers to focus on the pruning of the blockchain, upsetting the development timeline, but would not spell an end to Bitcoin itself.  A pruned blockchain couldn't be considered a vector for child porn. I don't think so, but it would make you a felon just about anywhere. There is no way that I could afford my lifestyle with your energy rates. I live about five miles from a 80 megawatt hydroelectric plant.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McAlpine_Locks_and_Dam Innomen, you are getting upset.  Calm down.  It is good for the community to have those who consider the weaknesses, but it is not neccessary that everyone agree on what to do about that.  I agree that the threat is greater than can be perceived at this time, but I don't agree that changing the system to permit coin recovery or forcing a security model on the user is the answer.  The real answer is that there must be many answers.  The vanilla client is just that, if you see a security issue with it, change it and release the code.  Some people will adopt your ideas, others will not.  What makes the whole of Bitcoin at greatest risk to destruction from a single massive attack vector is that everyone uses the same base code.  Using different OS's is only a stopgap measure.  Backups of wallet.dat files are only a stopgap measure.  We are aware that there is a risk to all of this, or many risks.  You are being heckled mostly because you are presenting the problems from only one perspective, your own, and seem to know very little about how the system actually works.  Not enough to offer any real solutions, at least not widely acceptable. That would be an improvement, but the 'scorched earth' type attack wouldn't care to sign a transaction.  However, any methods to hide the wallet.dat data by the client itself would be in the source code, and the attacker would know where to go to destroy that data. That only applied from your own frame of reference.  Self-preservation is a logical basis for ranking prejudices, and such prejudices help keep us safe.  But I don't hate nazi's for the same reasons.  I am both part Native American and part European Jew, but you would have been hard pressed to tell by looking at me.  Beyond your self-framed references, your personal taboos have no basis in a larger society. http://www.newcriterion.com/articles.cfm/Dependence-Day-6753Long op-ed, but very good.  Will instill both pride and horror in any self-respecting American, Briton, Canadian or Australian. Last I checked, my residential electric rates were under 8 cents per KWH. One can assume that homosexuality is a taboo subject to anyone that could reasonably be considered a homophobe.  It's not taboo to myself, and likely not yourself; but I would wager that neither of us would seek it out, either.My point was that everyone has something that is taboo/offensive to themselves, whether it's due to their upbringing, culture or personal issues.  I am not an exception whether I could prevent others from engaging in my taboos or not.  I would be willing to wager that you are not an exception either, if I could disprove a negative without your participation. Not only did Stuxnet use four zero day exploits, only two of which were unknown; more analysis by actual experts has resulted in exactly the opposite conclusion of the media.  Although this was certainly put together by a group of people with a wide knowledge base concerning their target, a nuclear fuel refinement facility, the actual programming displays some basic errors with regards to the construction of a computer worm intended to hide from detection.  Either they were unaware of some old cloaking tricks better than what they chose to use, or the authors intended the worm to be discovered.  Considering the evidence all together, the worm was probably written by a small middle-eastern government in a hurry with a strong motive to delay Iran; which seems to implicate Israel.  However, Iran's facilty is still not running months after the discovery of Stuxnet, so the one that was found may have been a distraction for an even better cloaked version still hammering away at it's intended target.  It was a very precise weapon, as well, very tightly targeting only the particular facility it intended.If any GNU/Linux distro has four unpatched zero day exploits at the same time, I'll eat my hat. Let the market decide. And my point was that regardless of how any particular advocate of any particular ideology may think about public choice theory, they all basicly believe that what they advocate will result in a better society.  The key difference is that authoritarians of every flavor fundamentally believe that some form of proper government is the key to that better society, while libertarians (the 'big tent' version of that word) of every flavor fundamentally believe that that a proper government is impossible. Most people resolve conflicts peacefully without the aid of the state.  In the relatively rare cases that the state police & court apparatus is required to resolve a conflict, it's never peaceful.  The fact that both sides may, in public, comply to the decisions of a judge are more often due to the implict threat of force that a judge's decision is supported by. How is it any better or worse than any other form of prejudice?  Don't take the high road here, everyone has their cultural taboos.  I didn't say anything about this part of this thread, because I know that I have my own.  In this case, I agree with both sides to some degree.  I have no problem with Bruce's lifestyle, provided that I'm not exposed to it.  However, as Namigold has already pointed out, in his first interview Bruce kinda shared a bit too much.  He was also somewhat led there as well. Excellent.  That's nothing.
No, I don't.  In this conversation, you're the advocate; so you need to distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate use of force.  That was part of my point about the 'just versus the unjust' post.  What most people think of when we use the term "law" are things that are prohibited because they are bad, but those statutes make up only a very small percentage of those produced by government.  In nearly every case of statutes that exist to punish infractions of common sense and basic civility; those actions (or something very much like them) have been prohibited in civil societies since the dawn of civilizations.  The statutes that refer to them in modern texts of law only clarify ambiguity and define consequences.  Beyond that, everything that comes from government is unjustifiable use of force.  I contend that is a given under the premise that governments are the organized use of force.That would, indeed, be a wonderful trick.  The fly in the ointment is that is exactly what everyone else believes that whatever they advocate would accomplish.  Be they socialist or anarchists, authoritarians or libertarians, republicans or monarchists.Why isn't it?  When the US was founded, Congress was in session for only three weeks a year, and were not paid.  If we went back to that age, when serving was an obligation instead of a career, I would wager than things might improve significantly. No.  I expect that the anarchist poster that you were responding to in that post, and whom you implied that you would rob under such a state of anarchy, to be packing heat.  For that matter, I would expect him to be packing heat now.  Granny would be the soft target in this context.Would a return something like the British Common Law of generations past qualify?  Wherein the law is 'discovered' by judges over long periods of time?  Or are you thinking more of a 'phyle' system as described in The Diamond Age? I would say no, but some would disagree.  That said, the "law" as we know it is not written to restrain the just, but the unjust.  The just understand the "law" intuitively, and don't need it written down.  Any law or regulation that restricts the just from their proper actions, is a false law that deserves to be ignored.Just don't be confused about the morality of what you advocate.  Yes we do.  The most effective way of doing what you say above is to remove the regulations currently in play altogether. No need to do anything but wait.  All fiat currencies have followed the same path.  Although the FRN has had a pretty good run, perhaps the longest in the history of fiat currencies, it looks like the game is almost up.That's actually a fair accusation, but it's almost as true for the Yuan.  The Chinese government has been understating their inflation rate for a number of years now.  Perhaps the past decade.  They aren't as careful at it as the Federal Reserve, and they are going to have a currency crisis pretty soon.  An in China, that is likely to lead to civil unrest, since the working man there ddoesn't even have the pretense of having some say in his own government's policies, and therefore the only path towards reform is bloody.  I would caution anyone considering large investments into China.  We know that China is a powder keg and the fuse is already lit, we just don't know how long the fuse is. Experience tells me that the kind of person who is willing to live in a state of anarchy is the kind of person that makes for a hard target.Actually, that's exactly what you seem to be suggesting. What about adding Busybox?  Or even all of the GNU tools neccessary to make Android a full GNU/Linux compatible?  Considering that most people who are using an android smartphone are almost always connected to the Internet, it's not unreasonable to have symlinks to an entire set of libraries on the cloud.  For that matter, how big would a staticly linked bitcoind binary be?  HAs anyone tried it to find out? The northern Atlantic is largely a commons under the control of the EU as it is, so this is a case of government failures.  The assumption that a government is neccessary to make companies play by rules starts with the premise that government will make companies play by rules.  We have all grown up in societies with rather large governments, under the impression that government oversight is better than the alternatives, but history tells us something different.  I am not an anarchist, but I agree with the anarchists on this forum when they say that increased regulation/government is not a solution.  Government is force at it's core, there is no way around this.  Government regulations are more likely to harm the small fisherman than protect him or the natural world.  I don't have a solution to the problem of the depletion of natural fish stocks, but I know with high certainty that government isn't a solution either. Everything is relative. If you're new, how do you have 250 bitcoins? Sure there is.  Paypal has a standard transaction overhead of 2.9% plus some small fixed fee, which I believe is about 60 cents.  Currently, Bitcoin has no such fees; and when it does they will be truly market based, likely never approaching 2.9% except in very small or very unusual transactions. http://www.lewrockwell.com/north/north932.html Historicly, this is not so.  The people who choose tend to be those people who already have some advantages over their countrymen, and become the warrior class themselves.  No exceptions.  The "communist" revolution of Cuba is a prime example.  The revolutionaries there were not communists, they were thugs who made a living killing people until they became the govenment itself and had to cut back on the killing.  They called themselves, and surely many believed, that they were communists; but the big picture is that they were just another warrior class. And by doing so, do the people not become a government? This is true, but the areas that anarchy existed could only maintain this politcal condition if there was some kind limiting factor to the spread of the monarch's control.  Usually this was so only in areas that were geographically undesireable to live in, or simply could not sustain a large enough population to coalese into a city-state.  Such areas included high mountainous regions, various degrees of desert, or extreme latitudes.  Basicly, a natural anarchy has only existed peacefully, throughout history, beyond the political reach of society. You are correct, more or less.  However, and I'm know I'm being anal here, what you are describing is a currency unit; not money.  And the use of a money arises first in the absence of coercive forces such as a government.  A socialist anarchy is impossible, because capitalism is the natural extension of individuals exercising their right to trade the fruits of their own labors.  If a socialist society were to form from an otherwise anarchist society, one of two things will happen.  Either the best efforts of the majority (seeking the greater good) will be undermined by a minority (seeking only their own best interests), such as was entertainingly described in the movie Star Trek Insurrection, resulting in the rise of a warrior class (and therefore a peasent class) ultimately leading to the formation of a monarchy.(all warrior classes form rank structures, the guy with the highest rank is the monarch by default)  Or the first generation of social anarchists will wisely foresee this flaw in their own logic, and found some institution intended to organize the collective forces within society to oppose the rise of gangs or any other warrior class that is not beholden to the socialist collective.  In which case, they have just established a government, and are no longer anarchists.True anarchy as a political structure is unsustainable, and will always lead to something else entirely.  Most self-described anarchists are aware of this, and therefore are not really anarchists; but instead are whatever kind of idealist that they expect would come from the anarchy.  Anarchy is simply a temporary condition; the time period between the final collapse of the current condition and the initiation of the intended political structure.  Karl Marx was, himself, aware of this and regarded a forced state in anarchy as a necessary step towards his communist ideal.  Historicly, they are all wrong.  Anarchy has always led to the formation of warrior classes taking control of territories, whether you call them gangs, warlords or freedom fighters.  The engineers of these technologies don't do things the way they do because 'playing nice in a small pen' is their primary concern, although it likely is of some concern.  If they just chose to do what is in their own interests only, without considering their impact on others, then eventually others would make undermining their success a priority.  However, if the engineers consider the impact on others, and try to minimize that impact, they stand a higher probability of success without interference themselves.This is exactly why WiFi, Bluetooth and Zigbee can all share the same band in the same area and generally succeed at their primary missions. What says that we want them to play nice?  all of these are examples of forms of commons, but we also have real examples of real successes when innovators don't play nice.  For example, Wifi, Bluetooth, PSK31, Spread spectrum and many other wireless technologies function so well in a crowded EM environment as a direct result of not playing nice, and development that proceeded under the premise that otherswould not play nice.  Wifi & bluetooth in particular use the same unlicensed band, and must function with interference in order to function at all.  And yet, you can buy smartphones today that allow you to use your wifi connection to use Skype while talking on your bluetooth headset inside of a coffeehouse that several other people are trying to do similar things. that wouldn't work either, because you are then dependent upon some financial institution's ability to defend the peg.If someone really wanted to attempt this, one way to do it would be to keep Bitcoin's halving pattern, but double the term with every halving of the reward.  If the starting term were still 4 years and the reward 50 Timecoins every 10 minutes or so, then 21 Million coins would be distributed in the first 12 years, and 31.5 million after 28 years, and so on. I doubt that, really.  There are a number of early forum members who seem to have had substantial resources before jumping into this, who likely had a better ability to generate than a single, presumedly middle class, programmer.  ArtForz likely had greater wealth overall, both outside and inside of Bitcoin.  I can't imagine that it's terribly likely that Satoshi has personally dedicated more than a few cpu's to generation.  Assuming that ArtForz's claims with regard to his own generating capacity are remotely accurate, which has more or less been verified by at least one other forum member; it is very unlikely that Satoshi is even in the top five. One of the great things about Bitcoin, is that there is no way two reliablely produce a top 100 richest list.EDIT:  the top 100 richest list you have on your site could all be owned by the same person, or could all be owned by persons who are very far from the top 100.
I think that they will eventually.  Many enlightened people didn't believe that the public would long suffer fiat currencies once fractional reserve banking was legalized, and many more believed that worldwide abandonment of the gold standard would lead to major monetary crisis (true) and that the economicly educated among the world powers would clamor for a return to sound money. (false)If bitcoin takes off, it will not be because of it's limited monetary base, since it's going to be inflationary for a very long time.  If it takes off, and I am betting a great deal that it will within three years, it will be because it's a more efficient and more convient monetary system than otherwise currently exists.  At which point, the refusniks will either begrudingly drop their objections in order to participate in the new economy, forever waiting for the day of the "great Bitcoin collapse"; or simply drop out of Bitcoin economy and render themselves irrelevant.If someone were to implement Timecoin, how would the initial distribution of the currency work?  Bitcoin has solved this problem elegantly, but if Timecoin has a fixed inflationary structure, say 2% per year, how would this be enforced by the network?  Would you start, say with everyone there at the genesis block sharing a fixed starting amount, and then each block then distributes whatever amount would equal a 2% APR?  (Say starting with 10.5 million coins, first block would be 3.9954378, second would be 3.99543531, etc).  Talk about getting screwed if you are the guy who joined the network 6 minutes after teh genesis block.  Enough people on this list bitch about the advantages of "early adopters" with Bitcoin.  If you choose to distribute teh first 10.5 million coins in the same way as Bitcoin, and then switch to a 2% APR forever, it would be decades before the problems with inflation would be noticed. Intuitively true, but if there is any group that is inclined to avoid proper phycological profiling, it's politicians. You've mentioned that before, but your statements don't mesh.  Not all anarchists are the same, as some intend for anarchy to be a stepping stone to another political end; and many who say they are anti-authoritarian are really anti-current-establishment.  If you can imagine a type of authority that you could find acceptable, then you are not truly anti-authoritarian.  Honestly, I don't think that libertarians are absolutes in this regard.  I'm certainly not, as I have real problems with the concept of absence of government.  Duely limited, sure, but anarchy isn't a sustainable condition, even when it's desirable.  There are always that thin minority of the population that is truly evil, for whom the collective force of society is the only plausible limitation.  Nature doesn't like a vaccuum, and neither does politics.  It is a part of human nature for most people to look for guidance during a crisis, and a crisis is easy to manufacture within an anarchist society. It really depends upon, not just how careful you are, but how careful the gay porn site is.  This is why bitcoin is psudoanonymous, not truly anonymous.  You can actually choose to not disclose your identity to the porn site, but you really cannot hide it from a determined investigator.  If a reporter were to associate one or more bitcoin addresses to the gay porn site, and then associate one of the addresses that have sent them money with you; then use of Tor doesn't matter, you're going to be on the news.Again, this isn't about the security of Bitcoin itself.  If the bitcoin address(es) used to receive donations for said service are associated to yourself, you're burnt.  And yes, you could out yourself by sending the coins to another address of your's that is known to be yours, or by spending those coins with someone or some site that could be compelled to tell the interested who it was that bought something with those coins.  There may not be a shipping address,  but there would be other clues in the logs that a talented investigator could use. You can't know how many bitcoins that Satoshi has at present.  You could take a fair guess as to how many he generated early before other players jumped into the game, but there is no way for you to know just how many he still has.  He may have been living off of bitcoin sales for a while. Not H&R Block, they are just using a program like TurboTax.  Go to a CPA, or stay out of the whole mess. What city do you herald from?  Someone here might have some work for you to do. Then that is your root problem.  If this is how you believe people are, then you will gravitate towards authoritarianism throughout your life.  For if no individual can be trusted to have a code of honor, then only the threat of collective force could ever keep them in check.Sociopaths only make up about 2% of the general population, but make up at least 10% of all corporate CEO's, 60% of the penal population and 20% of the career military with more than one tour of duty.What does that tell you? I read Atlas Shrugged long after I became a libertarian, and after I had many liberals accuse me of being a Rand worshipper.  I wouldn't consider the book to be a truly great piece of fiction.  It was a good read, but it's real value is as a philosophy tome disguised as a work of fiction.  The characters are stereotypes, on purpose, because they represent entire mindsets and worldviews.  On a related note, John Stossel recently did a show about the 50th anniversary of the release of Atlas Shrugged including helping the Rand Foundation announce their video contest winner.  I've yet to see the video, but if some of the losing submissions are any indication, it's got to be outstanding.Although I can admit that I was moved by the book, I was already a libertarian.  For anyone who doesn't know about that concept who reads that book will either love it or hate it, but no one walks away from it unchanged.Still, I would say that The Moon is a Harsh Mistress and Alongside Night were two very libertarian novels that were far better works of storytelling. Oh, that's just rediculous hyperbole!  I believe that John Galt's speech is only 32 pages. That's because the Japanese have been dependent upon the USA for defense since WWII, by design.  Germany for much of that time as well.  When you are prohibited by treaty from a military-industrial complex, other motives will spring up.  Don't assume that the state of things today is as result of a change in the nature of mankind, nor of particular nations. Just use this forum's search function and search for Dash7 or near-field communications.  I have written much on this particular subject here.  Otherwise just go to google and search for Dash7 and you should find all that you want to know.As for the embedded devices and smartphones thing, it's coming. http://tightwadtechnica.com/?p=5492Check out this video of a avatar singing in concert in Japan.  This is not a dancer in a costume, nor is it an animatronic.  It's a 3D hologram in open space that looks more solid than the holograms in Star Wars.  Watch the avatar cross the stagelighting behind her, it passes through the image.Creighton You know not whom you are offending.  You are very nearly the first forum member to enter into my killfile.I reccommed that you either hush up and wait in the background until you feel more comfortable with the system, and more civil, or GTFO This is a confusing explaination to me, and I already know how the system works.  Lost in translation, perhaps? Confirmations are just the number of blocks that have been added to the blockchain since the one that included your own transaction.  They will add up into infinity, roughly one every ten minutes.  There is no additional cost for more confirmations.No.  There is a balancing algorithim at work here.  The 'difficulty' of the proof-of-work system adjusts itself to fit the total network power once every two weeks or so, and aims to create blocks as close to every ten minutes as is possible. Dash7 networking would work well for a general Bitcoin/smartphone network, as well as a great many other similar needs.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DASH7?bcsi-ac-D9CB9E926A16E88E=1C46D01300000006yq1QoTBqkADh4Dr3zHwUrkRw2W8BAAAABgAAAJVlXgCAUQEAAAAAAIYBAAA=It has already been pointed out that 200kbs isn't fast enough for spreading a future full block (something that I would contest), but other methods of getting blocks are available to an Android based 'lightweight' client than just one digital radio.  If Dash7 radios become half as common as Bluetooth, such smartphones would be able to send text messages (modified Jabber)  even in a citywide blackout over great distances due to the natural propagation of 443 mhz combined with the ad-hoc meshing abilities of Dash7.  Bitcoin transactions could be spread far and wide, rapidly looking for a path to the Internet, using Dash7's "general broadcast message" mode.  Which would be heard by most Dash7 radios in a 2 klick radias of the sending smartphone, and be included into the transaction queue of every such smartphone that had a running Bitcoin client, to be further forwarded by those Bitcoin clients at every opprotunity.  Such a Dash7, or Dash7/NFC, smartphone owner need not have Internet access on their own phone in order to transact using Bitcoin in real time; but may need occasional access (via open WiFi hotspot perhaps) in order to keep their own blockchain up to date.  This means that said user would be able to spend coins that their blockchain already knows that they have at will, but not spend coins that were sent to them since the last time their client was able to update it's own blockchain. Although you make a fair point, shock value included, someone is going to do the prey-on-OC-behaviour thing.  The differences between a heroin dealer and a pharmacist is a matter of degree.  If we can agree to a set of volutary rules for ethical behaviour, we stand to have much greater success at compliance.  If we simply declare such activities as prohibited because of a moral viewpoint, then such activities will simply occur out of our view and therefore beyond our capacity to affect in either a positive or negative manner. Like what?  I see no link or other references. Convienence.
He would have to take the time to read this thread first.   Historicly, it was competing banks that organized runs on a bank that they suspected of cheating.  They didn't need to tip off the bank in question, simply accumulate their banknotes and hit them hard with as many at once as possible while spreading a rumor that said competitor was insolvent.  The term 'viral' was never used in this context, but that's exactly how we might describe such an event today.  Once one was set off, the bank under attack wouldn't likely be able to take measures.  If they could, then they were not insolvent, by definition. Winter break, perhaps?  Working on his thesis?  Or simply watching from another identity?  Or too busy coding to bother with the debate.  Perhaps he just decided to sell some of his bitcoin now that each is worth so much more than when he started, and felt he deserved a holiday to someplace warm.You people worry too much. I don't think that we are in disagreement.  Just different ways of saying it.True, but in a representative republic, the edicts take longer to march through the process towards enforcement.  In a true democracy, if one could even exist on a level larger than the small town, the decisions of the electorate are effective immediately. The confusion of residents in Boston is even less material to what we do than the confusion of residents of an entire nation, or several. No.  I wasn't being coy or relative.  Democracy doesn't scale beyond 1000 voting members.  I've seen in on many occasions.  Attend a full church business meeting sometime, there is a reason that they don't do such things except under dire need.That was only two out of hundreds, and Madison was conflicted in this regard.  Try actually reading the Federalist Papers and the full text of the US Constitution, it was certainly not intended to protect landowners.  Hamilton was functionally a loyalist and an elitist, but his particular viewpoint was not widely held by '76ers or framers.Understandable considering their background.  The US would still be a British territory if King George could have managed to compromise.I don't contest this assesment of the current situation, but it was not because of the framers or the government that they designed that this is so, but despite it.  If we can blame the constitution for any of this, it would be because the public has put too much faith in a document that following generations of Americans have too long ignored.I say democracy is a tyranny of a majority, and any inequality in life will be maintained or increased by one, not limited by one.  I have the history of civilizations to support my position, you have the limited retoric of the past 200 years or less.I'm saying these are better than democracy.  I'm certainly not on the wrong forum.  Perhaps you don't fully understand what democracy leads too?Democracy is great in theory, but I care only about the practice.  A democracy requires much work on the part of the electorate to maintain itself.  Inevitablly the electorate becomes distracted by their own lives, and leaves such things to people who are more interested in the political process than themselves, which leads to the consolidation of power by fiat, corruption or simple neglect.  It happens every time.  A republic isn't better in this regard, but they are more sustainable because the process of representative governance slows down the processes that lead to rot.  Thomas Jefferson, himself, expressed doubt that a generation could impose a social contract on those that followed, but also doubted that there was a better solution.  The root problem with democracy is the human component. The root problem with trying to explain Bitcoin to an uninitiated audience is that way too many people don't understand how our current monetary system actually works, and that misinformation that most people assume is correct interferes with proper understanding of how any other monetary system could function.  Every listener is going to, naturally, compare Bitcoin to what they know (or think that they know) and that would be fiat currencies.  But since most listeners don't really understand how fiat currencies work, or economics in general, Bruce doesn't really have the time to effectively make that comparison.  I could see flaws in the three tech explaination as well, but I understand why he does it.  For example, Bruce never actually brought up the proof-of-work system; the hosts did.  Most listeners of any other show would have a hard time understanding what a proof-of-work system is or why it was important; but these hosts understood that as a part of the security of the distribution of Bitcoin and of the blockchain.  I've tried to explain the blockchain as a massive, collective and persistant double entry ledger of the entire transaction history of Bitcoin; but that only works for those who understand what a double entry ledger is and what it is intended to do. I can say this much.  If it is a satillite that you are aware of, it's not really a military satillite.  It's probably a honeypot, and any attempt to do anything with it will draw the very kind of attention that you do not want.  If you are a particularly talented ham radio operator, with much experience with satillite tracking (or a foreign government geek who's job this would be) you can find real military satillites.   You might even be able to track them adaquately, but most military satillites spend most of their time 'dark', just listening.I would not consider it realistic to hijack either a honeypot or a real military satillite for any purpose. This is all true, but real democracy doesn't scale well, and is far from conflict free.  Most people think of federated representative parlimentary governance whenever someone says "democracy", so there will continue to be much confusion without a common definition.  The US isn't a democracy now, and never has been, because the framers knew that democracy was flawed, and didn't trust that it was sustainable in any context.  Our history has proven them correct.  Keep in mind that prior to 1913, we didn't have central banking, franctional reserve banking, Senators were not elected, and there was no federal income tax.  We still don't directly elect the US president.  The US is a federated republic quite intentionally, and most of Europe are parlimentary republics for similar reasons.  Anyone who advocates for increased democracy at the state or national level is advocating for majority rule, and the rights of a minority have no meaning in that context.  Such a person is either a fool or a Sith Lord. I would say that you pretty much got it.I was thinking about some time in the future that transactions were no longer cheap for transfering an amount such as a cup of coffee.That's pretty much just an electronic check system.  I'd work well, but once transactions are no longer cheap for fast confirmations, then the AH network is going to have to wait longer to see that promise kept. Okay, I can debate by these rules.Yes, There is an established economic meaning of "intrinsic"; infinity!Nah, nah, nah! Appeal to Authority. No, he didn't.  He tried to dumb it down further than he did in his last interview, and then the hosts ended up geeking it back up.  It was obvious that they had done their research. Another reason for a bank is rapid resolution of transactions. Currency doesn not need to have an alternative use to be useful or valuable. I was thinking more about this account hub idea on my commute, and relised that this is basicly an example of the bitcoin 'supernode' concept discussed by myself and others in much older threads.  You could remove the need for a web of trust altogether by depending entirely on the merits of the bitcoin network itself, completely removing the web-of-trust fraud vectors altogether.The way such an account hub would work is this...Member merchants pay a small monthly fee to the hub, the hub 'verifies' or denys transactions based on the willingness of the hub owner to insure the transaction against a successful fraud attempt.When the member has a customer who desires to pay with bitcoin, the account hub does these things...1)  Checks to see if the customer is a member on the hub, if yes jump to 72)  Checks the transaction presented for valitity against it's own blockchain,  if valid it then....3)  Ships the transaction out to the network, if appropriate.4)  Checks to see if there are any transactions in the queue that could be a double spend attempt, or any other type of transaction based fraud that we can think of in the future.5)  Waits a few seconds to see if any other transactions come in that could also be a double spend attempt, if not...6)  Checks with it's own 'watchdog' process, to reduce the risks of a blockchain split/takeover at the moment of sale.7)  Approve or deny the insurance against the transaction, accepting the transaction anyway could then be up to the merchant.  Perhaps the customer is a regular, or buying something of such trivial value that it's not worth a recheck.  You could still impliment a Ripple-like web-of-trust as well, but I don't think that would be very valuable until the cost of a transaction has risen to the point that it is advantagous for hub owners to seek ways of avoiding blockchain transactions for small, individual payments.EDIT:  Thinking further, even the wait of a few seconds would be irrelevant, for if you pushed the transaction to all of your own connected peers, and they all accepted it as valid, you would not ever see any conflicting transactions for your peers wouldn't forward such a transaction after seeing your's first.  An account hub would want to have as many bitcoin connections, to as many major generators and other hubs, as would be possible.  In order to push their transaction across the bitcoin network as quickly as possible, thereby reducing the risks of a double spend fraud turning out poorly for *them*.  An account hub would want to have the ability to know if one of it's own peers had rejected the submitted transaction. You've basicly just described the Ripple web of trust.  Deposits really just raise the bar of trust threshold.Honestly, I don't think that a trust-and-debit path alters the root problems, but it's not my place to tell you how to raise your baby.  I really was just trying to offer an insight.  I do still think that Ripple could save you duplication of work in your web of trust. Now this is a semantic argument.  You are simply debating the common definition of the term "intrinsic" versus it's economic definition.  I for one, do not misunderstand that even an intrinsic value is a result of how various humans desire the object. Both silver & gold have significant industrial uses, as well as potential uses that are cost prohibitive due to the high monetary value.  Off the top of my head, in the absence of a functioning market for silver or gold (unlikely, even in a war zone, Nazi sub captains carried a bar of gold for this reason) then gold makes a better bullet than lead and silver has antibiotic properties that are significant enough to be critical in dire situations without proper modern medical facilities.   From what I can tell, it's similar to a LETS mutual trust network.  Replacing the central ledger with a trust network instead.I have doubts that is possible on a large scale.  The only way that I could think of that might work is if every hub had an account with a security deposit on every other hub.  Not only would that lock up a very large, and exponentially growing with the rate of new hub growth, amount of funds; hub owners still end up trusting that a malicious hub won't participate in a fraud to steal the security deposits.  Hubs could have a "settlement hour" once a day wherein they transfer bitcoins in order to balance out ripple debts that have accumulated across the day, with a max debt limit that if reached would trigger a bitcoin transfer immediately.  Once upon a time, this is similar to how gold standard banks would handle accepting each other's banknotes; but I can still think of complex frauds that a malicious hub could attempt against the other hubs.
Thank you.I never claimed different.  The intrinsic value of a money is not additive to it's trade value.  The intrinsic value of a money functions as a 'price floor', supporting the market value of the money in times that it's trade value drops below it's intrinsic value, such as during times of war.  Bitcoin is an excellent currency, but has no value to anyone that is denied (by war, fiat, or otherwise) access to a functioning marketplace.  At least the peanuts are still food.Again, it's not simply a matter of semantics for me to correct you here, since in context we are using econimic definitions.  Bitcoin has all the qualities of a fine currency.Bitcoin does not require intrinsic value to function well as a medium of exchange, but gold does not support your statement.  Gold has quite a bit of intrinsic value, which is one reason that it has been such a sound money for over 5000 years. "Intrinsic value" is a value beyond what the object has as a medium of exchange.  For example, a peanut farmer cannot eat all his crop (perhaps he doesn't even like peanuts), so his crop has no intrinisc value for himself.  However, he sells his products to people who, presumedly, do have a use for said peanuts.  To the farmer, the peanut crop has little or no intrinsic value, but to the general population it does.  As a result, the crop has a real market value that is independent of it's trade value (to the farmer) and independent of speculative value.  Said another way, even if peanuts were used as a medium of exchange in his twon, the farmer's crop value would not drop to zero with the introduction of a better medium of exchange, such as silver coins.  Likewise, a mattress or shelter also has a definable value outside of the context of their trade value.Thus, a paper currency has little intrinisc value. I almost agree, but with a couple cavets.Money isn't the object, it is a set of characteristics of the object that render that object the best choice for the function, within the set of objects that are available to the trading parties.  But for something to be a money, it must have these characteristics as part of their nature, not as part of a promise of a third party.And this is one reason that Bitcoin is not money, yet is a wonderful currency.  The value of any particular coins are not a characteristic of the data in question, but a result of the implicit backing of the entire system.  Without the blockchain and the Bitcoin P2P network, the bitcoins recorded in my wallet are of zero value. The common definition isn't the economic definition.  Just like many other terms used in common speech, the common use of the word is vague, while the jargon use is not.  Take the term, "coke"; it could refer to a number of things in the common speech, but usually either a form of cocaine or a dark soft drink.  But used in a specific context, coke becomes one of the early products of steel production.Context is important.  I don't feel that it should be neccessary for me to mention the context in every post that I make on this forum, since the context of the economic use of the term "money" is already established as a de facto. I'm not debating semantics here, I'm stating established economic definitions.  You could define the word "money" as a gram of lint from your pocket, but that wouldn't make it money from any economic perspective.  Any money has several characteristics, as a minimum subset, that are required for the commodity to be ideal for the use as a medium of exchange. The penny is copper plated zinc, and the nickel is nickel plated steel.  There is no intrinsic value, of any significance, to any part of the US monetary system. The objective of a currency is to be a substitute for money.  Think real cream versus coffee creamer in your coffee.The two concepts are not mutually exclusive, but an object being one does not conclude that said object is the other as well.  In our modern world, most of us have grown up thinking that fiat currencies such as the US$ and the Euro are money, but they are not.  Money is some kind of commodity that has certain characteristics that lead to it's use as a medium of exchange, naturally.  But this says nothing about the standard trade unit.Currencies are units of measurement of a medium of exchange.  A fiat currency is a unit of measurment defined by fiat, i.e. by an act of a government.  A hard currency is a currency that is defined as a particular amount (usually weight) of a commodity that is regarded as a money, such as the silver certificates of fifty years ago in the US.A lump of pure gold is money, but not a currency, until some mint strikes it into a standard sized coin that says as much on the face of it.A piece of paper can be a currency, if backed (or enforced) by some large entity, but is not money (even if it is used with a gold standard) because paper isn't the kind of commodity that makes a good money. Nah, it would take at least a weekend and a slashdotting... I don't think your uncle is misunderstanding anything yet.  Bitcoin isn't hard money, it's not even money really.  It's a currency. Opprotunity cost can be a bitch. this gave me an even better idea.  Use the Internet to find out what the office of the REO office of a local bank chain.  With the economy as it is, they certainly have a few properties that are empty, for which they are responsible to an association of homeowners, and they are concerned about vandals stealing the copper lines.  Call the office and make an appointment, if you can.  Show up like you are going to a job interview.  Don't give them your whole sob story, just sum it up and then tell them that you are a responsible single adult with a job.  Tell them what they can do for them.  In exchange for written permission for living in a REO property of their choosing, you will maintain the grounds as well as provide the security that comes naturally with your presence.  I.E. you will call the cops on those who you suspect intend harm to the property, but will not actually put yourself in harm's way.  State that you expect a written agreement, but not compensation; and you are willing to vacate on short notice should the property need to be shown to a client.the worst that can come of it is that they say no, and you are out the time and effort, but it could be far more productive than begging at a corner.  If your friend can clean up, and not scuttle the deal, bring him with you and offer to each squat on a different home or the same one, at the bank's preferences Genjix, squating isn't illegal unto itself, but breaking into a closed property, even if you know that it is indeed abandoned, is still breaking and entering. Yes. If you have never used Linux before, and are otherwise used to how MS windoze does things, then Ubuntu is the best choice that I am personally aware of.   I have never tried Arch Linux, but I have tried Red Hat, Gentoo, Peanut, Slackware, Suse, DamnSmall, and a number others that I can't recall at this time.  Ubuntu is, by far, the most like Windoze with the least need for command line administration.  I, however, prefer Gentoo.  Runs like a scolded dog.  I was playing Stargate SG-1 videos on a 486-66 with 64 megs of ram, way back.  Everyone I ever talked to thought it was impossible, till I showed them it could be done on a tweeked Gentoo install with only BlackboxWM running on a video card framebuffer. Dude, go to an Elderhostel!http://maps.google.com/maps/place?hl=en&expIds=17050,25657,27951,27955&sugexp=ldymls&xhr=t&cp=16&wrapid=tljp1294522712114022&um=1&ie=UTF-8&q=elderhostel+denver&fb=1&gl=us&hq=elderhostel&hnear=Denver,+CO&cid=13144957087279728542EDIT:Sorry, that's for old people like me.  I should have said a youth hostel...http://maps.google.com/maps/place?hl=en&expIds=17050,25657,27951,27955&sugexp=ldymls&xhr=t&cp=2&wrapid=tljp1294522712114033&um=1&ie=UTF-8&q=youth+hostel+denver&fb=1&gl=us&hq=youth+hostel&hnear=Denver,+CO&cid=10771906068818582722 Yeah, I remember doing that as well.  Also, I remember buying such large data on CD-R's for $10 at a time.  It's not unrealistic that new bitcoin users would have ordered a CD-R from one of those many mail order sources with a recent copy of the blockchain to start with, or attend a Linux users' group in order to get a copy on a 3.5" floppy. That 50 cent peak was a false high, lasting only a few minutes.  That said, people just need to be aware that Bitcoin floats, and can go up or down quite often.  The spot price on MtGox or anywhere else isn't a particularly useful metric anyway, exactly because it moves so much.  The 24 hour weighted average is a much better number to use, and I don't believe that ever broke 35 cents. Feel free, but I doubt that they are comparable tech. Well, that's what I said.  The economy is what creates the natural demand. http://anything4bitcoin.secure2cart.com/index.htmlDo any of the developers here have advice about how I might go about translating the ecommerce site seen here to display and use Bitcoin instead of US$?
Yes, it is still a beta system.  That said, it's nearly ready to take over the mobile-to-mobile (SMS, etc) transfer realm and dramaticly undercut the relatively high fees those markets command at present.  All that is really needed for Bitcoin to take over that market is a functional 'lightweight' Android client that can handle transactions with spotty Internet access. You intended to say "strong deflation", right?  Inflation is when the size of the monetary base is increasing relative to the size of the economy, which ultimately results in the drop in relative value of the currency.  What we are experiencing, in aggregate, is deflation. Regular price is $1.30, On sale today only for $1.05!  Get them while they last! Tech isn't the limiting factor today.   I find this interesting, but you are in Cali and I in Kentucky. http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/All that you would need is a metered condor pool.http://www.cs.wisc.edu/condor/ Well, that's theoretically true.  In practice, fractional reserve banking results in the majority of interest bearing loans granted by banks within the Federal Reserve system are loaning out money that did not exist prior to the issuance of the loan.  Roughly 85% of all interest paid towards loans by banks are kept entirely by the bank due to those loans not being backed by any depositors to be compensated.  That 85% interest is the majority of the driving force of inflation in our modern world, the principal amount ceases to exist as the loan is either repaid, or defaulted upon.  This is part of the reason that banks are constantantly loaning out new funds, otherwise as loans are repaid (or defaulted upon) the currency in circulation would decrease, resulting in an overall deflationary environment. If you can aquire all 21 million bitcoins or find any takers at 50% interest then you might have a point.  Such as it is, you don't, and I think that you already know that. I'm not sure that a private key would fit in a QR of any decent size. It would appear so, since a limited quantity isn't an impediment to a natural interest rate. Sent. Plausible... Only if both of you are using the same online wallet provider.  Such as you both have accounts on Mybitcoin.com, and are both using those accounts in the transfer.  In such a situation, Mybitcoin.com becomes your trusted third party. Wow, that seems to be quite a discount for bitcoiners.  What's the catch? Outstanding, Bruce!I was wondering where you had disappeared to lately.  I didn't think that someone with so much enthusiasim would simply just drop off the forum.Is there a website that we could go and look at these projects? For 15 bitcoin? It was bound to happen, but I surely wish that such arrangements had their own forum. Interesting idea, but this doesn't consider the possibility that hero members that may (or may not be) trustworthy today aren't corrupted or compelled in the future.  Trust me, the feds aren't concerned about the number of those on their list once they get the go-ahead; they can hire as many Alabama-Lie-Detectors as they may need.This also doesn't consider the possibility that hero members may not be willing to carry the burden of security. I'm working on an arrangement with a local Diner's Club type debit card provider in Louisville, Ky.www.gregscard.comI'd be willing to bet that most cities have something comparable to target. How do you, as a user downloading a program from someone on the Internet, know that you are talking to the real server for Satoshi's Bitcoin?  If the vanilla client were able to do such a thing, no one would question why any other such a client couldn't do such a thing.  Furthermore, how much trust are you willing to put into Satoshi, even if you can be certain that you are using the proper client?  Satoshi might not be using best practices, or might be waylaid by some statist prosecuter and forced to divulge his secret key, or any number of other possibilites.
A video would be better, yes.  But if the sign was put up, and then taken down by the cops 2 minutes later, I'm still game for giving the 15 bitcoins.  So as far as I am concerned, the photo is enough. Better than the duty-free store! Cheap Xen GNU/Linux instances for offsite backup, lightweight servers, etc.  I could use one, don't really care if it's on a cable broadband connection or not.  Don't intend to run a game server or any such. I'll pledge 15 bitcoin to the first person to do this and present said photo.  The details of the event would also be nice, but not required. No.  Doing this would open up a new attack vector, by hacking into Satoshi's own systems to capture that keypair.  As it is, that keypair isn't so valuable to an attacker. It might to those whose paypal addresses they are.  Disclosing the addresses without prior permission would be considered a breach of trust by many who converse on this list. Normal, but don't expect much in the way of generation unless you are using a high end gpu.  I've never generated a block. Nothing.  The regular client won't let you spend new coins until you have at least one more block as a confirmation that the block with your funds in it is going to stick. Well, yes.  That's the core of the article. You didn't really read the article before posting, did you? True, but the point of the article is that so long as the USPS is still selling forever stamps in an inflationary environment, they are a better store of value, and perhaps more liquid, than the US government's debt. http://www.financialsense.com/contributors/peter-schiff/forever-stamps-tell-us-muchHere's an idea, selling postage stamps for bitcoin. Plan?Get all those rich Europeans who are frightened to lose value because of a Euro breakup to invest in US Savings Bonds, then defaut.If you can call that a plan.  I would call it a fraud, but I didn't do it. Even if someone were to come up with some way to 'break' the security of sha-256 itself (not unrealistic, really) that wouldn't actually result in a compromise of the bitcoin blockchain itself.  Only if this break remained unknown while an attacker tried to build up a fake chain, or attempt a double spend, would a broken sha-256 be a problem.  And even then the problem would be limited to those addresses who had recently done business with the attacker (in the case of double spend attacks).  I consider the difficulties of building a fake blockchain that satisfies all of the various transaction, block and benchmark rules to be so high as to not be a problem even if sha-256 were suddenly easily processed by some kind of shortcut.If the break were widely known, the part of the system for which sha-256 is used is modular, and can be benchmarked and swapped for something else comparable fairly quickly.  Also, even this wouldn't expose the security of the address keypair system, which is also modular.  If one is broken, the network can agree to suspend processing of transactions until it is fixed, but even that isn't likely to be neccessary.  Both being  broken at the same time, known only to the same attacker; then we are screwed. I've never seen the Story of Cap and Trade, but their Story of Stuff was so full of economic errors that I couldn't finish it.  I found it offensive that this was being shown to schoolchildren as some kind of education into economics and trade. Mine still is.  As far as I know, no one has won. I am familiar with the technology, and it doesn't come close to 100% efficient in *any* context.  Perhaps if one is judging efficiency on the amount of water in the air that the system can extract, but even that isn't ever 100%.  Dubai has a lot of interests in many things that will turn up turkey.  That's not an argument in favor.  Air-water extraction isn't new technology; and although these companies have done wonders for improving the efficiency, the fact of the matter is that these technologies still require large energy inputs, and the production of these devices are resource intensive as well.First off, I'm not the one who needs references, but yes I could come up with such a source if I was inclined to do so.  Regardless, it's an intuitive result that hemp cannot be all things in the chemical industries.  It can replace 95%+ of the hydrocarbon inputs into manufacturing (many consumer forms of plastic, most petrol based products, etc) as well as many other things.  However, there is nothing that says that hemp can do all of these things cost effectively, nor can hemp replace many of the (other than hydrocarbon based) toxic chemicals in use in industry today.  There are very sound reasons why most of these things are used, presently, that simply cannot be replaced by other processes.25K uses, but those uses are generally in related chemical classes.  All of them are hydrocarbons, no exceptions.  Hemp wouldn't do anything to reduce the toxic nature of the manufacture of electronics; at least not beyond the plastic cases.Nor would I recommend investing in any of those companies trying to make a buck from air-water extraction in the Middle East.Fair enough.  Remember that you asked for commentary. Pretty good.Of course, this (unlikely) scenario is part of the motivation for regular blockchain benchmarks being encoded into the source code of new releases.  So your attacker would still have to come up with a fake blockchain that not only matched those benchmarks precisely without violating any of the other valid block rules on any of his fake blocks and have such a blockchain ready that was at least as long as the benchmark shipped in the latest version before the standing network would receive it.And if any copy of the real blockchain were to be reintroduced to the network before the fake one could develop a greater total proof-of-work, the real blockchain would force a network split that would eventually destroy the fake one. Your still asking me to process base ten math, not base two.  Regardless, this is not what I was talking about.  I know of no monetary system that developed naturally as base ten.  (Almost, let's say) all of them developed as base two.  As pointed out by another, this is what a 'coinage' system usually looks like; a primary unit of metal, by weight.  It's half coin and quarter coin, and usually it's eighth coin, develop for change.  Notably, the artificial monetary unit known as the Euro, does not use halves or quarters.  Yet most modern currency units are derived from units that developed naturally, and in societies that were predominately illiterate in base ten mathmatics.  Many modern currencies still have coins with halves and quarter unit values for historical reasons, because those are still evenly dividable by 100 without introducing fractional "cents" or "pence" into the mix. True.  So consider it a recommendation over a named decimalisation system.  There is no reason that we must name by decimals, but we must have some kind of naming system or one will develop anyway.This isn't what I was suggesting, and I think you know that.The AS is two centuries of evolution from the English Imperial Standard, and I wasn't claiming that it was ideal.  There are aspects of the AS system that are more intuitive than Metric, however.  A kilometer is as fine a travel distance measurement as a mile, and it is easier to convert to personal distances (i.e. feet & meters), but smaller measurements are more difficult to rationally manipulate on-the-fly.  Fractions of an inch are base 2 divisions, (half an inch, quarter of an inch, eighth, so on) that allow the mind to focus on relative sizes (more natural) as opposed to addition in multiple base ten units. (2.475 kilometers plus 45.5 meters plus 45287 millimeters, quick how far is that?  No cheating, do it in your head)  Yes, I know that most people would be able to do it, but halving and quartering (and doubling) is just more natural to the human mind.Not so random fact, Metric is taught to schoolchildren in this country, and has been since I was a child.  But the children must also learn what everyone else uses within their society.  The highway signs have both miles and kilometers where I live, and the only place that I have used the km was in the US military.  Yes, one is base ten and the other is base two.  Considering the context is 'bits' & 'bytes'; base two is the correct one both technically and historicly (search "two bits" or "pieces of eight"), but I was not trying to make my point for either, as I was just talking about modern simplicity.  Thanks for making my point so well, btw.
I can't answer this one. I'm sorry, but I don't share the enthusiasm of others.  This is full of errors & misinformation.  Viewers are going to watch it and many are going to notice b.s. somewhere and assume b.s. elsewhere.  For example, air-water extraction isn't mentioned by media in the middle east or Australia because these places are very dry climates, meaning these devices either don't work or are inefficient.  Also, hemp is a wonderful product, but the claim that it's widespread use could solve pollution problems is false.  It's not magic. I think I've read that book too! I doubt that there is anything untoward happening here.  The timestamps in the blocks are based off of the generating machine's clocktime, which can vary considerably.  Even if it's being attempted by someone, it's not detrimental to the network. looks like BlackboxWM to me. I'm consistently surprised that there is some newbie every week who brings this stuff up as if it is some kind of unique revelation.Yes, we are aware of the spamming issue.No, it's not really a problem. It's based upon how people write, not how they think.  Base 2 is a better in real life, and much of American Standard has evolved over the decades to reflect that.  If a printed Bitcoin note is ever printed, it should follow a pattern of notes as follows...1 unit note2 unit note4 unit note81632and so on.  Nothing is simplier and easier for the human mind to wrap itself around than doubling and halving of sums, so long as one doesn't have to convert from base 2 to base 10 on the fly, which is what we have to do since most every fiat currency in use is base 10 for mathmatical advantages. Hell, no.  Metric sucks. No, that unit is too small to be used in any normal context within my lifetime. Only if it can do it with all the other advantages of Bitcoin, without adding in other issues.  This I consider unlikely. I like the idea I saw in another thread of calling a very small division (say .0001 bitcoin) a Satoshi.  This honors the founder in a similar way that US$ honors the founders & important presidents by putting their images upon currency; such as calling the $100 bill graced by Ben Franklin a "benjamin".  Also, those same founders are roughly ranked in the order of significance(to the founders of the federal reserve) by putting the most favored upon the lowest denomination. There is a way to encrypt the messages external to any bitcoin function.  If a bitcoin hyperlink for a vendor included a GPG public key, the message could be encrypted to that public key before insertion into the transaction. http://www.lewrockwell.com/alston/alston66.1.html The developers aren't hiding, they just don't wish to be at a disadvantage to everyone else.  What do they know about you?  Even geek fame has it's downside. That depends upon how anonymous you intend to be, in addition to the scenario I mentioned above, Bitcoin credit rating agencies could exist to serve the same function as they do now. A little of both.  There are two different delays that you are addressing here, the delay of comfirmations and the delay getting into a crowded block.  Big ticket items, for which the seller would be unwilling to accept a valid transaction on faith, will require confirmations.  Your desire to get it over with will often compell you to add a smig of a fee to jump the line, ensuring that you get into the next block so that you can start counting confirmations to your seller's satisfaction.  I would expect this kind of thing to be common for anything more valuable than an average guy's net weekly paycheck, say a high end gaming computer or a car.  As far as the computer is concerned, you could offer your ID as evidence of who you are if you didn't wish to wait for other confirmations.  But if you desire to remain just another anonymous customer, then at least one confirmation is likely.  However, for most anything less than a week's paycheck, a vendor does not need to wait for even the transaction to get into a block, as it is possible that a bitcoin POS client would be able to rapidly check the validity of the transaction, and then check the transaction pool for any other possible double spends, ship the transaction out onto the network and wait a few seconds looking for double spends, and if it doesn't see any within about ten seconds, it's probably not going to.For that matter, the same methods could be used for large ticket items, depending on the risk tolerance of the vendor, but an individual trying to sell his car person-to-person is going to insist on a confirmation or two. Doubt it.  That's not a bug, but a feature.   Well, done.  But I don't think the overhead of verifying transactions is what he was concerned about.  The bigger issue is the bandwidth required to echo every new block to every bitcoin client when transactions average 2000 per second. http://theeconomiccollapseblog.com/archives/almost-everything-is-a-crime-in-america-now-14-of-the-most-ridiculous-things-that-americans-are-being-arrested-for Yes, but it's long winded.  Have you read the white paper or the docs?
I would imagine that the end results would be the same as when I reported my stolen bicycle as a child.  Too many adults still have a childlike faith in the abilities of the police. Bitcoin provides for a choice, but some will still choose to keep their funds in familiar institutions. Some will, certianly.  Those people can stick to paypal, or buy insurance.  Not that a sum as large as what Bill Gates could hold in bitcoin is insurable, but it might for others.  I expect that, eventually, bitcoin banks and similar institutions a la Mybitcoin will have to be insured against liability losses in order to attract and keep customers, but the fees that they charge will have to be low enough to compete with the cost of regular bitcoin transactions, as a well managed personal client with encrypted backups is as good a form of prevention of loss as can be insured against for most people with the good sense to accumulate any notable sum.Sorry about the long sentence, btw.  That's just how long it needed to be. It doesn't need to, as most daily transactions will be handled by sites similar to Mybitcoin.com.  Everyone seems to follow this same learning curve.Are you serious?  Have you ever bought a car from a dealer?  How long did it take for your credit report to be checked and your car loan approved?  Mine have always taken well over ten minutes, most about a half hour.  Delays are not unusual for large ticket purchases.  This is a non-issue. Bill Gates would no longer be in the top ten most rich people list. A bit of both.  The bitcoin economy continues to grow at a bit of a faster pace than the inflation rate, but the USD isn't doing so hot either. What we really need is a way to write a digital "check" and digitally sign it.  Perhaps this can be done with the regular client, but the receiver simply can't know if the sender has modified his client to permit double spending this way, so we get back into the trusted third party issue.  A Mybitcoin.com variant that issues each user a unique ID number and matching keypair for the purpose of signing said checks, any online vender or individual receiving these checks could simply collect all of the checks that he has received over a period of time for the same bitcoin 'bank website' so that he can be paid in one bitcoin transaction. Do you really believe this?Bitcoin is a medium of exchange first, but if some among us choose to save in it, that is their business.  There is no conflict there.Relative to what?  The value of the US dollar floats also, and is quite volatile considering it's base economic size.  Bitcoin's relative value will settle down once the inflation rate and adoption rate mature in a few more years.There is more than one way to accomplish this end.Don't use it. There is no way to do this that wouldn't break the system, and I'm not even sure that the system could be broken in this manner anyway. If a wallet.dat file is destroyed, and transactions orphaned, there is no way to use those coins ever again.Well, not without a forced address collision, but I'm presuming that we would wish to spend those coins before the sun burns out. That's just a certain minority of libertarians.  There's also the tye-dyed, dope smoking, peace & love fanatics.http://www.theadvocates.org/quiz Post a bitcoin address if you can use it, but I don't know what we can really do to help since you can't buy a BigMac or pay the electric bill just yet.  The best we can really do for you is provide enough bitcoins for you to drown your sorrows in porn over at www.bitcoinxxx.com. Fellowtraveler, your posts are too long.  And for the most part, you're also preaching to the choir here. Yeah, I remember those days fondly.  I installed linux onto a 486-66 for my great-aunt Jane (she was 80 at the time), and she literally couldn't tell the difference until she tried to take it to a computer shop to upgrade, and the techs literally responded with a "WTF?"My great-aunt was never a good example of an "Aunt Tellie" however, since she retired in the 80's after a 30 year career as a programmer for the feds (she used punchcards intended for a computer the size of a warehouse that she never actually saw in person) and before that she was one of the first female privately licensed flight instructors in the country during the 30's.Hmmm, an MP3 downloading site.  Has anyone done this one yet? Is this a monthly rate? There is a growing demand for a client that can function disconnected from the Internet.  This might be a step in this direction. http://www.techpowerup.com/articles/overclocking/vidcard/159Is this useful to us? Bullshit semantics.I dare you to try it. No. Define possible.  Probably not on any realistic level.  The conditions required are pretty narrow. I have brought this up before, Dash7 is far and away the most ideal wireless protocal for widespread Bitcoin use beyond the Internet, for a number of notable reasons.  Bluetooth and low-power Wifi are much faster, but are seriously range limited due to their Gigahertz band choice.  Bitcoin isn't likely to be exclusively limited to any network, but 'smart' personal devices (such as smartphones) that have various radios could use Dash7 as an always on service looking for other nearby Bitcoin clients due to Dash7's much better power/signal ratio, and then negotiate with other clients to turn on those other radios if the conditions are right for a large transfer.Also, mesh networking is cludgy in Bluetooth.  Dash7 can do mesh, but it shouldn't really have to resort to multi-hop connections to get to other Bitcoin clients, with a line-of-sight range of 2 Km.
Strange statement to make, since it has been done. Fisheye lens?I doubt that's his body.  Just some photo he stole off of Facebook. Nice try.I'm a Nigerian prince, too. At least it would be trivial to have small CL tools to perform bitcoin operations in this system, such as tools to import and export transactions, blocks and keypairs to/from normal files.  *nix CL shells, such as Bash, are centered around the manipulation of data streams as files, and it's an incredibly powerful model. Try explaining the true nature of the US federal reserve note and see if you get any more rational responses.  Most people just don't understand how fiat currencies actually work."It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning."-Henry Ford Economic illiteracy is a widespread problem.For almost everyone, government is itself a bad thing.  You just don't comprehend how much is taken from you in your "best interests".  The most important tax that bitcoin deals with is the inflation tax, as inflation is functionally a hidden tax upon the entire monetary base.  It's particularly regressive as well, most directly affecting those who save directly in currency denominated investments and those who are dependent upon a regular salary (i.e. working class) while most directly benefiting those with the greatest access to new currency (i.e. government, politicos & bankers).  Bitcoin isn't really intended as a means to evade the kind of taxes that actually pay for public services, which don't have to be provided by governments in order to be effective.No, of course not.  Wow, you have been indoctrinated well.  Did you attend a government school?The business cycle doesn't require intervention, and historicly intervention has proven counter-productive.  The great depression in the US is a prime example of this, for it was primarily intervention that prolonged the pain. 1)  It doesn't really float, as it is functionally tied to the US dollar via the standard exchange rate, which I believe is still $8 per Hour.2)  It's still an unbacked currency by ongoing agreement, so it's acceptability is highly dependent upon the trust that users have that the issuing body can support the currency in times of trouble, if only by buying them back at $8 each.3)  It's velocity is a factor of not just who accepts the Hour, but who accepts it from whom as the Hour is much easier to counterfit than most national currecies, so there is a measure of trust required between parties, which usually requires some level of pre-existing relationship.  (i.e. the I know where you live factor)Any of these conditions would make it unsuitable for use over the Internet, but taken together they limit the use of any such currency to the very local level.  Even a mid-sized American city couldn't make it work unless the city government itself were the issuing body and could adaquately resolve the issue of fakes. Ithica Hours can't work on a scale larger than a small town of about 2K families. That's pretty much the endgame.  Read Snowcrash or The Diamond Age for how it might play out and how a future without fiat currencies might look like. That's a good point, actually.  I'm fairly certain that 10.12345678 would be processed without a transaction fee required, as it should be a greater than comparison.  However the vanilla client doesn't support it at present.   Updating a client to display the additional decimal places is the easy part.  Convincing the network that you really need that kind of precision is more difficult.  If you have an idea that you can articulate that might require additional precision, let us know, but you can currently send fractions of a cent. Um...I'm pretty sure this already exists. What kind of ASIC is it?  Is this a custom PCI card?  Would higher production volumes improve the price point?  I'm interested in this, as a purpose made PCI card would be as big a boon as buying an expensive GPU. No, that is not what they are doing.  This is one of the rare cases of government actions that cannot be adaquately explained by incompentence.  This is malice.These talking heads aren't talking about a unified currency system for the benefit of trade, but for the control that central banking affords those who can manipulate the central bank.  This is exactly why the European Economic Union and the Euro currency unit came first, as that tends toward political union as well.  Bitcoin would not help them in that endeavor, and therefore doesn't qualify as a solution in their view. Could the XML file be signed in such a way that a bitcoin client could check the authentisity? A blockchain index?  Doesn't the vanilla client index the blockchain for itself already? Not to mention that Ethernet is limited to 295 feet. When Louisville, Kentucky? Ad supported software has it's place, but not on my hardware.  Only open source software qualifies for my bounty contribution. Probably not for blocks, but the movement of transactions, Dash7 is perfect.  Even blocks under the right conditions.
I tried to warn others that, although I can understand the desire to aim high, most of the books mentioned were far from casual reading.  I recommended the 'Uncle Eric' series, which is targeted at teens, for just that reason.  They are though provoking, can be digested in distinct portions, and have a mild plot of sorts intended to keep the reader engaged.  The average forum member may be better educated in this field than the average Joe, but that does really say much.  If you desire to learn by group studies, then you should choose a reading list that respects the common skillset among the forum membership, at least in the begining.Baby steps. A non-disclosure agreement?  Really?  Or do you mean a non-compete contract?  You could present the idea of writing an online game for bitcoin to the company, and if they reject it, get that in writing.  You won't be in competition with an employer that doesn't desire to compete in that market. "Script" is usually associated with debt, at least in English.  In the USA, a 'script' is often called an IOU (I owe you).  Others might call it a cheque.  Basicly a signed promise to pay, or an order to a bank to pay, for the debt.  Bitcoin isn't a debt based currency, since one must provide a service/good in order to obtain bitcoins to start with.   Bitcoin still works as a micropayment system, for games or otherwise, but as a standardized internal debit system.  Imagine if Farmville switched to Bitcoin, using Mybitcoin.com's internal multi-user online wallet format.Game sites could do this all day, sending and receiving at will to/from the Bitcoin network, but internally functioning as a 'virtual currency'.  When you're done playing, you could just ask for your balance back and get it in ten minutes or less.  What we need to see happen is for these various online wallet sites to standardize their transactions between themselves, removing another layer of burden from the Bitcoin network.  For example, A.com, B.net and C.org are all versions of online wallets.  A.com is just an online wallet site, B.net is a gaming site and C.org is a market site (I.E. Etsy).  At first, none of these sites trust one another, as none of them have much of a history; so interactions occur entirely over the Bitcoin network.  Eventually, traffic on the Bitcoin network starts to push up the cost of transactions to a level that, from the collective perspectives of websites, justifies the work of interaction.  So each of these sites (and many more) open accounts on each other's sites, funding them largely evenly, and develop a means of automated communication that allows the others to identify addresses that belong to members.  So when a member of A.com wishes to send 50 bitcoin to B.net to fund a game for some time, A.com can tell (without the bitcoin network) that the address used to fund said account is tied to B.net, and can 'credit' the account by reducing the member's A.com account by 50, increasing B.net's account (at A.com) by 50, and then notifying B.net that said 'credit' has occurred.  Given large enough sites, most of the transactions will tend to balance out, and only rarely will the sites have to 'normalize' their agreements using the Bitcoin network.  This saves the sites, and by proxy their members, the associated costs of transactions on the Bitcoin network; and therefore reducing the costs of transactions for all Bitcoin users.And this is how microtransactions can still occur using Bitcoin even when the cost of transactions are no longer free. It's not important that you could be lying about your intent, nor is it important that it may be borrowed.  It's like a credit check without the bullsh*t.  "Wanna by my car with Bitcoin?  Sure buddy, but before I waste an hour of my life showing you my peach of a used car, prove that you can produce the coin." http://www.commodoreusa.net/CUSA_Home.aspxA 64 bit version of the Commodore 64.  That's just awesome.  Not a block generating powerhouse, mind you; but still awesome in a retro-hacker way. Not really.  Just enough for the bank to notice that transactions and blocks being sent to it by all of it's other peers are fake.  A 2 meg per second residential broadband connection would more than suffice. http://ohmygov.com/blogs/general_news/archive/2010/12/19/fresh-ideas-for-the-postal-service.aspxDevices that never touch the Internet directly would rarely be more out of date than one day.  Just fine for the average Joe who gets paid on Friday so that he can pay his bills by check on Monday. Yeah, the ability to prove without a doubt to a seller that I have control over a given address, and therefore the funds that he can see in his blockchain, would be great.  Particularly without the need to prove that to the entire world. I don't feel for him.  Krugman has long ago abandoned the sceptical economic background that netted him a Nobel in favor of biased political punditry.  What's sad is that people still consider him a serious economist, and then listen to him without the proper 'bullshit' filters.  It's the 'appeal to authority' fallacy writ large. Neither.  Generating is hard, and both a means of distributing new currency somewhat fairly, and an incentive to contribute clock cycles to secure the system.  You don't have to generate to use the system, it's voluntary.  Nothing of the sort is expected of you.If that's the way you feel about it, don't use it.  But you are also wrong. I've just finished listening to another Internet radio interview about bitcoin, and although some mistakes should be expected, please avoid spreading the meme that Satoshi is a "world renown" cryptologist.  He is not well known worldwide outside of this bitcoin community, and may not have training in cryptography. If you are the bank, no.  This attack vector, even if possible, is defeated if the bank has even one peer that is unknown to the attacker or for which the attacker cannot reliably spoof.  An encrypted tunnel to another bitcoin bank would be enough. I'm not going to try to correct this, it's too much work for one person.  Basicly, bank fraud may be possible, but not the way that you propose.  I don't think that you understand how it all works yet. Everyone starts off within the Bitcoin economy with the same amount, also.Zero.Those aren't grey areas.  They're called "life".That is a definition that is entirely subjective, and relative to the observer.  It's entirely useless in any civic context.It's also false by any accepted definition.That's not even true, much less obvious.  It may be true for you, but it probably isn't. You can't possibly know if it's true for anyone else, much less everyone else. Not really.  Satoshi doesn't respond to PM's except for developers.  He's so reclusive, an interview is probably out of the question. Bruce Wagner has become our unofficial public relations, and has already done an interview. He is also the owner of www.bitcoinme.com.bruce@brucewagner.com I have a gripe.The 'deflationary spiral' cannot lead to the destruction of a currency, regardless of the theory of time preferences.  Because, by definition, if the currency is a continuing state of deflation, the relative per unit value is increasing compared to it's per unit purchasing power.  This can only happen if the faith in the value is high and increasing.  Currencies never collapse this way, at least they never have in the past.  Currencies fail due to a general loss of faith in the promises of the issuing agency of a given currency, and by proxy the currency itself.  This results in the condition commonly called 'hyperinflation', because everyone has lost faith in the future of the currency, and will attempt to spend what of it that they have in exchange for whatever real goods are available. I didn't think that you were talking about a dark pool.  A dark pool is just a hidden market, there is no reason to use a blockchain to do this. Yes, it's possible.  You need a different genesis block, and probably a different port number.  I can't see how you can get it to work only as a regional thing, however, unless you intend to tie the currency to an institution of some kind.
Not the way that they exist and operate in our modern world, and certainly not in how they are funded.Fair enough.  I think that it's going to be a tough sell for either side of the equation. But corporations are creations of the state, and by proxy, so are stocks and bonds that these corporations release.  How, for example, can you ensure that the corporation that you invest in isn't going to deny that you are even an investor without the threat of the force of the courts?  Sure, you could sue in a common law court, but how would you get the losing party to pay the judgement if they don't even recognize the authority of the court? Bitcoin works because there is no counterparty risk that is always central to any particular Bitcoin transaction.  But stocks and bonds are just promises, and are primarily counterparty risk. No.  The most likely explaination is that your generator developed a block and shipped it out to the network, but someone else also generated a valid block slightly quicker.  Whichever of the blocks spreads out first is more likely to grab the majority of the network nodes, and then then next block is more likely to be generated based on it instead of your's.  This is how the network chooses between ties.  Someone else has posted that roughly 3% of generated blocks get rejected by the network due to this effect, but I can't verify that. Can't seem to break through, sorry. I'm no player myself, but I find this project intriguing.  I'll try to be there. This isn't possible under the current setup.  Mybitcoin.com uses pooled wallets.  Your receiving address is mapped to your account, but the client could move the coins around the addresses in it's pool without regard to who that address is assigned to, or leave them where they are even after you transfer bitcoin to another mybitcoin.com user.  Doing what you ask would require a rewrite of the site's multiuser client, at least.   No, it doesn't.  Monetary policy doesn't have to have an ideology.  Is it fair that you were born naked?I don't think that you are going to like it here.I'm certain that most are very thankful.What is "real" money?  Have you ever held real money in your hand?  I would wager that you have not.Then don't get involved, if it doesn't favor you.  It favors some, which is why it trades. My apologies. Hmm.  I stand corrected. I'm not going to attempt to check your math.So at what difficulty level would we be at the level that I thought?  What difficulty level will we be comparable to #10 on Wikipedia's top ten supercomputers list? Yes, it's downright elegant.Well, one very well rounded genius level intellect would be the most likely explanation, I admit.  But I wasn't thinking of any kind of committee.  More like a tightly knit workgroup.Yet, many open source projects are designed by a kind of committee, the 'bazaar', such a GNU/Linux OS's.  Of course, Linux prior to 2.x.x was far removed from elegant, and certainly couldn't have gotten there with only Linus doing the coding.  By his own admission, Linux in beta was ugly. To what end?  A digital stock cert is easier, and doesn't require a timestamp.  Anonymous ownership of stock is risky for the investors, and illegal in most nations anyway.  Anonymous "bearer bonds" are also banned in most nations, due to a history of their use in money laundering and finanacing of wars.   I would too.  So the exchange rate would crash. No.  It would be a compromise that the Bitcoin community isn't interested in at this time.  It shouldn't be hard to do if the time came for it. I see.  Well, one would eventually win.  This is a human issue, however, not a protocol issue.  I don't know how every human risk can be eliminated, at least not without removing humans from the Bitcoin economy, which I think might be counterproductive.No comment.I misspell a lot of words on this forum because IE 8.x doesn't handle the large edit field very well once the post is longer than the field itself, and doesn't spellcheck at all.  I find it irritating and just move on.I don't go into much detail when posting about economics, because I grow tired of explaining things to people on the Internet; that and I don't get paid for my time.  (Don't take that personally, I'm not refering to yourself or anyone in particular)  I am a 'praxeologist', and can teach a ten year old things about economics, human nature, and the nature of money that many adults who graduate with a useless degree in Economics don't understand.  It's not called the 'dismal science' for nothing.  Economics degrees should require a minor in sociology, as far too many econoimcs theorists lose sight of the trees looking for the forest.I'm more than willing to offer recommendations for personal research, but not so willing to duplicate the best work of others; particularly on an anonymous Internet forum that is not even peer reviewed.It was hard forme to wrap my head around the technical and crypto aspects of the system.  I'm sure that you can work your way around the economics in due time.  I was impressed that (largely) one man created this system, assuming that Satoshi is actually a person, and not an avatar for some greater organization.  I found out, as you shall, that those that are new to the idea alwasy seem to think of the same set of potential problems, long since resolved if they were ever a problem to start with.  Most older forum memers just begin to ignore these newbie posts, which is why you only have myself and kiba in this thread to represent the counterpoint.  Dive into the forum's search function, there is much there. Yes, you are on the right track.  Of course, the fee schedule would still be way lower; since monopoly pricing is not an issue, and neither is the costs of human intervention.How long can your hypothetical attacker keep this up?  This is not a trivial detail.  For any time period shorter than 100 blocks, the attack is limited to double-spending of coins that the attacker recently owned, and no one else's.  Longer than 100 blocks, and other's start to get affected (theoreticly) if they do not notice that there is an ongoing blockchain split underway (unlikely for any savvy users as it is now, and we don't have a 'watchdog' process in the client yet).Can you show the basis of this feeling?  If you could, I would like to know. Depends upon how long they can keep it up.  If you really had 70% of all generators willing to do this, what happens when the 30% call their pals on vacation and say, "hey, some jokers are attacking the blockchain!  Fire up your GPU!"  Your 70% would not be 70% for long, but would they be more or less than 50%?  Even 70% of the current generation is a supercomputing class collective.I don't know who might have said that, but they were wrong.  The difficulty before this last retarget, of about 8500, put the entire Bitcoin network in the top ten of publicly known supercomputers according to Wikipedia's list.  Recently, The People's Republic of China took delivery of a Tesla GPU based supercomputer that could have done it at a difficulty of 8500, but not now at 12K, and that thing cost the poor farmers of China 1.1 million in US$.  Keep in mind that in order for an atacker to get and maintain 50% of the network GPU in total, they must either convince 50% of current generators to participate, or produce hashing power greater than all of the present generators combined plus those who would jump in to protect their investments should an ongoing attack attempt be noticed.  We are not talking about small numbers here, even though they are not insurmountable as of yet.History doesn't jive with your interpretations.  Deflation was the natural state of things under a gold standard, and 'panics' were more common, but much shorter in duration and magnitude than under fiat currencies are today.Not really, and you are contradicting yourself.  No one saves/hords money in the absence of the intent to spend it.  You still need the milk, remember?  If you have a savings of bitcoin, and your refrigerator goes out tommorrow, are you going to tell your wife, "we will buy a new refrigerator in a couple more months, when they are cheaper"?  Either you need to spend money now, or you don't.  Inflation creates teh perverse incentive to spend now even though you may not need to, in order to avoid loss of spending power; under the incorrect Keynesian concept that spending drives production.  This is not the case.This is a Keysenan fallacy, and if you really believe this, you shouldn't buy any bitcoins.  Even gentale inflation will destroy an economy eventually.Still good for the consumer, without neccessarily being bad for the seller.  His house may be cheaper in nominal terms, but his buying power of those funds remains the same.  The reverse is largely true, except that the seller is compelled, by ongoing loss of buying power, to do something with that money besides wiat for a good deal.Because life goes on, and the law of opprotunity cost hasn't been repealled.Now that is a rational perspective.  We are getting into the hidden motives of bankers and the inflation of fiat currencies.  Prior to the abandonment of gold standards, how often did consumers borrow money for anything?  How often do you see Bitcoin users trying to borrow now?  Does that harm the consumers, or anyone?  Who benefits from the incentives towards borrowing that inflation presents in fiat currencies?Yes, that is called the "business cycle".  Stopping it was the original rationalle for the Federal Reserve, and the cycle has only gotten harsher.  How's that inflation thing working out for ya?Keynesain bullshit.  Reality doesn't care what the majority may think, and history has shown that whatever a majority of scientists of any flavor beleive is almost certianly wrong.Not quite, as real estate isn't fungible.  Strawmen burn nicely.  Stick to your code, Kid; as you have some insights there.  But econoimcs is my field. Amen That would be nice, but standard unix tools would fill this role easily, and much besides.  The idea that security is enhanced by opposing the realase of common tools, on the assumption that they could be used fraudulently, is false.  If they could be used in that manner, then the secuiryt model is already broken, and someone will be writing these tools for that specific purpose.  I don't believe that command line tools of this nature will materially impact security of Bitcoin.  If I'm wrong, please point out how, so that I may sell all my holding now and watch this whole thing fail. It wouldn't make double spending easy, double spending is stopped at the receiving end, and if another transaction makes it into the blockchain before this one, that one is the valid transaction.  I'm not suggesting this as a means of defrauding vendors, most won't ever accept transactions that they can't send directly to the network themselves.  I need it, primarily, as a means of getting transactions to and from an old computer that is isolated from any network.  It's really hard to hack into a computer without a network card, which makes a great place to put a savings account.  Getting coins into it just involves updating the blockchain, which is easy enough to do.  Getting coins back out of it is tricker.I'm thinking that I'm not likely to be the only person that will come up with a use for transactions that can be saved to a file or piped. Sure, that would work. Dependent perhaps, but even the current developers have no monopoly on the system.  The ever present threat of a classic open source code fork is a real limitation upon what the core developers can do.What do you mean "but"?  It doesn't require participation.  I don't directly participate, at least not beyond voicing my opinions.  I don't even run a client most of the time, as Mybitcoin.com is perfect for my own needs; but I still have the option of participation, and that is key.There has already been much discussion on this forum about the 1 meg hard limit, including myself.  Yet there is plenty of time.  If you look at blockexplorer.com, you can see that the average block is under a kilobyte.  The current hard limit can handle much more activity than one might think.  There are many other ways that this can be handled.You say that like it is some kind of new issue, overlooked by those who have come before you.  The reality is that this "achilles heal" is the cornerstone of the blockchain's proof-of-work security.  It would take nation-state level resources to pool enough CPU power to cross that 50% CPU mark already, and this network isn't very large as of yet.Both code forks and blockchain splits are long expected, and neither is really a threat to Bitcoin.  Blockchain splits happen regularly, and heal themselves most of the time without any human intervention.  This s also a feature of the blockchain proo-of-work system, not a bug.How do you figure?  The 50KB limit is for free transactions.1)  No it wouldn't, as there will always be generators who have a motive to process free transactions up to the limit and...2)  Cash transactions are rarely free, you just don't often count the cost of traveling to the vendor's store as part of the transaction costs; yet they are a cost to you as a customer.There are way too many assumptions here for me to bother breaking them down, but even if your assumptions are correct, they are all just contributing factors to a market transaction cost.  Do you think that all of those forces would total to a transaction cost that is as high as that of a credit card or Paypal?  If yes, why would we use it?The system is designed to allow you to buy a soda via the Bitcoin network if you wish, as well as allow you to use a Bitcoin bank (mybitcoin.com) instead if you wish.  The choice is paramount, as transactions internal to mybitcoin.com are way cheaper.1)  A natural supernode heirarchy is expected...2)  and there is no reason to expect that the average Joe in 2020 will have any need to interact with the Bitcoin network directly 99.9% of the time.  Sites like mybitcoin.com will fill that role for most people.  The key is that if the people get upset with how mybitcoin.com does things, they can choose another or do it themselves.Yes, the Bitcoin network isn't well suited to micropayments, but mybitcoin.com is.Okay.  I don't agree with your concerns, but okay.Deflation is not a threat to an economy, and is not destructive in the same way that inflation is.  Think about it this way, what is the harm to the economy if the consumer can buy milk for less than yesterday?  And do you really buy the talk that the increasing value of a currency will lead to hoarding?  If so, why doesn't it lead to hoarding now?Spam is not stopped by the bitcoin network, but delayed.  take a look at how the spam actually works, ans the value of limiting the spam taransacitons in the near term will be apparent.
How difficult would it be to develop a set of command line tools for *nix class OS's?  Specificly, I can see a need of a CL command that can look at the user's wallet and output a transaction to a pipe or file, in turn allowing me to send a transaction as one would any other file.  As an email attachment would be a boon.  Likewise, another command that can take a pipe with an incoming transaction and feed that to either bitcoind or directly onto the Bitcoin network would be neccessary.  Neither of these tools neccessarily need to understand the blockchain, I don't think.This is a neccessary step for a bitcoin client without any Internet access (i.e. an 'air gap' machine connected only by sneakernet) and would make using Bitcoin over a SSH login connection much easier. I do like that graph, but I think that it would mean more to the average Joe if a similar graph existed to mark the declining inflation rate over time. You might be able to leverage this technique to gain an advantage over the network with less than 50% of total processor power under certain ideal conditions; but you will still need something very close to 50% even if your attack conditions are perfect.  It's also an attack vector that is unsustainable, as the first non-cartel block to get accepted by the network breaks any prior computational advantage and renders the cartel's prior work towards the next block based upon their delayed block worthless.  In the end, I would say that the conditions required to make this work would be nearly as difficult for any group as simply aquiring the resources to take 50% of the network.  Either way it's at a nation-state level already, and we are not a particularly large network. Is this gateway broken for Visa prepaid debit cards?  I can't seem to get past the popup. First, the day that comes that a reward is zero is beyond our lifetimes, and only a theoretical issue to us.  Second, the priorities system gives more priority to transactions that pay a higher fee.  So the blocksize limit, whatever it is in the future, functions as artifical scarcity as well as limit the bandwidth/storage consumption of the network.  If Bitcoin were to become as regularly used as Paypal, even a 10 meg top limit is likely to delay transactions of the smallest fee, creating a natural market price for the value of a near term transaction.  A future client can look at the most recent several blocks, and produce an average transaction fee recommendation for a user to get his transactions processed in a timely manner.  This premium on speed will likely be in constant flux.Perhaps we should consider a "flushing block" every so often, wherein the top limit is uncapped for that single block, to allow all persistant transactions to clear.  This could be done once every retarget, permitting the network to catch up, so that even free transactions have a high end limit of two weeks of wait. The point is that the creation of new  coins is mathmaticly similar to the mining of gold, as the mining continues, the difficulty of doing so increases until the mine is played out.  Also, there is the problem of initial distribution of a new currency, if the rate was continuous then it would take decades for the inflation rate to drop into the range of a rational currency, say 2-3% APR.  The halving system used by bitcoin will have distributed half of all the coins by 2013, 75% by 2017, and will be into an inflation rate preferable to any fiat currency on Earth today.  We wouldn't want to wait a couple decades before Bitcoin was preferable to a regular national currency issued by a government with "target inflation rate" of 2%.The max block size is not imposed by fiat, but by agreement to a convention.  You could change that in your client right now and produce blocks just fine, but unless at least 50% of generators agree with you, whenever your client produces a block that defies this agreed convention it will be ignored by those who do.Yes there are such market forces, at least there will be once the rate of transactions is averaging over 50KB per block.  Some fees are voluntary, but increase your priority, allowing your transaction to be processed in a timely manner.  There are numberous cases in real life wherein a delay of a couple of hours is unacceptable, and it would be worthwhile to tack on a transaction fee of .02 bitcoin in order to jump the line of freebies.  If you are tyring todonate to a cause, or just moving funds around between multiple clients of your own (working client to a savings client, for example) then you can probably wait a few hours, or a few days, for the transaction to get processed at the network's own convience.  Buying a car, however, would likely justify the fee for speed.Other fees are not voluntary, but are required of more sophisticated transactions than the simple send X bitcoin to Y.I think that you misunderstand the point of decentralization in the context of currency.  It's not the idea of a bank that is the problem, but the monopolies that cnetral banks have in our modern world.  Bitcoin banks will likely exist before very long, as Mybitcoin.com and Mtgox.com already offer some of the most important functions of a bank, but none of them can manipulate the system to their own advantage over any other peer, be they a user or another bank.Those two incentives are not equivalant, transaction fees do not affect the value of all other bitcoins held by others.  Increasing the monetary base does. Yes.  The current system cannot function without the blockchain headers, at a minimum.  That shouldn't discourage you from seeking another solution. What alternative uses could exist that wouldn't detract from the primary function? I agree, as do many others.  There is great risk in trying to adapt Bitcoin into some kind of multi-tool.  Simple tools that can be used in conjunction is what made Unix great, and both Linux & the Internet great by proxy.  Bitcoin should be a currency system, and leave the othe innovations to other tools.  The argument that some have made that another blockchain would take generation from Bitcoin (or vise versa) is a false one.  People will contribute to what is important to them.  Neither distributed.net, nor any other of the prior distributed work projects, makes any attempt to compensate participants.  If a p2p DNS is important, people will volunteer both clocktime and bitcoin donations to support it. Use the search function.  Look for 'datacasting' and 'Dash7'that is the chicken and egg problem, isn't it?  A client that uses balance sheets cannot independently verify transactions based on blocks prior to it's own initial startup, but a client that uses the full blockchain to verify transaction history doesn't need balance sheets. Bitcoin can already work like this, just not as an absolute.  This is similar to my own 'datacasting' concept. So a debit account, at a coffee shop?  That's not a faster solution.  It would be easier, an faster, if the retailer was willing to accept the small risk of a double spend attempt and just accept valid transactions on faith.  It would be less risky than accepting personal checks, as well as generally faster. Just the transaction, would take only a few seconds to wrap the planet via the bitcoin network, (this would take longer in the future with many more nodes than exist today) but if there was an open hotspot in the store (perhaps with all outgoing ports blocked except bitcoin's own) and a running bitcoind locally, it would take longer for the customer to remove his finger from the 'send' button than it would take the store's client to receive & verify the transaction.  From a human perspective, this would be an instant; faster than the quickest credit card authorization.  This kind of check only verifies that the customer owned those recently, but does not check for a double spend attempt.  At the retail level for anything less than $20 in value, the risks and difficulties of a double spend would likely be high enough that there wouldn't be a reason to worry about a double spend attempt.  At any level that would require a credit check under normal circumstances, such as buying a car, would justify a couple of block verifications.Just checking the transaction without waiting for a block would likely be a lower risk for the retailer than accepting personal checks with an ID. the cryptographic portions of Bitcoin are somewhat modular, and can be swapped out for other/better/future versions of similar tools with majority consent of the network; no matter the reason for doing so. hmm, I collect foriegn notes, and do not have either of those.  Are you willing to go out on a limb and risk sending those notes by international mail? Free transactions must wait for another block.  Spamming only consumes space in the block reserved for free transactions, fee paying transactions have space (at increasing fee levels) up to 1 meg at this time.  The 1 meg limit is a hard limit, but much discussion about replacing the hard limit with a more flexible rule has already occurred on this forum.I believe that the network can sustain a level of about 470 transactions per minute at this time, due to the hard limit.  We know that this is not enough,but these are changable rules. correctIt is possible for a client to check that a transaction is valid independently, but it's  impossible to eliminate the risks of a double spend without waiting for comfirmations.  It's possible to reduce such risks without the blockchain, however, by scanning the transaction queue for attempted double spends for a couple seconds before approving the transaction; but the clients can't yet do this, AFAIK. Yes it's possible, but the current client is not able to do many things yet that the protocol permits.  Part of it is that more than one address can input into a single transaction, totaling up to the amount requested, and the current client does nothing about displaying those addresses.If you are talking about sending to a Mybitcoin.com account from another, this would be a different issue, as there would not often even be a bitcoin transaction in that case, as such internal transfers are usually handled internally by Mybitcoin's modified client servers.   As I mentioned above, prices don't really offer information about the causes.  The above situation could happen without either inflation or deflation, although this would be corrected by actors seeking profit from arbitrige.  Prices tell you the answer, but not the question. The excerpt that I left above is not true.  This describes the most common effect of inflation, but is not inflation.  Inflation is the the expansion of the monetary base (including credit extended) relative to the economic activity that it represents.  Deflation is the exact opposite; the reduction of the monetary base relative to the economic activity that represents.  Notice that this is a raw ratio, not a unit, and change can come from either side of the fractional.  In the case of Bitcoin, even though the absolute monetary base is expanding at a rate of ~60% as expressed as an APR; the value of bitcoin is increasing (the ratio is increasing) because the economic activity is expanding at a higher overall rate than 60% per year.  Without running any numbers, the rise in the value of bitcoin suggests that the economic activity of the Bitcoin economy is increasing at a rate closer to 500% per year or more.The general rise in prices seen over time, is an expression of that ratio filtering across industries, but make poor indicators themselves because they are 1) late, 2) uneven across industries and 3) offer no information with regard to root causes.
That's why I wanted the client to be NFC/Dash7 aware eventually, because I think that either/both of these technologies will play a big role in the IRL use and trade of digital currencies.  Dash7 is particularly well suited towards spreading Bitcoin transactions and blocks, but even a wifi hotspot that blocked all ports except Bitcoin's would work fine for this purpose. Yes, there is a reason that is not done in the standard clients, and running balance sheets have been proposed, but it's not neccessary in order to keep the local blockchain footprint down.  The blockchain can be 'pruned' of old transaction records that have been already referenced (spent) in "lightweight" clients such as cell phones, or even full clients once set up.  There will likely always be a complete copy of the blockchain available somewhere on the Internet, but only 'paranoid' clients need the entire thing and then only upon initial startup.  Once they have verified the entire blockchain, even the most paranoid client can prune years of records off the chain and need only keep the 80 byte long headers.You understand it incorrectly.  Don't take this personally, as it's a very complicated system, and takes a while for even the geekiest among us to wrap their heads around.  I was here for weeks before I really understood it.And a 'lightweight' client can verify transactions independently without the full chain, but it's more than possible to verify transactions without a local copy of the chain at all if your client is connected to the Internet at the time.  There is a number of ways that this can be done, but the current Android client functions as  a frontend to a remote bitcoind running on a server.  This bitcoind server is functioning as a "trusted node", in this case because both the server and client are owned by the same user; but it is reasonable that "trusted nodes" will be a common thing in a Bitcoin future, functioning as a type of bank and/or credit card company as a service.  The trusted nodes keep the blockchain, and verify all user transactions.Feel free to write such a client.  If there are technical issues with such a shortcut, I'm sure that you will figure it out.The resources of verification do not grow exponentially, or even linerily, with the size of the blockchain.It might be both, but it's not immediately neccessary to be able to compact the blockchain for any reason; and provisions exist in the protocol to be able to prune the blockchain to significant degrees.  This system is still young, and alternative clients will start to pop up with other ways of doing things when the time is right. If Wikileaks want's to set up a Bitcoin node, we can't do anything about that.  However, once the reporters start snooping around, Mybitcoin.com could just come out with a press release that says something to the effect that they are freezing Wikileak's Mybitcoin.com account.  This is the equivalent of PayPal saying that they are freezing Wikileak's dollar denominated account.Of course, we don't need to mention that what Mybitcoin.com does really doesn't do anything substantial, but likewise paypal doesn't really stop Wikileaks from US$ transactions either; and nobody seems to mention that. If it were truly democratic, there would be a choice of, "don't do anything like this at all" and would require a quorum of 50% or more of bitcoin users. I couldn't get the video to finish.  I would watch about three minutes and stop. Is there any way to get a tahoe instance set up on a thumbdrive? This doesn't count, because Congress has always considered crap that didn't stand a chance.  This won't either, as it is obviously unconstitutional, and there remain people who actually care that what that document says.  It also would be irrelevent, since those who publish aren't subject to US prosecution anyway.  The very idea that JA could be extridited to the US for violation of US spying laws, considering that he is an Australian who has been living in Europe this entire time, is ubsurd. We don't all fret about the possibility, some consider it the best thing for the US as well. It's hard to continue to aggravate foreign powers once you are no longer a empire.  That said, I'd bet that there were plenty of Brits who fretted about the same thing in 1895.  I'm not the first to suggest such a possibility, and this is a long time coming.  Also, there is no evidence in the historical record that suggests that a nation as large as the US is long-term sustainable, anyway.  Texas even reserves the right to secede in their statehood documents, explicitly.  California is still a larger economy than Texas, but based on land mass, population or/and economic size; Texas would be at least as qualified to be a nation unto itself as half of the nations of Europe. Never.  In order for the President of the United States to mention "bitcoin" before 2020, there must be a United States.  When empires collapse, they also break apart.  This grows more likely the older I get. You don't think that would be unlikely to occur, considering anyone receiving a transaction offline should be aware of this, and only accept transactions from those whom they know or otherwise trust?  It requires advance planning at a minimum, and a mark.  Either way, the point of an offline transaction is so that a person with a lightweight client can spend their coins without a constant connection; or sell things if the risk is managable outside of the Bitcoin system itself. Yes, although the current client doesn't yet do this, it would be possible to use the keypair that produced the address used to send the coins to 'sign' an electronic receipt, proving that the coins that Bitcoin Block Exployer shows went to the receiver were sent by yourself.  There are many little tidbits like this that the system allows, but that are not yet performed. Small.  Mine is under 100Kb.  But they grow a little with every transaction that you make. Easy?  Really?Offline transactions would make double-spending attacks possible, it would not, taken alone, make them "easy".  I think that the lightweight client should warn the user not to accept transactions offline except from those whom he already trusts, but it should be possible. Not often, no.  I was speaking of the total cost, of which the cost of power is a small chunk for most, and negligible for others.  Hardware is the bigger issue anyway.  Certainly there are those who will have to use electric to heat their space regardless, so for them power is irrelevant.  If you have to pay for the hardware anyway, fine.  Otherwise, the additional costs of a $500 dollar gaming graphics card is a deal killer.  There is no way that you are making a straight profit on your setup, at least not based on current coin values.  As a future speculative gamble, perhaps, but not a concurrently profitable venture.  Feel free to prove otherwise, as I would love to know how you are justifying the resources that you have been putting into this. The scamming that this thread refers to is a problem with PayPal's security model, not Bitcoin's.  That said, there is no system that is secure if the users are duped into trusting someone that they otherwise would not.  So there will always be those who will try to defraud others, no matter the security of the system.  If you insist on others doing the due diligence on your behalf, perhaps you should stick with the credit card companies and their associated fees.  Security isn't ever free, and can be quite expensive if the user is lax. I'm sorry, I thought you were speaking of the blockchain.  My wallet.dat is less than 100Kb, and I have it backed up to a (relatively tiny) 128Mb USB thumbdrive.  If your wallet.dat has grown too large, you could just start a new client with a fresh wallet.dat, and keep a backup or two of the old wallet.dat in case someone ends up sending coins to your old addresses. Current client, no.  But everyone should still have their past wallet.dat data intergrated into whatever current client that they use. Give it a shot, but it's a race, not an audition.  We don't know you, so we will have to see the product before you can expect anything.  The risk is all your own.Although there are a number of forum members who are economicly educated, none who have a reputation to maintain their incomes IRL are going to stick their 'neck' out for Bitcoin just yet.  Some are watching quietly, from a safe distance.  The majority of the forum members are very privacy literate, myself included, and are not going to pierce that shield for a new forum member with one post.  For that matter, the lead programmer Satoshi, may not be using his real name; for even the old forum members cannot get confirmation of any personal info.It's not about politics, really.  It's certainly not about democracy.It cannot be stopped because of the proof-of-work system and because there exists no central point of control that can be attacked in cyberspace or in real life.  P2P is a means to achieve this, not the ends unto itself.  This may sound nitpicky, but the confidence that we share in Bitcoin has to do with it's robustness and lack of a single point of failure, not the network topology.True, no fees are required.  Fees do play a role, however.Subjective, but yes.Probably, but this is apples to oranges.  Online banking uses encryption to deal with a different threat model; someone who is trying to listen for your account secrets, such as account numbers, login info, or personal info.  The Bitcoin model works differently, and the secrets that you keep stay on your disk drive, and you must learn to protect them well.It's as anonymous as cash in person, but for most people that isn't very anonymous.  Just as the security camera catches your face when paying in cash, your actions online can associate you to an address or more.  Once this happens, there is a "paper trail". I've been know to do both, ocassionally at the same time, but I can (yet) watch AVI's on my TV.
Pandora has already opened the box.  It's beyond anyone's control as to what Wikileaks does, or does not do, with Bitcoin.  It's learn to swim fast, or drown. Any recommendations on an alternative? (80 bytes per block * blockchain total length) + (Average transaction size * current bitcoins in circulation * maximum allowable division * number of transactions deep kept by the pruning algorithim) = realistic top limit on blockchain size at any given time. Due to a debit card mixup, I've been going since Dec 1st without paying for my Netflix subscription, among other things.  So i bought a prepaid, only to discover that...1) Online merchants can tell if a Visa card number is a prepaid and...2) Netflix doesn't accept them.Bastards. I see.Why would you be worried about the growth of the blockchain?  It can be pruned of long referenced transactions, it's just not right now.  We wouldn't want it to be right now anyway, because that might hamper the new user 'bootstrapping' issue in the near term. Not unless he's stealing his power somehow, or simply stealing clocktime.  That is easy enough to do if he is the admin of a pool of zombies, or just installed the client on his employer's computer systems. Define "inefficient" in this context.  My understanding is that the p2p network isn't inefficient for it's purpose, just not particularly well suited to bootstrapping new clients.  An alternative way of bootstrapping a new client would help to limit the new user load upon the network in the future, but that's not the problem today.  The delays in bootstrapping a new client today are largely due to the massive amount of checking that the client does while downloading the blockchain. Well, this user says that Bitcoin should remain a single tool, namely a cryptocurrency.  And if I lose the vote I'll no longer be a user, so I suppose that in the end it would all work out. 50% of all quoted statistics are made up on the spot. I think my brain had a kernal panic attack. This sentence doesn't parse in English. Part of the success of this lobbying pressure is due to the fact that it would have been of marginal advantage for the nation of Russia to have it's own payment processor anyway.  Bitcoin is a different animal. That would just slow it down, not stop it.  Can't stop it, that is the point of it. Hmm...Sounds like a reasonable complaint.  Quick!  Sell all your coin to me before the bottom drops out!  I'll take one for the team and give you 10 cents each. Also, why on Earth would a BitDNS want a blockchain that updates every 10 minutes?  Why not an hour instead?  Or every minute?  Why be chained to the cycles set for another purpose?  It's less than ideal from the beginning. Actually, don't expect to generate coins on that system ever.  The total network has been growing at an incredible rate, and if it keeps up, the average time between individual generation will be well beyond a year long before that year is up. Human Action isn't exactly light reading.  I would suggest that aspiring Austrians start with books aimed at for the general public, such as Economics in One Lesson and the 'Uncle Eric' series starting with Whatever Happened to Penny Candy.  The former is aimed at lay adults, the latter at teens and pre-teens; but those without prior experience can stand to learn much from the 'Uncle Eric' series quickly.  My recommended order is Whatever Happened to Penny Candy, Whatever Happened to Justice and The Clipper Ship Stradgety; after that the series gets off the topic, because it's a series about Praxeology in general, not Economics in particular.  Any of these titles should be available at the public library. This is true enough, but a libertarian can be a socialist; just not a statist.  If the socialist order is non-coercive, any libertarian should be fine with it's existance, even if he doesn't agree that it's an ideal social order.  A fine example is a hippie co-op type farm, wherein adults not related to one another agree to live in a communal fashion.  History and reason both tell us that these adventures aren't sustainable, but that's irrelevant.  Another example is an 'intentional community', or even an extended family living together in the same household.  It's the idea that the social fabric of a happy homelife can be extended to the whole of society that drives the 'feeling' youth towards the socialist worldview.  Children who grow up in dysfunctional families are much less likely to fall for that crap. Even cash is not free to use.  Even if your personal costs are very low with cash, as they are for most people, and you don't pay those fees to the person that you are doing business with, the costs of getting yourself to a brick-&-mortor store to buy with cash is a real cost to you.  For most people, such costs are detatched from the purchase, but if you have to take public transit to get to the store or if you have to take off work to make it before closing time, you will feel the transaction costs.Likewise, cash in person transaction costs rise when it starts snowing. There is no asset backed currency left in the world that is honored by any government.  Even the Swiss caved into pressure from the European Monetary Union.  I'm betting they are regreting that decision these days.
That's only because of habit combined with no working alternative that the public is aware of.If the pubic becomes generally aware of bitcoin, and a common method of in person transactions is developed, many people will switch in mass, and governments will start to have to deal with the population demanding their wages in bitcoin directly.  I've mentioned before, that I think that the day that I can walk into a Kroger or a Wal-Mart and buy stuff, even if I have to go through a special line to do so, then Bitcoin will already be unstoppable. Not unless we are talking about expensive products, such as a car.  There normally isn't a need to wait for confirmation, as the store's own client has the most recent blockchain, it can tell immediately if the buyer owned the coins he is trying to spend ten minutes ago.  It's also possible, and in the future likely, that a more sophisticated point-of-sale client would be able to scan the pending transactions queue for any attempt at a coordinated double-spend fraud in progress, as well as an even more sophisticated network split double spend attack.  Such additional checks are possible, but not in the current client and not with a 'lightweight' client such as would likely exist on future smartphones.EDIT:  Waiting for confirmation from the blockchain is akin to going to a notary public to sell your car to someone that you don't know for cash.  It's not really neccessary for most everyday transactions. Painfully difficult to set up properly on your computer, and painfully slow once it is working.  It also makes a poor data haven (it's primary purpose) because the network has the habit of "forgeting" pieces of the file that you desire over time.  This happens because nodes have limited storage space, and favor popular content; and because there is no way to compensate anyone for their contributions, so nodes drop off without warning.  It's really mostly used as a huge encrypted BBS, distributing messages and content, much of it because it is objectionable to someone.   I've tried freenet before, I'm not a fan. No, this is awesome, but how does one pay for the service? Perhaps some kind of control protocol overlay that uses bittorrent as it's transport mech, with tracking internal to the control network.  Perhaps this could be a TOR hidden service with the bittorrent traffic external, I'm  just thinking out loud. Are there any truly p2p content delivery networks?  All those that I am aware of require a central server for control.  I'm thinking along the lines of a distributed 'data haven' that has no single point of failure. So what would prevent me from registering the domain jackass.theymos.btc?   What do you mean by sender code on the website?  If you are using the sending address as your transaction reference, then anyone who sends you money via a pooled client such as www.mybitcoin.com isn't likely to match up. Yes.  Generation is intentionally hard, otherwise it would be worthless as a trade currency.  It's much easier, and less costly to most people, to buy or trade for bitcoins rather than generate.  I've never generated a block, personally. Corporations are creatures of the state.  I can't imagine how the shareholders could ever be certain that their shareholder rights are being respected, without the implicit force of the court system should the corporate executives turn to the dark side or were frauds to start with.  Reputation is a real economic force at the personal level, but not the corporate level.  They were orginally developed to distribute risk across a working group, and also distribute liability in the same manner. I would say no, since it isn't about bitcoin directly. There exists a couple of different p2p distributed data storage systems without central controls, but in nearly all cases they use some kind of tis-for-tat system of limiting the free rider problem.  All of which have limited success in that endeavor.  Centralized off-site backup sites also exist, and some that use the "cloud", but they are all dependent upon a centralized server model.  Any ideas from the forum minds about how a decentralized p2p distributed data storage system could be implimented that uses bitcoin payments to compensate those who contribute disk space and bandwidth to the share, and still be anonymous and equitible?As I see it, such a system would have to have a number of qualities, at a minimum...1)  Mutiple sets of the same data,2) stored across numerous nodes3) using system-wide encryption (mostly to protect the nodes from the liability of objectionable content)4) with a payment system that can use market based pricing to charge small amounts for uploading, storage term period, and downloading separately.  (someone using the system for critical backup is unlikely to ever download, but would desire to have a higher number of copies on the system; while someone using the system to distribute cladestine content will upload once and download perhaps numerous times, but may not desire to have so many copies for data protection)I imagine it something like paid bittorrent seeding, but this isn't my thing. A protocol one, but it's not a particularly interdependent design decision.  The bitcoin balances are stored as integers (64 bit, I believe) and the decimal point is centered by the client for human readability in base 10.  It could be changed to a larger integer without a great deal of technical fuss, but that would require the general agreement of the entire running network.  So it's more of a political problem than a technical one.As noted above, bitcoin actually does use 16 places in base 10; so the next step isn't quite so inexpensive as one might imagine, because it involves stepping up to an 128 bit integer, at a minimum.   A you asking for recommendations on study resources, or something else? That depends upon how rough you are willing to accept the product.   You have just described a 'phyle' system. Has anyone tried to intergrate bu.mp?  Use an extra data field in bu.mp that a script can automagicly copy from the bu.mp addressbook into the send money address field in bitcoind? That really depends on so many factors that it's hard to judge.  A double escrow could be limited far longer, because it would be rare that any conflict would last to the limit, but you don't want it to be indefinate either, because the site owner doesn't want to have to hunt down disgruntled clients should there be a need to close the site.  I would say that three years is about the high end limit for such a thing, but one year should be long enough. which is why it's difficult to completely remove the human element of it.  When two parties agree to use such a service, they are ultimately putting trust into a human being.  Most of even the conflicts will resolve out without intervention of the escrow site owner, as a sour deal will most often not be caused by an attempt at fraud but a misrepresentation/misunderstanding that will just end in the two parties agreeing to keep theirs and move on.  Only the rarest of deals will be unresolvable without adjudication, but some will.  The one year wait is a strong encentive for the two parties to work it out, even if they would prefer to just stick it to the other; which is part of why I think that a double escrow would be better, because otherwise the seller could get ticked and just refuse to release the buyer from the agreement until the year was up, as he has no real skin in the escrow itself.
There is still no way past the zipcode page to even look at the plans or phones.  I'm stuck in a loop.  They need to update their coverage database.  Without being able to look at the plan details, I can't really compare the service to my present prepaid plan from Virgin, which also uses the Sprint PCS network. I would wager that guys like him have contacts back in the mother country willing to get into the other end of things, and eventually we wont need to convert at all. According to that, I'm in a dark purple zone. It would be comparable to someone buying gold and launching it into the Sun.  It would make the remaining gold more valuable while making the rich idiot less rich.  Not only would that not harm the bitcoin economy in any way, it would actually improve the blockchain security for as long as the wealthy idiot could keep it up. I disagree.  I think that a lot of the young dealers are very social network savvy already, and bitcoin adds advantages that even cash in hand cannot provide.  Cash is only anonymous after the fact; if the deal is being observed, such as the case that one of your regulars has been pinched and cut a deal to trade your ass for his own, the dealer loses his product, money and freedom and the cash is used as evidence against him.  If a savvy dealer insists upon bitcoin from all his clients, the client need not be on his person/phone that can be nabbed, but can be a bitcoind running in a foreign country.  That may not prevent the cops from taking it or using it as evidence against the dealer, but it will certianly make it more work, and people who work in the legal system are just as lazy as any other field.  At a minimum, it would require that the cops get a court order to force the dealer to divulge his passwords.  Meanwhile giving a trusted associate the time to move the funds to another account that is not on the same server and therefore completely untraceable.Using bitcoin in an in person transaction such as this could limit the dealers capital risk exposure by half, because only the physical product is subject to confiscation at the event, so long as the cops are interested in getting the dealer for dealing and not simply possesion with intent.  Ultimately this would reduce the dealers' legal risk exposure because if the cops can no longer get the money also, there is no longer an economic incentive for the cops to do so, and if they let the deal go down using bitcoin, the dealer still got his end of the deal even if he got pinched. This is awesome.  The battery life has to suck though.  Can you get terminal access to the daemon on the smartphone, or something along the lines of ncurses?  If the generation is disabled, and a frontend could be thrown together, this would likely satisfy the bounty for a standalone smartphone client. There is a zipcode service search on the main MEtroPCS website that says that there is not service available in any of the zip codes near my city. Greece has had a large portion of it's economy in the 'dark' for a long time.  It's entirely possible to live entirely off the books if such a lifestyle is relatively common.  It would be hard in the US, however, because there is no functioning and unified dark market that doesn't also increase end user costs due to political/legal risks.  The agorist idea is to develop such a market that can compete with the light markets on an even keel; which has proven difficult even in the age of the Internet, and I'm sure that is part of the attraction of Bitcoin for the agorists among us.  Previously, any such markets were limited to in person transaction involving precious metals; which is an incrediblely ineffecient way to buy groceries.  If the day ever comes that Wal-Mart (or a national competitor) ever starts accepting bitcoins for common neccessities without the need for additional identification (I.E. shoppers discount cards, what did you think they were for, if not to track your cash purchases?) then the agorists will already have won, even though it may take another decade for the system to actually change. If you send coins to a valid address, the blockchain will record that address as having those coins until they are spent by someone with a keypair that matches that address.  Realisticly speaking, if you send coins to a valid address that has no real owner, they will sit in the blockchain for much longer than our natural lifetimes and cannot be recovered by anyone, even if you can prove that you own them.  If you send coins to someone who is offline, the blockchain doesn't care that they are not online, and their client will see the new transactions the next time that they are online. I don't know that the only way is to bankrupt it, but historicly speaking, I am aware of no case that a successful substantial reform has occurred without some greater threat beyond the ballot box.  Bloodless revolutions have occurred, but even those carried the implied threat of real actions on the part of the population.  The agorist plan of peaceful reform by undermining the government's source of funding (taxation) by advocating the rise of safe & effective "grey" markets that are difficult to monitor (and therefore tax) is a valid one.  However, I disagree that the end result would likely be the absence of a government structure.  More likely it would result in the replacement of the government structure with a more local, and perhaps less formal, form of government structure.  I agree that the vast majority of people do not need government for any honest purpose, but it is a sad fact that there is a very small minority of the population whose criminal tendancies will always require the response of a collective force.  Whatever form that collective force may take, it will always need to be subject to the collective in some fashion (i.e. regulated by representatives of the people, otherwise called a government) or it will become the government in very short order.  Human nature hates a power vacuum.To all flavors of anarchists on this forum; be careful what you wish for, lest you get your wish. It's a good start, but perhaps a better system is dual funding of escrow, whereing both parties contribute the full purchase price (plus half of any escrow fees), and then it takes the consent of both to release any of the funds to either party.  This lays risk upon both parties until the transaction is completed to the satisfaction of both.  If after a year (or some other long period) any conflict cannot be resolved, then the funds are released back to both parties.  The risk to the buyer is exactly the same, but the near term capital risk to the seller is increased.  In the interim, parties agree that the deposit can be used by the site for lending, which should more than cover the costs & annoyance of the site owner.  The time period for frozen funds needs to be long enough that the time preferences of the currency is enough of a threat to strongly discourage cheating.The problem that I see is that if the seller is a cheat, he has no incentive not to attempt to cheat even if he isn't likely to succeed under your system.  However, not only would an honest seller have a greater incentive to complete the deal quickly, he would also be supporting his honest reputation by the willingness to risk locking up funds in a dispute. The root problem with adding this stuff to the block is the size of the transaction, but if a separate p2p database were developed, references could still be added via the scripting system to definitively timestamp the exterior references without adding a great deal of data to the blockchain itself.  This would likely result in a slightly higher standard transaction rate due to the increased size of the transactions.  This is similar to timestamping a private recordbook by taking it to a notary public to notarize your signature behind several pages of handwritten words without whitespace.  This is exactly what a lot of union reps will do using a hardbound record book for meeting notes with the company reps.  Following the meeting, the union rep will take the hardbound record book down to a notary (not associated with any union) to be notarized so that the company reps can't claim that the records were falsely scribed after the fact.  They can still claim that they never said it, but to claim that the union rep's book is a forgery puts them in direct conflict with the legal affidavit of a professional who has a reputation to defend.A similar system could be used to timestamp photos, video or any other "IP" content, no matter where that content is stored, by including a hyperreference to one or more sites that hold the orginal content, along with a secure hash of the content.  I imagine that use of the higher functions that the scripting would permit would require a transaction fee anyway.  Some transactions will always be free, but like Satoshi has said, that's charity.  If you need the scripting functions, you are going to be paying something for the priviliage anyway. Indeed.  No offense to Satoshi, but the best way to teach a baby to swim is toss them in the water.  Of course, you don't toss them in and go to get a beer, either.  And since there are few other developers able to jump in and save the baby if it panics, Satoshi's protective nature holds sway with me anyway.  I know that I couldn't do anything to help. It's not symbiotic.  Domain names are irrelevant to the vast majority of the currency using human population on this planet, as well as the vast majority of the subset that has Internet access.  It's a niche market, and doing it would become a burden to Bitcoin.  Small as that burden may be, it will be a disadvantage that would allow a competitive cryptocurrency to overtake it.  Feel free to take the source and modifiy it and do this thing on a separate blockchain, but don't be surprised by it's marginal success. Then benefits are still benefits of your former employment, only delayed.  It's unfortunate that your former employer was shackled by government regulations, but that was not your doing and they did bend to that will.  It's still your money. you have my attention with this MetroPCS thing, can I use this vendor to pay my bills if I don't live near New York State? No, because bitcoin doesn't actually employ encryption of data, but strong digital hashing/signing of data.  The distinction is important, even if it might be difficult to show that in a court of lawyers who don't have any background in higher mathmatics. It's a very American phrase, dating back to the colonial days when British Pounds were rare in the US colonies, and Spanish silver coins were called "pieces of eight" in the US because it was common to "make change" by cutting the rather large silver coin into eight 'bits' like a pizza pie.  And that is why a quarter is called "two bits". Doubtful.  Most likely it is the result of the combination of the market effects of the QEII news wearing off, the ongoing base expansion of Bitcoin, and normal market fluctuations.  Truth be told, no one can really say for certian until after the fact; which is also generally true with the stock markets.  Those market pundits that get paid so much money to go on news shows to explain the twists of the markets are really just offering up an educated guess, but aren't going to display their own uncertainty, because outward confidence is what much of their own income is dependent upon.  Elliot wave theory doesn't depend on causes, but simply makes predictions based on analysis of the market price movements. Sounds like the Mechanical Turk (www.mturk.com) which is sponsored by Amazon.com.  I can't see them using bitcoin anytime soon, but if such mech turk like site could be coded for use with bitcoin; I can very much see this kind of thing take off.  And yes, there are many people in poorer nations that use mturk as a part-time income.  Much of the data tags in Google Street View are inserted this way, by humans looking at the photos and click-tagging the sewers, painted lines, and street address numbers, etc for a few cents per set.  Someone else will get the same set, and if both agreed, then the set is accepted as finished without further human intervention.  The system works well, but it is certainly tedious, like an entry level data entry job.
This reminds me of the USMC... Yeah, most Americans really have no concept of the history, and think that all native tribes on the North American land mass were nomadic like the Western plains Indians.  The Eastern tribes were certainly tribal, and certainly not as well educated as the English who survived the Atlantic; but nor were they particularly nomadic.  The Eastern tribes were mostly farmers, and some were literate in a written language that some claim is strangely similar to ancient Hebrew.  They were also monotheistic, which made the transition to Southern Baptist relatively smooth for my own ancestors.  I do have a few minor physical characteristics that has 'made' me a couple of times; such as the color tone of my tan is more of an orange (not red, I've been accused of using that chemical tan stuff) than your average white guy of European decent, and I have a particular color of blue eyes with grey streaks that is unusual enough that it gets strangers' attention in public if I'm not wearing my tinted glasses.  But I'm mostly of European decent anyway, and generally blend well, at least outwardly. Indeed, it is a natural human drive to seek out those whom with we comfortablely identify.  Although I must admit, those people are not really those who share my genetic predispositions.  My family is quite large, but they really don't have a clue. Patience Bitcoin is not limited, in principle design, to only those with Internet access.  There has been much discussion on this forum over that topic. Forced insurance, yes.  You should not feel bad for using your employer paid benefits; which is exactly what (most) EI is, even if it is after the fact.  It's just like health insurance, delayed. It should, and it would in the absence of the massive federal subsidies that the US government provides to public transit.  Taxes paid for most major commercial airports and nearly all of their security.  Without those roundabout forms of subsidies, aviation would still be a rare mode of travel as it was in the 1930's.  Pam Am got it's start as a covert pacific theater operation prior to WWII, using military pilots flying commercial aircraft as cover for the movement of US personnel & air recon of the Japanese fleets.  The US airline industry is to the US military today what the interstate system was to prior generations, and what the roads were to the Roman Empire; it provides cover of movement with commerce while providing a means of rapid deployment in the event of invasion. I was at the post office yesterday, and nearby there is a little shop that sells prepaid phone cards and money services, mostly to Mexican immigrants.  I've bought phone cards there before, and went in to talk to the owner about buying bitcoins.  I didn't offer any pitch, just mentioned the website and said that I'd be interested in buying from him if he offered them.  He seemed intrigued, and was on the website before I left the shop.  If there are going to be local businesses selling bitcoins for a decent markup, it's these businesses that profit by helping immigrants in America send money to families abroad.I don't even know what these places are called. Nice to have you around.  I'm part Cherokee myself, but I have never seen any reservation and my grandfather never was very concerned about preserving his native background. No one has access, but it's impossible to hide what a particular address has. This is great and all, but I sent them a letter weeks ago.  I got a response from a real person, and they are definately looking at Bitcoin.  It is, after all, an open source product.Too many sending letters that look like advertisements is just going to annoy them. Perhaps you assume too much.Inefficient yes, but ineffective?  Paranoia is what the government is good at.  No way this kid did this, not even a small part of it.  He is either a gov'ment patsy, or a martyr for some other group.The government is no less likely to form internal factions over ideology or self-interest than any other collective agency.  This smells like an inside job, and from what I've seen so far, it seems to make the Bush admin seem less stupid|evil, even if only by comparison. The end result is likely to be the same.  It doesn't matter if someone in this community proposes to Wikileaks or not, they are very net savy.  Someone in their structure is going to propose bitcoin to them, and there is no way for us, or anyone, to prevent them from using it.  Hopefully they will also be willing to commit as much of their own resources to the security of bitcoin if they do so openly.  We still don't have the strength to withstand the full force of the US government. One that note, I smell a rat.  I've worked for the beast, and there is no way whatever that a private is going to have access 1) to top-secret communications 2) unmonitored 3) on a secure computer 4) with a cd-rom drive 5) that has access to secrets not in his own section.There is no way this kid did this. That has probably happened in some limited degree, but if even 10% of such trades were done in bitcoin, the value of one would easily be over $2.   Did anyone expect any different?  Like any corporation, PayPal is a child of the state.  Very few are willing to stand up to Big Daddy on principle, even when it's obvious to everyone who isn't either an agent of the state or a cheerleader that these leaks are evidence of official malpractice. In the context of the title of this thread, the advantage of bitcoin for in person transactions is that if the cops are waiting for a deal to go down so that they can swoop in and confiscate everything to pad their budgets, it's much harder to take the bitcoins once the transaction is gone.  Particularly if the wallet.dat is encrypted on a remote server, overseas.  Dude!  Stop talking!  Don't you know that Big Sister is listening!? It might prove helpful, but it's not neccesary that providers agree on an API.  A one click bitcoin button is being worked on that would import a bitcoin address directly into your bitcoin client currently.  If the providers want to have the same functionality, they can develop a plug-in of some kind that simply redirects the user to log-in to their account and import the bitcoin address. You might be biased. He didn't seem intimidated to me, perhaps nervous.
Www.bitcoinme.com has crashed, perhaps the influx of the interested was too much for it? That's exactly what it looks like to me right now, and I'm using an Ubuntu derivitive. The phrase 'intrinsic value' doesn't mean that something has value as an intrinsic characteristic, but that it is valued because of some characteristic intrinsic to the thing, as opposed to value due to derived from the promises of a third party. Although I thought it was very well done overall, I do have a few complaints.First, you said and then repeated that the 21 million stops "by 2033", but the estimated date is about 2129, by my understanding.  But that's not even the most important part, you alluded to the decreasing block reward, but even if the system were to adopt more decimal devision than the currently available 8 places (permitting the system to continue the block reward indefinately) there can still not be more than 21 million as the reward decreases exponentially toward that limit.  It doesn't just hit that number and stop.Second, you implied that the relationship between cpu contributions and rewards is a linear relationship, which I know you know it isn't.  I can understand that this might have made heads explode.Third, you stated that there are no transaction costs "ever" which is false.  This shouldn't be claimed.  The transaction costs are intended to be a market controlled price, which happens to presently be zero.And finally, it would have been better to mention that the currency is still inflating at a pretty high rate, which has a lot to do with it's low price before October, but that the system is highly predictable, and the inflation rate will be below 6% by 2013 and below ( I think) 3% two years later.  By 2020, the inflation rate will be below the target inflation rates of every central bank on Earth, and cannot rise back up again even if the system is modified to be able to continue to issue new money into an indefinite future.  Again, this might have made heads explode.  Perhaps there should be a 'geek's faq' on Bitcoinme.com.Overall, very well done, Sir; well done indeed.EDIT:  I forgot to mention that a good analogy is to compare the blockchain to a ledger managed by a universally respected notary public.  The p2p network is the notary.  He expects to make a living, but doesn't force anyone to pay for his services; but only does charity work when his paid work is done.Also, the SSL 128 versus Bitcoin crypto security comparison is flawed, as the purpose of each is different, but also comparing the proof-of-work crypto system to SSL 128 is about like comparing the mass of the Sun to a baseball. Okay, I understand your point, and agree. That's not an answer. The introduction of money into a barter economy only serves as a 'unknown third party' barter, it doesn't otherwise alter the basis of the exchange.  I don't otherwise understand your statement.  What have we 'gotten beyond' in order to bootstrap, and why is it a prerequisite? There are so many things wrong with this post, I may have trouble untangling it, but I will try.Wikipedia is nice, but is sometimes a poor reference.  This is one of those times.Currency is a commonly accepted unit of exchange.  It does not need to be more, but is often 'backed' by some promise from it's issuing agency, such as a gold standard.  It is best when it is very difficult (read expensive) to fake, which is why paper currencies are ever increasing the 'security measures' in their notes.  Also, a currency is an arbitrary mathmatical unit of measurement, in much the same vein that both an inch and a meter are arbitrary units of length.  Both measure the same thing, just as the US $ and the Euro both measure an elusive concept of quantifications of value, but the units themselves are simply a matter of convention.Money, in the other hand, isn't a unit.  An ideal money has several characteristics that lend to it's suitability as a natural currency, but it does not need to be a currency.Those characteristics are...Durability - It cannot rust or rot.  Nor should it require a container to either protect it from harm or it's user, one reason that mercury was never used as a money as far as I know.Divisability - The ability to 'make change' without impacting the value of the money.  Cattle have a definable value, but are a terrible way to pay one's mortgage.Fungibility - This basicly means that the quality is uniform, so that one measure of the money is equal to any other.Transportability - This should be self evident, but the money should be valuable enough that carrying it shouldn't be a burden.Congizability - Which means that money should be easily recognizable as probably being authentic by normal human senses, without the need to trust testing devices or experts.The above conditions, historicly, have only been met by material classes that we commonly refer to as commodities, but the closest naturally occurring commodity to the ideal money has always been refined gold.Scarcity is not a requirement of money, and can be a detriment.  Historic case, platinum is much more rare than gold in nature, but also rare enough that most people had no experience with it (this was also somewhat true with gold, which is why nations traded in gold but the citizens traded mostly in silver or copper) so the Spanish made cannons out of platinum that was mined in central America.  Also, scarcity doesn't always equate to concentration of value.  Although silver is about 17 times more abundant in nature than gold, there is much more gold in a refined state than silver today.  This is mostly due to the fact that silver is an industrial commodity in our modern world, with little to no monetary value, so most of the silver mined has been consumed in industry; whereas gold's monetary value has always priced it out of it's industrial uses, so nearly all of the gold that has ever been mined in recorded human history can still be accounted for.Jewels might have a high unit value, but they still make a poor money because they are neither fungible (two diamonds may both be the same carrot rating, but one be more valuable for some other characteristic, such as cut, color or clarity) nor are they congizabile (it's an expert skill to be able to judge the value of a diamond).  They don't always have a high unit value, either.I'm not sure of your point here, paper currencies were originally receipts of gold on deposit at a goldmonger or bank, and were traded as a symbol of that gold.  The improved portability of paper over metal is not a new concept, and neither is the improved portability of electronic forms of credit, but neither is an example of a money.Again, you seem to be conflating the two concepts.  They are related, but still distinct.The scarcity of gold, relative to many other comparable commodities, is absent.  You need to get past the idea that scarcity is a condition of value, it's not.  Your fingerprints are rare, but I would say you would be suspicious of anyone who valued them.  Water is the most abundant molecule on the planet, but has a quantifiable value almost everywhere.  The difference is that water has common utility, whereas your fingerprints do not. Then I'm really confused, because money requires an intrinsic value by definition.  However, it might be lost in translation because based on this thread, many don't understand the word "intrinsic".  It's a tough one to explain, but gold has intrinsic value because it is valued outside of the context of an orginized intent to support it.  Fiat currencies have negligble intrinsic value because most of their value (as a medium of exchange) is directly related to the support of a third party institution, in this case a functioning government.  If said government's future existance is put into question, the fiat currency's value is also.  Likewise, a currency issued by a bank, whether backed or not, is tied to the public's trust in that bank.  Something has intrinsic value if it is generally valued regardless of the issuing institution; such as the case of gold coins minted by long dead governments.  Commodities have intrinsic value because they can be used to build, fuel or eat.  I wouldn't say that bitcoins have any intrinsic value, because they have no usefulness outside of the context of a medium of exchange, and fundamentally depend upon the trustworthiness of the blockchain for their base value.  Bitcoins are, therefore, not money and not a commodity.  Bitcoins are only a currency, but an intentionally designed "natural" currency because they are only accepted by choice and have no artificial support from legal tender or tax payment laws. I think that you are missing the point.  The p2p network uses the available bandwidth efficiently, but it still consumes bandwidth.  Datacasting would reduce the need for vast numbers of nodes.  Although it may not be as beneficial as I first thought if the p2p network considers the proximity of other nodes. A bitcoin channel on satellite radio would work well, there is no need for a dedicated satellite. It's not in Bengali or Urdu either, both of which have more native speakers in the world than Japanese...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_languages_by_number_of_native_speakers...while several languages are represented that don't even come close. Think that they might get around to it today? Should try to get t them to add a bitcoin donation address to their own support page. http://www.flinc.org/world/pages/product I know that I'm being anal here, but money and currency are not the same thing. The transaction traffic would not be much data for any particular client, but any standalone client must receive and process the blockchain in order to track it's own received and sent coins.  The 'lightweight' client wouldn't keep much of the blockchain once it had been processed and pruned as much as the merkle trees could be, but it still has to see every block as far as I understand it.  This one-to-many data model means that the blockchain is ideal for the datacasting concept, whether it's shortwave in middle Africa or a 4am sat downlink in North America, the concept remains the same.  We've discussed at length how large blocks would have to grow to process the transaction rates that Paypal does daily  on this forum, and how that kind of disk storage requirements limits who is likely to generate in the future; but just imagine the bandwidth that this p2p network would continuously consume if only 10% of the cellphones in the US had a lightweight client and had to update blocks over an Internet connection directly from the p2p network.  It would dwarf bittorrent if bitcoin is remotely as well known as Facebook or youtube. Thinking about the 'lightweight' standalone client concept, it occurred to me that, since the thin clients don't generate, block data only moves in and only transactions are bi-directional.  So for any thin client that has a Dash7 radio, direct access to the Internet is not necessary if the client has a shortwave receiver and can listen to a 'datacast' of the blocks.  Digital Radio Monodial has the ability to broadcast data interweaved into it's broadcast, which does not need to be directly related to the radio show; or a digital broadcast of the blocks could occur independently of commercial broadcasting.  This technique could permit clients running on old or dedicated hardware hundreds of miles from a wifi hotspot to keep relatively up to date, and continue to trade transactions locally via Dash7 under the assumptions that eventually such transactions will filter back to the Internet by some vector, and then be seen in a block in the next day's regular blockchain broadcast.  Of course, the blockchain is likely to eventually grow too fast for this as a piggyback datacast on a commercial DRM broadcast.  Yet, if bitcoin takes over the world, then a dedicated & continuous datacast that can keep up with the blocks is still a very effective way to keep mass numbers of mobile thin clients updated without consuming massive amounts of bandwidth over the Internet.  Qr codes are a workaround that likely won't need to exist after Android 2.3 because that version supports Near Field Communications protocols.  It's a ten cent chip added to the smartphone that would make the camera on the phone the expensive hardware.  If the consumers could reasonably be expected to use QR codes, then the credit card companies would have them everywhere already. That's true, but they are intertwined.
And that is why fractional reserve banking is fraudulent, because it's never just the two parties involved, it's the public that is forced to use the fiat currency that each of these little events affects without the public consent.  And just because there is a law making it legal, does not equate to consent. Maybe I'm too old, but I don't know many economic websites. It doesn't matter who is participating in the fraud, or who is taking risks, which banks don't as the past two years should have highlighted.It's legalized fraud because it was fraud before 1913 when it was legalized.  A pretty straight forward logic, really. You understand incorrectly.  Capitalism (the economic principle) says nothing at all about the actual ownership of the means of production (i.e. capital) as we understand it in the modern world, but the possession of that capital is central.  In the former Soviet Union, the truck drivers didn't own the trucks, but they did hold possession and were often known to make sidetrips to transport things off the books in exchange for cash (or mafia favors, black market items, etc).  That's capitalism because the important distinction is that who keeps the 'fruits of labor', not who owns the capital.  Capitalism, the political ideology, does say much about ownership, property rights and contract laws. No one can say for certain that no one died due to Y2K, only that not a lot of people died. He might, but it's still best not to make verifiying that too easy for the feds.  I want them to spend as much time spinning their wheels as possible. Sounds like it.  An agorist is a 'revolutionary' libertarian who uses counter economics to undermine the government by starving it of it's sources of support, but largely without initiating violence. Once you have thought it through, you sound like you might be an agorist. Read books, not websites.  Start with Whatever Happened to Penny Candy by Rich Mayberry and followed by Economics in One Lesson.  Both should be available at the public library.In the modern world, Capitalism is a political ideology that is separate from it's economic definition, but the US hasn't really honored the political ideology for at least 40 years.  It's just taken this long for the public to begin to realize that something is amiss.  Capitalism, as an economic principle, is a description of economic reality.  It is this definition that Marx understood, and desired to overcome.  When people are free to exchange without interference, there is capitalism, which existed even in the Soviet Union on it's darkest day.  When the society is intentionally set up to encourage this, it is Capitalism. Even more ironic is the idea that a political spectrum based upon the physical make-up of any national political body could reasonably represent anti-statists anywhere.  Almost as ironic as hearing a political candidate refer to himself as an anarchist. Mostly, but not quite.  Rallies also help to combat the first meme that I mentioned above by dispelling the belief that those who quietly oppose the ruling class are part of a impotently small minority.   Just because there is a wikipedia entry, doesn't it make it so, necessarily.  That's a classic logical fallacy, I believe it's often called the "appeal to authority".Not that your opposition offered much of a rational argument either.Hmm, I really would like to see this question debated.   "Is economic (wage) slavery actually slavery?" Young man, you seriously overestimate the power of an unpopular government.  The greatest tool of control available to any government is the meme that the government represents the will of the people, followed closely by the meme that the government's collective force exceeds that of those who would oppose it.  Vary rarely has either of those conditions actually been proven true once put to the test. If you wish to succeed, delete the above post, and refrain from making such direct statements on openly accessable forums that otherwise archive your statements.Really, someone needs to put up a simple machines forum as a hidden service in TOR, and then PM me the address. Oh, thank you!  And your quite welcome.Although there is nothing wrong with anything you said in this post, bear in mind that the act of securing 50% of the generation is no small task even for a cartel with nation-state resources, and maintaining that majority is vastly more difficult.  I won't say that it is impossible, but I would say that the odds that any single nation or private group acting in concert could maintain such an escalating 'generator war' against not only the existing and/or future bitcoin community, but also the generating capacities of nations or other private/political groups who have something to gain by opposing the desires of the cartel/nation attempting the takeover would be somewhere close to the odds of a verifiable bitcoin address collision within my lifespan.Which is to say, slim to none. It's just the Bitcoin Cyber Monday Fire Sale, happens every year.  Didn't you get the flyer?  It'll probably come in the mail on Tuesday, you know how the postal unions work. The Federal Reserve did what central banks always do, which is manipulate the monetary base to favor a very small minority insider class.  That's not at all special to the Great Depression.  What was different was that Congress & the Executive Branch operated under the (particularly damaging) idea that the markets were something that were 'broken' and could be fixed by the right kind of adjustments.  Some even operated under the (false) assumption that those who managed the Federal Reserve were there to actually help.  There were tariffs imposed upon imports from China (sound familiar?) to protect domestic producers, and programs to destroy livestock in order to support prices.  In the end, however, the will of the market can only be delayed, not avoided outright; so the deflation (the direct result of the destruction of credit outstanding due to defaults, not the deliberate reduction of the monetary base by the Federal Reserve) continued; but the suffering of the public was exacerbated by the misguided attempts by members of the political class to fix a socio-economic problem with political solutions.  In the end, most historians credit WWII with pulling the US out of the depression, but that was just because the political class was largely too busy with the war effort to continue to screw with the economic system.  It is the uncertainty of political intervention that delays a recovery more than anything else, because if investors don't know what claptrap Congress might try to pull next, they tend not to risk their capital.  Political uncertainty adds much risk to the markets, which is part of the reason that most 3rd world nations have real difficulty attracting investments, even when their dictator is known to be particularly friendly to business interests.I am free to do anything that I wish, including nothing.  It's not a concern of mine if you believe me or learn anything.  In fact, it's better if you don't believe me.  feel free to prove me wrong, if you can, and you will learn vastly more on your own than I could teach you on an online forum; whether you succeed or fail. Indeed...desertislandgame.comThat is not to say that global trade is always the way to go.  In a post peak oil world, the 1000 mile salad is unlikely to be able to continue to compete with the 20 mile alternative.  Yet, traders consider the costs of trading. Simplicity, most likely.  I do like the elegance of this proof, but the problem that I see is that it is hard enough for the average new user to wrap their heads around how bitcoin works at it is without adding this function.Also, I can see a potential problem with this in the midst of a network split, and those problems could introduce a new attack vector.  The continuous function would certainly help with the distruption of the network at the fourth year intervals, but that is a short term disruption for which we have no evidence that it would be more disruptive than an attack on the network.  The last thing that we need is increased false block rejections.  Perhaps such a gradual shift could be done with each difficulty adjustment point, rather than every single block. I think that it's too vague an idea to judge the risks.  Details are neccessary.  Perhaps you could develop it into a system that adjusts for risks to the lender, but I don't think anyone else is going to help unless you can prove the validity of your idea yourself.
I'm sure that I don't really need to remind the members of this thread, but to anyone who doesn't already know...Corrolation is not causation.In all likelyhood, both these variables are responding to the same unknown.  That unknown is likely the number of people who are interested in bitcoins at any particular point alont the timeframe noted.  But that is just an educated guess, since there is no really proxy for the number of users in the network. The only reason that I don't go to greater lengths to correct your misunderstandings of economic history is that I grow weary of doing so on online forums without due compensation.  Not just for yourself, as economics is a widely misunderstood subject even among those who consider themselves well educated.  This is something that I've often viewed as strange, considering it's not really a complicated subject to understand from a scientific perspective; but too many try to view it from the macro side and then overcomplicate it.The contraction of the money supply in that general time period is not what caused the Great Depression.  The contraction of the money supply was the concurrent remedy to the malinvestment that was rampant in the decade that preceded the Great Depression, which was itself caused by excessive expansion of the monetary base by the Federal Reserve banking system from it's conception in 1913 to 1929, but mostly after 1924.  Most of the human suffering during the Great Depression was the direct result of attempts by the US Government to intervene in the natural corrective process of deflation, rather than simply stay out of the way and let the nation take it's hard medicine and move on.  The Great Depression was, largely, a political event as opposed to an economic or fiscal event; and the parallels to the current state of things is striking.  For a wonderful counter example, look at the Panic of 1920, and the similarities and differences in how that was handled by the two administrations. Some clients may have a default fee amount, but I doubt that those will survive in the marketplace. There can be no 'cartel' in Bitcoin, because there can be no monopoly.  The barriers to entry into the generation pool are simply too low, and there is no way that a government could enforce an artifical monopoly even if it wanted to.  If the transaction fees begin to creep up due to consolidation of the generation pool, others will begin to notice and they will choose to participate as the possibilites of a random reward become worth the costs.  This will create a price point that is ever fluctuating, but balanced, as this effect removes any pricing power of any group of generators in collusion.  I would predict that the transaction fees will be somewhere between 0% and 3% on average, but closer to 0%; because 3% is where the credit card companies and PayPal have set their prices, and they do have a degree of pricing power.  If a 'cartel' were to set up a datacenter that could dominate the network, but only include transactions with fees at say 2.9% (PayPal's regular rate), they would be ignoring an entire set of fee paying transactions that only non-cartel generators could capture.  The results being that the network would generally see that 2.9% is the premium price to get one's transaction recorded quickly, but if one is willing to wait until one of the non-cartel generators then there is a budget option (currently that option is free).  The cartel could not be certain that they could even capture the premium fees, so they would have a choice to make.  Either recognize that they don't have the kind of pricing power that they thought that they did, or ramp up their generation capabilities until they do.  The second choice creates an 'arms race', as for as long as the cartel increases their capacity, they must attempt to pass on that cost, but they can only do so temporarily before non-cartel generators see a profit opprotunity to do the same.  Eventually the cartel hits a point that it can no longer continue, and in the meantime the system has benefited from their attempts to corner a market that cannot be cornered.Of course, anyone with the resources to do any of this is also going to hire people who know the system, who are likely to point out that they can't really do what it is that they want to do. I'm just an old fashioned kind of libertarian. That's not really what happened in 1929, or 1932. Nope, he was right.  You need to do more research. That's not capitalism. Those are not examples of failures of capitalism, but failures of corproratism.  Not that capitalism can't fail, but it is a self-correcting system. http://www.makerbot.com/Seen one in person recently.  Slick little machines. It' the former that enables the latter.  Before the banking acts of 1913 that legalized fractional reserve banking as well as the Federal Reserve itself, fractional reserve banking was considered fraud. A substantial amount of bitorrent traffic is legitimately licensed material. For example, every GNU/Linux distro has a torrent for their latest release install disk.  Many semi-amateur tv serials are released on bittorrent (The Guild?) and in the past some serials in syndication were released onto bittorrent at the same moment that the episode aired.  Stargate SG1 did this for a time, unofficially, while they were in dispute with the SciFi channel.  Those episodes were easy to spot as 1) they were released before the end of the show's first airing (impossible for anyone without insider access) 2) they were of dvd quality 3) they did not contain any commercials, broadcast indentifer overlays, or editing marks and 4) sometimes contained the editing marks that are never broadcast. This reminds me of a sneakernet that was intentionally set up in Africa to allow residents of small towns to send & receive email, as well as request entire websites for educational research.  Once the website was captured and shipped to the distant school, a modified squid would keep a copy of that website on cache indefinately.It would be great if a durable flashdrive could be made into the form factor of a mailable postcard, but then how would you know who to mail it to next, and how could you encourage the current user to send it to the next guy in the chain rather that keep it for himself?  Yes, but the practicalities of such a thing keeps getting in their way. My understanding was that the client already did a blockchain recheck upon startup if the index was missing.  I did this when I first started, and it sure seemed like it was marching through the chain.  Doesn't it require an index to function anyway?  Why would it assume that the blockchain was valid upon startup?  Anyone could have edited it.  The genesis block is encoded into the client, isn't it?  That and the blockchain checkpoints are the only parts that are assumed correct, or am I wrong? There is no good reason to prevent a blockchain download via other methods.  In a future with the bitcoin network running close to it's capacity, downloading the entire blockchain over the P2P network will be harmful.  Even a chain that has already been pruned of it's merkle trees should be able to be verified from the start, otherwise what good is using a merkle tree at all? Betamax was a professional recording standard before VHS, but VHS was in the mass market first. Stumbled across this post from Satoshi from two years ago, explaining his views on botnets, the double spending attack, and the blockchain attack.  According to this, the blockchain attack is just another form of double spend as the attacker would not only have to time his attack but would only be able to capture coins he recently owned.http://www.mail-archive.com/cryptography@metzdowd.com/msg09967.html I was responding specificly to his concern about transaction fees, not the block size limit.  The hard limit is a real concern, but also one that I imagine has been well considered by others before us.  Did anyone bother to search the archives before diving into this thread?  The block limit exists to prevent spamming from packing the blocks, not support transaction fees.  I think that the recently instituted priority rule does the job at least as well as the hard block limit, but it's not enough on it's own.   It was a petty crappy movie. Then something is wrong, because I still get the forum's new topics via Google Watch, and much more besides.  From that alone, I can tell that interest on the blogosphere has increased much since the EFF put up their bitcoin address.
Austrian economic theory says that no one is smart enough, because no one can have all of the information.  The best that we can do is take a guess, and I would guess that it isn't going to be a real problem.  Certainly not in my lifetime. The first thing we need is a working interface with Mybitcoin.com that can use as many of it's functions as possible, such as it's addressbook.  It would be nice if the interface can play nice with bu.mp in order to use it to trade addresses with the rest of your contact info.  The standalone client is after that.What I mean by "in the absence of Internet" is that the client is a true 'lightweight' client, with a pruned blockchain (which requires that merkle tree pruning be implimented in the main client first) so that the user doesn't have to be connected to the Internet at all times in order to send money, as a website interface would.  This allows a client to create a transaction with or without the Internet and send it whenever the Internet becomes available or by another future means such as Dash7 mesh networking if such a thing becomes available.   Yes, and it did when it was a crowdsourced short term Internet savings & loan operation called Prosper.com.  It was a great thing up until it got the attention of the regulators, who then promptly forced the company to become a "real" bank. That would have to be you.  I'm basing my conclusions on experience and human psychology, not mathmatics. Sallie Mae is a government owned agency, it's possible to "owe" them money without ever agreeing to borrow from them.  This may, or may not, be the case here.  In the US, calling the government fascist is what Americans do.  The accuracy of the statement depends on how one defines fascism, but it is somewhat true as a matter of degree.  Americans are not the kind of culture that takes to civil unrest to light cause, like the Greeks and French; but it's starting to get 'hot' around here and if it pops here in the US, we don't tend to stop until somebody is dead. I guess we are just going to have to differ. That's the theory, but my problem with it is that trust isn't quantifiable.  A may trust B and B may trust C but that doesn't really equate to A trusting C.  A may trust B with regard to him honoring his own obligations, but still not trust B's judgment.  B may trust both, but actually be an unrealisticly trusting person.  C could be a grifter using B's trusting nature to get A as a mark.  Again, Bitcoin doesn't require trust to function, but nor does it defend A against confidence scams.  Mutual credit systems are a bit different, because they do depend on trust, and the lack of real trust within a theoretical web of trust acts as a limiting factor.  From my understanding, that wouldn't much of a change from his lifestyle now. Wait!  Does anyone know if Virgin Mobile accepts Canadian Dollars? I see that, according to bitcoinwatch.com, that the average transactions per hour is above 170 per hour, ringing in at about 22 per block.  It was not so long ago that the average was less than 20 per hour, counting the award transactions.  I think that this shows that there is a grey market of vendors unknown to the forum, and that is much of what has been driving up the market price. That was a defense of the web of trust idea with Bitcoin, but Bitcoin isn't credit. Yeah, it's hilarious!  BTW, Canada never bothered to get rid of their first emperor. Because mutual credit systems reintroduce the identity issues that credit cards have everywhere, and that PayPal was a response to online.  It requires a level of mutual trust between the trading parties, which usually involves a mutually trusted third party.  Ripple's trust system replaces the huge third party financial group that both (many) parties trust with a web of trust network, which is bound to have much variation in the level of that trust.  Variation alone is not what kills it, but the fact that the web of trust is a neccessary part of the system of mutual credit.  Whereas Bitcoin does not depend upon trust, even though it would enhance the Bitcoin economy.  If Bitcoin were to become a widely used currency upon Ripple, I can see how Ripple could function quite well as a web of trust mechanism for portions of the Bitcoin economy.  However, the trading of mutual credit (i.e. the IOU's) within the web of trust cannot scale beyond two people who already trust one another, because the IOU's are not all equal and none are equal to a widely trusted currency unit. I don't think that mutual credit systems stand a chance in the online arena. It's not linear. Wait, what? That's my girl, packing heat under her toga. Ah, I see.  You speak of the 'seen' without regard to the evidence of the 'unseen' market.  Just as the movement of the trees tells you that the wind is real even though you cannot see it, the movement of both the difficulty and the market price tells you that the network is in an expansionary period that any reasonable person might call a 'growth spurt'.  I would bet dollars to donuts that there is already much trade of the currency in the darker markets of the world, particularly in the US.  It wasn't the black markets that brought down the Soviet Union, it was the black markets that kept the important things going.  The same is true here in the US, and most of Europe.I wonder if there is a copy of Mybitcoin.com running as a tor hidden service, obscuring much economic activity even from the blockchain.If someone is running such a thing, I want to know. If you dance with the Devil, you should expect to get burned.  But yes, I do know of an effective way to avoid paying what you legitimately owe to any branch of the US government.Prison time.  Time is money, after all, and after about three years in jail, the Fed is likely to overlook the $3400. Presumedly it would take at least as many than in the network itself.
Have you been paying attention for the past six months? I have to point out at this point, that the concept that Bitcoin is based upon was conceived at least 15 years ago.  It's based directly off of a technical paper from 1995, which in turn is based of other similar concepts a decade older.And your grandmother doesn't have to use it, to have heard of it.  I think that it is actually quite unlikely that very many people who trade in bitcoins in the future will actually use the Bitcoin network in any direct sense.  More likely there will be a number of different Mybitcoin.com's with different foci, targeting different niche user groups like banks do now.  I doubt, seriously, that Paypal would cease to exist in a Bitcoin dominated future, as they would simply adapt to the currency like they have for every other currency that exists in any major online market. Yes, I think that incidental co-generation accounts for much more of the network than most people realize.  If I'm right, then we will eventually be able to detect a seasonal cycle in the difficulty despite the noise.  There is a sound economic reason that there exists a major datacenter in North Face, Alaska so far away from the 'demographic' center of the Internet. What does the current difficulty say about the total computational power commited to the network?  Where would the network rank in the world's most powerful (non-secret) computers list? It is unreasonable to expect that the rate of increases that we have seen in the past year will continue.  Personally, I expect that the market will continue to expand for about another year, and then the dramatic increases will taper off as the system begins to mature.  So by 2012, the rallies will no longer be so dramatic, and by 2015 either everyone and your grandmother will know what Bitcoin is or the entire system will have failed or obviously will fail.  By then the GPU miners will be old hat and you will be able to buy hardware based computer cards designed specificly to mine Bitcoin and/or any related cryptocurrencies.  Nor do I expect that Bitcoin will be the only one by this time, if it proves at all successful.   I'm going to take a guess and say the assumption that your hashes per second reported by your client is accurate. Why does everyone assume this?  His name is Japanese, his race likely, but there is no reason to assume that his nationality is still Japanese even if it ever was.  He is a very private person, with a much higher than average proficiency at English.  Maybe Bitcoin isn't big in Japan because Satoshi doesn't care about Japan? A project that I have forming in my head is what lead me there.  I'm thinking about how one might make a purpose built product that can use a couple of digital radios (low-power WiFi in ad-hoc mode & Dash7, maybe a NFC pad as well) to run a stand-alone 'ligwithweight' bitcoin client and a wireless version of a Jabber client, and perhaps a wireless version of UUCP for email transport.  (Android to Android Wireless Copy Protocol, perhaps?)  Not even as powerful as a netbook, but something that could keep a villager in Africa (the whole village?) connected and able to transact business over a fair distance.  Dash7 is an excellent wireless protocol for low bandwidth communications over distance, and takes very little power to hit 2 klicks over a clear path.  It also does not use sessions like Wifi, and can broadcast a transaction or a text message to any Dash7 radio that can hear it.  The Wifi radio would only be for opprotunistic blockchain updates, whenever a pair of units came close enough to compare their blockchains, or one came within radioshot of a wifi hotspot.  Think android (or maybe less) qwerty smartphone without the phone part.The hardware sha-256 acceleration wouldn't really need to be a high performance chip in this context.  I'm wondering how cheaply such a device could be built. Or someone with a desire to buy mass coin at a discount to the market rate (which is what Madhatter is doing) could offer Madhatter some coin to help him set up a similar website for the US.  It requires some US$ backing though. That was not my complaint.  One non zero transaction would also only allow for one zero transaction.I would say so. Probably, but at the claimed price point of $1 each, there could be an awful lot of these little guys on a board for much under the cost of a new GPU or FPGA http://embedded-computing.com/atmels-cloning-secures-dataAlright, who wants to put a couple dozen of these chips onto a breadboard and wire it up as a 'getwork' device via USB for me?  Generation arms race! I see.  Well, I'm not a programmer, yet I cannot see the value in obscuring, encrypting or otherwise trying to hide the port.  The port can be blocked for those who wish to hide their client, and still work; while the data in transit is only openly coded transactions and blocks.  The only risks to the port being open is a sign to potential crackers that there is a running client (and therefore a wallet.dat) on the machine.  Just close the port if that is a concern. #1 & #3 seem contradictory.  How can a connecting client initiate a handshake on an unknown port without spamming the target?  Wouldn't it still show up on a portscan that was specificly looking for a running bitcoin client? I've got some bad news for you FlyingMoose, The Madhatter has a great deal more trust equity to burn through around here than you do, so if this dispute comes down to hesaidshesaid, you are more likely to suffer the distrust of others than him.  It will be better still once we can reload existing prepaid cards. That would be an awesome irony, and how long cound they ignore Bitcoin once they are accepting donations in the currency themselves? Not surely, but maybe.  I don't think so because of the preservation motive is nearly as strong as the profit motive, and because there will still be some who can generate at a negligible additional cost, so there is no point at which generation is unprofitable.  The confluence of these motivations will ultimately create a self regulating market with a fairly stable difficulty level.  The real question then becomes, is that difficulty level secure enough to defend against a brute force attack?  That is a question that may never be answerable.That's the wrong question, because none of us pay our electric bills in bitcoin just yet.  The question should be, how high would the difficulty level be if the reward were worth less than $13?  The answer would be less, but the total value of breaking the blockchain would be less as well.  It's a self-balancing system, almost organic in how it acts; and any risk calculations that could ever be devised would be incomplete due to the human factor.I was still considering it, myself.  I think that the priority system does much of what you are trying to do except allow the blocksize to stretch; and I have concerns about the bounds of this rule.  Without the priority system, this rule would permit blocksize spamming anytime there were only free transactions in the queue, so there would have to be a minimum allowed average fee, even if that were just .00000001 bitcoins, but then that would prohibit any transactions from being processed at all in the absence of a fee paying transaction even if there was an altruistic generator who won the block.  So there would have to additional rules to permit altruistic generators to help clear transaction backlogs, because there is bound to be more free transactions to process than fee paying ones for the foreseeable future.I offered a plan before you posted yours, and no one commented upon it either. If you sent the money internationally, say from the US to a dealer in Canada like I did, it will take much longer than you would assume that it should.  I believe that it took almost three weeks for me. I think that I just got called an old square.
"Wendy?""Yes, Lisa.""Are we ready?""Yes, Lisa."http://www.wendyandlisa.com/ Maybe, but those 20 people might find it difficult to collude even if they knew who each other were.  These 20 people are in competition to catch those coins, after all.  If 20 people dominate 95% of generation (a strawman argument in the making, if I have ever seen one) then the mean generation for each is less than 5% of total generation.  Not exactly a threat to the system. Now that's funny! It's not at all relevant what they might intend to do with their bitcoins.  If that concerns you, you can either avoid Bitcoin, or start your own generating cluster to compete with them. You are confusing a currency with a money.  They are related, but distinct concepts.  Gold is an ideal money, but only a fair currency.  Coins used in the past were all (ideally, not actually) minted to the same standard weight of gold, silver, or copper.  This creates a defacto unit of currency, but physical coins are a poor currency because they both have mass and volume.  Fiat currencies have done well in the industrial age because they are representations of a numerical unit.  This is why Bitcoin is a currency, and not a money nor a commodity; as it is a pure unit without any physical representation required.And I take offense at the statement that all Economics courses are crap in American higher education. Are you sure?  I may be wrong, but my understanding was that the hashing of a block is the previous block's headers & transactions, not the transactions that you are putting into your block.  This way the transaction queue can pile up while you are trying to hash the previous set without interuptions.Hmm, there might be problems with that as well, so I'm probably wrong about that, as that might permit a malicious node to strip the block owner's own address from the reward transaction and replace it with his own, in the hopes of spreading around his altered block faster than your's. That's seems to be a long proof to show that future generators purely motivated by profit would modify their clients to jump in & out of the game based on the presence of unserviced transaction fees in the transaction queue, while ignoring transactions that don't meet their own minimum fee, once the block reward drops low enough that it is not enough on it's own.  This is pretty much by design, as that is when we will hit a balanced difficulty level.  Yet, even if there are profit seeking generators that would benefit by stopping and starting, it is unreasonable to assume that there will not be significant generation motivated by rational self interest other than profit.  For example, some future generators might be motivated to maintain a minimum level of security for defense of their own balances; or a future version of a bitcoin credit union might be motivated to process transactions for free.  Even if free transaction generators were selective in who they accept transactions from, they are likely to have agreements with other such institutions to process one anothers' mermbers' transactions.And if I can think of ways around it now, I'm sure that there will be other forces influencing the pricing when the market actually comes to that point.  This is way to complex to predict. What you are asking is basicly an accounting program that can handle multiple currencies, and can authorize bitcoind to sent out a payment.  That could be done with a Gnucash or Quicken Pro plug-in, as both can handle multiple currencies.  I'm sure such a plug-in will be written when the market is ripe, but there is no reason that the standard bitcoin client should need to be able to do this. A QR code is really a work-around solution.  Phones with near-field communications chips will be able to communicate with POS systems much faster and more conveniently.  Cashless & cardless commerce is the primary intent for the development of NFC, and the reason that NFC will be included into google android 2.3.I'm not sure that there is any point to trying to make QR codes work, since if the credit card companies decided that they were too inconvenient to bother with over plastic cards with magnetic strips; there is not much point in us trying either. Quite so.  The actual transaction can be verified as valid by the merchant's own client instantly, and other forms of fraud can be reasonably protected against by the use of a specialized network peer that watches the network for transactions that would have tried to spend the same coins, etc, and warn the vendor in real time; much like how the credit card companies' approval process works.  Confirmations from the blockchain are not necessary for normal transactions, and likely only to be waited for on big ticket items, such as buying a new car.As useful an industrial material as gold would be, without it's monetary value I would seriously doubt that it would be valued higher than scandium, beryllium, or even silver (itself primarily an industrial metal so highly prised for it's usefulness that there is much more gold in an 'above ground' refined state than silver).  All of which are significantly more abundant in nature than gold. There is a lot of guessing going in this thread, for we seem to have all fallen victim to the idea that we can guess the nature of a market that doesn't yet exist.  As it is now, there is no incentive to pay a transaction fee at all, as the fee structure that currently exists is intended to limit spamming without prohibiting legitimately non-conforming transactions; not offer a profit motive to generators decades away.  The fee structure can be altered without much difficulty on a technical level, but the future political issues are as difficult to predict as the market is.  Yet many seem to get blinded by the profit motive as the only motive for generation, which can easily be shown to not be the case presently, and I have seen no compelling reason as to why it must become the only reason in the future.   Gold has been money for nearly all of recorded human history, and remains so; despite the desires of governments.  If that were not so, it wouldn't be worth much more than lead, and certainly less than many other heavy elements.  Uranium, for example is much more dangerous and capital intensive to mine and refine than gold, yet has recently been described as being in a bubble rally for breaking $60 per pound.  Gold's current spot price reflects it's position as an ideal, physical money.  That has never not been so.  The primary advantage that Bitcoin holds over gold as a trade currency is that 1) you can't transfer it over the Internet and 2) if you could it would still impose a transit overhead well beyond a transaction fee.If you are attending the University of Kentucky as an Economics student and you have been taught that gold isn't money, you should consider transferring before you learn some more falsehoods that are difficult to overcome. Bitcoin is a better store of value than any fiat currency in the world, but everything is relative.  Good money is chased out of the market by not-so-good money, so your Bitcoin/gold duality theorem might be correct. Then you have created a new rule that will split the network.  Part of the point on agreeing in advance on a common set of network rules is to avoid regularly spitting the chain. This is not a flaw, economicly or otherwise. There is no 'dropping' a valid block, spamming or not. It's not actually necessary for generators to keep the entire blockchain.  And even if the blockchain were to outpace growth in storage (something I question), there isn't really a need for most generators to keep a local copy of the blockchain at all.  There is no technical reason that prevents a specialized generation client from contracting with some online shared storage service that keeps the archive of the blockchain older than a year, in return for a donation 1% of generated coins.  A new client would still be able to verify the chain, and then just keep the block headers should it need to fetch block data older than a year.  Such fetching would be very rare.  1000 different generating users sharing one well protected read only copy of the blockchain would  render your concerns moot, whether they were all in one datacenter owned by one financial insitutution, or individuals spread across the Internet. Hmm, pretty good, but still a bit over the head of most people, I think.  You should add a blurb about www.bitcoinme.com near the end. It just struck me, and yes, it hurt.If a MtGox user can export part of his cash balance directly into a gas card, then this would become a real world way for users to benefit without the round-about methods of getting cash out. This is difficult for a single person to be able to do, since individual bank accounts usually require some proof of residence and business bank accouts have an overhead.
That's not a issue for me. I saw your proposal and didn't consider it "relatively easy".  Easier, perhaps, for some; but certainly not for me.  A stamp and evelope works fine, just takes much longer than most are willing to wait. I can't remember, I've had that number rolling around my head for decades.  Some marketing textbook, I think. It's a bad habit, because if non-techie bitcoin users become accustomed to seeing lists of addresses of donation sites other then on those actual sites, someone is bound to make a fake directory of same with a series of addresses that belong to themselves. If one wireless cell phone company starts accepting it, then a lot of socially savvy, but not geekish, teens and young adults are going to start paying attention to it.  Once that demographic starts asking the other cell phone companies if they take it, they're going to either have to start accepting it to keep their customers or lobby to ban it.I've already hit up my own cell provider about it, Virgin Mobile USA.Also, suggest a bitcoin donation frame to your favorite blogger/online content provider/church/whatever.  It takes next to no effort or risk to start taking donations, and if their supporters are donating that way, they won't stop and others will notice the system eventually.  12% of the population is the 'mindshare' breaking point.  Once 12% of your target audience knows, in general, what Bitcoin is; you have hit the mainstream. Your use of the English language makes my eyes bleed.  Are you using a translation program to post? Absolutely not.  The max block size would increase to the point that too much room was available for spamming, and that would be to much of a temptation for some.  Now that's an example of the Tragedy of the Commons issue!  The amount of space available to free transactions in the block. I'm afraid you missed the analogy that I was trying to present, and your's is more than a bit flawed as well. Thats true on most calculations, but most certainly not so with data structures that self reference, and a conditional is a self reference.  I'm not sure if it would be true with hashing algorithims or not, but I wouldn't assume that the algorithim is particularly linear in nature. I think that having a floating block size limit is likely to affect the generation of blocks by having a not so small percentage of generated blocks rejected by the network.Perhaps a better way is to have a max size for free transactions, perhaps derived as a percentage of the fee paying portion of the block, with the 1 meg as the starting point.Say that all fee paying transactions, no matter how small, can be included in the current block, and then 20% of that total block size may be added in free transactions if the generator's policy provides for that.  If the end calculation is below 1 meg, then more free transactions can be included up to that point.  This allows the blocksize to grow as needed, without uncapping the restraint on spamming, while also allowing backlogs of free transactions to clear during off-peak situations.This adds yet another calculation that the client must perform on a block to check for validity, but changes the max block limit from a hard limit as it is now to one that can 'stretch' to meet demand and still perform it's primary function.  It also allows future client upgrades to have a higher 'open max' or 'min max' (what the hell would we call this rule?) than older clients without it being a destructive change.  Said another way, a future client development group decides that it's time to up the 'min max' from 1 meg to 3 megs, so they allow their client to accept 3 meg blocks that don't adhere to the 20% or less free rule, but don't yet produce them.  Other development groups might agree or disagree, or might move at a different pace, but the change only really would take effect once more than half of the network had upgraded, and then generated blocks with a 3 meg 'min max' would be accepted into the main chain, forcing the rest of the network to comply or fork, but without harm to the internim processing of the network. I don't think that he missed that, I think that it was implied.  The central bank is the beating heart of the beast. I wouldn't assume that it's as straightforward as that, and you are probably overthinking it anyway.  Feel free to try it, though. Some may try.  Keep in mind that generators have no sustainable monopolies on generation, not even as a group.  If the major generators collude to keep block sizes small amongst themselves; say by keeping their own max block sizes at 1 meg, but the regular users' clients all have a max block size limit of 3 megs, then the rising backlog of lower fee transactions will attract new players into generation.  Maybe forcing the colluding generators to change, maybe not, but a natural price balance will be maintained.  Perhaps the occasional blockchain split fight is neccessary. Which is why major institutions will still be willing to contribute clock-cycles at or just below a break even point.  Because there are more forms of economic motivation than just profit.  I'm really suprised that so many who seem so well educated on economic issues can't wrap their head around this simple concept.  If you have something valuable to protect, have you ever paid the rental fee on a safety deposit box?  The cost of the box rental is tiny compared to the value of the object within, but that's not a tragedy of the commons!  People do it all the time!  It's a cost of security, not a resource access issue!  The tragedy of the commons parable is a limited resource issue! I'm an agorist/libertarian.  I've been waiting for this for thirty years. Such a priority ranking system is in the current release client. No, there will be instititutions with a high value to protect.  Costs of protection are a 'tax' of sorts, but they are unavoidable.  They are not a tragedy of the commons scenario, each is still looking out for his own interests, and his interests benefit others.  It's a postitive externality. Excellent.True.  Transactions within Bitcoin institutions occur internally, and don't require a transaction to be processed by the network or recorded in the blockchain.  It is also likely that most future users will choose to do things this way, in the same manner that banks are used today, for the convience of end users.  But the end user will always have the option of going it alone.Of course, as with a deposit in a bank, that balance is only a record upon that institution's electronic "books".  If there were ever anything that went wrong, such as a hack of a major site, the user's of that site could lose everything.  If so, their dispute would be with the institution and not the bitcoin network, but some may not view it so.EDIT:  Mybitcoin.com uses 4 user group pools, each with it's own wallet.dat, so internal transfers between users of different pools would still require a transaction processed by the network.   Time is restrictive upon both the actual inflation of the monetary base and the effects upon the market due to it's sheer size.  The former is a political resistance, the later simply a propagation delay.  The latter is also regularly manipulated by masters of finance to benefit from 'time arbitrage'.  Basicly, if they know that inflation is going to hit the mindshare of the public in the future (usually due to announcements) they can 'front run' by buying up whatever is expected to be most directly affected by said inflation and then 'selling on the news' once the cat is out of the bag.  This effect was prominant leading up to the Fed's most recent announcement on Nov. 3rd with regard to treasury bonds; but in retrospect can be found in many commodities markets since about July.  It is this anticipation of monetary base inflation that has led to the actual price inflation in cotton & corn, as well as others.  This is speculation by it's definition, but it's speculation based entirely upon the future faith & purchasing power of the Federal Reserve Note.  All fiat currencies suffer from the threat of hyperinflation, and puts them all at a disadvantage to Bitcoin or gold or silver, but all fiat currencies are at the advantage of the implicit and explict support of governments; which includes both the support of an army as well as the artificial demand created by the payment of taxes in only the fiat currency in question.  If the US FRN were to lose it's monopoly status with regard to payment of taxes, the currency would crash today. Outstanding!
"Birthdays come around for all your friends and family...  You know this because Facebook never fails to remind you.  Email Someone a few Bitcoins for their Birthday.   It's a great way to give a gift... while promoting the use of Bitcoin at the same time.   The easiest way:  Create a free account at MtGox.com then just log on to your MtGox account and just click the Send Money button.  You can send Bitcoin to anyone with an email address.  A link will be emailed to the recipient with instructions on how to claim their Bitcoin gift.  (Don't worry, if they never claim it, the Bitcoin will eventually get returned to your MyGox account.)   Then, in a message to your friend, be sure to tell them to read all about Bitcoin at BitcoinMe.com"Things may have changed, but I'm pretty sure that this is inaccurate.  There is the possibility of expiring transactions, but the scripting process is not yet operational.  Fiat currencies are unlimited in theory, but are limited by practical constraints.  The most important one being time.  Bitcoin is limited in the same way, as the distribution of future coins plays a role in the value of the currency now.  Of course, an unlimited currency is not a fatal flaw, but it is a flaw that must be countered by issuing governments by legal tender laws.  Bitcoin has no such support, and therefore must have other apparent advantages to succeed.  If the protocol permitted perpetual inflation, even at a predictable and unalterable rate, I certainly wouldn't be here to talk about it.  I can only guess at the motivations of others. Yeah, it has that feel on purpose, because it's fast.  No eye candy to gum up the bandwidth or tax the webserver.  But it has changed somewhat since 1998, as I was once a regular reader of the site, before Slashdot.EDIT:  They even use frames now!  Oh, the humanity! I'm interested, but is this a simple shell account, or a virtual server?  Is the tech stats provided the total of the server shared among shell accounts (how many accounts do you plan on?) or is this the tech stats of a virtual server's quotas?I ask, because I would consider 5 BTC per month for a simple shell account excessive, since I can get that for free many places.  But I would consider a virtual server, or a shell account with admin authorities to install programs (i.e. a small game server, for example) inside of a sandbox (which is basicly what a virtual server actually is) to be a bargin.I wouldn't put a game server in Finland, as the ping times would suck, but that is an example. Only a little.  If the rule is generally known, and the reason for it, I think that those like the bitcoin faucet could adjust.  I'm talking about limiting based upon the coins movement, if that's possible, not a three block ban upon a particular address.  The new client has 100 addresses, correct?  If bitcoin faucet has more than BTC .05 in each address, and simply rotates the addresses as the requests come it, then it can service 100 requests in half an hour without delay, and more with delays.  I'm not saying that transactions can't be created, just that generators will not put them into blocks until the transaction that they depend upon is three blocks deep without a fee.  With a fee, they can do whatever they want; and the generators probably wouldn't honor a 3 block delay upon a fee paying transaction anyway.  This leaves the possibility of free transactions an open possibility, while inhibiting spamming.  If there is a technical reason that this rule cannot work, I wouldn't know about that.EDIT:  Markets that are trying to service withdraw requests would know how many requests have been sent in the previous 30 minutes, and could choose to warn the requester that such requests may be delayed by this rule, or they can choose to pay a fee out of it. Perhaps in addition to the age priority rule recently implimented, there should be a minimum age rule without a transaction fee.  Said another way, perhaps a generation rule that says that a free transaction must be 3 blocks deep before it can be transfered again for free.  This will still allow real users to immediately spend new funds if they have to, while still permitting real users to reshuffle funds to suit their needs without an overhead cost.  I think that this would significantly inhibit the type of spamming attack that is currently underway. The 'max 8 decimal places' will have to stay for a long while, since that is a byproduct of how the bitcoin value is stored.  It's a very long (binary?) integer (64 bit, I think) and has no decimal point.  The clients simply display the values with a decimal point in the middle of the base 10 translation of the  integer, as there are 8 decimal places to each side of the display.  Changing that might prove to be a breaking change, and may not be an easy one.  I don't know how difficult it would be to switch to an 128 bit integer, but since I don't think that there is any OS that yet process 128 bit natively I imagine that might have to come first. Well, part of it is simply an arbitrary design decision.  But much of it is based upon assumptions about how the network would act in a future with a huge user base.  Much like the 10 minute target block interval is much longer than is currently neccessary, but in the future the number of nodes and number of transactions in transit would burden a network that tried to move at a much shorter interval.  In the same way, the target adjustment was chosen, in part, to prevent the network from getting out of wack due to an overly-precise time definition across the network.  If the interval is too short, there is the possibility that parts of the network could end up with a slightly different calculation of the target; resulting in parts of the network that can't produce a block acceptable to the rest of the network for some period of time.  This wouldn't be catastrophic, and might actually happen to some degree anyway, but shortening the target to, say, once every 24 hours would magnify this effect.  Also, shortening the interval would also negate the max. difficulty change rule; which limits changes in difficulty to a factor of four.  This rule exists to prevent a network attack intended to drive up the difficulty level to great heights before removing the excessive generation power and forcing the network into an unacceptablely long block interval for an extended period of time.  It limits extreme changes in difficulty, which could otherwise be manipulated into forcing normal users into paying transaction fees higher than would be reasonable, or simply annoy the network users in an effort to undermine faith in the currency system.I don't really know as much about programming or encryption as most of these guys, but I do know the Economics of a monetary system, and this one is very well thought out. Yes, the transaction fees and block reward are the 'seen' incentives for generation, but you are overlooking the 'unseen' incentives.  If you were one of the very early generators of the system, and in another 2 years when the block reward steps down to 25 bitcoin each, how would you respond to the concern that difficulty (and therefore blockchain resistance to a brute force attack) would drop?  If you had 10K coins (not unrealistic for some) and the market value were, say $5 apiece, would you sell all that you had knowing that the market value may crash and you might not get half of the net worth out of them, or would you buy and/or run a generator of your own even at a loss?  If you have 50 bitcoins at $5 apiece, you probably wouldn't run a generator (unless you were one of these guys that has to heat their high latitude apartment with electric anyway, and therefore the cost of running a CPU/GPU at full tilt is negligible) but if you had a $50K net worth in Bitcoins you would have a strong personal incentive to protect that net worth.  In a future with a successful Bitcoin, most generation would likely be performed at a net loss by persons or institutions with the most interest in Bitcoins security.  After all, you might not think twice about $50 in your wallet on the nightstand with that one-night-stand, but what would you do if you had $10K in cash?  Would you deposit that into a savings account at a bank with a $50K safe?  If you do, you are contributing to the cost of that safe, even though your share may be so small as to ignore; but the bank still invests into it's own security at it's own loss. Someone has been spamming the network with transactions to oneself.  Whoever it is needs to use the test network to play games, that is what it is for. I'm also a ham, and a former military radio operator, and know that the reasons for the limitation on output power are not arbitrary.  In the case of WiFi in particular, the only reason that such devices are in that band is because it's unlicensed; it's unlicensed because it's the same band as microwave ovens, microwave ovens use it because it's the resonant frequency of water, which is why it can heat up food at all.  It is an extremely bad idea to uncap the output power of devices that use this band, as if any frequencies can harm human life, it's this one.  Also, Wifi is range limted because it's a particularly wide spectrum technology and because of it's frequency choice.  It was never designed to cover great distances, and the fact that it can be done at all is due to the talent of the geeks to do it and not the nature of the technology.And even if Wifi was uncapped, it is unlikely that mobile users could turn up the watts anyway, as they are battery limited and just turning on the wifi radio eats the battery.It's not trivial at all, but mostly because the functions of a wifi device are encoded into the hardware because that's much cheaper in volume than a software defined radio.  SDR devices that can act like a standard (or moded) wifi device within that band do exist, but they are too expensive to use as a base node for any kind of mesh network.Anything is possible with enough money, but if that kind of money were available, tens of kilometers of multiwire, direct burial phone cable (buried or laid directly upon the wilderness dirt) to connect these villages, and a computer  in each village with a few standard modems and a wifi card would be much cheaper and easier to maintain in the long run.  Hell, even a null modem might work.  To this day, that is exactly what the USMC does to connect commanders of base camps using huge rolls of POTS cabling with quick connectors and extra tough armored jackets.  (they do have extra wires connected to special devices that can detect tampering, and even tell where in the cable a cut is.)  In fact, the best place to get the stuff to do what you are talking about is military surplus, since this kind of stuff tends to not sell very high as there is very little value in it outside of military or aid missions.That might work, but you would need at least two, otherwise all you have done is move the monopoly power from some faraway company to the one guy in the village who owns the cellphone. SMS transfer costs are oppressive, and I can certainly understand wanting to use Bitcoin for that reason alone, but Bitcoin also requires it's own infrastructure.  Eventually, however, some group similar to the OLPC movement could develop a cheap device capable of managing a lightweight Bitcoin client and a Jabber client using some future wireless standard, without the need for all the other stuff on a cell phone that adds costs.Hmmm, I'm a bit of a hardware geek, I wonder how cheaply I could make such a device? And if his avatar photo is accurate, Gavin is pretty enough for television, whereas most of us likely have a face for radio. Do you think you can get this up and running before Black Friday?  I do most of my Christmas shopping online, and books are a big thing in my family. I disagree, there are many things that a payment of less than a nickel should be possible, such as per-email or per SMS usage of bandwidth.  I don't know that we would ever have a per-email charge system anywhere, but the main reason that we never have had such a thing is that the economies of scale combined with the inefficencies of fiat-credit exchanges make usage tolls on bandwidth prohibitively expensive.  Just think about the differences between the all-data cell packages and the per SMS or per-KB cell packages of today and yesteryear.  One doesn't have to be a particularly heavy messaging user to quickly justify the fixed monthly cost of unlimited data & texting. No, the bitcoin stamp concept was related to the Dash7 Jabber client.  In which case, either the owner of the cellphone that provided the Dash7-to-Wifi gateway would earn some percentage of the stamp's bitcoins, or Dash7 intermediaries who were part of the Dash7 mesh required to reach (open hotspot|recepient's cellphone directly) would share the stamp in some fashion.   I don't know if it's possible to script such a division without knowing the addresses of the ad-hoc mesh in advance, but it would function much like a wireless mesh version of Unix-to-Unix-copy-protocol, but rapidly.  Text messaging via the current cell phone pay services would be faster and more reliable, but this would work even in places that wireless infrastructure doesn't exist for the phone itself as well as an emergency communications method for an entire city when the lights go out.  However, Jabber has presence information as part of the message protocol, and a Dash7 version would likely  require announcing your GPS location to the world in the clear, in order to establish a vector that a message would have to travel to reach it's intended recepient.  Fortunately, there is nothing that says that a Dash7 network ID has to have any connection to the user's real ID, and would be pseudo-anonymous in the same fashion that Bitcoin is, except that sniffers would know where the user was in real time.  Message bodies would likely be encrypted end-to-end, and Dash7 supports device-to-device encryption, so maybe there is still a way to establish a message vector without announcing your precise position in the clear, but your general position would be impossible to conceal.As for the Bitcoin transactions themselves, there would be no need to establish a mesh, as the transaction would be broadcast in the clear to every Dash7 device that could hear it.  It would be in the self interest of business establishments that accept bitcoins via smartphones to have a passive Dash7|Internet gateway device somewhere on the property to forward any bitcoin transactions that it sees to the Bitcoin network, since it is highly likely that the vast majority are transactions that directly benefit the establishment anyway, and any free riders within range wouldn't justify the cost of filtering.  Even if they didn't, any bitcoin client that heard the transaction would forward it to it's peers upon the next opprotunity provided it's queue of stored transactions wasn't already full. Maybe so.  But if ZS was even close, we will know with fair certainty when the Mayan long calender runs out in Dec of 2012. Don't you mean 12 planets, counting the Sun as one?  I believe that you are referring to Memoirs of an Extraterrestrial God and The 12th Planet by Zecharia Sitchin .  It was a fine story, but a terrible theory.  The entire thing is dependent upon massaging the myths of ancient history into a coherent whole.  I will admit that it's possible that it's accurate, but I would say that the Pentateuch is more likely to be historicly accurate than the wild speculations of a half-mad scholar of long dead languages. The system is difficult to wrap one's head around anyway, but I think that you are right about the hidden nature of transaction fees. Dash7 on smartphone and bitcoin could pay for "priority mail stamps" for Jabber text message forwarding.  Without mesh forwarding, Dash7 networking can hit 2 clicks on a milliwatt transceiver, and would make for one awesome "Citizen's Band" version of p2p instant mobile messaging.  Dash7 could also handle broadcasting the transactions of smartphone based lightweight clients without the need for direct Internet access.  Anyone within 2 clicks of the sender would immediatly see the new transaction, presumedly including the receiver if it is a IRL transaction.  Sooner or later, someone will encounter an open hotspot, and the transaction will make it into the blockchain.
Yeah, the propagation of transactions is pretty zippy right now, because there are not nearly the number of nodes to spread a transaction to as the system is intended to support.  As Bitcoin becomes more popular, the lag time for transactions will increase. I use bitcoin on a thumbdrive, but have not yet found a way to import or export a transaction via a file.  I'm sure that it's possible to do so, and will be done for email if nothing else, but as far as I know there is no way to sneakernet just a transaction.  But it is possible to sneakernet the entire Bitcoin client on a thumbdrive, which is exactly what I do because of a restrictive firewall.Once a proper lightweight Android client is completed, and with a cell phone that has NFC/Dash7 networking, regular access to the Internet will become as optional as regular access to a normal computer.  Of course, that assumes that you have a smartphone. Changes in the difficulty are limited to a factor of four, if the difficulty is 4 it maxs out at 16 or drops to 1, or somewhere in the middle. The claimer could simply transfer the coins to a different address he already owns, which isn't really spending them. There is a subset that exists to support a 'lightweight' client, that neither generates nor requires a complete blockchain, but only the blockchain headers and transactions relevent to the phone's balance.  Such a thin client has not yet been coded, but it's need has been considered in advance. It's a goal of the protocol, not an absolute, but generally speaking it is true.24 hours is not a very reliable data set, but as new users join the network and new clients become more efficient at mining, the total-proof-of-work of the network as a whole increases, but difficulty adjusts only every two weeks and is limited to a change of 4 times.  So over the past several months, the hashing ability of the network has grown faster than the protocol's ability to adapt, resulting in more blocks generated over that same time period than was predicted. (6 blocks per hour target) * (24 hours) * (14 days) = 2016Two weeks is the target interval between difficulty adjustments, but it is never exactly two weeks because difficulty adjustments occur at a block, not at a time. I don't understand this, but I'm not a programmer.Good, that makes my concerns irrelevent.  Even if there were a way to fake a set of transactions without breaking sha256, the ability of the lightweight client to reach out and find another opinion makes any such future exploit pointless. Functionally, yes.  But more than one address cannot "own" the same coins in the blockchain, because the blockchain only records settled transactions.  A special transaction that could have multiple claims must remain outside of the blockchain until someone actually claims it, I believe.  Balance sheets for lightweight clients are redundant anyway, and not just for this reason. Yes, this is how I do my bitcoin 'savings' account on a thumbdrive.  The entire program and all data is on the thumbdrive, and my computer at home is busted.  So I have to do any work on my 'savings' at the computer at work, which has a very effective firewall, that functionally prohibits bitcoin from doing anything.  So every so often I download a new copy of the blockchain with Explorer, and just swap the files onto the thumbdrive.  The client checks the new chain upon next startup, and finds any new coins that I have 'deposited' from my Mybitcoin.com account.Of course, I have yet to figure out how to transfer out of my 'savings', but I'm sure that there is a way to pipe the transaction to a file.  At some point, such transactions should be able to move as email extensions, and the regular client should be able to import a transaction and incorporate it into the network in the normal way. I think that it's already past time to set a block number for the decimal point shift.  At the rate the value is rising, if we set the block number in a predictable future and then start releasing clients that are aware of it, perhaps the change will be without confusion.  If not, then there will be clients out in the wild that don't represent the value in the same way, and confusion in a transaction with newbies who don't understand that a change in ongoing could be a very bad mark on Bitcoin's rep. Sounds like you would be trusting that the peer that sent you the relevant transactions to your new transaction to not be sending you a doctored set.  There would be no way to be certain that what you received were real transactions without the complete blockchain, but you could increase confidence if you could download one or more copies of the relevant blocks from random peers not currently engaged in trading with you.  Does the protocol permit a lightweight client to download a specific block from a random peer, or does it have to download them in order? Good start, but your little footnote about transaction fees is incorrect.  First off, the optional transaction fee schedule isn't based off of very large amounts of bitcoins, but in very large transaction sizes.  It's an economic incentive to avoid excessively large transactions (EDIT: size in kilobytes), and is more of a priority processing fee, as without it the transaction would just be delayed not rejected.  There is also the too small transaction fee, which is still optional, but is enforced by the clients (nearly) universally to prevent spamming of the system, and presently applies to any transaction of less than .01, which is now getting dangerously close to a rational micro-payment with the rise in value over the past several months. This topic needs it's own thread, but I don't understand what is being argued here, if your client is using a trusted server, then it's already a thin client, which only really needs the transactions that pertain to the chain of custody that leads to your balance, so that you can create the transactions to spend them.  If you are using a trusted server to verify the validity of transactions, your client doesn't even need a balance sheet at all.  Using balance sheets, your client cannot independently verify a transaction of a sender at all. Yet a system wide segmentation is fairly easy to detect, the current client just doesn't do it.  If code implementing my 'watchdog' idea were included, the client could be set to suspend automatic trading on websites or warn the user of a fault on interactive clients. I just keep a client on a thumbdrive, and it spends most of it's time in my fire safe.  It's not encrypted.  But I don't have a very large collection, either. Enough that he has a strong motivation to continue developing the system regardless of burnout, and enough to make him a wealthy man upon Bitcoin's mainstream success if he hasn't sold too many of his coins.  He certainly has the genesis block, which has never been transfered to any other address according to Bitcoin Explorer., which I understand has a premium value, as at least one other forum member was willing to pay 10 times the market value for the genesis block coins.  I want Satoshi to be wealthy for what he has done here.  He can't do well without many others doing well, including myself.  And I care not at all who might think that is unfair. I'd wager that it's because Nvidia GPU's tend to cost more as compared to ATI GPU's. The profit motive is only an excuse to spend $300 on a high-end gaming graphics card anyway. And speedbumps every city block.  It's entirely unfair that my bicycle can't keep up with traffic.  Where are all these rich people going in such a hurry?
Amen, brother.  Welcome to the front lines of the Agora. Easy peasy, lemon squeezy.If history of government tells us anything about the future, it tells us that they will enforce whichever laws were violated by those they wish to persecute.  It's not about the law, it's about control. I'm pretty sure that the standard client can send coins to an address that doesn't actually exist, if the address is entered by hand and is a valid address by it's checks.   He only considers it a drawback because he doesn't have a GPU new enough to use the Cuda client, and feels that is somehow an unfair advantage. Is there a CUDA client for the new MacMini with the GeForce GT 320?  And can generation be turned on and off as a screensaver? Use a free account at Mybitcoin.com until you have reached a level of value that you become uncomfortable with it.   Did you notice the part of the sentence where I said, "I don't know how that could be done"?I doubt that. We'll get there within a decade, or fail.  In the meantime, part of the risks of Bitcoin speculation at this early stage are the personal costs to aquire Bitcoins.  By the time that you can buy Bitcoin down at the coffee shop, Bitcoin will be mainstream and likely very stable.  the potential profits from currency appreciation will have been realized already.  It may seem to some of the newer people here that you have missed out on the early gains, but the reality is that you are an early adopter. Sure, but I'll help you with your chains.  I'll buy all the coins you have for 10 cents each and you can then run away from all this. I prefer Post-it for my notes. Do you think that you would generate during winter, or do you live in the tropics? You can reasonably expect that difficulty will continue to increase, at least through the winter in the Northern hemisphere. Near-Field and/or bu.mp intergration.  Option to limit client to one (trusted) connection, in order to limit bandwidth consumption over cell account, or ability to limit client to only download blocks with wifi.  Ability to use Dash7 for transactions, so that transactions can be distrubuted to nearby Dash7 capable devices without the need for a continuous Internet connection would be a plus, but not critical. By local transactions, I assume a minimum capability of a local wallet.dat, the ability to use bu.mp (or similar) to transfer addresses, and the ability to create transactions in the absence of working Internet access.I pledge 50 under these conditions. Awesome.  The first big step to a mobile client that can contain it's own wallet.dat, trade addresses over bu.mp, and broadcast transactions over Near-field communications and/or Dash7 networking.Within a couple years, I'll be buying my coffee with bitcoins by tapping the register and authorizing the transfer on my phone, and the coffee house will never need to know who I was... We need to be all over NFC, and Dash7, with a working Android client and a local wallet.dat. There are several reason that go beyond the chance at a block reward.  First, many of those who contribute much in proof-of-work for the blockchain already have generated much coin in the past, and have an economic incentive to contribute to the security of the system in defense of their Bitcoin net worth.  Second, much generation has been, and can expected to continue to be, of incidental cost to the particular user.  To illustrate how this might work, consider the single young professional living in a cold climate, let's say Toronto Canada.  He has a job in a major city, but can only afford a small efficiency apartment.  He has no other option but to heat with electicity, as many small spaces only have electric baseboard heating.  Or perhaps building hot water heat, but his apartment is the one that is too cold in winter and he must add heat anyway.  So he has his high end gaming PC, since he is a geek and doesn't have anything better to do with a Saturday night, but the rest of the time he just lets it sit there crunching blocks.  He is paying for the heat, any bitcoins that he gets out of the deal is simply a bonus.  He doesn't lose anything by trying while he is not personally using the PC, except perhaps the peace and quiet of a non-spinning CPU fan.Not for most people, but like above, it is for enough.  The cost of electric for me is about 7 cents a KW, so it's about break-even right now with a GPU client.  But I have access to natural gas, so no. Neither am I, but I used the term for expediency.  Most people don't really know that no government in the world is actually a democracy.  Most are parlimentary republics, and the US is a federated republic.  Democracy only functions on a very local scale, such as the Baptist church business meeting, and results in mob rule or gridlock on scales beyond that.Ben Franklin did have some memorable one-liners.  Another that I like is, "Beer is living proof that God loves us, and wants us to be happy."It's actually not 51% of users, but 51% of total proof-of-work.  The practical result being that established users, particularly those with a relatively high Bitcoin net worth, have both the motivation and the means to maintain the status quo, as major changes would be harmful to their future buying power.  So it's not really even a democracy, since it's not one opinion one vote, but one clock-cycle one vote.  More like a plutocracy, perhaps? No it won't, because if/when bitcoin takes off, there will be many more choices of people to trade/buy bitcoin with, many of them local to you.  Instead of having to send cash in the mail to someone you have never personally met, you could catch a bus to the local coffee house to met that local dealer IRL.  That is, if the coffee house itself doesn't yet trade in bitcoin.  I expect that, within a decade, there will be local businesses that accept bitcoin for goods and services, and you could buy bitcoin for the local fiat currency at those places; in person and immediately.  I suspect that many here expect the same thing, otherwise there wouldn't be nearly the level of speculation into the currency at this (very early) stage, considering that Bitcoin is still inflating at ~65% APR.  The unit won't be down to a rational inflationary rate for another two years or so.The web of trust issue is identical to that of any other cash or hard money, and that has not stopped their use, despite the worldwide desire of governments.  A web of trust can be built by others, independent of Bitcoin, in similar ways that has been done with gold trading throughout history.  The greatest risks to Bitcoin that I can see is a successful attempt by a major central bank taking the Bitcoin concept and adapting it to their own issued currencies.  I don't know how that could be done, but if it could, they have the implicit force of government to support it via legal tender laws. It takes more time for the fake ID people to steal your identity without a copy of your driver's license.  How could you be so inconsiderate as to expect your identity thief to do extra work!?
You should be doing that anyway, if you have the funds to risk in investments, you should be trying to limit your risks of personal loss in the unlikely event of a social crisis before placing any funds at risk for a retirement.  Even the bible talks about this in many places.  It's so central to the Mormans' religious interpretation that households are obligated to stock up for a year for their entire family, so as not to be a burden upon the community in the event of social collapse.  Morman churches usually have a collective food pantry controlled by the head of the local church (bishop?) to cover this obligation concerning the missionaries (mostly young men in college) who are no longer a part of their parents' household and not yet at the point in life to establish their own household.Mormans take the passage, "A fool spends all that he has, but the storehouses of the wise are filled with choice food and oil" very seriously.  Considering that they are the only denomination to have experienced a real war with the US Government at any point in history, they might have something to contribute to plans for a future that that same government goes mad. I'm guessing that is the 'blink' tag in html 1. Does using nTimeLock also tie up some of the sender's coins until the lock expires?  I imagine that it would have to, and that would solve the escrow problem immediately, allowing the sender to effectively write the Bitcoin version of a backdated check.  Even better, seeing the locked transaction on the network would allow the merchant to know that the sender actually does have the funds to buy the product, and if the coins are tied up until the lock expires, that the sender will probably still have those same funds.  The possibility of a fraudster sending a locked transaction to buy something online, and then revoking the transaction after the product has been shipped, still exists.  But it can add confidence in a transaction without requiring a third party escrow.  Would the revocation of transactions leave a record inside or outside the blockchain?  If it did, a scan of the blockchain might be able to highlight increased risks of a revoked transaction if a fraudster had already done the scam once to someone else with the same set of coins.  Doing this would temporarily 'taint' the coins used in the revoked transaction, until they were used in several valid transactions. That's exactly how it works.  It's money, that's the point.BTW, if you want to give away your bitcoins, or argue to others to voluntarily grant a share of their coins to new users; I'm all for that.  However, if anything close to what you have proposed should ever become compulsory, I'll abandon Bitcoin entirely.  I imagine that many others would as well.So either you won't use the system as it is, or I won't use the system as you would wish it to be; which is the greater loss?  I can't say, but by your own admission, you don't have any money anyway and I'm pretty sure that, between the two of us, I'm the one with the education in Economics. No, I don't.  The current client exists only because Satoshi wrote it, if you don't like it, write your own and start your own blockchain.  If you can get others to join you, that is democracy.  Any attempt to compel Satoshi to change his code against his will is not democracy and is not an acceptable form of advocacy. I didn't miss your point, I just don't agree with were you are going.  I've seen this argument before, as it is essentially the same argument in favor 'living wage' laws and unemployment insurance.  That if people don't have money (beyond their basic needs) then there will not be anyone to buy the products that create the jobs to life economies out of reccessions.  It's a false premise, and I was cutting you off before you got there.Actually, no.  That's not an issue at all.  Bitcoin isn't even ready to support an economy.  It really only has value now because a small minority of people are speculating that it will be ready and able to independently support an economy when there is a need for it in the near future and that such a need will materialize.  If the fiat currencies of the world were stable, such a need might never come to pass, but they are not.And it will be, when it's time for it.  If there is a way to buy bitcoins now, then there will be other ways in the future.If someone comes up with a great new idea, for which Bitcoin is either particularly well suited for it, or the circumstances surrounding fiat currency makes using them a detriment, then those who desire to participate will find the bitcoin that they need.There is an inherent contradiction in the above statement.If those who are hoarding the bitcoins don't want it, then why are they hoarding them?We already have such a situation, but even if we didn't, the distribution of new coins as is done now would still not need to be more 'equitable'.  Not only is equality not a requirement for a new currency, it's actually a detriment.Policy should not be designed based on complaints.  If some people wanted a few to try out, there is the bitcoin faucet, as well as the pay-it-forward project. I pretty much came to libertarianism by a similar path.  I was once a Green, and once an elector for the Democratic Convention of my state.  Attend one of those just once, and you will forever be rid of the illusion of democracy.Everyone does start off with an equal number of bitcoins, we all start of with zero. Pretty good for someone standing at a distance looking in, but I noticed his understanding of how the system handles a double-spend is incorrect. I'm guessing your not a programmer.  I'm not, but I can see how the proof-of-work system is self-evidently not readily exchangable with any other method.Any level of anonymity is incidental to the function of bitcoin, and only exists due to the cash-like nature of the system.  The PoW system used with bitcoin was chosen as a security measure, not a secrecy measure.I don't think that you have yet wrapped your head around the system.The block reward is an incentive to contribute to the security of the blockchain.  It's not there to equitably distribute bitcoins.  Not only is it irrelevant if the casual new user is 'working out', it's not evident that is the case.Actually, you can make any changes you desire, and start a parallel blockchain with your own  genesis block; but if you succeed in doing what I think you're doing, your blockchain will certainly be compromised if it were to ever grow enough to represent any real value. I had made the assumption that they already had.  One client with one wallet.dat would be fine if the client was modified for multiple independent users, and sets of addresses were linked to a user and not assumed to be one person.  That's a very Windoze like mentality.  For that matter, there should be a GNU/Linux version that plays nice with multi-user systems, where the wallet.dat is in the user's disk space. I imagine that there will be a push for separated accounts and/or wallets in future competitors of Mybitcoin.  Although I understand why they do it this way, I don't think that an online wallet management website should use a pooled system.  It's a bit different for the markets, as there is no implication that the wallet is your's. Care to translate for the English speaking crowd? How does what work?  Fractional reserve or auditing them with block explorer?If you mean, how does one audit your addresses with block explorer, simply check the addresses that you have to make sure that there have been no transactions that you didn't do yourself and that the address balances add up to what you should have.  If you have more than what you should have, then the website is sharing accounts among users and tracking the individual values internally.  Which would allow the website owner to loan out portions of the pooled balance, much like how fractional reserve banks do now, since they don't actually keep your money on hand.  If there has been any transactions in or out of said accounts that you didn't perform, then that means the website owner is using member accounts to "float" his own activities.EDIT:  Except I can't actually see all of the addresses used in my Mybitcoin.com account.  That's going to be something I need to ask for. This is a generally awesome tool.  In addition to it's other uses, it will allow us to keep Mybitcoin.com and it's (presumedly less honest) future competitors from the temptation of fractional reserve nonsense.  Just the threat that any Joe can run his addresses past block explorer and tell if his funds have been mixed with other accounts not his own, or otherwise borrowed without consent, should be enough to keep most on the up-and-up.  Not that I don't have a fair trust of Mybitcoin.com, I do have an account that has been climbing in value as of late, but I also feel better knowing that I can check on my balances without having to trust the websites' honesty itself. You're right.Note to self, code a bash script, call it "Boom" ...and I bet you guys thought I was joking when I said I'm probably the oldest here!On this date in 1775, the first guy to sign on the dotted line in Turn Tavern in Philadelphia; turned. looked at the second guy in line, and said, "Things were different in the old Corps!" "Yes sir, Officer!  Just have to save this file..."dev.null > wallet.dat " Be kind, be courteous, be respectful, but be prepared to kill everyone you meet."-Sgt Victor ArroyoUSMC Thanks, but I was hoping it would be more consistent than that.  No trendline apparent there. The difficulty algorithm is not that smart.  It doesn't attempt to make up for previous underguessed weeks beyond the past two.  No fuzzy logic code.
Inflation and deflation have very little direct effect on the prices of individual things, or even entire vertical markets.  The prices of energy and food have risen somewhat over the past year, but in 2009 they were certainly down from 2008.  That said, the real estate market is *way* down, and that ovepowers everything else at the moment.  You would have to have some huge rises in food & energy before you overtake that 15% drop in land values over and entire nation.  If QE II does anything noticable at all, it's most likely to funnel that extra $600 billion dollars directly into markets dependent upon human needs, and not into the stock market or the real estate market as is likely their intent.  Food is a higher order need than clothing, and heat a higher order need than personal space.  IT's true that if anyone can cause hyperinflation in the US in thenear future, it's Congress; but if it doesn't happen in the next two months, I can't see how it would happen in the next two years.  Ron Paul will be the chairmean of the house finacial services committe (technicly in charge of the Federal REserve's charter) so the Fed is going to have shackles thrown upon it in two months time.Mish's website is back up, apparently a hack attempt. It's true that Bitcoin has no enforcement wing, but the last time that the US Congress inflated the currency that the military was paid with, we can within inches of a military takeover.  If it wasn't for Washington, we could have ended up with a military dictator as fast as the French did.  It's were the old phrase, "not worth a Continental" came from, and not because the Continental note was worth much.  It's really dangerous for the Fed to inflate with abandon, and they know it. Can we get a new graph made that predicts future generation based on past average block intervals, as opposed to the target intervals?  I understand that past performance doesn't lead to future performance, but for a while yet it might prove to be a better indicator of the pace of bitcoin generation. Mish has been saying deflation is baked in since q2007, and he was right.  If I had listened to anyone else, I would have lost a small fortune out of my 401k.  As it stands, I did listen and lost very little during the crash.  Mish has been less of a deflationist as of late, but still contends that hyperinflation not a realistic threat, because as bad as QE is for the dollar, 600 Billion isn't a drop in the bucket against the deflationary forces at play, and black swans don't fly in from the direction that the majority are watching.  If so many in mainstream media are talking about hyperinflation, then hyperinflation would be avoided; even if some inflation is not. I saw that long ago, and you can't imagine how many different people have sent me that same link. http://cafehayek.com/site/wp-content/uploads/2010/11/RyugyongPoster2.jpg Perhaps if your electricity is otherwise free to use, such as you live in Canada and only have electro-resistive heat anyway, but you are probably still talking about a 7+ year ROI.  Otherwise your average time for ROI would probably be longer than your lifetime, and might approach infinity. That's interesting, but not uncommon for children of wealthy origins to rebel against what their own family represents, and their actual family members.  It doesn't negate my statement.  I was being factious, as I have no knowledge of your background, but just because you may have rejected your family doesn't mean that there isn't a trust fund waiting for your return to the family fold. Actually, that's not true.  Strong encryption, regardless of the nature of the information, is (rather rediculously) considered a 'munition' under US export law.  Depending on how a court looks at this law, it's either unconstitutional or the exportation of such encryption methods gets the sender sent to prison for violation of international trade bans on weapons.  So it's a pretty good thing that Bitcoin doesn't actually encrypt anything itself, but I'm not sure that a court would be savvy enough to know the differences. To be clear, for the benefit of our resident trust fund baby who travels the world meeting poor people; taxation is by it's nature, the use or threat of force to compel someone to support a social structure that they would not do so otherwise.  This may be a neccessary evil, but it is still evil; so the ideal answer for society is to limit the government to a set few functions that can only be performed with the use of collective force.  Aid of the poor is not one of those functions, as there are other solutions that have been successful in the past.It is ignorace of the nature of governments, that they are constructs that are developed (even in democratic societies) to manage and direct the "legitimate" use of violence, that is leading to the breakdown of civil society in Europe as well as the United States.  This is the only purpose of armies, courts and law enforcement anywhere in the world; the only difference between such a government in a modern Western democracy and a third world dictator is who gets to decide what is a legitimate use of that force.As such, governments everywhere are notoriously bad at managing social support networks, (because it's it beyond their realm of expertise) while generally being quite effective at the functions of government wherein controlled violence is the primary objective, such as warfighting and border defenses. The later the better.  The longer that governments wait to act, the stronger the bitcoin network grows, and the harder it becomes to harm it. That's an opinion, and it might be a fine one, but I have one as well.I think that a lot of this run up was pent up demand due to the MtGox PayPal scandal.  Once payment processing was solved, dollars were trying to get into MtGox to find it's level, and now it has.  I imagine that the slow march back towards parity will continue, but the voltility of the past two weeks will be dampened for a time. You would want to use silver silverware, silver has surface anti-bacterial properties, which is why it was made into eating utensils for centuries.Gold does not corrode, so it makes a wonderful contact conductor, even though silver has a lower natural resistance.Gold is not toxic to human life, as lead, uranium, thorsium and a great many other heavy elements happen to be, so it can easily replace a number of those other elements in things that need to be dense, such as ships ballast weights, exercise weights, radiation shielding, etc.Gold is also a soft metal, so is a better bullet material than lead, copper or berrillium.Gold also can be spread so thin, that it's semitransparent, and has the natural ability to filter dangerous light frequencies, as well as other forms of radiation, when used in this way.  The first spacewalk suits had gold plated visors for this very reason.If atomized, gold atoms can be charged and shot through electromagneticly charged screens, and be used as a particularly efficient reactionary mass for electric ion drives on space ships, whenever that comes to pass.  The heavier the charged particle, the more efficient the ion drive can be.Gold is resistant to chemical reactions, so gold can be very effective as a liner for dangerous or otherwise corrosive chemical storage tanks.Those are just a few possibilities off the top of my head. We've been thirty years from "Fountain of Paradise" for as long as I have been alive.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Space_elevatorAlthough we actually have the tech to do this, just not the capital or political will...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Launch_loop I'm sure we will get there eventually, as a species, if we aren't wiped out by one of those asteroids first. We actually do know how  to make gold, but it's just incrediblely expensive and dangerous to do.  The only threat to the value of gold is a process that reduces the energy input and dangerous nature of doing so.  This might actually be possible, if starting with an element that is heavier than gold itself, such as depleted uranium.  If it were possible, I'd be all for it, since gold has numerous industrial uses that are limited only by gold's cost.The economic monetary systems would adjust. Yeah, I went there and used it.  It's not very intuitive, and looks like an abandoned high school computer class project.  Needs refinement. This makes me wonder if bang-paths are still a supported routing method, since I haven't done it myself in over a decade, but Wikipedia implies that it is still so..."Current use and legacy<snip>"Bang path" is also used as an expression for any explicitly specified routing path between network hosts. That usage is not necessarly limited to uucp, IP routing, email messaging, or Usenet."http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UUCP#Current_use_and_legacy I mean like isp.com!near.router.backbone.org!far.router.backbone.org!otherisp.orgIt's not automatic by any means, but it is certainly ad hoc routing.  At least by any definition that I've ever heard. Generating new addresses for each transaction doesn't increase your risks of a collision.  The risk is not simply the risk of a collision alone, but also the maximum potential losses that such a collision could represent.  A single collision with one of your many addresses only exposes the coins associated with that particular address, not the total amount of bitcoins that said wallet.dat can access.  Reuse of addresses may limit your raw risks of a collision, but reuse also increases your maximum potential losses since more bitcoins are concentrated under fewer addresses over time.  Either way, the risks are so small as to be astronomically unlikely.  If a collision were to ever occur, even intentionally, it would be big news if someone could prove that it had occurred.
If a faster path is available, what would prevent one from using a bang-path?  Are you just recommending an incentive for providers to provide for said low-latency paths? I don't get it.  Latency is certainly an issue, but isn't it a bit of a physical hardware issue?  How could a p2p network of any kind improve latency?  Are my ping times going to improve to my favorite game server? No button, but there is an "ignorelist" in your profile. It's seems that I sent our resident 'soph more' on a wild goose chase.  Searching for the phase, "The Two Laws of Civilization" does not bring up the relevant text.For those who are interested, or simply annoyed by my error, here is the relevant text..."Mr. Maybury bases his work on common law, namely1)Do all you have agreed to do2)Do not encroach on other persons or their property.The first law is related to contract law. A contract is an agreement between two or more parties, in which they promise to perform certain actions for and recognize certain rights of the other parties. The second law is related to some criminal law and tort law. Violators of these types of laws have committed acts like theft or violence against other people. (When referencing these two laws, Maybury has at times requested they be known as "Maybury's Laws," and stated exactly as above.) He has also mentioned that there may be an other (or others) undiscovered law related to the subjects of law that the two he shows don't cover. He also thinks that if the world would have used these two fundamental laws for a longer period of time, with out the British corrupting them and making them useless, we might have discovered the other fundamental law (or laws) that he mentioned."http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Richard_J._Maybury#Maybury.27s_Two_Laws And poltical collapse and breakup as a direct result.  Now it's our turn.  No empire ever lasts forever.... No, it's not. Well, I just broke that discipline. I'm not confused at all.  I certainly hope that you are a teenager, because if you are an adult, you have a hard life ahead of you.  This conversation has reminded me of a saying from an old Russian immigrant, "If you are not a communist at twenty, then you have no heart; if you are still a communist at thirty, then you have no sense."No, you were attacked for being a cocksure wanker. You're welcome, I'm just uncertain that my target audience understood the joke. How can a statement so short be so wrong!?  No, government does not define what is criminal, government defines what it shall prosecute, and the differences are paramount.Hit Google and search for the Two Laws of Civilization.  Those thirteen words accurately define all human law.  Any society that generally respects those two laws, even incidentally, tend to prosper; those that don't tend to decline. Hmm, self-selection bias.  Everyone considers himself to be the moderate. On average, neither.  But those who try it and fail, tend to not keep trying.  It's Darwinistic finance, in a way. But slavery is not acceptable to a free society, which is key to why it does not make economic sense.  Think about it for a while.  You will know you understand it once you realize why someone else has already told you that he will refuse to do any business with you.Well, that is not the sole reason, but  powerful one, indeed.  Let me ask you something, if a clothing designer is outed for using a 'sweatshop' to produce a line of fashion clothing, how does that revelation affect his company's bottom line?  How does the prior knowledge of such a possibility affect the business decisions of the company as it is setting up production?  Finally, how much better, or worse, would these same results affect the company that instead used actual slave labor instead of third world laborers?So when you say that the moral code of society is the only thing preventing these amoral companies using from slave labor; what is "society", the collective will of the public as interpreted by government regulators, or the collective will of the public as represented by the aggregate consumer, or is it something else entirely?BTW, what I've just done is switch to the "classical" method of teaching, free of charge to you.  Further lessons may require compensation, which may prove difficult if everyone looking to sell coins are unwilling to sell them to you.  I do not take checks, credit or fiat currency online.It doesn't matter if I approve of it or not, nor does it matter if I consider a company to have rights.  They exist because low skill manufacturing can be performed at a much lower wage in third world nations, which given enough time makes third world nations into second world nations.  Don't forget, the US & Britain both went through that stage during the industrial revolution.  A crappy job is still preferable to subsistence farming, which is preferable to starvation.Before you attempt to educate others, you must first educate yourself.I smell straw burning...No, the fraud normally associated with a ponzi scheme is wrong, some guy openly starting a ponzi scheme on an online forum just to see if he can is not necessarily so.  The Social Security System is a ponzi scheme, by definition, but I don't consider it wrong because it's fraudulent.  I consider it wrong because it's force.But that's another topic.As has already been pointed out to you, the trades that you are railing against occur between two people who each believe (rightly or wrongly) that they will each benefit from the trade, otherwise no trade occurs.  John Stossel often calls this the "double thank-you moment".  As long as no one is coerced, I regard "sweatshops" in the same light.  It's not the factory owner, nor the clothing retailer, that created the poverty in these third world nations; but it is their pursuit of self interest (and the pursuit of the self interests of the voluntary factory worker) that benefits the consumer.  What is good for the individual is generally good for the society at large, with notable exceptions.No one said it would be bad for you to exercise moral judgment, in regard to your own transactions.  It's your attitude that others need to be relieved of our dogmatic attachment to fundamental economic principles that has this thread in a tivy.You misunderstand.  Others suggest that your morals don't belong in their economic decisions.  Also, I recommend not insulting the readership that you are attempting to convert, that has the tendency of limiting your moral authority.In short, no they don't.  At least not morals as defined by you, anyway.You will find that economic reality doesn't care what your opinion is, and for the most part, neither does anyone else.  And it's also unwise to tempt a bunch of liberty minded people, whom you have recently insulted, to shoot you.  Odds are high that many here could.  Great idea, let us know when you have it ready.  I'll start, my zip code is 40219. Bitcoin isn't yet mature enough for that, but neither is Near Field Communcations/ Dash7 networking, which would most likely be the enabling hardware for in-person Bitcoin transactions. First, it's not your problem what we understand or do not.Second, if there is any grand cabal 'at the top', then they aren't telling us anything at all, much less anything most of us would respect.  That cabal could only be the Federal Reserve, it's benefactors and beneficiaries, and the economic wonks on it's payroll.  None of which has anything to do with us. I normally get paid to educate the economicly illiterate, and you are a pretty severe case of terminally wrong.  If you believe that it's easy to prove Economic theories incorrect, then try it.  If you succeed, you would be famous.  If you are wrong, but even come close you will win the Nobel prize.  It's not called the 'dismal science' for nothing.It does not make economic sense to own slaves in a free society, but I'm sure that I'll never convince you of that.  regardless, a 'sweatshop' worker isn't a slave.And, again, toxic dumping does not make economic sense in a free society; one where corporations are not protected from liability.  The very nature of the corporation means that it is both a creation of the state, and co-dependent upon it.  That may be capitalism in your eyes, but that isn't free enterprise by any stretch.  That is, by definition, collective control of the means of production; i.e. socialism.  Fascism, as it is widely understood, is state control over privately held capital via regulation.  The US is, and has been for some time, a 'soft' fascist economy.  That does not automaticly reflect upon the individual players that operate within that economic system. In a number of ways, actually.  First, they smooth out market extremes by their collective 'wisdom of the crowd' creating a predictive market that producers can use to judge future profitability.  In other words, farmers often use the futures market to determine if they will plant soybeans or corn, or something else entirely, the following season because they also wish to maximize their profits.  Second, the futures markets themselves, which are entirely speculative in nature, provide funding for many of those same farmers to buy the seed to begin with.  This market favoring of productive uses of capital is what evens out the markets later, not now.Third, speculation increases the costs of things in times of plenty in expectation of times of scarcity.  The pork bellies speculator may expect that the cost of pork will increase sharply in the Northern winter (perhaps he has knowledge of poor conditions for pork in the Southern hemisphere?) so he bets (buys futures contracts) for pork in the winter.  He provides the market signals to the pork farmers to produce more, while also increasing current demand of the lower level (in order to increase pork production, fewer current breeding age pigs may be slaughtered in order to sell now).  When his contracts come due, he sells those contracts to companies that need pork for their products.  It is the successful speculator that provides for nearly all of the "working" capital in many commodities markets.None of this applies directly to Bitcoin, per se, but speculation is not evil and it is not the root cause of the current crisis. "There is enormous inertiaa tyranny of the status quoin private and especially governmental arrangements. Only a crisisactual or perceivedproduces real change. When that crisis occurs, the actions that are taken depend on the ideas that are lying around. That, I believe, is our basic function: to develop alternatives to existing policies, to keep them alive and available until the politically impossible becomes politically inevitable."-Milton Friedmanhttp://en.wikiquote.org/wiki/Milton_Friedman I notice that you ignored the question posed, so I'll assume that it was an opinion.
Nothing that you have written thus far is rooted in economic reality, or even in economic history.  The causes of the crash are various, but certainly not what you have been led to believe.  I recommend that you either read up on the topic, starting with "Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?" and "Economics in One Lesson".  However, if you are inclined to continue fretting about economic fallacies instead, perhaps you shouldn't expose yourself to our corruptive natures and simply abandon this whole Bitcoin idea. Do you have any evidence to support this position, or is this a personal opinion?  Is is silly to assume that all business transacted in Bitcoin is going to be advertised on the Trade page.  Nor would it take much of an increase in business to bump up the value of the few bitcoins currently in circulation.  A couple of Bitcoin savvy campus pot dealers could explain the marked rise in price, all they would have to do is tell their existing clients, "I'm switching to Bitcoin exclusively, to protect myself, so you'll have to do the same if you wish to continue to do business" and the demand from a couple dozen potheads per savvy dealer and the price shoots for parity. We can safely assume that if criminal markets are aware of Bitcoin, then they are already using it.  We will never really know for certain, except for those of us who are directly participating; which would be the attraction.This is not something to be worried about.  In fact, something along these lines is a near certainty, but a monopoly is impossible.  It is generally predicted that, in a future that Bitcoin is at least as much of the economy as PayPal represents today, most generation will be performed by major financiers who have an unusually large vested interest in the security of the blockchain.  They will be defending their own balances from the other major players.  These major players are likely to function like banking institutions today in many respects, as the average Joe isn't likely to run his own client, but instead have an account at a particular major player's website, similar to how Mybitcoin.com functions today.  Regardless of how the future looks, Joe would still have the option of running his own client, including generation, for whatever reason.  Perhaps he has lost trust in his 'bank', or simply desires to heat his apartment with the off chance of catching a block.  His reasons do not matter, only that he continue to have the option. Fair enough. This requires trust in both Theymos and the ongoing security of his explorer site.  I was simply pointing out that trust in any particular party isn't required. There is no one to "control" the genesis block.  Once a unique genesis block has been created, presumedly with the intent of starting a new and separate blockchain, the genesis block simply is.  There is no way to alter the genesis block in the official Bitcoin blockchain to any gainful (or malicious) purpose, nor even in the test blockchain.  If some way is ever discovered, Bitcoin will fail completely, as this is central to the security of the system.  If you did so on your own client, your client would simply break; or if you rigged it so that it would not break, no new clients would accept your genesis block beyond block #2.  The clients don't assume that the first copy of a block received is correct, even upon startup.  The only way for the client to choose an alternative blockchain would be to force the client to use a particular genesis block, so that the "longest" (i.e. greatest totoal proof of work) blockchain couldn't overide it. There is also an adjustment limit to impede just this kind of thing.  The difficulty is not permitted to adjust more than 4 times up or down (one-fourth) in a single adjustment.  So if an attack such as this were to happen, the worst that could be done by an attacker with limited access to supercomputing level resources is to extend the two weeks to eight weeks; and even this would require some serious firepower, considering the current difficulty implies that the network is already supercomputer class on it's own.  In order to do more, the attacker would have to be willing and able to dominate the network for two or more adjustments.  We are talking nation-state level capabilities right now, and at the rate of current increases, it will not be long before most nation-states wouldn't have that kind of collective power at their singular command.Even if this were to occur, the current generation isn't likely to just stop.  Most generation doesn't occur with profit as the primary motive, as it's already not strictly profitable for the vast majority of people.  As I have noted before in other threads, much generation is 'co-generation', allowing the user to put their computer to good use heating their living space, for people who do not have access to cheaper forms of heat than electro-resistive heating.  Also, under your scenario, as others drop out for fear of an impossible difficulty, the odds that any one particular machine will find the next solution increases; so it's a self-regulating system.  I can't say that no one will ever try it, but it's not going to break the network, and anyone who would try it is going to have to commit some serious resources simply to temporarily frustrate the network. Anyone with those kinds of resources are going to want to do it themselves anyway. The retarget occurs at a specific block, not at a specific time.  The difficulty is then adjusted in order to attempt to stretch out the block generation over the next 2016 blocks to a full two weeks.  As far as I know, we have yet to actually hit those full two weeks since at least March, 2009.  The transition to a 25 coin block reward will occur before the fourth anniversary if the current trend continues. Close, but not quite.  You are correct that no actual digital coins exist, and that all balances are basicly the tallies of the transactions recorded upon a massive collective ledger that we call the blockchain.  But keypairs don't identify transactions, either; they only identify addresses (which are most like account numbers in the Swiss banking system, the only form of identification that is either neccessary or possible)  It is not neccessary for each transaction to have a unique keypair, for example, even though that is a common practice. Hundreds, probably.  Where have you been the past 8 years, in a cave watching only Fox News.Hell, I'm pretty sure that Hussein's threat to stop taking $ and accept Euros instead was even covered by Fox. I'm surprised no one has already mentioned the 'co-generation' aspect of Bitcoin generation.A not-insignificant percentage of bitcoin generation occurs under situations wherein that roughly the same amount of energy would be expended simply heating up a small space.  I personally know, by admission, that there is at least one Canadian who has been selling off last winter's heat bill. By checking that genesis block matches the one that you already trust, and by a full blockchain re-check.  No honest alternative blockchain will use a matching genesis block, because they want to be different.  No dishonest alternative blockchain using the same genesis in an attempt to deceive nodes should survive a total re-check of the blockchain, even without the blockchain checkpoints that have been argued about on this thread.It is not neccessary to have a trust structure, just keep a copy of your desired blockchain's genesis block separately. It's still not impossible, but it is astronomicly unlikely.  At least beyond the last checkpoint honored by the majority of the nodes on the network.But yes, that is the point of it. Certainly not.  Many of these same nations openly oppose the development of 'parallel cultures', Germany's opposition to homeschooling being a big example.  They go out of their way to help immigrants assimilate, in ways that the US does not.  There are just some cultures that cannot coexist without some degree of 'culture clash'.  We in the US are accustomed to some degree of 'culture clash' being a self-described "melting pot", but that contributes to our higher overall crime rates.  Europe is getting there faster than they can adjust, and that could be it's undoing. I wasn't suggesting that anyone ignore it.  Regardless of the long term trendline, the short term has very real effects upon us now.  I was merely highlighting the greater perspective. We can already see that happening.  It was working age population demands that prompted these very same European nations to open up their immigration laws under the, now provably false, assumption that immigrants from a distinctly different racial, religious and cultural background would be willing to assimilate into the host culture. Not in all countries, that is mostly true in Western European nations.  That said, even that much is statistical noise in the trendline of human history.  There have been more dramatic setbacks to that trendline than the relatively recent reproductive habits of a couple of generations of wealthy and self-absorbed white people. Actually, we don't know that, we can only assume.  Satoshi is a very private character.  We don't even know if his name is real.  For all we know, he could be another teen genius in the vein of "DVD Jon"; wisely prohibited from too much online interaction by his 'rents.  Actually, now that I think about it, he never was one to post on the forum often; but he does seem to have dropped off even from that level since the school year has started.Hmmm.... Let's be clear about one thing, no one person should get to decide what is "worth it" for the rest.  It matters not how worthy the cause, not even if the very survival of the entire human species depends upon it with an absolute certainty.  If you are advocating for the taxation of others to fund your ideal project, you are advocating for the legalized theft of the rightful property of others.  Whatever it is, if it is truly worthwhile, someone will fund it voluntarily.  The day that an H3 fusion reactor breaks the parity barrier, the funding for a permanent settlement on the Moon will appear; with or without the aid of any government.  There are hundreds of tabletop reactors, with hundreds of experimental engineers, trying to find the key to making that leap.  If it can be done, it will be done within my lifetime; and another moonshot will come in short order.
Some people think a lot of things about the future, but if history is of any value it tells us that those who make distant predictions have a terrible track record.  I'll stick with the long term trendline in my own assumptions, which is decidedly more people with longer lifespans. We actually know how to do this, it's just that it would take more resources than it could produce in return; a net loss, particularly when compared to other inhabited areas of the planet.  A series of space mirrors in a polar orbit would be a much easier means of opening up productive agricultural land.  That said, food isn't the main reason that humanity would consider permanent occupation of Mars or the Moon, and neither is living space.  H3 would be a major Moon export for example, and if the Sahara (or the South pole) had an economicly viable volume of H3 to be collected, there would already be a permanent settlement there.  In the case of H3, any atmosphere is counterproductive. I've actually copied the blockchain before, and the two above files were all that I needed to get it to work.  I'm pretty sure that the others are checkpointing files, and it's not a bad idea to let the new client checkpoint the entire blockchain after a copy anyway.I'm not certain, however, as that client was a while ago, and predates the checkpointing upon startup thing. Actually, I disagree here.  Something fundamental has changed, the Federal Reserve has openly admitted to intentionally manipulating equities prices, as well as an intention to continue to do so while also directly supporting US Treasury Bond sales with $600 Billion in newly created US currency.  I think that this open intent to spur inflation has a lot to do with this Bitcoin rally, regardless of what national currency we are pricing it in.  Capital flows freely, after all. They don't currently, but is there any reason that they couldn't?  If that was a common sorting rule for much of the network, in a future with much bitcoin traffic the everyday man running the Bitcoin client to heat his house in Siberia could 1) help the network at no additional cost to himself, 2) set his client to not require fees like ArtForz does and 3) still have a decent chance at collecting an additional fee from some major player who desires to have a quick confirmation.  So the end result would be fee-less transactions for the common man when the network has the time, with the ability to make a 'buck' off of those who can afford quick service; automaticly.I think what ArtForz is doing is a positive thing, but there is no reason to expect that he (or others like himself) will continue to do so indefinitely. Gavin is one of the developers, I believe.  And more involved in the forum than Satoshi himself.  If anyone can get action for this, I'm sure that it's him. A very hard attack, one that depends on the attackers' ability to jump in and maintain a plausible block rate.  If the attacker has that much computional ability, there are more plausible attack vectors.  This may be an issue, I don't know.Probably so, I'm not a code monkey so I can't say.  The block interval watchdog code should be relatively simple, however.  I understand that the simple nature of the watchdog code makes it imperfect, but it's something. That's not the way it sounded.  Lets start over.  Hi, I'm Creighto, is English your first language?I would think that having the option of a client that can truely 'nice' itself on demand would be a great thing, but I can't see how cutting down the contributions of the standard client to less than a tenth of it's current abilities can do anything positive for the security of the system.  It would give those with the ability to remove the governing code a huge generation advantage, however.The total proof-of-work of the network is a major factor in it's overal security, equitable distribution of that proof-of-work is not so much an issue.  Intentionally limiting that proof-of-work is counter productive, IMHO. I wasn't calling you ignorant, I was going out of my way to avoid that implication.  I was calling you new to the idea, which is different.  Regardless, it is still not the responsibility of others to do anything on your behalf.  I was doing that, right up until you implied that according to you something was wrong and should be fixed according to you.  It is this arrogant statement that set me off.  Who died and made you the king of Bitcoin, to come in here and start demanding answers?  That is how you read to me. The total proof-of-work of the blockchain is considered by the clients when deciding upon which chain is the "longest", so it's more complicated than the simple number of blocks solved since the genesis block.  Otherwise someone might be able to attack the blockchain by altering the target interval on a darknet and create a blockchain of greater block length with a much lower average difficulty.  Satoshi and crew have really vetted this one well.  This was one of my own misconceptions when I was new to this idea. A similar fragmentation detection scheme was worked out a month or two ago.  The easiest way is to simply watch for an excessively long block interval.  Although one such interval is only suspicious, multiple intervals in a row that take 80% longer than the target increase the certainty of a network fragmentation, which could then either set off an alarm to notify the user of the risks or automaticly suspend trading in the case of automatic clients such as is used by the markets.  Another method is to selectively choose your peers, choosing peers who are representative of large sectors of the Internet that you are not; so that a lost connection could be taken as a sign of a possible fragmentation.  As far as I know, no one has been worried enough about it to write the watchdog code. I think that it's a great script, if someone is willing to create the animation to go with it. REsistive heating is 100% efficient, but heat pumps are 200% to 350% heat efficient.  They literally pump the heat from a cold space to a warmer space in the way a water pump pushes water from the bottom of the hill to the top; from a lower energy potiential to a higher energy potential.However, they also lose their advantages quickly with an increasing temp gap, so in colder climates they are not particularly efficient.  They work best in temperate climates that don't spend more than 20 to 30 days below freezing a year.  They wouldn't effect the guy who lives in Canada|Siberia who has to heat his home anyway and has no access to cheaper heat such as natural gas or nuclear municipal heat.  It's this guy that heating with Bitcoin generation that will be generating even when it is not profitable. And just like forum members here, there are always those on Mises.org who are going to point out the obvious. That's irrelevent.  It's not like it's so bad that I'm never going to get past it, but it's still bad form to offend your readership, even by accident. Let me sum it up.  I'm an Austrian Economist.  I don't find the implication that my peers and myself would have our 'heads spin' to be humorous.  I see it as evidence that those who write such things don't understand the ideas of those they attempt to belittle, in addition to a general case of inmaturity.  I have no doubt that some found this joke amusing, but it was posted on a public forum, presumedly with the intent of amusing forum membership.  Since I identify with the butt of your joke, I find it mildly offensive. I could try, but others could do a better job on the details, but that is beside the point.  If you don't understand something, it is up to you to educate yourself.  It is not the responsibility of anyone else, and you have the authority to decide for only yourself.  I would say that the most common reason that no one has bothered to explain it to you thus far, is because those who do understand it get tired of trying to explain things to forum members with 'newbie' next to their name.  Go search the archives if you can't find the answers that you seek.  Only then, should that not help, do you politely ask the forum to explain the logic behind the current security features.Most likely the same thing that would happen if any other such project were hacked or hijacked, the developer with the broken SVN/broken moral code would loose the trust they have earned in very short order, the majority would revert to earlier trusted code, and some other developer would advance more trustworthy code.Much the same thing as what would happen should Satoshi die.My problem is not with your concerns, but with the manner in which you present your concerns. That's awesome!I want stickers, real stickers.  Like a window sticker that I can put in the passenger window of my car.  I intend to accept Bitcoin via Flinc (or whichever p2p dynamic ridesharing app wins in the marketplace) and would like to plant the meme with my passengers.  No, not really.  Austrians don't have problems with double backing, which is what a gold currency with a fixed convertability into Bitcoin would be.  Austrians only have problems with currencies that arise in an unnatural manner, such as every fiat currency in the world.  A gold standard is better than an unbacked fiat, mind you; but the best answer is to remove the monopolies that 'legal tender' laws grant to a particular national currency and let the actions of the people determine what they naturally trust. BTW, those of you who assume that others whom you interact with on an Internet forum think like yourselves, should try to remember that it's is highly likely that you are being offensive to the very people that you are trying to amuse. Why according to you?  I understand why it is there, and generally how it works, and you do not.  Your approval is not neccessary, and it's not our concern if you use Bitcoin or not.  If you don't trust it, don't use it.  No one is going to attempt to convince you otherwise.And although Bitcoin is safe enough without the blockchain benchmark, it's safer still with it.  And the blockchain benchmark doesn't constitute a central authority.  It is only an extension of the authority that we users entrust to the developers when we download and upgrade their code.  You can change it, or remove the blockchain benchmark altogether, and release a client without said code.  If others agree with your concerns and your fix, then they will download your version; and the will of the developers would be irrelevent.  For that matter, you could change the code so that the total number of bitcoins never stops, but you would still have to convince the majority of users that your version is better.  I think that unlikely. 
No, you are not the only one.  You just stumbled onto Forth Turning social theory, but the full cycle is 80-88 years.  It's a well researched, and little known, theory about generational cycles.  Well worth a read, very enlightening. Please do not add markups to my words when you quote them, unless you are willing to note that the emphasis is yours, not mine.  It could change the interpretation of the statement, once edited out of context and the emphasis altered.  You really shouldn't do this for anyone, it's bad form. Yeah, they are always so proud of their official GPD growth numbers going up at about 8% per year, but recently it's come out that they have been quietly inflating their currency base at about 4% per year since 2003.  Considering GDP is more accurately a measure of Gross Consumer Spending, such a revealation not only cuts the knees off of the idea of a decoupled China boom, it also means that their adjusted GDP is barely beyond their middle class population growth.  That is a doubling rate about every 16 years, BTW.  Even the target rate of inflation used by the European Central Bank of 2% has a doubling rate of about every 33 years.  But I'm not really sure which is worse, because China still has a growing middle class population, which would actually mitigate some of the effects of inflation by reason of a growing domestic demand.  Europe, on the other hand, has a static or falling middle class population rate; so even a 2% inflation rate under such predictitable demographics is a destructive number. I sent them an email about four days ago, I have had no response. The US should never have been an empire to start with.  I would say that the end of the US empire is a good thing in the long run, but we live in the short run.  It will be a better nation for those who survive the short run, even if the federal union fails and states break apart.  The best state to live in under such a breakup is probably Texas.  I'm probably too old to see the end of such a conflict, myself, and would just bail on the whole nation and retire to some English speaking third world country. Bitcoins are a scam, I'll buy you out for a 50% loss. Considering how private an individual Satoshi seems to be, I wonder what the odds are that he is another 12 year old hacker genius like DVD Jon; and his father won't let him interact too deeply with the crazy American crypto-geeks without parental oversight.Of course, by now he would probably be 14. You could consider bitcoins as part of the sale price.  In the same way that appliances and window dressings are negotiable, so is the actual trade currency.  Beyond what is required to pay the note, anyway.  On your regular ad, just put a little blurb about "alternative currencies will be considered".  Your more likely to get a mixed offer with Euros, precious metal, or a vehicle than bitcoins; but there is no reason to be picky.Considering that there are only about 4 million bitcoins in circulation at this time, I doubt that anyone has 500K bitcoins. And a server setup to compare 10K GPS grid numbers and their vectors at a time.Simple right?  Probably not, or these other apps would have hit the public by now.  Granted, these other guys are trying to compare destinations as well as some other issues, and might have trouble with the transfer payment laws across borders.  All that I'm asking for is a client that can tell the server "I'm Joe Sixpack, I'm trying to get (downtown|WalMart|Atlanta, Georgia|Burning Man), I'm willing to offer x.y bitcoins per mile to get me as far as you will take me, and I'm not a psycho" and then the server forward that message to the client of the driver who is approaching the GPS location of the rider and is traveling in the general direction of the rider's goal.  Future improvements to such an electronic thumb would likely come later if the principle is sound; for example, a peer rating system might prove valuable.  As in, "this guy never paid me for the trip|he said I have a perty mouth|he paid me in grade A toke" kind of peer ratings. It doesn't matter, build the app, and they will come.   That's another good reason for a Bitcoin based app, as opposed to some $ based transfer system. There are several phone apps in development intended to permit a rider to hitch with a driver for a near-real-time rideshare, such as Avego Shared Transport, RideNow and Flinc.mobi.  All of these systems assume a transfer of funds from rider to driver electronicly.  All of these systems use GPS mapping to match riders with drivers in complex ways.  None of these systems are publicly live.Could any of you android developers hack together an app that simply notifies drivers headed in your general direction along the road that you are standing at of your destination and an offer in bitcoins? So what we need is an extension to the client that permits the import and export of keypairs to a standardized file format, that could then be sent to anyone in any other way that files can be transfered.  The export process should automaticly assign the keypair the desired amount of money and destroy it from the wallet, while the import process should automaticly transfer the funds to a new keypair and destroy the keypair.  This would also permit long term storage of funds in the like maner for the same person in such a way that the exported keypair did not need to ever be accesable from the internet, nor stored with an entire wallet.dat backup.  It could be encrypted by PGP and sent over email, or loaded onto a floppy and stored in a saftey deposit box.  For that matter, it could even be printed onto a paper hardcopy with the 2D scancode format and placed into a  firesafe. We live in barbaric times. That's another way of calling it a currency.I thing this whole attempt to boil Bitcoin down to a soundbite is futile at best, and potentially counterproductive.  Bitcoin doesn't require advocacy.  That will either lead to a bubble or to the early notice of governments.  Tell your freinds and family what you found, tell them what you think that Bitcoin is, and let them decide for themselves.  Get on with your own Bitcoin economy and stop trying to "talk your book".  Except for the little fact that Bitcoin is a currency by design and definition, and the act of attempting to deny that fact in the face of reality is a fraud.  Don't fall into that trap, if they want to lock you up for using bitcions, lying about it will only make it easier for them. That's a great idea, but how would the receiver ever be certain that the wallet was unique without the need to immediately transfer the funds away from the wallet, destroy the wallet, and transfer them back? No, not guaranteed.  Not even likely.  The difficulty would adjust in short order, and they would, at best, be left with collecting the new coins for as long as they were willing to commit the resources to the endeavor.  I seriously doubt that they would consider it worth it for long.However, if they were willing to commit the entire thing to generation of bitcoins for a short time immediately after a difficulty adjustment, ram through the generation as fast as they can, and then stop as the difficulty adjusted so high that it took an hour or more to find a single block solution; then they could dick with the network for a very long time.  But this could also be done by any group of people willing to act in collusion to the same end.  Still, this would only frustrate the network for as long as they were willing to keep it up, but never break it.A more dangerous attack would be to secretly use such a supercomputer to build a false blockchain before the whole of the network can develop a total network power in excess of what something like this could achieve.  Which is why anyone who has a computer that idles most of the time should donate clocktime to generation, regardless of their personal odds of grabing a block. It was bound to happen. Well, it's mathmaticly impossible for everyone to have a 'secure' government job.  Protesting, striking and rioting is a result of the belief that the government is the primary source of wealth, and it is only by the greed of the elite that said wealth isn't distributed evenly.  There is an old saying in America (and I suspect elsewhere) "there is no such thing as a free lunch".  It means that, even if something is free to you, someone has to pay for it.  In the case of the French, the government gets the money to pay for public largesse from taxing it's own people.  It's a vicious circle, and the strikers are harming the lower classes for the 'right' of living off of the younger working classes for a difference of two years.This is also why you will not see the same kinds of striking in the US, because once we are out in the streets it's going to be bloody.  
That just means that we need to adapt the teaching methods to the audience. I think that part of your problem is that MtGox (and other markets) don't leave a publicly accessable record of the negotiations. http://www.minyanville.com/investing/articles/financial-literacy-high-school-finance-teaching/10/27/2010/id/30798Now this is the Bitcoin generation. That's only true if there is a practical monopoly on printing, which is the case for every fiat currency in the world.  In the case of Bitcoin, this is not so.  It may, or may not, be profitable for you to generate depending upon your specific situation; but you could do so at a loss if the goal was to undermine a major player attempting to overtake the network.  The same problem would have occured with gold or silver, if one particular entity had monopoly control over a majority of the mines in the world; which actually happened for a short time when Spain had control of central America and the Phillipino mines. First off, don't quote me and then alter the quote without saying that you did so.  As it is, it looks like I was stressing that point.Second, I am aware that Austrian Economic Theory requires sound money, not necessarily hard money.  As a praxeologist myself, I think that Bitcoin qualifies; but most of the Austrian economists that we are speaking of have been in the battle with Keyesnians for decades.  So as a result, they can be a bit jaded and suspicious of new systems that claim anything near what Bitcoin aims to accomplish.  For many, who also have public reputations to maintain, if it's not a naturally occurring form of money, they are not likely to give it much consideration.That said, it doesn't even matter what these guys are thinking about Bitcoin, if they are thinking anything at all.  Whatever will be, will be.  If Bitcoin has a future at all, then it does not depend on the advocacy of anyone in particular.  If it needs advocacy to succeed, then it has no long term viability anyway.I'm sure that some are quietly watching from a politically safe distance, waiting to see what a few crypto-geeks and other early adopters can make of it.  In any case, those Austrians with a public image to cultivate aren't going to advocate for a currency still inflating at the current rate of about 60% APR anyway.  By the time Bitcoin is crossing trendlines with major fiat currencies, we will all know with a measure certainty whether or not we have been backing the winning racehorse or the nag headed for the glue factory, and so will they.  Currently the client forwards transactions that it considers valid as long as it is the first time that it's seen it.  It doesn't have to. This might be a valid attack at the moment, but it's not like it can't be handled by real people should the need arise.  There is nothing that says that a particular generating client can't be set to ignore transactions based on certian parameters beyond the current Bitcoin settings.  One particular client that ignores transactions over half a meg in size, for example, does nothing; but as other generating clients take take a similar approach that kind of attack becomes progressively less successful.  It's not like the rules are set in stone, this is a community.  The majority will rule.That said, it's not a particular problem now because there is nothing that says that the spamming agent is the one to benefit from his efforts.  Classic game theory, so I don't think that it's ever going to be an issue, as that would imply collusion, or at least that one particular generator has begun to monopolize the network.There is no way to cancel a transaction, nor should there be.Transactions are not persistent per se.  The client can be modified to clear the transactions older than an arbitrary time limit, or simply rebooted.Bitcoin doesn't have many countermeasure against spamming, because there is little real evidence of what kinds of attacks are effective against it.  Try and break it, you will help future users. Because not everyone will use such a client, there will always be some generation that is not entirely profit motivated.  Search for the thread about generation for heat.  Some will always be motivated in other ways, such as keeping the other major players honest.  This is an open source project after all, no one has produced such a client yet, thus far the reward is enough of an economic incentive to get people to generate honestly; the additional transaction fees are tears in the ocean compared to that reward.  All that added to the fact that the regular block reward doesn't expire for about 120 years, after which the competition will set the price for transaction fees. Yes, but that future is a long way off.  Likely we will all be long dead. I doubt it, more likely it will just be extended as neccessary.This assumes a static fee schedule.  If such a thing started to become a problem, the fee schedule could be altered to deal with it; perhaps even in an automatic fashion like the difficulty level.Interesting situation, but it's not likely to matter.  If a transaction needs to be included in a block, the design allows the client to issue a fee anyway, which encourages that transaction to be included in any generator's block that sees it.  And unfeed transactions might have to wait until a less busy block to be included, but don't disappear.  Re-issuing a transaction with a fee would be another transaction.  If you desperately need your transaction processed, in a Bitcoin future, you are likely to click the "add a fee" option.  If you are sending money to someone who trusts you, to someone for which you can wait for the processing, or as a gift/donation; there is no need to pay a fee.  This is a major advantage of Bitcoin over other methods of electronic payment. Cute, and the voice of Alice must be from Wasila, Alaska. Peter Schiff was, for a short while, my financial advisor.  Well, his company, not him in particular.  I have a lot of respect for the man's insights, particularly with regard to overseas investing, but he's been crying inflation for about a decade.  Mish seems to be a more accurate a forecaster of monetary issues than Schiff, and I already know that he doesn't regard Bitcoin very highly, but he is aware of it at least.Austrian economics is a tight field at the national level, I'd bet dollars to donuts that a great many are already aware of Bitcoin and are either watching it from a quiet distance or have written it off because it's not backed.   Sure it does, the transaction fee schedule is written with the purpose of limiting DOS attacks upon the network by making compunding transactions increasingly expensive, without actually prohibiting them.  Not only does this make DOS/spamming the network prohibitively expensive for the attacker, it also provides an incentive for honest clients to throttle their transactions whenever the network is loaded down (delaying additions to blockchain, not preventing them) as well as provide an additional incentive for generators to accept the burdens.Kids these days, always thinking that their revelations are original. I think we have found the disconnect.  Canada isn't a capitalist society, it's a social market democracy like many in Europe.  You're blaming capitalism for problems not caused by it. My faith in the future of humanity, and in particular the Millinial Generation, is again renewed and rewarded.  I have faith that, should my generation fail to fix Social Security and the social nets of America, as those who have come before have failed; the Millinials will simply destroy the welfare state by whatever means neccessary. Yes, there was anarchy; but it was a short lived, and particularly hostile, form of national anarchy.  Which led to France being taken over by a short dictator for a while.  We always think of the German Nazis as the worst example of collective madness, but the Germans still don't have anything on the French. That was one of the examples that I was thinking of.  In the modern world, the only definitive examples of limited government emerging out of anarchy that I can think of are the United States after the Constitution was ratified (i.e. the Articles of Confederation were as close to anarchy that any nation could have maintained, and the framers had already determined that the Articles would lead to an early break-up of the Union, which is why the Constitution was promoted to begin with) and the Swiss. I am amused by this debate.  However well entertained I may be, there is no political ideology that reflects upon Bitcoin or vice versa.  There are likely to be some political structures that are encouraged, and other discouraged, by the widespread use of Bitcoin; but Bitcoin itself is neither good nor evil.  It is simply a modern tool of commerce.  The intent is not in it's design, but in it's users.That said, any debate about the relative merits of ideologies is futile, as participants are (almost certainly) not using the same definitions.And there is a difference between Capitalism (an economic ideology) and capitalism (an economic term that generally describes a set of economic laws operating in smooth conjuction without outside influences).  IMHO, Anarcho-Capitalism is as unlikely a long term possibility as is Anarcho-Socialism, and Anarcho-capitalism is just anarchy in it's natural state, and just as short lived.  I am not an anarchist of any flavor; because even though I can accept that a large minority of the population could thrive without any government beyond self-government and self-disipline, there will always be another minority of the population that craves and clamors for a perception of order in an otherwise (apparently) disorderly world.  In every case wherein anarchy became dominate, there were always those who would choose to take advantage of (or sow) disorder for personal gains, which would lead to the public clamoring for a more authoritarian government.  The case of anarchy leading to a peaceful, lasting social contract with limited governance is exceedingly rare.  So you young ones should temper your enthusiasm, for I have lived long enough to know that 'abolish and replace' of government is a risky endeavor. A stable monetary unit is ideal because it is perfectly predictable.  A gently inflating or deflating currency is no harm, so long as the trend is predictable.  The more predictable that it is, the better for the long term.  The true irony of this discussion is that this has little to do with Bitcoin.  The monetary base of Bitcoin at any particular time in the future is highly predictable, but the base isn't stable yet.  I believe that it's still inflating at about 60% APR at this moment, give or take.  It will approach 'stable' about 2012, and by 2015 will be at least as stable as any fiat currency on Earth, but that is not so today. It is advisable to backup the wallet.dat, yes, but using ~/.local... adds the problem of proliferation of copies of your wallet.dat, increasing the risks of a copy of it becoming available to a thief.  Currently, the wallet.dat file is not encrypted while in use, so backing up the wallet.dat file anywhere is akin to leaving your checkbook on the counter at Wal-Mart while you go out to your car.  
It's not odd at all, it's very much how money works in the real world.  BTW, you are an early adopter, just not as early as some others.  Everything is relative.Bitcoin is intended to be a cash-like system for online commerce.  It does this very well, even at it's early stage.  However, there is nothing stopping Paypal (or any other payment processor) from adding Bitcoin to their existing currencies.  Someone will do it eventually, but that is not the point of Bitcoin.  That fraud protection has an overhead that Bitcoin does not, allowing a customer to buy "direct" from an online vendor that he already trusts, or send money to a friend without cost.  As for the possibilities of fraud, "Let the buyer beware".  Would you buy a Rolex from some guy on the street for half price, unaware that it could be a fake or stolen?  Most of us would not, but it's a possibility with paper money.  Would it be wise to offer that same guy your credit card as payment?  I wouldn't, but that is exactly what VISA has to deal with regarding online commerce, which is why the overhead of fraud protection is quite high. Such a thing could slow it down, but not break it.  Those are exactly the conditions that transfer fees come into play, and the attacker would have to be willing to keep paying the block generators for as long as the attack continued.  Eventually, it becomes too expensive to flood the network with friviolous transactions. Yeah, that's pretty much why it would prove difficult to figure out who I am as well.  I take my privacy seriously, because I have some extra-ordinary reasons to do so.Don't ask. That might depend on what one considers a professional economist. This could be done externally via encrypted jabber, email or any number of other methods.  All that would need to be done to permit a message to be sent that could be associated to a particular transaction is create a summation number of the transaction to be pasted into the short message, followed by the short message either cleartext or by some agreed upon encryption method such as public key encryption and then signed by the same bitcoin key used to sign the transaction.  This message could be sent to the receiver by any method, never to be included inside a block, but can be verified as well as definatively associated with a particular transaction regardless of how the transaction comes to the receiver. None of the above. A condor pool wherein donors are compensated for clock time via bitcoin? Maybe, maybe not.  Even if Bitcoin remains a "small fry" in the world of online commerce, that's still a pretty big fry. It's not paranoia if it's true, and it is. Interesting article, but either the author doesn't know what he is talking about or the company is full of sh*t.  Quantum crypto, such as this, could be used to distribute one-time-pad sets, but if you already have a secure data link immune from a man-in-the-middle attack or snooping without detection, a one time pad encryption method is redundant.I've actually used one-time-pad encryption in the past, and it's incredibly simple and would be great for truly secure text messaging or email, but it requires that the two people communicating actually meet one another to exchange the pad data as well as a truly random pad data source.  Computers are never truly random, and that is the flaw in any electronic encryption device.Public/private keypair encryption is very secure, but it is also true that truly random pad data, used only once and then wiped, is secure forever.  I've always wondered why no one has ever created a one-time-pad encryption method for SMS or Jabber.  Perhaps such a method will be developed once two phones are able to communicate securely directly via near-field communications. I recommend that you take a little more care about protecting your identity.  I would suggest removing the photo and your real life address, at a minimum.Kids these days.... The Tahone-LAFS debate isn't about Bitcoin per se.  Really, there are two topics that are related here...First is the debate about establishing a Tahone-LAFS cloud among Bitcoin users for encrypted, off-site storage of their wallet.dat files.  Sort of like trading network shared drives on each other's machines; but using Tahone-LAFS would permit the participants to automaticly encrypt and trade with some RAID-like benefits.And second, there is a discussion of using Bitcoin as part of a p2p filesharing system to pay for bandwidth consumption, etc., for the hosting machines instead of the more common upload/download ratio limitations.  It's more complicated than that, but that's the basic idea.  Either way, it's not a debate that would affect Bitcoin development in any negative way. Wherever you received your economic education from, you should return and demand your money back. I quess that since you have logged off, there will be no deal. You have a deal, if you're willing to send first and within the next hour or so. So far, Wirtland seems to be an early version of a 'phyle'.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Diamond_Age#Phyleshttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wirtland_(micronation)And the coins look awesome.  How can I get some? Looks fine to me, I say take point and ship it. This is being worked on, but everything is at an early stage. This got my attention, and want to know more about Wirtland.  Can you describe your experiences thus far? Just like a German to suggest imposing order upon a naturally occuring market.You are free to attempt to do anything you like, which is the point of a free market, but you can never represent the community.  I will not support, and would generally oppose, any attempts of this kind from anyone.
This statement assumes many things in order to be true.First, that deflation is the result of a collapsing monetary base; with the assumption of a relatively stable economic base.  I.E., very little economic growth or contraction.  This is not what is happening in the Bitcoin economy, although it's largely what is happening with the US dollar and many other large Western economies.Second, the statement assumes that retention of cash doesn't qualify as an investment.  From an investor's perspective, it would not; but from the perspective of the cash holder, it would.  As far as the overall economy is concerned, cash retention is neutral, and represents a changing 'time preference' since everyone intends to spend their money eventually.  Generally speaking, deflation favors the saver and the consumer; who are the same people, Mr & Mrs Joe Blow Average.  Likewise, generally speaking, inflation favors the producers and the investor class, for several reasons.  The easist of which to present an example of is the producer; for he must commit cash to buy his raw materials, but by the time that the finished product is done, inflation promises that he will get at least as much out of the finished product as he put into it, whereas deflation means that it's possible that his finished product will be worth less, in nominal terms, than the original cost of the materials.  This is why nearly every fiat monetary regime operates under about a 3% APR of inflation, because a fiat monetary regime is structured by and for those who already have money, I.E. the producer and investor classes.  Hard money systems, such as a gold standard, favor the saver/consumer; putting the majority of the currency risks upon the producers. No one can answer this question for you, and you shouldn't listen to anyone who would presume to tell you. thanks I'm either doing something wrong, or something worse.  How do I deposit into MtGox *with* bitcoin? Not really, but you might have too many connections open.  If your not generating, you don't need more than a few connections open.  Try limiting your connections and prohibiting outside connections.And using the graphics card should only effect things if you are generating with the graphics card. I've seen a lot more of that since joining this forum.  Considering the main topic, I was expecting a higher level of economic education from the average active member than I've actually seen. Yes, but this attack didn't highlight a weakness in Bitcoin, it highlights a weakness in the many credit/identity based systems that the markets must trade into.  This is exactly the kind of issues that Bitcoin attempts to solve, and does so quite well within itself.  What we need is local markets, actual people within our own cities that we can go to and trade fiat cash for Bitcoin in person.  When that day comes, then the system is mature. Could just have the program check an Internet timeserver upon startup, and keep an offset for itself. Perhaps some enterprising (likely meaning German) European could enter into a pack with the owner of MtGox, and either function as a European partner or get a copy of his site code to run a parrallel market in Europe. I'm going ask something that I don't think that anyone else has.Would you take a personal check, or a money order in lieu of cash? Hoarding and saving are the same thing.  It won't take any kind of 'concerted effort' to get those with mass volumes of Bitcoin to start spending when the time is right.  Bitcoins aren't mature yet, not really ready for mass consumption anyway.  This will change at some point in the next couple of years, after the price stablizes.  Which cannot happen while either the market is still in it's massive expansion, or with the inflation of Bitcoin over 10% APR.  I'd say sometime around 2012 bitcoin will either be a maturing technology, or it will become obvious that we've all been fools.There is no evidence that I've seen that Bitcoin is in a bubble. Wouldn't be particularly useful in a real emergency anyway.  A single repeater station doesn't really have enough useful range for that.  However, I've been following a new wireless tech called Dash7 that I'd love to have on my phone, that has a functional range of 2km at 6 milliwatts, as well as an automatic 'ad-hoc' mesh network topology.  Couldn't support speech or any high bandwidth data of any sort, but it looks like the Jabber protocol is a beautiful fit, and would work great in an emergency with some GPS code extensions to the 'presence' part of the protocol.  It also looks like it would be a good way to distribute Bitcoin TX (transaction notices) to nearby mobile devices in a city that Bitcoin were used to buy things IRL, should that ever happen.  If Dash7 becomes common on smartphones, someone will write a phone to phone texting program eventually, and Dash7 would become the texting version of Citizens' Band radio.  It may be noisy, often slow, and prone to interference; but it would be free and not subject to a need for infrastructure support. What you need is an escrow, which is something that no one has yet done for Bitcoin, because it would require that at least the escrow manager be willing to expose his own real identity.  I've been considering setting up an escrow service for Bitcoin, but I'm still not convinced that there is enough of a demand to justify the loss of my autonomy. Why don't you just start telling your clients that you also accept Bitcoin for your services, and let them figure out how to get them in their own way? I don't know how ebay defines it. fiat currencies are backed by governments.  The backing of any institution, or none at all, doesn't change the nature of a currency; only potentially it's public faith. I never said anything about evil Germans.  That would imply that I was European. So there are at least two German nationals just on this tread alone using the English section.  Why not a German section?  If there are two Germans with good enough English skills to manage interested in Bitcoins, surely there are more who are not so skilled in English.  Also, have either of you guys seen www.flinc.org or www.flinc.mobi?  I know it's not particularly related, but I've already brought up Bitcoin with these guys, and have never received any kind of reply on the idea.  I could really use this Flinc system, since I don't own a car of my own. Or craigslist.  But the problem is that in both cases the seller of bitcoins must initiate the auction, and must assume most of the risk since there is no present evidence that there would be enough bidders on Ebay for the offered lot of bitcoins would fetch anything near the market price.  I've tried to put up an add on Craigslist to buy bitcoins, and never got any bites. That didn't last long, now the price bounced back up to over 8 cents.  Glitch, maybe?
Dagnabbit!  I missed another one!  The currency price on MtGox has fallen to under a cent and the volume shot through the roof.  I know no other details, but I looks like someone wanted to be a major market mover. I meant more than the standard "low" 2-3% annually.  All of the recent bubbles had a fedreserve induced inflation componet to them.  The tech bubble, the real estate bubble and the stock bubble were all linked to inflation in some capacity.  Now we are in a state of deflation as a result of those bubbles popping, and there are still people who claim that inflation has been under control this entire time? That's funny, because I seem to recall a great deal of inflation from about 1995 to 2007. Not in the current climate. Can someone explain the difficulty to me?  Is it a linear or log unit?  I know that there is a minimum difficulty of 1, but what does a difficulty of "1" even mean?  Is there a maximum difficulty?  It's not impossible, but I think that it might require a duel processor system wherein two or more processes know part of the secret and process a running stream.  This is akin to how the Japanese would encode/decode messages during WWII by using a team of enslaved chinese businessmen who would all use their abacusi to perform a small calculation on a series of numbers and produce a new set of numbers, this new set of numbers would be collected and passed to another team of said chinese businessmen that would perform another set of standard calculations, and so on.  Until the last set of calculations were performed by a team of Japanese women working for the military that would produce the final decrypted messages.  I don't know if one can get around the final process/processor having open access to the secret, however.  I wonder if there is a legal liability with accepting anonymous donations.  I know that donations to political action committees and election campaigns require disclosure.  Perhaps they were trying to figure out a way to accept them and keep the funds seperate of their political activities. "You can't have your cake and eat it too" Now that is just being rude.  I asked because your reference was vague, and now you're just another dick. I doubt it.  Refined gold "above ground" is already more abundent than refined silver, yet gold continues to be several orders of magnitude more valued.  I'm sure that by the time we're mining planetary bodies for resources, gold will likely be valued as a commodity for it's material properties alone.  This doesn't mean that it won't still be valuable.  What gave you the idea of Bitcoin, and what motivated you to complete it? Not exactly.  The SDR is more of an international currency between nations, not intended to actually trade among individuals.Something I once read in the last book of some religious collection comes to mind at this point. They don't always follow them, they just expect all of us to follow them. I doubt it. Well, in some ways that is correct, but fiat currencies have no guarantee either.  At least not beyond the ability of the government to honor them, which is not a certainty.  It is because of this growing uncertainty in the modern world that gold is hitting new nominal highs with each passing day.  Gold, as with any other good money, is it's own guarantee; because it's physical makeup is a useful commodity that can be sold for something even if the institution that minted it into a tradable form no longer exists.  This is not the case with fiat currencies, because the paper used to make currency doesn't even make decent toilet paper.Nor is Bitcoin backed in any rigid way, which is why it doesn't qualify as money, or even as a hard currency.  But the difference is that the community has faith in Bitcoin due to it's design strengths.  If a fatal flaw is ever found in the system, that could destroy Bitcoin as a currency; but the failure of any singular government or institution would not. Which SCOTUS decision are you referring to?  One of the two times that SCOTUS has declared that the 14th(?) amendment didn't change the meaning of "taxpayer" to include wages earned within a resident's own state, that continue to be ignored, perhaps?  The citizen who prepares his taxes "self-identifies" by signing the tax return, but it's a fraud that the IRS pretends that this is the known intent.  Under the law as it is written, the citizen must agree that the taxes are owed, but there is little wiggle room without sending up red flags; which just gets you an appointment with the taxman against your will anyway.  So in practice, the voluntary part is bulllshit and everyone knows that.  If it wasn't, then "tax evasion" couldn't be a crime.  This is one reason that the extremely wealthy can sometimes pay less taxes than the middle class family of four, because the rich have a greater incentive to hire a full time professional to minimize their taxes.  I do the same thing, and have never owed on April 15th except when I tried to use one of those tax-prep programs.  I gladly continue to pay my CPA roughly 20% of the taxes that I don't end up paying by trying to figure it out on my own. There shouldn't be any combination with the word "cash" in it anywhere. If their goal was to retain said tax wealth in order to actually support the currency, then I would agree with you.  But that isn't the goal of taxation.  Governments require that taxes be paid in their own currency in order to artifically stir demand by making it very difficult for an individual to live a normal life without needing to earn/exchange in the fiat currency.That is a common characteristic, but not a requirement.  Of course, the 'legal tender' laws that support a fiat currency would largely be unneccesary if the currency were truly and fully backed by it's issuer.   If you really believe that our system is based upon voluntary assessment and payment, try to refuse.  And when they drag you in front of a federal judge, try asking the court to cite the law that grants any of them the authority to do so.  Or the legal definition of "taxpayer" under the federal code.There is more than one kind of "useful idiot" in this wide world, Mr. Silverman.   I think that you give them too much credit.  First off, no government is a monolithic entity, all working in unison for some grand agenda.  Second, the passing of that silly law is one thing, practical enforcement is another.  Personally, I don't think that it's possible to 'shut down' the internet; by fiat or otherwise.  After all, it was designed to be *bombed* and continue to function.  And your attempts to avoid govco's internet traffic filters just make me laugh.  I know, for a fact, that the US government has had the capacity to record the entire electromagnetic spectrum from anywhere in the US and anywhere that a US base or embassy exists since the 1970's.  Granted, I can do the same thing today with a relatively recent GNU/Linux desktop, GNUradio and about $500 worth of specialized electronic hardware; but this was forty years ago!  I have no doubt that the filters used on the public Internet are smart enough to get past your little tricks.Yes, I am aware.Who is "them"?  You seem to assume that there is a grand cabal running the show, when such a collective effort, with a secret kept for decades if not generations, is not really neccessary.
Probably because everyone on this thread is more interested in the fun in mystery than the high possibility of an anti-climatic reality, so no one has bothered to PM him about this thread. Peter Thiel founded Paypal, but he no longer owns it.  He founded it in an attempt to establish an online currency, but largely failed.  The things that PayPal does today has no reflection on Peter Thiel today any more than what we do reflects upon Satoshi, which is to say, none at all.That's a good question.  I wonder if he knows.  Hell, I wonder if he's on this forum. The short answer to your question, "can the government crack Bitcoin encryption within a couple of months?" is both yes and no.Yes, because we should assume the US government (or someone else) does have the resources to accomplish this within the timeframe.  It's actually unlikely, due to the degree of resources required, but it's best for us to not assume that any single security feature is unbreakable.No, because those resources are nearly always in demand from multiple agencies, and spread across multiple agencies with multiple missions to begin with.  Neither the Federal Reserve nor the US Treasury has any direct access to these kind of resources.But you need not worry about it, for several reasons.  First, they could only "crack" one address at a time, and as has been mentioned by others, could expect little for the effort.  All that they could do with that information that they could not already do by datamining the blockchain is transfer the funds associated with that particular address.  It would tell them nothing at all about who the address belongs to.  There is, intentionally, no message data that is managed by Bitcoin; so no messages would be laid bare for the efforts.  No information means no motive, at least no motive beyond petty theft.  Also, the very nature of Bitcoin ensures that the odds are high that even if someone mined the blockchain and identified a single address with enough coins to be worth the effort, they would likely be transfered out before a couple months had passed; as every transaction empties the address from which it came and generates a brand new address to receive the balance. Give it time.  Even a common tool such as a kitchen knife is heavily regulated in parts of Europe already.  Smokers didn't think that smoking in public would ever become verboten just 20 years ago. I think that might depend on whether the person you are talking to is an 'Eric Raymond' or a 'Richard Stallman'. Asked and answered.  Either search for "Aristotle" in the search box, or simply start from the beginning of this thread. It's not impossible, just incrediblely difficult, which is the best that can be hoped for.  Don't get the idea that your bitcoin balance is "as good as gold" sitting in your safe, because it's not. If you intended to ask what economists would think Bitcoin was, then I can certainly say that the answer would be a currency.  No economist who ever stated that Bitcoin was a money in any serious capacity should ever teach students again, and could never expect to get a paying job outside of academia, with the single exception of the New York Times.  But the last I checked, the NYT already has such a pretender on the payroll. The consensus is that bitcoin exchanges should rely on reputation rather then the enforcement of contracts.  Any agreement to exchange is a contract, even if there is no document to prove that such a contract exists.  There is a very real, ideological reason for this "consensus"; namely that much of this community is some flavor of classical liberal, most of whom either pledge or otherwise generally agree with the "Non-aggression principle" in all facets of life. Was mentioning your cousin's work intended to improve our opinion of your cousin's economic education?I can, and have, explained Bitcoin to random people in under a half hour, including my own mildly autistic little brother.  None of whom had a ridgid, preconcieved understanding of what money or currency is.Granted, none of those same people care about Bitcoin after understanding it, but I'm confident that they understood it well enough to know that they don't really care.Creighton How, exactly, does that change the argument?  Are we talking about the same thing?These are all examples of attempts by failing governments to prop up their fiat currency by artificially increasing the demand of same.  That is the exact reason that every government that I know of expects payment of taxes within it's own currency. I agree with all of this so far, even though I disagree that it's as much a burden as you imply.  The vast majority of casual contracts never need any kind of enforcement, and even those operate within a civic standard for the vast majority of the above.  In the modern age, that civic standard is the government court system that we are all aware of, but this is not the only way these things have been done in the past.  Common law courts of the western societies prior to the rise of strong, centralized governments are one example; and international business courts are another more modern example.  Most of the contracts occur under some kind of default environment known to both parties, and the nature of said environment has no bearing upon Bitcoin or vise versa.It certainly does behave like property.  Property is an abstract concept that existed long before nations or governments, and is independent of the existance of either.  To get right down to it, bitcoins are property because users behave as if that is the case.  As I see it, Bitcoin passes the 'Duck' test just fine.  Care to share how you have come to the conclusion that it does not? This could take a couple thousand years.  Gold has a history as a stable form of money for all of recorded human history. I shouldn't have to say this, but Bitcoin isn't a fiat currency.  It is a currency by the choices and designs of those who choose to use it.  Fiat currencies are currencies as a matter of law, so your obvious counterexample, isn't.As for your belief that governments go to great lengths to get paid in anything other than their own currencies, try paying your property taxes in gold coins or in another fiat currency from another country.  If you can do this without the additional step of conversion into the local fiat currency, then I'd like to hear about it. In the way that people act in a manner that implies that, for them, there is no practical difference between the output of the accounting program and the physical trade of money.  Money is a social method of accounting, just a special one.  The blockchain could be considered the unit of measure, as that isn't owned by anyone in particular.  But the ownership of a particular sum of bitcoins by a particular collection of addresses at a particular point in time; is, indeed, a form of intellectual property.  In the manner that it's is an abstract concept that we (the society known as the bitcoin community) assign a value to, and also agree upon a particular possession of.It's not the best way to think of Bitcoin, I admit, but I was playing off of the post that I was responding to.I am, in a manner of speaking.  I have always agreed with you that bitcoins are not money, but money and currency are not quite the same thing.  My disagreement with you is that I can't agree that bitcoins are a commodity, since they have no known alternative use in order to grant them value outside of the context of a medium of trade.  If they did, then they would be money in the literal sense.  As such, bitcoins are a new/unique form of currency unit.  Nothing more, nothing less.  To even call them a commodity is granting them more attributes than they posses.All currency, fiat or otherwise, are simply numbers at their core.  Gold is money, but is only a currency in a form that can be considered a unit by the market, such as the troy ounce or the gram.  An undefined lump of gold isn't a currency, but it is still money.  All currencies are a unit of measurement, and all units of measurement are numbers.  The conversions of one currency into another, at a particular moment in time, is akin to the conversion of American Standard units into Metric.I agree, and it is in that manner that bitcoins are similar to gold or silver coins used in trade.  I don't have the time to write an article on the subject.  Again, please read Whatever Happened to Penny Candy? before continuing with this debate.  I know that you don't realize it, but you suffer from misinformation that you can easily correct.  That book takes the reader back to the beginning of the formation of natural commerce, and explains why and how money developed.  You really cannot understand money until you start at the beginning.You have the right to imagine a separation of program and the community, and I can see the logic.  However, you have neither the authority nor the ability to impose your rationale upon others.  This is why you will consistantly fail in your goal of defining bitcoins in any way that appears inconsistant to others, regardless of the logic or legal motivation of such a goal.Basicly, you are 'pissing up a rope' in your attempts to get forum members to call bitcoins a form of commodity.  They will call it as they see it; be that a currency, or even money. So this is like a futures market for gold mining, as you are selling contracts based upon your mining capacity.  Hmm.I like the idea, but there is no way that I can see that your customers can audit you, or otherwise verify for themselves of your honesty.  Would you be willing to go to the extra trouble of a self audit, and publish it in some manner?What is your business model here?  In other words, what do you expect to gain from the renting of this generation capacity that you could not otherwise get from the generation capacity directly? And there is no certainty that even that even such a hard crash would keep the market price down. Sure...^true^  and  ^goal^But why use two different, but otherwise identical, image urls to write an emoticon? Individuals aside, I'd wager that Bitcoin is already fairly popular among FS/OSS types whom are aware of it's existance.  I am such a free software geek from long ago, even though I'm not a coder. The new way, fiat currencies, require both the implicit enforcement of the issuing governments and the condition that taxes due must be paid in said fiat currency in order to grant a fiat currency it's initial demand and maintain it's value.  Hard moneies, such as gold or silver, do not require such institutional support.
It's a form of intellectual property, or property by way of contract.  US FRN's are property in the same way, as the value that exists is by reason of the information that is printed upon the paper that implies that it is not counterfit.  You have the physical paper note as evidence that you possess a 'dollar', but the paper object isn't the property.I understand that this stuff can make heads spin.  Which is why it's generally considered a specialized profession.  But it's not really all that hard if you start from the beginning.  Once again, I recommend that any confused member read Whatever happened to Penny Candy? by Ray Bradbury followed up by Economics in One Lesson.This is not true.  When people on this forum claim that "bitcoins are like gold" this is what they are actually trying to say, regardless of how accurate that statement actually is.  Neither bitcoins nor gold needs the protection services of governments nor courts to perform their primary functions as a trade medium.  That is a primary point about the design of bitcoins as an Internet currency, because such online trades are functionally beyond the enforcement capacities of most courts or governments.  The main page refers to Bitcoin avoiding the neccessity of a 'trusted third party'.  That third party is any institution that both parties trust to enforce the terms of the agreement (i.e. contract) upon the other should the deal turn sour.  This can be courts or governments, but can also be private institutions such as banking, Paypal, or whatever.  Thopse private institutions may (or may not) be limited in what kind of punishment that they can dish out to a bad player, but usually they also have the implicit backing of the courts via contract law anyway.  However, there is an overhead for such institutions; both in actual funds and in surrendered liberty/information.  The primary aim of the design of Bitcoin was to avoid both those costs as far as is possible, without prohibiting such institutions from acting within the Bitcoin economy should some individuals desire them.In the same way, you don't "own" the balance in your checking account that the bits in the bank's computer says that you do.The only way that you can owe anything is via an incomplete contractual agreement.  If you agree to sell something to someone for bitcoins and you don't send it after receiving said bitcoin payment, then you certainly do "owe" that sum of bitcoins back to the original owner; both morally and legally.  Practically speaking, there can be little enforcement of such a contract, whether you agreed in bitcoins or US cash in the mail.  This is exactly why third party institutions are, thus far, so neccessary for online commerce; and why such institutions will likely come to exist within the bitcoin economy eventually as well.  However, such an institution isn't required for trade between two parties who otherwise trust one another.  And if you attempted to do such a thing on this forum, your name would be trashed, and no one would trade with you ever again, so long as they were aware that it was you.Actually, not everyone agrees that a physical person has any certain rights.  This has no bearing on what Bitcoin is, nor what it could be used for. And there is nothing we can do about that. Is Satoshi from Japan?  I don't know that he has ever spoken of his background.  His English is excellent if so, which isn't so strange considering the degree of English education common in Japan.  However, even good speakers of English as a second language tend to have difficulty with some of the quirks of English.  Mostly because English is so free form, yet there is a normal way to say most things; while Japanese uses a ridgid grammar structure.  If I were to guess based solely on his use of language, I would say that he is either bilingual English or knows someone who ghostwrites on his behalf who is a native English speaker.  Also the fact that I've yet to see a Japanese version of Bitcoin's main webpage implies to myself that he is a native English speaker, and probably grew up in California.Just an educated guess. Might work for major transactions, but can you see yourself doing this in the checkout line at Kroger? Probably all of them, but difference would it make?  Even if they are willing to commit the full brunt of their computing resources to overtake the generation of new coins, they can't make them faster than the difficulty system would permit.  At least not for more than two weeks.  Nor can they do anything to manipulate the value of the coins already in existance, beyond the effects of the regular generation awards.  That's the beauty of the design, even Google couldn't do more than disrupt the system temporarily.  Even at this early stage, the total proof-of-work represents a supercomputing class cluster.  For what gain would anyone do such a thing?  For a max return of 50K coins over two weeks of supercomputing time?  Even Google doesn't have the computing power to rebuild the blockchain from the beginning.  Even if they did, to what end?  To steal a quarter million dollars in wealth?  Which would likely collapse the system if it could be done at all, so that value would drop to zero.  As we have seen, that difficulty level increases as the user base increases, regardless of an analysis as to the economics of each person generating.I can accept that, however unlikely, a takeover of the system is possible; but if such a thing were to happen, it certainly wouldn't go unnoticed by the Bitcoin community.  From where I stand, the odds that the Federal Reserve will cease to exist and the FRN collapse is more likely to occur first.  For that matter, I would consider a worldwide extinction-level-event to be about as likely; but I'm not going to let the risks of a meteor strike stop me from walking out on the surface of the Earth.  But you can't prove that the owner of the PGP key is the same as the owner of the bitcoin address, because the bitcoin address is the public key of the keypair.  What is to say that you try to spoof someone into thinking that you own an address belonging to someone else by taking one of their addresses and signing it?  I don't know why someone would want to do such a thing, but it could form the basis of a 'man in the middle' attack. That's an excellent idea!  Is there any reason that a function or another program can't be developed to access the wallet file and use those keypairs to sign arbitrary data, such as an email? The disadvantages being that the recipient *must* transfer them immediately in order to limit the risks that the person who gave it to them doesn't attempt to double spend, which is only one of the major reasons that big costly bank organizations exist.  Bitcoin doesn't change the advantages of having a trusted third party, it simply removes that as a requirement to exchange online. Yes, which is good for the system, but not for the widespread acceptablility of a printed bitcoin.  I doubt, seriously, that any form of printed bitcoin transfer will be possible without some kind of trusted financial third party involved, such as a bank.  In which case, there is no point in changing the current nature of bank checks, just change the currency that they are denominated in.Creighton And therein lies the problem with printing bitcoins. You seem to have missed the point.  The distributed nature of Bitcoin is not compromised by the consentration of block generation.  Because, unlike fiat currencies and central banking, no one group or person has monopoly control of the currency, and no one can manipulate it as such.  Not even the GPU oligarchs.  Also, they are competing among themselves.  If one of them starts thinking that he has a majority of the block generation locked up, and decides he is going to try and fork-steal, the rest are going to notice the changes and they all have a strong incentive to overtake the market leader. Anyone can act upon their own authority, they don't need our approval.  It is to their credit that they asked for commentary and support, but none need that to act.  This is not an action committee. That's not a sign of a bad business model.  That is a sign of intent to build a trust relationship.  If he had asked someone to send more at a time, then I'd be suspicious.  Start with, say, $20.  At that level, the cost of the stamp is still favorable to paypal.  If you wish to save as much on the stamp as possible, consider doubling your cash with each transaction.  This way if this thing turns sour, there is no point at which either party could have done significant harm.  If you double until you get to an uncomfortable level, stop doubling; and this protects you from dishonest mailmen from doing significant harm. I wasn't suggesting that Youtube would be a target, but that shutting down the first tier network hubs would limit throughput to the point that youtube and any other media site would become frustratingly slow.  This would also slow down text based communications, such as email and jabber, but those aren't real time protocals.  Email was designed to take up to seven days to reach it's goal. That hard limit is going to have to be bumped up if/when Bitcoin takes off.  463 transactions per minute wouldn't be anywhere near viable for a worldwide online currency.  We, at least, need to be able to handle the number of average transactions per minute that paypal claims they currently average. I did a quick Google search on the topic, and discovered an old Visa press release that stated that during the peak hour for the year of 2005 (Dec 23rd) Visa processed an average of 6,363 transactions per second, or just shy of 3.82 million transactions within a ten minute span.  The same press release made the claim that Visa processed more transactions within a coffee break than all of the world's public stock exchanges have ever done on their best day. combined.  I'm afraid I can't link it however, you will have to search for it yourself.  "How many transactions?" should work.I could not find any numbers for Paypal, however. So, in a Snowcrash future with Bitcoin as a major currency, generation of a block with 250K transactions would net the generating client a profit of 2K+ bitcoin, plus the regular award?  Or is this total block size?  Am I looking at this right?  If there is ever a future that this transaction fee structure would be triggered by the transaction volume in a 10 minute span, then the Bitcoin economy would have to rival one of the top ten economies (defined by national borders) and that fee would be a fortune.Is that fee structure ridgid, or can it be backed down as the value of bitcoin increases?  I can conceive of a future wherein a ridgid fee of even .01 bitcoin could become a burden upon further growth.  If the value of a bitcoin were to break parity with the Euro, such a fee structure could start to strangle the micropayments end of the economy.  Granted, a sustained transaction rate of 300K every hour would still be a huge economy before such transaction fees came into play, making Paypal look like a small player.  True.  But that would only bring the Internet to a crawl, not actually stop communications.  It wouldn't take very long at all for the general public to give up on Youtube and leave the remainder of the Internet alone to handle email and IM traffic.  Enemies of the state probably aren't using video confrencing to coordinate, so what would be the point? Who is that?  She looks like she is half Asian.  Is she some model, or was this picture taken by some boyfriend showing off? Maybe it just shows that our wives don't actually listen to us anymore.
How could there be a 'kill switch' at all?  Wouldn't that both require that the internet protocal be rewritten to not route around censorship as if it were a fault as well as require that every major nation worldwide agree that the president of the United States should have such a power over their domestic infrastructure?I really can't see how this could be implimented, even if it could be legislated. It won't happen that way, because if #3 happens, there will be a revolution.  The Hamptons will burn and there won't be a Dow Jones Index to report.Who is John Galt? That's not as far-fetched as it seems.  It wouldn't be the first time that the incumbent president was defeated in his party's primary. It's too narrow a topic, and dull.  A thirty second spot late on Fox Business would be big, but that costs money.  And if anyone does something like this, I'm going to need to have more bitcoin to sell on Mtgox. The relationship between the difficulty and the exchange rate is complex.  Probably too complex to even define.  I doubt that it will have a noticable effect on the exchange rate. This is risky, but I'm willing to give #1 a shot, the other two are beyond unpredictable.I say the stock market low for this cycle will either be in October 2010, or the low for October will be within 5% of the cycle low whenever that occurs.  Considering the recent rally, this may seem absurd, but hear me out.The second October following a new presidency is traditionally the market low month, as politics always affects the market, the 'honeymoon' period is over, and tensions are highest leading into the mid-term elections.  After the election, the near term future tends to look more clear regardless of the outcome, and uncertainty is always bad for stocks.  Add that to the overall state of the market, and if next month isn't the worst, it'll still be bad for those currently still in the market.  Of course, it could also be a 'fire sale' for those who got out years ago and have the capital to jump back in.  It's a fair concern.  Mises.org has a lot of sway with opinions that we might want to influence, but their support isn't magical.  If Mises.org started running favorable articles; Bitcoin would get many new people and more attention than just those who wish us well, and if Bitcoin can't succeed without Mises.org then it can't survive in the long run anyway.  If Bitcoin makes it, then Mises.org will run articles. In order to impliment a structured topology, and particularly anything similar to a hypercube topology, requires that nodes connected to each other can ask for the nodes that it's peers are connected to, and then be able to decide how to restructure the connections to fit the model.  This would not only be difficult and prone to malicious tampering, this data could also, theoretically, be used to associate particular transactions to particular clients, resulting in loss of autonomy.  Suddenly, an agent with the right resources could actually prove which transactions originated from a particular client.Also, a true hypercube is not ideal on the Internet, as the advantages of a hypercube are muted by the fact that (most) nodes only have one physical connection to the Internet, and all virtual circuts must share that bandwith.  The largely random manner that Bitcoin forms a network is probably not ideal, but it's simple and effective.  Intentional network connections can be forced upon a client with the -addpeer switch, so major players (think Mybitcoin.com in another 3 years) can connect together forming a core topology however they choose.  However, I would doubt that a hypercube is what they would choose, since they are not constrained by a physical limit upon connections.  They are most likely to simply maintain connections to all of the major peers, and let the transactions flow as they may. This is actually not required, and not all clients, generating or not, always see every transaction.  Mostly because this isn't a requirement, Bitcoin can scale very well.  The target block interval was chosen as a balance between future network latency and timeliness of confirmations.  The amount of data that a given client sees is partly related to the number of connections that it maintains, as the same transactions can be sent to a given client from multiple peers.  But a full client doesn't need more than two or three trusted peers, just to be able to verify that the blocks that it receives from a single source aren't fake.  A light client needs only one trusted connection, and may be able to do without the blockchain at all.  Clients not in the business of generating don't need transaction traffic, and light clients wouldn't see much traffic not their own.  Granted, the blocksize could grow very large when the number of transactions it is recording is in the 100's of thousands, but by that time the business of block generation would likely be confined to the computing resources of major financial institutions which have a deep vested interest in blockchain security. Division of the blockchain seems to come up regularly, but it won't work.  There is no way to maintain the security of the blockchain if there is any way to permit more than one concurrent blockchain.  There is no way around this without breaking the system as it is, and without losing the autonomy of cash-like currency.Introducing a bias into the encryption is also unwise, for entirely differnet reasons. Yes, they can.  Because Bitcoin is not money, it's currency, and they do know the difference.  They may not think highly of it, but most at Mises.org can respect the attempt at a voluntary alternative currency.  Particularly one that solves the online commerce problems so elegantly.  Bitcoin just isn't mature enough to warrant attention from policy wonks. Thanks for the correction. No, it looks like you pretty much got it.  The client assumes that any coins sent are from an untrusted sender, so does not consider them mature for 200 blocks or so; basicly the next day.  But the receiver should be able to consider them good on his or her own faith of the sender. I'm trying to think along the lines of the Dash7 networking, which doesn't use sessions like wifi, so there is no LAN per se.  Even though IP6 is supposedly possible over an ad-hoc Dash7 net, I doubt that would be the ideal solution.  Something a bit more native than just IP over Dash7, and as I already mentioned, Dash7's topology is already very Jabber friendly.  I don't doubt that a Bitcoin protocal to run natively on Dash7's stack is also possible, perhaps prefered, but I was also looking at cloaking the Bitcoin traffic into the (assumed) Jabber traffic, making it more difficult to 'sniff' out Bitcoin users in a crowd.  Mostly because I don't want to add a reason to make cellphone theft profitable, not because I'm particularly concerned about govco snooping; although that would be a positive side effect. I asked this question related to the 'Bitcoin & Dash7' thread, because Dash7 is a xml technology, and a peerdevice to peerdevice implimentation of that messaging protocal seems almost trivial, and I have reason to believe that such an extension of the protocal is already underway.Think of it as a 'reciept' of sorts.  The buyer's client provides the seller's client a copy of the transaction record, so that the seller can be certain to re-submit the transaction if the buyer fails to do so.  I was thinking of such a transaction occurring in the absence of mobile Internet access.  Could be during an outage, while camping 40 miles beyond the last cell tower, between parties wherein one or more doesn't have a respectable data plan, or simply an in person transaction between two parties that do not wish the event to be broadcast openly at the exact time of the event.  I think that any means of using common tech (a smartphone) to conviently perform a timely Bitcoin transaction between two, in person, parties would be a huge boon for Bitcoin adoption, and doing so over the Jabber protocal would make Bitcoin transactions indistingishable from any other encrypted message.  So if Bitcoin could make use of the Jabber protocal as it is today, I can think of no reason that it couldn't be quickly adapted to use over that same protocal adapted to peerdevice messaging over Dash7.  This kind of transaction would require that the two parties have some kind of prior, in person, contact; in order to have already exchanged contact information such as Jabber ID's and Bitcoin addresses.  But that describes the vast majority of daily business, and any business that involves cash. That is you subconcious warning you that you can't afford a car.  If you have ever paid cash for a car, even a heavily used one, it's a very different feeling.  J. Neil Schulman said it first...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alongside_NightI've been starting to wonder if he was some kind of prophet, considering this book was written in the 1970's and seems to be coming to pass. Gold and silver both have excellent industrial characteristics.  They are both excellent conductors, for example, with silver being the best elemental conductor known to science; and gold does not corrode even in harsh environments such as under the ocean floor.  Both are used extensively in electronics for space, and gold is used as a coating for glass windows, because it can filter out radiation and solar intensity much better than leaded glass.  Silver is also traditionally used in dishes because it has antibiotic effects, not because of it's color.  Polished lead can look almost as shiny, and that would not turn out as well.  Pure silver is not the only material that inhibits surface growth, but the only one known of before 1965, and still one of the better methods, and used in medicine to this day.  Silver is an excellent heat conductor as well, and used in heat paste to dissipate the heat of a computer's cpu.  Silver can be used to make better batteries, but they would literally cost a fortune.  Gold would make an ideal material for bullets, because it's more massive than lead, non-toxic to any form of life, and as soft as lead and therefore as likely to 'mushroom' effectively.The point here is, the main reason that we don't see these uses is because of the monetary value of gold, not because it isn't useful.  The 'intrinsic' value doesn't have to add to, nor equal, it's monetary trade value; only provide for a natural price floor.Scarcity is not a characteristic of money, because it's trade value adjusts to it's scarcity.  Historicly; gold, silver and copper coins were all inter-traded, but copper wasn't particularly scarce.  Iron/steel was more valuable during the middle ages, because kings had a hard time outfitting armies with weapons made of copper.  Steel cooking pots would have been considered expensive.  One contributing cause was that refinement of quality iron required much more energy and labor than copper, silver or gold.  All of those being softer metals, and therefore much less labor intensive than iron or steel.  These days, refined gold "above ground" is less scarce than silver of a comparable condition; yet gold is many times more valuable because of it's monetary value, which silver lost along the way.Taken on the other side, platinum is much scarcer than gold, and today is much more valuable because there are industrial uses for which there are no acceptable alternatives, not because of any monetary value.  The miners were aware of platinum by the 1600's, but Spanish treasure ships were likely to forge it into a ship's ballast weight, a cannon, or even a cannonball rather than use it as money.  It was scarce stuff, and they knew it, but they didn't have any special use for it, and is was too scarce to attempt to make it into coins, because it was so scarce that most people had no experience with it, and would therefore be unlikely to be willing to trade in it at all.  Mercury was often found in silver (which is why it was called quicksilver) but also often found with platinum.  Mercury was significantly more valuable than platinum because doctors of the day believed it had medicinal properties. And s an Austrian, I reject the very concept that central planners have any such abilities.  The deflation is the correction.Sure, it would have been more intense, but it would likely already be over.  Which is worse; 18 months of an unabated natural correction, with high unemployment, bank failures and forclosures; or the same exact end results over 10 years?I'd rather take rip off the band-aid fast.So markets vary, and different industries correct in different ways on different timelines.  That does not alter the overall results.Neither does the CPI, or even GPD for that matter.  Human minds require looking a small slices of representative data at a time, which is why we depend upon statistics to begin with.That may yet be, but it still looks like this is running more like 1932 than 1978 to me. There is both understanding and error in your statements.  Deflation is here and now, and has been happening for at least a year.  What the Fed does has little bearing on that now, and arguablely never could have.http://www.nfib.com/Portals/0/PDF/sbet/sbet201009.pdfCheck out the first and second charts on page 10.  Your thinking of total base currency, basicly M2, as your judge of whether there should be inflation or not.  However, the majority of transfers in the US isn't currency, but credit.  So a better measure of future inflation is the trend in M3 (M2 + credit), which has been in freefall for two years or more, the massive currency creation by the Fed notwithstanding.  Our near term outlook is all deflation, all the time, for as far into the future as I am willing to guess. Not always.
How difficult would it be to send a transaction report over Jabber/IM network?  The idea is that, I'm sending someone money, and I want them to have a "receipt" of that intention immediately, rather than having to wait for 10 minutes for the block to provide one. The bankers are usually under someone else's thumbs.  The head of the central bank in Zimbabwe was beholden to that economicly illiterate dictator that is still in charge.  In that case, the trigger event was, itself, political.  The government was in the process of seizing agricultural land from wealthy white landowners, but many of those same white landowners were the economic powers-that-be, and viewed a continuing nation-state as futile.  So those that could leave with what they had, did so; leading to capital flight and a self-fufilling prophesy.  As land was seized and the wealthy fled, that land was less productive under new ownership, so more land was seized and the less wealthy fled, and so on, until Zimbabwe was no longer a net exporter of food. This lead to the food crisis, which lead to a political choice by the dictator to run the presses to print money to buy foreign foodstuffs.  But the cause of the food crisis was never resolved, so the printing continued. The odds are not good for avoiding that. Hyper-inflation is the final stage of a nation-state in decline.  It is usually regarded as a monetary event, but that part is only the 'seen' effects of the end-stage.  There is always a series of contributing events that vary somewhat, but always include certain common elements.1) Oppressive levels of public debt, usually of a nature that the majority of common subjects don't agree that they are personally responsible for paying.  In the past, this has often been generational, as it is arguablely for modern states today.  The public will, eventually, begin to reject the idea of paying those debts; and the beginning of that is the intentional act of tax avoidance for it's own sake.(search agorism, 'Alongside Night')  Such a thing has been widespread in Greece & Spain for a generation, but may become a problem for the US much quicker for other socio-economic reasons.2) A gradual, general loss of trust in the legitimacy of authority.  Wikileaks pretty much sums up this process in the modern world.  Americans pretty much expect to see political corruption in other countries, but when the revelation hits the mainstream that the US is not particularly special in this regard; things could start happening quickly.3) A sudden public crisis.  This is the trigger event.  Could be economic, political or natural (think Katrina); but it has to be a 'black swan' event that the vast majority of the public never expects until it is too late to avoid it.At this point, there must be some kind of political event, mostly as an emergency response to the crisis event, that is widely regarded as a "do something even if it's wrong" response that is actually wrong.  The powers that be then collectively decide that the thing is unsalvagable, and then order the presses in full gear for one last hurrah.  There is always a public excuse that has nothing at all to do with the private motivation, but that part doesn't really matter except for the history books.  Or otherwise legal firearms. Economics has been called the dismal science for good reasons.  Are there any specific 'doomsday' posts that you are referring to here. of just the general bearish attitudes of the membership?I'm a praxeologist in general, so I'm squarely in the Austrian Economic Theory camp. We are just saying the same things with different words. Bitcoins don't have a value outside the context of their use as a medium of exchange. How did you get that out of what I wrote?  I didn't even attempt to define what a currency was, I only stated that fiat currency was not, and it isn't.  Trying to have a conversation with a person who tells me what I mean to say is always a futile endeavor.Off the top of my head, gold is safe for handling.  To be precise, I should say gold is a good money, because it has all of the characteristics of an ideal money to some degree or another...http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article10370.html"Aristotle on good moneyAristotle (384 BC - 322 BC) was a Greek philosopher, a student of Plato and teacher of Alexander the Great. Aristotle discovered, formulated, and analyzed the problem of commensurability. He wondered how ratios for a fair exchange of heterogeneous things could be set. He searched for a principle that makes it possible to equate what is apparently unequal and non-comparable.Aristotle says that money, as a common measure of everything, makes things commensurable and makes it possible to equalize them. He states that it is in the form of money, a substance that has a telos (purpose), that individuals have devised a unit that supplies a measure on the basis of which just exchange can take place. Aristotle thus maintains that everything can be expressed in the universal equivalent of money. He explains that money was introduced to satisfy the requirement that all items exchanged must be comparable in some way.Within such frame work, Aristotle defined the characteristics of a good form of money:1.) It must be durable. Money must stand the test of time and the elements. It must not fade, corrode, or change through time.2.) It must be portable. Money hold a high amount of 'worth' relative to its weight and size.3.) It must be divisible. Money should be relatively easy to separate and re-combine without affecting its fundamental characteristics. An extension of this idea is that the item should be 'fungible'. Dictionary.com describes fungible as:"(esp. of goods) being of such nature or kind as to be freely exchangeable or replaceable, in whole or in part, for another of like nature or kind."4.) It must have intrinsic value. This value of money should be independent of any other object and contained in the money itself.(snip)Fiat CurrencyMoney must be a good store of value by definition.Fiat paper currencies are popular at times since they are convenient and can be created at will to please the public. However fiat money fails the all important "intrinsic value" test, as its value is solely derived from legal tender laws. The compliance of such law rests on the credibility and strength of the issuing authority. As we know government and political factions can rise and fall faster than pop stars in some cases. It's no surprise that no fiat money has ever survived through time, and they can never be viable money regardless of technological breakthroughs or other human advances."(end excerpt)Bitcoin is a currency because it can be, and is intended to be, used as a medium unit of exchange.  Yet it does not require the legal backing of any government; so it is not fiat.  Nor does it, presently, have any attribute that would imply a market value outside of the context of it's intended use as a medium of exchange.  As has been noted in other threads, Bitcoin is most like a LETS for the Internet, but even that analogy has it's faults.  In the above examples, an economy stable enough to consider it's variable effects to be negligble is assumed.  This is not so with Bitcoin. Dollars are currency, not money.  Money can be a currency and vice versa, but they are not quite the same thing and not entirely interchangable.  And fiat currencies are, by thier very definition, not money.  Gold, in our modern world, is still money even though it's no longer a currency. Except that convenient metaphor spreads an inconvenient meme to newcomers about how the system actually works, and such persistant memes can harm the adoption of Bitcoin. Not any more than the US dollar bills in your real wallet are real property, which they are not beyond pieces of artwork on fancy paper.  The currency value is symbolic in every currency, as they are just units of measurement.Incidentally, there is nothing in your wallet that could be contrude as a coin.  The use of the term, "wallet" to describe that file is a misnomer, as it contains only hash pairs and some transaction data.  Your bitcoins are nothing more than a collection of transfers recorded in a massive ledger that we call the blockchain. No.  GoldRush is correct, but is expressing it in a confusing manner.  Inflation is when the monetary base increases relative to the economic activity that the currency represents.  So the steady increase in the Bitcoin price, as measured in US$, represents either the decrease of the Bitcoin base relative to the economic activity Bitcoin represents (which could be an increase in the demand for bitcoins due to a growing user base or a decrease in the monetary base with a static economy, we can assume it's the former) or inflation of the US $, or both.It's probably both.  Considering the rate that the Bitcoin monetary base is currently increasing, it seems improbable that increases the Bitcoin economic activity explain the rising price, and whatever rate that US$ may be inflating, it's not that high. No, at least not directly.  As has been alluded to by others, a bank run is a sign of rapid deflation.  A bank run is caused by the sudden loss of faith in the soundness of an institution.  A national bank run would indicate the loss of faith in the soundness of the Federal Reserve System & the FDIC.  The result of large numbers of people trying to get their money in cash is a sudden and drastic increase in the demand for currency.  The law of supply and demand, of course, leads us to the conclusion that the value of cash would rise to close the supply gap; which would be large because the FDIC has the option of taking up to 60 days to follow through on the insurance claims without needing outside approval of a longer time period.  There are good reasons why this grace period exists, but the result is that there would be roughly a 60 day period wherein the supply of currency in the economy is significantly short of the demand; and that is assuming that the public actually trusts that the FDIC can follow through, which is mathmaticly unlikely in any national event at the present time.  Currently, the FDIC is insolvent due to so many banks going under the last two years.  The net result of bank failures in the longer term is also deflation, as the failure of a bank is usually related to too many of it's own loans going sour and never getting repaid.  Debts forgiven in bankruptcy court are equivialent to currency, previously willed into existance by the power of fractional reserve banking at the inception of the loan as credit, ceasing to exist.  On a large, national scale, the net result of such events is the contraction of the currency base as it's perceived by the economy at large; (the business owner views credit as being functionally equivialent to currency) and the denial or loss of credit availability results in the academic definition of deflation, i.e. the reduction of currency in circulation relative to the mean economic activity that it represents.  Changes in consumer prices are affected by too many other variables to point at any group of prices at any particular time and determine if inflation or deflation has occured.   A sharp reduction in 'velocity' can have similar effects to reductions in gross volume, and that is usually what we call a "recession".Of course, a national bank run could easily result in a political 'intervention', resulting in the political forces triggering a hyperinflation; but a national bank run is mathmaticly deflationary. Hyperinflation would be too late.  Anyway, I don't think that hyperinflation is in the cards for a while, yet.  I don't think that there will even be much or any overall inflation, for that matter, even though food & energy are set to hit the hockey stick.  We are presently in deflation, despite the 'monetary easing' that's been going on, because the contraction in M3 (base currency + credit) has been falling even though the base currency numbers have nearly doubled.  The falling value of real estate is enough to overwelm the rising prices of neccessities, even though it doesn't feel any better.  The US dollar is a defacto international reserve currency, and as such, much of the monetary base is not in circulation within the US economy itself.  Much of it is held by foreign nations or banks as an asset in reserve.  This could change quickly, and China has us in a bad spot should they, for whatever reason, decide to divest themselves of their cash and savings bonds.  They are not likely to ever do this due to economic reasons, because they would harm their own economy significantly in the process; but they may do it for political reasons, and that would cause a massive inflationary adjustment if that much base currency were to suddenly attempt to return to the US economy.  Hyperinflation is a different event.  That is the death of a currency, and is never the choice that banks or their political pets would make, because it would be the end of their con game forever.  And it is a choice, because hyperinflation is always and everywhere a political event. And, of course, I know all of this.  I just don't think that these issues are relevant to a 30 day contract between two or three parties.  What have you lost in the addition of a currency trader being involved that you didn't lose in the original contract?   That's a strawman argument, and one that I'm not entirely sure is even relevent.  Why does it matter what currency the loan is denominated in if the rate is so high? Okay, fair enough.  I will make a better offer.  I can offer a one month loan, for up to 500 coins, to anyone willing and able to either offer collateral that I can accept or willing to drop autonomy with respect to myself so that I could reasonably enforce an agreement.  I'd be more than willing to negotiate the terms, but would be unwilling to loan to anyone that I considered a risk too great to loan at 4% per month. You could arrange it easily enough on your own.  Just because the loan isn't denominated in Bitcoin doesn't mean that it has to stay that way.  Paying 8% monthly interest to avoid a 3% transaction fee from Paypal is bad math.
Those are ursury rates anyway.  I could get a better rate from the loanshark/bookie operation down on main, or from any payday advance place that preys upon the poor & addicted.  8% monthly is getting close to a 100% APR.  Even my credit cards, when I was still young and dumb enough to carry them, didn't charge over 1.6% monthly.  If you guys are really going to start a credit & loan operation using Bitcoin, at least do so within realisitic revolving credit margins.  If you aren't willing to run proper credit checks on your customers, or they aren't willing to submit to the scrutiny, you could accept collateral, like a pawn shop.  I'm not sure what that kind of collateral that could be other than a security deposit in Bitcoins or some other currency, in which case the markets are just as well.  Although I'm sure that credit derived from Bitcoin has a place in the the material world, I'm not convienced that it has any place in online commerce.  That would re-introduce many of the problems with use of credit online that Bitcoin could solve. I've done nothing of the sort.  You can feel free about funding a legal analysis, but I already have a pretty good idea what the net result would be.  Nor have I said anything about "everybody" knows anything, if that were so, there would not be nearly the level of misinformation on this forum or the Internet at large.  I've been operating under the general assumption that most people are wilfully ignorant, and am genuinely surprised whenever my assumptions are wrong only rarely.Good luck with your fork, keep us updated on your progress. Sounds like the original Prosper.com before government regs and the reccession strangled it.  Look into the trials and tribulations of that site, and be fully aware of what kind of legal quagmire you're stepping into before you proceed. I think, perhaps, you misunderstood my point. Take responsibility for what?  Calling something what it is?  Regardless, a 1099 would still be required, even when a commodity is being used for said trade.  The IRS expects you to report any kind of transaction wherein the trade value, as measured in US currency on the open market, would exceed their arbitrary numbers.  It doesn't matter if you are actually trading in US currency, another currency, or a commodity.  Not to say that it isn't easier to successfully avoid filing a 1099 if no form of currency is (publicly) traded, but that doesn't apply to Bitcoin anyway.  All transactions are public, it's just difficult for anyone to ever be certain what any one person actually has traded.  If two tradesmen agreed to trade a new toilet on the electricians house for a new deck light at the plumbers house, they still haven't avoided a taxable event, even though they both might honestly believe that the government has no legitimate say in the matter. I'm guessing that you want to run a client upon a machine that you don't consider secure, and don't want any of your private keys exposed if said machine were compromised with/without your knowledge.  If this is what you want, I don't think that it's possible.  I'm pretty sure that the private key is neccessary for signing the special transaction at the top of a new block that creates those 50 new bitcoins, forever exposing the keypair used on your non-secure machine to potential theft.  There are certainly ways to make that more difficult via software, such as an encrypted wallet, but there probably isn't any way to be absolute. I won't hazard a guess, but just a couple of weeks ago, the 'Dash7 consortium' submitted a standard to ISO for interoperatibility between devices from different manufacturers, leapfrogging the 'ZigBee alliance' by a decade or so.  It certainly looks like they mean to monetize this in consumer devices, whereas the ZigBee alliance seemed more concerned with capturing a major vertical market such as 'smart meters' in the utilities industries.  Either protocal could have done well for both a distributed bitcoin network or a distributed p2p messaging network, but the wavelength chosen for Dash7 is notablely better for both these uses than ZigBee, which mostly competes with everything found in the 2.4 ghtz unlicensed spectrum.  The fact that, unlike 2.4 ghtz, 433 mhtz can penetrate water and concrete means that reception isn't significantly reduced in the pocket of a sitting owner and a pedestrian walking past the pub has a few seconds to connect and pass a block to/from a patron of said pub without a hickup.  Also, commuters heading the same direction on the freeway could pass blocks between cars or buses almost as easily as between riders on the same bus.  Drivers heading the other direction couldn't pass anything, but the 'bursty' nature of the protocal allows the guy driving slightly faster in the commuter lane to be in range of a driver in the slower lane for several seconds, and that is more than enough to pass a transaction or two.  Those same two drivers caught in a traffic jam could fully update a new client started in a third car before the mess is cleaned up.  The key is that Dash7 is designed for devices in motion relative to one another, and connects in a quick p2p fashion and transfers the appropriate data rapidly (relative to it's bandwith) so small packs of data have a high probablility of a complete transfer before the two devices leave range.  This is unlike how either ZigBee or WiFi work, as they both set up a 'session' before any data transfer occurs.  As quick as WiFi is in bulk transfers, you can witness the session overhead in the amount of time it takes for your laptop to connect to the Internet when you go to a new coffeshop.  It takes up to seven seconds for my laptop to connect to a wifi router that it's never seen before, and averages 3 seconds for a connection in places that I've been before.  ZigBee is better, but sessions take time to setup.  This would be acceptable in most public venues where patrons spend more than a few minutes sitting still, such as that pub, but excludes the passing pedestrian and the passing commuter in the next car on the freeway.  Also, most people do not have their wifi radio on their smartphone turned on while inside their pocket watching the game at the sports club, the thing just eats the batteries too fast.  Both Dash7 and ZigBee, on the other hand, use so little in the act of simply listening for other devices to talk to, to announce their presence that the cellphone's main system requires much more to simply be on.  So much so that most people probably wouldn't even notice the drain of a Dash7 radio running on their cellphone, and are therefore much more likely to leave it running; particularly if they understand that running it 24/7 is required for their p2p messaging client to be able to save them money anyway. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DASH7A new player in the low power wireless communications realm is soon to hit the mainstream, so they say.  I've been waiting for years for a ZigBee enabled Android phone, but it's never come to pass.  I don't want some clunky add-on device, so I have been waiting.  Near-field magnetic communications aren't as sexy to me, but if a light/mobile client is developed that can use Dash7/WiFi/NFC to connect to any other such device for direct PeerDevice-to-PeerDevice transfers, automaticly or on command, then real world bitcoin transactions can become commonplace regardless of how readily available the Internet is for a particular buyer and seller at a particular time & place.  The client could automagicly attempt to update it's blockchain anytime an open WiFi hotspot is available (and the user is willing to drain the battery, wifi is a battery killer on a smartphone).  Yet, DAsh7 is intended to be slower, but with significantly less power; so a Dash7 radio inside a cellphone can reasonablely be left on under normal daily charging conditions.  (not everyone will do this, but many would)  So a client could passively query the Dash7 devices that it could reach every minute or so, and finding new ones, could attempt an update in either direction.  At a max transfer rate of 250 kbs, this wouldn't often be quick, but would keep even those smartphone users without any data service relatively up to date if they frequent public places.  Powerusers on the train would spend the better part of their commute updating the clients of the less well healed users, without ever knowing or caring that the trade has occured.  The same for trips to the local pub, the ball game, or any other place wherein the public mixes anonymously for more than a passing few seconds; airport & hotel lobbies, resturants, any kind of theater, etc.  Even during a widespread loss of connectivity event, such as a city power outage, Dash7 enabled mobile clients should be able to transact with just about anyone, and still mix the record of the transaction across the city population in such a manner that odds are high that double spending would be extremely difficult, and the odds are also high that the transaction will find it's way to the Internet and back to the main blockchain before the sender does.  Dash7 also has the potential to become a form of 'citizens band' version of instant messaging, with the advantage of intended encryption, and rather than pay way to much for text messaging services for cell phones that they rarely talk upon, teenagers might move en masse to Dash7 enabled devices.  Due to the encryption, the 'bursty' data design, and the automated nature of Dash7; the datagrams might not be distiguishable among a crowd even with nation-state resources.  Said another way, although an agent with the right equiptment and resources could record every Dash7 transmission in any given area, there might not be any way to definitively distingish the datagrams of a bitcoin client from a Dash7 PeerDevice-to-PeerDevice message forwarding client.I can't find any holes in this plan, but I'm admittedly narrow focused when I'm new to a promising technology.  Please, if anyone can find errors or other issues with this, poke some holes in my ignorance. I'm afraid so.  They used to be very popular, but were banned in 1984, and the date shouldn't be lost on anyone.  They were banned because they could be used to hide, or even launder, large volumes of cash from the IRS.  There are still a few small nations that permit their trade, but only a few, and none with a solid tradition of respecting the property rights of foreigners. Worth trying 'undelete'. What is the current threshold, and how does a client know to pay for this in advance? I am aware that a closed application could do just about anything.  But there are sound reasons for preferring anonimity beyond paranoia.  This list is pretty anonymous anyway, since we really don't know who each other are, but you can still converse with the author.  If you don't trust his code, don't use it.  Collective bounties for opening code is a valid method.  I would wager that there are a number of ways that the total amount sent to the author's encoded address could be tallied.  Just tracking the transfers to that address, either donations or generation commissions, can be seen within the blockchain by anyone willing to write a program to do so.  If he agrees to a price, and refuses to comply, then you can be dick. I propose that that number of months be 1440. Wow, that's paranoid, and rude.  Dude, we are not talking about some shady third party, you can ask the programmer the how and why right here.  Nor do you have to trust him or use his code.  You could do it, and open source it if you like, if you have the skills.  For the time being, however, the code belongs to he who wrote it, and he can dictate the conditions.  The client is open, but for now, the gpu code is not.  If you want to help to make it so, someone could make an offer of a number; after which the code is open sourced by the author, whether that number comes from the gpu client or from regular donations.How about 50K bitcoins from all sources or one year after the release date, whichever comes first? Try selling something to someone in the community.  Or, if there is nothing that you can make particularly well, get a job and buy some bitcoins.  If it were easy to generate bitcoins, the system wouldn't work.Based only on your 'texting' style of writing, I'm guessing that you're an adolecent, so a job might be hard to come by under normal circumstances.  If so, and the accumulation of bitcoins (to purchase stuff online or whatever) is your primary goal, try and find out if there are any computer and/or Internet related businesses near your home.  If you are so lucky, try offering them your services as a 'co-op' to the Internet companies or an "unpaid" tech apprentice to the computer companies, and ask for access to computer-clock time as a benefit.  ISP's are a very good choice, as they need cheap/talented young help on a lot of what they do to maintain the hardware uptime, and are likely to have vast amounts of off-hour CPU cycles.  Don't think that any bitcoins that you get out of the arrangement are the more valuable of the benefits, for you would almost certainly learn some technical skills that will prove more valuable than any paycheck. Be upfront about your intentions of using the company's resources to generate bitcoins for yourself, never be cryptic about your goals with the companies, or you will never make it near the hardware. Is there some way to tie the GPU portion of generation to a screensaver-like start/stop? Thanks for the warning, I was considering buying one of his Virgin Mobile cards. I've been looking into this CUDA versus FPGA thing more, and it seems to be an ongoing debate even within the high-performance computing industry.  But then I found this little tidbit....http://cadlab.cs.ucla.edu/~cong/papers/FCUDA_extAbstract_ICS09_final3.pdfThese guys figured out a way to automagicly map a FPGA with GPU-like 'stream' processors suited for the type of excecutions that a particular CUDA program uses.  Which not only allows a program written in CUDA to be used on a GPU to run on a FPGA without modifications, but also saves space on the FGPA by not implimenting functions not required for the CUDA program in question.  Potentially permitting more "streams" than would otherwise be possible.I wonder how long it will be until some major GPU manufactuer such as Nvidia puts a FPGA on a graphics card?Currently, however, a CUDA capable graphics card in a modern gamer system would be the best cost/performance value; if only because one still needs a graphics card anyway.Going out of your way to buy a dedicated graphics card, in addition to the one required for a modern system, such as a 'Nvidia Tesla' card, is probably not a cost/performance advantage over a FPGA card bought for the same purpose and encoded with CUDA capable stream processors.YMMV would the shipping also be expressed in bitcoins?  To a point, yes.  The trick is knowing where that point of dimishishing returns begins, and how it varies.It already is.  I know from private conversations that a statisticly significant number of long-time forum members are Canadians.  At least one of whom has been selling off last winter's heat bill.  If there are more people who generate bitcoins in the northern hemisphere (which is almost certainly the case) one would expect to see a seasonal component to the difficulty.  At least once the difficultly reaches a mature balance in the future.  This is an effect that several of those distributed.net type people have noticed before.  Their overall computational power trends slightly up during the winter months in the northern hemisphere.
This is a calculation that depends highly on who you are and where you live.  I live in an area that recently had a 10%+ residental electric rate hike, to about 8 cents per KWH.  This is only slightly more expensive per btu than using natural gas with a 90% efficient gas heater versus a 100% efficent electric heater.  So the price difference for me to run any computer full tilt during the heating season, which is most certainly longer than Southern California, is about half a penny per kilowatt or less.  I don't even know anyone who bothers to shut down their computers from September to May to save money.  There's also someting to be said for the soothing white noise of a (good condition) cpu fan as the beast in the corner crunching numbers keeps your bedroom a couple degrees warmer so that you can turn the house thermostat down to 69 degrees at night.  I can't prove it, but I would bet that I actually save energy doing this, because otherwise my wife would insist on turning up the heat. Certainly, if the receiver is willing to trust that his own client is up to date.At least as well as the credit card companies can promise that the person who is holding the card didn't steal it.Quicker, actually; since the Point-of-sale system within the store could check that address against it's own client in milliseconds.  Credit cards are usually assumed to be good for orders under $50 anyway.Bluetooth in the register. Bi-polar? Uh, Why?This entire thread has been about using bitcoins in person and IRL.  You can already use bitcoins online, that's the point. I think that you missed the point of the blog article. No, but if you're still alive in 120 years to see it, count yourself lucky.I'd be willing to bet that whoever holds the majority of bitcoins in 120 years...1) they earned them and2) they are not even born yet. The receiver could never be certain that the private key hasn't already been copied by other means.  Same with an evelope, before anyone mentions it, because the receiver cannot be certain that the evelope is the original.  It's a great deal more tricky to put the grey coating back over a scratch-off, which is exactly the reason that the lottery commisions use them. If your system clock is too far off, blocks that you create would be rejected, and your client will reject any blocks that it views have been created with a future date. Maybe he was trying to drive down the price by selling to himself via a second account, hoping the new price would stick.  If so, he lost a good number of his own coins in the attempt, and failed to have a lasting effect.  I bet he won't try that again, although some other person might come up with the same idea later on. Hmm.  Well, then maybe I could still end up with some more once nenolod (?) checks his email; and whoever this guy was just really needed a grand in a hurry.  Maybe he was short for his mortgage. True, and that is pretty much what your personal checking account is supposed to be, even though it isn't.  There is no hidding one's identity in a two party (or three party) arrangement, however.Now that's an idea, but it would still become void for the purpose of futher trade should anyone, honestly or not, scratch off the hidden zone to get to the private key.  But so long as each person continued to trust that the bitcoins behind the visable address, something checkable, there might not be any reason to scratch off the hidden portion of the note in order to claim the bitcoins themselves.  Eventually, however, someone will do so in order to buy something online, so the "lifespan" of such a note is still limited.  But it would certainly be as anonymous as cash, and never require that any person along the chain of trade walk into any kind of bank to redeem them.Something to consider.  I wonder how much it costs to print something like that.Well, a bitcheck would have to be processed after only one trade, just like a normal check, but not neccessarily by an institution.  The receiver could, and probably should, process one on his own client immediately; because without the mutual trust of a third party (a bank) the receiver cannot be assured of the payer's honesty without doing so while he is still present.  Of course, as you said, if you have immediate access to a running client, what good would a check serve?I've got bad news for you, there is a place for banking institutions within the future Bitcoin economy, and there almost certainly will be such banks. Yeah, I'm kinda kicking myself now because I didn't consider such a possibilty, and didn't have a lowball offer in waiting.  I doubt that 30k is all that he had in total, but my understanding is that he already gave away much of it in an attempt to demostrate that Bitcoins were subject to manipulations.  Of course, we already knew that one could manipulate the price for as long as your supply of bitcoins and your willingness to lose money held up.  I'm willing to bet his nerve gave out before his store of bitcoins did.You can bet I'll have an offer in waiting should some other guy with something to prove comes along. This might have been my fault.  I sent that guy who tried to break the system back in April a solicitation for his remaining coins, since they were "worthless".  I wanted to see how he might respond to the new conditions, and if he actually sent me the coins, all the better.  Looks like he decided to attempt to break the system again.[edit]  And it looks like all that he accomplished with his 30K bitcoins was to sell them at half price and move the market price for a short while.  He didn't send me any, that much I know. And all the security issues with paper money also applies to paper bitcoin notes and a paper bitcoin note with the private key can also be stolen by remembering that private key in any fashion.  The last thing that we would want to do is add one more security issue with paper bitcoins than already exist with paper money, at least if we actually want businesses to accept them.  Simply put, the private key cannot be on the paper notes, period.  There is no way to make that workable. http://crisiscommons.org/about-us/http://www.geekswithoutborders.orghttp://www.childsplaycharity.org/index.phphttp://www.freegeek.org/ The official CPI is a government metric, and should be suspect.  It does not include energy or equities, and only considers real estate indirectly via 'owners equivalent rent' which (presumedly by design) tends to dampen the effects of inflation or deflation upon the real estate sector.  There are better metrics to base your opinions upon.Indeed.  I find that it's incredibly difficult to get people to consider the motivations of the creation of the Fed, beyond the official story.  The idea that the Panic of '07 was so terrible, but it only lasted for a year.  And during the depression of 1920, the Fed did nothing at all, and the economy recovers in 18 months.  So what was different in 1929?  The classic story that the Fed waited too long to provide stimulus is historicly dishonest.  The reality is that the Fed was stimulating for several years leading up to the crash, mostly by keeping the interest rate too low, encouraging risk-taking.  As the cracks started to show in the economy, the Fed started to tighten up, triggering the crash themselves.  We would be better off without monetary management, but like anything else, it's very difficult to get a professional to admit to any client that his services are counterprodutive; or even unneccesary.  Looks like the difficulty took another big jump up, and since the average blocks-per-hour is still above 6, could the max difficulty adjustment rule been hit?  I know that the difficulty is limited to "a factor of four" but I don't know exactly what that means in practice, nor how that might be reflected in the adjustments.Also, what does this mean for the size of the bitcoin network?  Can a relative number of 'average' cpu's be estimated from this data? Except for the pesky little fact that the Fed isn't neutralizing the deflation.  The deflation is here and now, reflected in the falling real estate values, the drop in state sales tax revenues, the rapid contraction of credit outstanding (due to both mass bankruptcies and a sea change in the public towards austerity) and vast unemployment and under-employment.  It's not that the Fed is incapable of creating enough new FRN's to come close to what you seem to believe that they already have done, it's that they fear hyperinflation in a couple of years as a direct result.  The things that they already have done, although they would be vastly inflationary under other circumstances, have done very little towards replacing the contraction in credit extended by the Fed's member banks.  2009 was the first year in two decades that American's were net savers, and that was by a measly 1%. It is in the best interest of the political powers, in the near term, to compel the Fed to participate in stimulus.  But to do more than the appearance of complying risks the hyperinflationary death of the currency.  Since this would spell the end of the game, the Fed, and the private banking interests that they represent, are simply not willing.  I see no conditions that could change that in the foreseeable future.    Wht you want are bitcoin checks, then.  That is also doable. Amen.  Red, you should also consider the flip side of price deflation, for there are always winners and losers in the ebb and flow of a free market.  During price deflation the losers are banks and businesses, for neither can sell their wares for as much as they once could.  But who, then, are the winners?  The consumers who can, temporarily, buy more groceries or a better car or a newer home for less money than they could have before.  This is when the prudent saver is rewarded for foregoing the high life during the boom.  Said another way, the Fed's basic mission, to avoid deflationary cycles, known in our modern economic speech as a "recession", is to, openly and without pause, benefit finance and business at the expense of everyone else; forever.  They haven't been very successful at that, but it is not for a lack of trying.  
If you would rather die than pay for your own health care, then you will die, for it is not free.  Someone else must be taxed to fund your care, just as you will be taxed to fund the health care of others. There is no such thing as a free lunch, nor free health care.   Who says that it has to suck?You have your causes and effects mixed up.  The Fed forced rates below the market value during the post-Y2K recession in order to 'stimulate' the economy, and kept those rates artificially too low for too long.  Unnaturally low interest rates encourage indebtedness and risk taking.  Yes, fradulent criminal elements took advantage, but that is what always happens.  The root cause is always the manipulation of the markets, and that is solely the Fed's doing.  There is always someone in a position of power that stands to gain from market manipulations, otherwise those events wouldn't happen to start with.You're a bright man, Red.  (At least I assume that you are a man.)  But you have fallen victim to the image.  The fact that some industries are doing okay is in spite of the manipulation, not because of it.  And that may yet change, as different industries tend to be affected in differnet ways.  There is no area outside of the 'game'.Again, you are mixing up your causes and effects.  Yes, higher education costs rose as a direct result of the easy money available from student loan programs.  Yet, that money is only backed by Sallie, not loaned by it.  Student loans are funds loaned from private institutions, mostly those same banks, whose own borrowing costs were held artificially low by the Fed for too long.  Follow the money, and it always leads back to Fed manipulation of the availability of credit, usually via the prime interest rate.American medical advancments have been huge over the last several decades, but the costs associated with them still have to be paid by someone.  Who paid the money, and where did they get it?  Much of the cost increases in medical care occurred on the "you need to do this or you will die" end of the spectrum.  Some of that was borne by insurance companies, which in turn passed those costs onto the pool of covered via higher premiums.  Some of it, however, was borne directly by households.  The doctor says that grandpa is likely to die without a new kidney, and Jr is a match, but the cost of the operation is still more than the value of everything that grandpa owns.  So how does the family get the money?  They aren't going to let grandpa die if they can work it out, so Jr's sister and her family get a home equity loan on the inflated value of their home, and suddenly the money is now available to save grandpa.  Of course, that equity value was an illusion created by Fed manipulation over the previous several years, and the money loaned to Jr's sister was also money borrowed from the Fed at an unnaturally low interest rate by her bank.Now grandpa is broke, and so is Jr's sister.  And Jr is screwed if he has a similar medical need when he hits 60.  But at least the medical professionals got paid.See how this works? Are you talking about the United States, or some dreamworld?  The Fed has consistantly failed at it's assigned tasks, which are fundamentally impossible.  The free market did a better job of tempering the business cycle than the Fed, and that was it's original purpose.  In reality, the Fed has managed to extend the length of the normal business cycle to the point that it allows malinvestments to accumulate for more than a decade.  The spike in real estate values that ended in 2007 is *entirely* the doing of the Fed, for nothing but central monetary planning could have kept the prime interest rates *too* low for so long.  As far as real estate values have fallen nationwide, we *still* are not back down to the long term trendline relative to average household incomes.  That is price inflation in a nutshell, and it was in the double digits in the fields of real estate, medical technology and higher education for at least a decade; the short lived post-Y2K recession notwithstanding.  I can never understand how rational people opposed to cenral planning and price fixing in all things can be blind to the fact that is exactly what the Fed does, because that is what their mission is! I think that you are on  to something here.  Perhaps we could promote bitcoin to national or international charities as a means to accept small donations nearly effortlessly and with a near zero monetary overhead.  I know for me, donating to a good cause is easiest to justify to myself when there isn't going to be a credit card fee or even the cost of the postage stamp.  A 44 cent stamp is still getting close to the 3% overhead mark if one is writing a check for less than $20.  With Bitcoin, supporters could send a "widow's mite" over the Internet and know that every last bit of it would go to the actual funds of the organization.  We could also promote the same to social groups that come to the US to work and send money back to family in the motherlands.  The companies that profit from the transfer of such funds overseas legitimately cost quite a bit, themselves.  If it's hard to get these groups to take such a thing seriously, mention that bitcoins can be sold online on the exchanges for other currencies, or locally to people who walk in the door looking to buy some bitcoins from the organization so that they can buy other stuff online, or even send support to *another* organization half-way around the world. Do I?  How is that?Sure, but it will be too late, and the risks of such a thing happening will prevent businesses from wishing to deal in the paper trade, if not the entire Bitcoin trade. Those previously nominated board members, that were ratified by the US Senate, must also be acceptable to the sitting board for practial reasons.  Again, it's impossible for any sitting president to pack the board during his two terms, so any attempt to nominate anyone that the board doesn't approve of would upset the sitting board.  If the Senate doesn't nix the nomination, then that person will be entirely ineffective their entire time.  So for practical purposes, all board members that are nominated come from a pool of acceptable employees of the Federal Reserve banking structure itself.  Which, in turn, recruits from a pool of applicants with a history of employment with the member banks.  So yes, there is and are private entities involved, and they hold most of the cards.  You are taking what is seen and drawing the conclusions that they desire that you come to, and failing to look at the unseen to understand the entire process.  The Federal Reserve system is intentionally designed to give the appearance of a government entity with a measure of independence, while for all practical purposes, they are a private business with monopoly powers.  As a wise man once said, if the common man understood how the montary system of the United States actually worked, there would be a revolution before tommorrow morning.Yes, the federal government could revoke the charter of the Federal Reserve; and yes, the Fed does have an incentive to keep those politicians happy.  But to assume that Congress is actually in control is to ignore the obvious.  The Fed has significant influences upon a large number of members of Congress, because it's very difficult to get anyone to understand anything that he benefits from not understanding.Bernanke is the front man for banking power.  That is the point that I was trying to make.To varying degrees, yes.   Let me know if you ever find such a webcam, I might like a little excitment myself!   If you redact "over a communications channel" you end up with depleted uranium, and the US military has been "transporting" that stuff all over the middle east for two decades now.  Talk about your long distance communications, the Barret 50 caliber can really "reach out and touch someone"!    Um, no, they are not subject to the same risks.  The US FRN is physically the object of value.  With a bitcoin backed note, the paper note is simply data.  If the private key is on the note, that data can be used to take the value of the note without needing to take the note itself.  If we were to make a paper note that had the private keys, it wouldn't be long before some employee was stealing bitcoins from their employer by taking photos of the notes and using the keys to transfer the bitcoins before the company's billing department could do so.  If the private keys were in a machine readable 2d format, how long would it be before some criminal app was developed that could take the photo and transfer the funds automaticly and immediately?  If only the address is present on the note, then anyone could verify that bitcoins exist associated with that address, but could only claim them by bringing it into the institution that issued the note.  What I cannot resolve is how to prevent the issuing institution from issuing multiple notes with the same address, because the address can be verified, and the rolling serial number checked so that it's not a counterfit copy of another note, but there is no way to verify that said institution isn't engaged in double issuing *itself*. Print only the address on the note, so the amount can be verified by any client, but the backing cannot be nabbed by the guy who had the bill last week and render the note useless.  We would want it to circulate more than once.Personal checks, however, could potentially print the private key, but even that presents a risk that an employee of a company could steal the coins before the company could claim them. Sometimes.  I don't think that I'm unusual.That is exactly what I was talking about. Legal?  Probably.  It may, or may not, be enforceble.  That would depend on the details. Checking the traffic on the interstate?   I think that I was unclear.  I wasn't talking about prevention of fraud, I was talking about the delay in the propogation of the transactions themselves.  Currently things tend to move pretty fast, but there are sometimes delays even now.  Eventually every transaction makes it across the entire network and into a block, but the time delay can be expected to increase as the size of the network increases.  So there needs to be a quick way to get the transaction from the spender to the client of the laundrymat in a hurry, so that one doesn't have to wait to start the dryer or play a round on a video game.  Even a delay of 10-20 seconds would annoy. Well, yes.  It's a public/private arrangement.Yes, but the president can only nominate from within the ranks of the sitting board.  It's as false as the choice of voting for or against your local representative.  By the time the public gets a say, their choices are effectively reduced to only two people, both of whom are already parts of the political machine.  This is not similar to a Supreme court nomination.Only to a point.  If he were to fail to get renominated by the next president, he would *still* be a member of the board until his original 14 year term was up.  He may risk his position by upsetting the politicians, but not his paycheck.  This gets back to my comment about the tail wagging the dog.  The Senate *does not* have the power to affect the personal finances of the members of the board by *any* legal process; but the reverse is not true.  The decisions of the board can dramaticly affect the personal finances of the members of the Senate in the same way that they affect the entire nation times the size of their fortunes.  Who do you think has more power?  I think that is a fiction. There is an "any" setting?  How does that work? I was thinking that a local version would need some kind of local connection also.  After reading about their kilowatt-hour backed currency idea, that got my mind rolling.  The national currency is so widely accepted, even though it's fiat, because that is all that is accepted by government for payment of taxes.  This is intentional, as it means that there will always be someone in any market with a need for them.  In any city that I know of, the power company is the *one* company that every company and household in the vicinity must deal with.  Even those "greenies" who have a massive phtovoltic array usually deal with the power company on a monthly basis.  So a local currency with dual, concurrent backing would be ideal.  A face value in both bitcoins and kilowatt-hours with an agreement with the local power company.  The bearer could redeem the cash either at the institution that issued them for bitcoins, redeem them at the power company for kilowatt-hours, or just pay someone else with them in the same way that they likely received them.  They could redeem them in an either-or manner, but not both.  The likely result would be that their value would be very close to whichever of those two options was the more valuable at the time.  The issuing institution would need a contract with the power company that fixed the private exchange rate that the institution would be obligaged to repurchase the notes from the power company for, should the power company choose to redeem them for US$, but if the value of the bitcoin face value should exceed the value of a KWH at the residential rate, both the public and the power company itself would likely be redeeming them in bitcoin.  The private exchange rate with the power company does not need to be public, and could likely be set at or near the wholesale power rate.  Which would give the notes themselves an initial arbitrage value that the issuing institution could use to pay for the initial printing, because the creation of cash isn't a free exchange.  The power company would likely require a cap on the total currency in circulation, in order to limit their counter party risk; they simply can't have the entire city paying for all their power at the wholesale rate (from their perspectives).  In my state, the power company is obliged to trade KWH with greenies, but only up to a limit of 1% of the company's total connected load.  I imagine that the cap on currency would be far lower than that.This would help to keep the currency local as well as keep it in circulation without a need to be tied to the national currency in any explict or fixed way.  Even local governments have to pay for their power, so maybe local taxes would eventually be payable in KWHs/ Well, not exactly.  Legal tender laws make the national currency a default 'fallback'.  Unless a contractual agreement explictly excludes repayment in a market value of said chickens, then the offer of repayment in $ of a market value must be acceptable.  Futures markets do depend on this principle *not* being enforced, but that is the standard practice within those fields.  It is for this very reason that many of the LETS don't imply 'dollar equivalency' as that brings the option of paying in actual cash.As always, IANAL You've been listening to CBS and CNN too much.  The only racism that I have encountered around the Tea Parties was prejudice against the demographic that actually attends those gatherings.I think that you need to do some research yourself.  The Tea Parties predate Obama's political career, and perhaps even my adulthood. The Tea Parties may have had an influx of Repubs since Obama's electoral victory, but they are not 'astroturf'.  They are a very real movement that had been going on for a couple of years before Fox News took notice.  I'm not really involved anymore, but during the GWB years the Tea Parties were small and ineffective, just like the Libertarian Party itself.  The Tea Parties took their name *directly* from the Boston Tea Party, and was not an acronym for "Taxed Enough Already" even though taxation was the theme even when libs were the *only* political ideology of the crowd.  The last one I attended was last year, and I would say that the mix was about 40% Republican, 40% libertarian and related flavors, 18% independents who had never really cared about politics before that year and 2% fiscally conservative Democrats.If the Tea Parties near where you live are being funded by tobacco money, I can't speak to that.  Around here; however, I haven't heard anyone talk about corporate 'rights' in any capacity, and there is no evidence that the tobacco industry has any particular interests in the Tea Parties
There would be too much of a delay to wait for confirmation from the network.  For speed, the transaction would have to occur much like the IP transaction works, with the receiving node getting a copy of the transaction for itself to check against it's own copy of the blockchain immeditately. Why?  Where I live, the Tea Party is as libertarian as any random group that I have ever before seen. The corner store can refuse to accept $100 bills because the shopper has not incurred a debt, as no deal has been made.  However, if a formal arrangement of a 'running tab' were agreed to by both parties that did not explicitly exclude payment in $100 bills; then $100 bills would have to be acceptable or the debt is void.However, if an offer exists to trade in a 'dollar equivalent' method, such as by credit card denominated in US$, then the offer of cash in hand cannot be refused.  I don't carry credit cards, and I had this fight once with an attendent at a tool rental counter at Home Depot.  He simply refused to accept cash for the rental, and called the manager.  Once explained, the manager immediately showed the 'cash option' screen to the attendant; who had never even heard of it in his 10+ years there.  I used the tool and had no issues getting my deposit back in cash upon my return. This is true, and whether or not intrinsic value is a requirement for an online currency remains to be seen.  Yet this is not a detriment towards it's sustainablity in the face of government opposition, and may yet prove to be a boon.  The problem with intrinsic value backed currency is that said intrinsic commodity must exist somewhere, which means that it can be taken by an act of the state. That's pretty cool, and a similar system could be used to create a local paper trade currency backed by bitcoins without the need for expensive printing processes to make it difficult to photocopy.  A note design that incorporates the moving serial number with the 2d machine readable Bitcoin address would work great.  Any computer with a reader could check the blockchain to be certain that the funds actually exist (instant bank audit) while the serial number could be used by literally anyone with the bank's own website to create an anonymous chain of custody of a particular note, so that when the note returned to the bank for redemption and replacement, there is no (likely) way that a counterfit copy (no matter the quality) can be used to claim the funds between the acceptance of the note and depositing it in an account at the bank.  This would allow the Bitcoin backed notes to circulate for a longer period of time with less risk of loss by fraud.I think that more than a six digit serial would be required, however, and the circulation of the note is limited by the number of blank spaces on the note. Perhaps you are thinking of the movie, "Pay it Forward"?    It has been the holy grail of government to move to a 'cashless' economy for decades.  If they had their way, no one would be using cash today, since in person cash transactions can avoid taxation, and often do.  The revelation that they can no longer even be certain of maintaining a document trail online is certain to upset the apple cart, but that does not mean that Bitcoin will fail because it is opposed by one or more governments.  Hell, just look at the economics of contraband drugs such as MJ.  Even the decades of increasing oppression of otherwise responsible, non-violent adults has done next to nothing to prevent each successive generation from partaking.  This is Bitcoin's great strength.  Just as the Internet itself views censorship as a fault and proceeds to effeciently route around it, so to Bitcoin (upon reaching critical mass, which has not happened yet) will view interference as a fault and adjust accordingly.  There is no single person or institution to persecute, no cornerstone to break, in order to bring down the system.  Centralization was E-gold's greatest error, not the choice of gold or the choice to permit "illicit" transactions.  The latter was the *excuse*, not the cause, that lead to system failure.  Personally, I looked into E-gold years ago, and never got involved.  I remember that it 'felt' wrong, somehow.  As if something deep in my subconsious was screaming "bullshit" to their claims. I can certainly agree with that statement, but one should be careful what you wish for. I was over at Paypal, and noticed their new add for Bump on Android which also advertises sending and receiving money via Paypal over Bump.  This makes sense, since all that Paypal really needs to send money from one user to another is their registered email address, which is something that Bump can certainly do.And if they can do it, we sure as hell can too.  Any Android hackers here familiar with Bump?  Are there extra fields that could be used to transfer a Bitcoin address? I didn't say anything about the quality of work of the board.  Nor did I take any such claim from any other post.No, it is not.  The Federal Reserve Bank is a privately founded bank with monopoly powers by virtue of a government charter.  This is comparable to the federal government hiring a private merc army for operations overseas a la Blackwater.  Government is the customer, and has sway, but does not make the executive decisions and was never designed to be able to influence those executive decisions to any large degree.I think we agree upon the net effects and usefulness of the Fed, and only disagree upon which end is the tail and which is the dog.  Who controls whom is really a matter of degree.  In reality, neither is independent and neither is in command in any absolute sense.Um, yes.  That's what I said.  How else do you think that a politician builds and maintains a personal fortune except by "taxation"?  (institutionalized theft) It's literally impossible to assume that any particular feature of Bitcoin is an overwelming reason for adoption.  It is more likely that, even among the early adopters such as this forum represents, the *potiential* for anonimity is a bonus but not a critical point.  In most of any person's transactions, anominity is irrelevent.  Take those FRN for example, I am as anonymous as I choose to be whenever I buy groceries in cash, since the only other party involved is Kroger, and they have no reason to care who I am.  However, anominity for such a casual transaction isn't critical.  This is the case for most Bitcoin transactions as well, and will continue to be so forever.  It's the potential that, should one desire, one could remain anonymous in a particular transaction.  The choice to forgo (some) privacy in return for convience is one that everyone makes, but the important part is that it remains a choice.  It will, even if BitBanks become a dominate form of institution within the Bitcoin economy.  I doubt that they will, and if they do it will be a limited form of banking; likely restricted by reason of free market forces to a single city.  Such banks would be unlikely to share customers' information with others due to the risk of their other customers finding out and switching en masse.  This is one reason that KYC laws even work in the United States, as there is literally no alternative to the federal reserve banking system for 99.99% of Americans.  Recently, the government in Spain admitted that roughly 30% of their entire economy occurs 'off book' in an underground 'grey' economy.  Similar things occur in many other nations and is considered fairly normal. These examples just show how TPTB will find a reason regardless of whether or not it's the real reason.  There are so many laws today that it is literally impossible for anyone, including lawyers, to know for certain that they have not broken any.  Statisticly speaking, the average adult, law abiding American violates some criminal statue every day just going through life.  If they wish to stop Bitcoin, they will find some reason to try, or they will make up a new one. Certainly.  All is required is that a financial institution centered around Bitcoin be established as the trusted third party, and that said institution issue the debit cards and maintain the 'know your customer' database.  It is not an issue with Bitcoin either way, as it neither breaks the system, nor forces those who do not wish to depend on a third party to do so. The board is is nominated for 14 year terms, and they are just nominations.  The sitting board is not subject to the will of any branch of the US federal government in any official capacity, and they don't have to accept the president's nominations.  They don't have to worry about political backlash once appointed because they *will* out last the president that nominated them.  Also, no sitting president can ever get the chance to nominate a majority of the board.  The idea that the board of the Federal Reserve is subject to political control is a convient fiction.  I said that it's more like the other way around because the power to regulate the national currency is the power to destroy same, and that power is far greater than any of the branches of the federal government.  The only real power that the government has to check this is the power to revoke the charter of the Federal Reserve, and remove it's monopoly control of the currency. This, of course, would destroy the currency in short order, but it would also destroy a large number of the legistlators' own personal fortunes.  So there is a strong incentive to not choose this 'nuclear option'. I'm sorry, but I don't think that I should use too many details.  We don't have anything along those lines, anymore, anyway.  The laundry facilities, and employee showers, are mostly a throwback to those days; but there are more benign alternatives for what we need these days. Why do so many homeschooling parents quit at high school?  I went to private school for 12 years, and I learned more on my own from a nearly complete encyclopedia set, a library card, and eventually the invention of the Wide World Web than I ever did in high school. Maybe Bitcoin could be restructured to avoid the ire of TPTB in the US, maybe it can't.  Yet, to do that would certainly introduce complexities that would reduce it's usefulness as a medium of exchange.  Nor can it be restructured to avoid the ire of TPTB in all nations.  Bitcoin is not intended to be used in any particular country.  I am opposed to the idea of attempting to adjust to the perceived threat of politics for any one person or region.  If you fear the reaper, don't walk through the high wheat. My wife & I homeschool our two kids, I know what you mean.Truth that.  I really meant to say "when the US becomes an *openly* fascist state".A government always on it's deathbed is ideal from the perspectives of a libertarian.  Far better to deal with an agent of the state that is always one screw-up away from the unemployment line than an agent of a nanny state with nearly limitless resources.I think most Europeans don't understand 'libertarian' but you guys might still call us 'liberals' since that term was never corrupted so in Europe.Sounds like my kind of place. Perhaps, but I doubt it.  Hyperinflation always and everywhere requires the willfull participation of those who control the printing presses. In every case that I can think of, that required that the political class have the authority to create new currency, and would do so for political reasons not economic reasons.  In the US the  federal government does not control the Federal Reserve.  It's more like the other way around.  And since hyperinflation, once begun, is a death spiral; those who do have control over the monetary base have a vested interest in the continuance of the status quo.  To allow, or even risk, a hyperinflationary event would be so catastrophic to their personal fiefdoms that few would be willing to go along quietly, even if there was much to be gained politically.Far more likely is an old fashioned deflationary Greater Depression, the great 'they' have less to lose that way. Seconded!
What would that do for this idea? What almost everyone has been taught about Economics is *wrong*. Do you live in Brazil?  If so, can I come an live with you if the US collapses into a fascist state?  I'm presuming, of course, that Brazil is well enough beyond it's own oppressive past that it's no longer at risk of a relapse. Hyperinflation also has the bad history of resulting in oppressive regimes.  Why anyone would *desire* the hyperinflationary death of the US FRN in the absence of a probable replacement I do not know.  The very idea of it brings up verses from Revelations in my mind.  Neither gold nor silver would likely become an easy replacement for a FRN, as such changes require intentional (and preferablely prior) planning, and *never* occur smoothly.  Perhaps Bitcoin could become such a probable replacement for the FRN and every other fiat currency as predicted in "Snow Crash", but that remains to be seen. We would also need to come up with a convient and 'stupid resistant' method of getting the laundrymat's address(es) into the user's smartphone client.  Perhaps using the IP address method over a provided wi-fi connection to allow the user to select the particular washer/dryer/video game from a numbered list.  Perhaps it's time to have a protocol name for html/xtml; so that direct links can be created within a webpage that, once clicked, directly imports an address and description directly to the client. What else does -disablesafemode do? I understood what you were trying to say, but I don't understand why you think that this is a security issue.  From what I can tell, there is no reason, good or bad, to do such a thing; so there is no good reason to code a prohibition. You'll get no argument from me on that statement.This is actually not accurate, because bread (or any other commodity) is not 'indexed' to any particular price in any particular currency, at least outside of nations that practice price controls.  In a free market economy, or even one that somewhat resembles a free market economy like what we have in the United States, one could expect that a (fairly) stable Bitcoin could maintain it's buying power in bread or anything else regardless of what the national currency is doing.  There might be some local 'knock-on' effects from a large devaluation of the national currency, but even that should be temporary.  Likewise, a stable Bitcoin could be expected to rise in price relative to the national currency at the same rate that the national currency is falling in value.I understand what you are trying to say, but to be precise, Bitcoin is currently inflationary but is also growing in demand at a faster rate than the inflationary rate.  By my "back of the envelope" numbers; the Bitcoin economy must be growing at a tremendous rate to so drasticly overtake the current inflation rate and increase the value of a bitcoin by an order of magnitude from May to August.  This can be expected in the early days, but will be tempered as the size of the Bitcoin economy grows and "matures".  In another two or three years of steady growth, even another "slashdotting" wouldn't show up in the exchange rates.  The voltility of the exchange rate can be expected to stabilize as the Bitcoin economy matures and the inflation rate drops below 10% annually.I'm an Economics geek more than I am a computer geek.  Actually, I'm a Praxeology geek.  Would you mind me asking what your native tongue is?  Currently there is international trade pressures to devalue national currencies everywhere to favor export oriented industries.  This is a temporary effect, and one not likely to work just now even in the short term if every major trade nation is trying to do the same thing for the same reason.  Reality, however, rarely gets in the way of a bad economic idea, so on some level it is happening in the US and the EU.  In the long term, such pressures ultimately result in a long term increase of the monetary base in absolute currency numbers, which is the economic root cause of inflation.  This *usually* leads to "price inflation" on an 18 month lag, but may not be evenly distributed across all industries for various reasons, and usually doesn't lead to "excessive" inflation in any case.  Yet, inflation it is, and it has the effect of being a regressive tax on savings, as it slows rots away the buying power of all the currency in circulation without regard to who owns it or why they may be holding onto it. It suddenly occured to me, while I was trying to get my work clothes washed while at work (mildly hazardous environment means that work clothes never go home to intermingle with family clothes, but company only supplies one washer and dryer per business unit, so I had to find out who left his clothes in the washer for the past four hours) that a laundrymat that uses bitcoins instead of quarters could be lower maintaince and lower initial costs than the current coin operated type.  The coin acceptance devices that are added to the washers and dryers are fairly expensive due to complexity, and subject to mechanical failures.  However, all that it really takes to control the washer or dryer is a set of contacts in line with the start/run circut and perhaps a small display to impart information such as credit and time remaining.  These are simple requirements in line with the smallest of microcontrollers, or a central server could control an entire room full of such machines.The same could be applied to just about any coin operated automated exchange process, such as a vending machine; but a vending machine is vastly more complex and likely cannot completely replace the coin acceptance with Bitcoin.  Less complicated machines could completely replace the coins with Bitcoin and reduce the overhead in the same way that some large video arcades went to swipe-cards or rfid cards for similar reasons. Why not?  Sent 7 because I like that number. I say it's time to ship the final draft. What deflation risk?  There are no risks of deflation or inflation within bitcoin for 120+ years.  Risk implies an unforseen event, the inflation of the currency is already well mapped out.  The market value of the currency may vary, but that has more to do with the size of the economy that Bitcoin represents, not due to the absolute total monetary base at any given time.  Stablilty is a goal, and even though Bitcoin will continue to inflate for some time, a predictable & mild rate of inflation (or deflation) is not harmful to stability.  Bitcoin will mature at about the four year mark, when inflation drops to about 6% annually and falling.  Within six years the inflation rate of Bitcoin will be below the historical average for major fiat currencies such as the US FRN and the Euro.  Within ten years it will be below the target inflation rate of the European Central Bank, dropping below 2% annually.  It will never vary from it's predetermined inflation plan regardless of the will of powerful people anywhere.  That is stability, and stability is the single most important characteristic of a trade currency.  All positive characteristics of a currency, be it national or local, natural hard money or fiat by design; exist to contribute to that singular goal. All that you have done is create another cryptocurrency and 'pegged' it to the US dollar.  If anyone were to do this, they had better have the resources to back up that peg, or it will fail spectacularly.  Ask Brazil or Argentina about the difficulties of maintaining a currency peg.  Even the resources of an entire nation can't really protect against arbitrage if there is a non-concurrent recession.  The only national currency that seems to be able to hedge a peg with the US dollar is China, and that might yet prove false.  Any cryptocurrency pegged to any particular national currency will either largely remain within that nation, or risk breaking the peg if that nation has a national economic crisis while the rest of the world is doing okay.I mentioned in another thread that the US Federal Reserve could do something along these lines if they desired, but even they would be subject to the faith of the world outside the sphere of influnce of the US legal system. Betamax did not 'beget' VHS.  Betamax was a competing standard that came to market about a year after VHS was introduced.  The Betamax standard and level of video quality was superior in many ways, but it lost the race for one simple reason.  It wasn't better *enough* to overcome the 'first to market' advantage, and now they are lost to history.  In order for any new cryptocoin system to overtake Bitcoin once the market is established would require either a dramatic improvement in usefullness (unlikely) or a near monopoly level form of institutional support.  A cryptocurrency established and supported by the Federal Reserve, as an example, could probably crush Bitcoin at this point and for a long time into the future within the confines of the US legal system.  However, it would still have to compete with Bitcoin internationally on it's own merits.  The success or failure of one system or the other would depend greatly upon the future faith of foreigners.   I'm not saying it's impossible for another system to overtake Bitcoins, but assuming that Bitcoin can make it for the next couple years unchallenged, it's going to take quite an advantage for another system to win. People demand gold for it's 'store of wealth' quality.Gold has this quality (moreso than silver) because of it's long history as money.Gold became this defacto money because of it's wide demand as a commodity.It became a widely demanded commodity due to it's usefulness and beauty in jewelry, and it's relative scarcity.Gold is no longer scarce relative to other elements nearby on the periodic table such as uranium, thorsium, etc.; nor as compared to silver, the other historic money.  Yet gold continues to maintain it's position as a store of value, perhaps by shear historic inertia.  Anyone can say that this is not a sustainable position, and that the value of silver should overtake that of gold, but no one can say *when*.  If bitcoin is the first cryptocurrency to be accepted by the market, then bitcoin will continue to dominate that market even if some technically superior solution comes along.  How many people here have seen a betamax vcr? I think that he was comparing your "bitcoins are like gold" analogy to a ponzi scheme.  Of course that's inaccurate, but any comparison of bitcoins to hard money is also misleading. Go ahead and try it.  I'm willing to bet that the transaction fee for large numbers of transactions is going to eat into your balance enough to discourage you from continuing.  And if you refuse the transaction fees, the time delay that will cause for the transactions to show up in the blockchain would limit your abilities.  I'm sure that it would effect the network, but you won't go unnoticed, either. As a medium of exchange, yes.  As a storage of value, well, that's debatable. Okay, thanks. All valuations are temporal.This is one of the best descriptions of intrinsic value that I have ever seen outside of academia, and by far the most susinct even within academia.No.  As evidenced in the recent transaction overflow attack that required the upgrade to .3.10, the system is designed to be as secure and autonomous as is reasonably possible, but there is always someone watching the flow of funds.  There is always the human element.  If that human element is ever completely removed, *then* we will be betting on a collective ability to write exploit free software.
Then you are just moving towards a trusted third party model.  Is suspect that all such models will be represented within Bitcoin by the time the Bitcoin economy is as large as half that of Paypal or the online segment of the credit card companies. Yes, it does.What I'm actually asking is this...What  prevents a hacked client from submitting a transaction that falsely claims an existing address with a balance, and signs it with any private key?  How do the clients verify that the signature and the address actually belong together?  If the address is the private key, I can understand how this is easily verified; since that is the point of public key encryption.  However, if the address is a hash of the public key, and not the public key itself, how do the clients aquire the public key in order to check the signature?  How do they check the hash that is the address against that public key to verify that they go together? That would be impossible to quantify within a finite timeframe, but approaches 1 with infinite time.  A better question would certainly be, "what are the odds that Bitcoin survives for the 120 year inflationary period?"  I would, honestly, give Bitcoin some low odds at this point, for a number of reasons.  But that isn't really important for the adoption of Bitcoin in the present.  After all, the US FRN has not lasted 120 years yet.Indeed.  If a true "matter de/compiler" were ever developed, there would likely never again be a need for a currency as such.  The 'scarcity' aspect of products sold for such currencies would be forever destroyed, and limited only on the availability of energy.I would say, no.  If only because the timeframe for the adoption of any widespread technology does not occur instantly or equally across an entire economy.  Bitcoins my suffer via irreversable decline, but there would not be a sudden, or mass, exodus if the value was already reflected within Bitcoin.Again, an unquantifiable risk over any finite time frame.  This would be vastly more difficult than, say, earthquake insurance; considering that there is no comparable precedent to base any calculations off of.  I would seriously doubt that any costumers could be found, even if the risk could be defined. Are you saying that the public key *is* the address?  My prior understanding was that the address was a hash of the public key. Can someone please explain to me, in lay terms, how a client can verify that a given transaction is an honest one?  The address is a hash of a public key, and the transaction must be signed with the matching private key; but how does a client check that the signed transaction actually matches the sender's address without the public key?  Or are the public keys made public at some point in the chain? Looks like a standard email response form to me. In my understanding, the total number of bitcoins, which can never quite reach 21 million, is a by product of how the generation process works and not arbitrarily chosen.  The design choice of halving the reward every so often significantly limits the total.  Not because there cannot be more bitcoins, as there can, but because there cannot be twice as many bitcoins.  If the reward started at 100 bitcoins and halved every four years (or so) for 124 years, the total number of 42 million bitcoins, with the eight decimal points of divisability, would overflow the 64 bit register intended to keep track of them all.  I don't believe this would actually break the blockchain, but if any single address were to ever be able to aquire enough of the bitcoins into a single integer, all hell would break loose, so it's just better to eliminate the possibility altogether.The actual round number of the reward is somewhat arbitrary, I believe, since 50 is not a round binary number; but the halving is done by a single bit shift of a binary integer.  For example, the 50 bitcoin reward is represented in the blockchain by the binary number...100101010000001011111001000000000While the first halving, in a few more years, to 25 bitcoins will look like....10010101000000101111100100000000And the next halfing of 12.5 bitcoins will look like...1001010100000010111110010000000Each number just being the prior number without the final bit.  This process repeats every four years or so until the final 1 bit is lopped off, and there is nothing left of that number but zeros.  The 64 bit integer that represents the total issue of possible bitcoins is converted to decimals and decimal point is then added in the middle of the total interger so that human minds can wrap their heads around such numbers.That is my understanding, which is likely wrong somewhere.  In which case, I would love for any of the programmers to correct my misunderstandings. Nice work, and a wonderful start.  I wonder what would happen if a bunch of us started to do the same thing at Newegg.  Would a number of geeks looking to buy via Bitcoins get their attention?I would also like to read the remainder of the conversation, if you are willing to share it. If Bitcoin ever takes off, it matters not what they are called or by whom.  Eventually, any method of exchange that is difficult to track will get the attention of those who, for whatever reason, feel that it is thier duty to track.  If retailers never accept Bitcoin, then there will never be a problem; but the acceptance of Bitcoin for trade is the root purpose.  If retailers never accept Bitcoin, then it is a failure and whatever those other people do is irrelevent.  Other attempts to develop an online currency such as this have failed because they all, ultimately, depended upon a single institution to support them.  That institution became the single point of failure for that currency, and logically became the target of TPTB.  Those same powers also understand legal attacks well; it is their field, after all.  However, such tactics will not prove very succesful against Bitcoin, as there is no single institution to assault that can bring down the beast.  Those attacks will bring down the unlucky retailers, but not the system; and attacking all such people becomes prohibitively expensive.  The real attacks, when they do come, will be more direct upon the network in an attempt to undermine the faith in the network.    There's a difference between weekdays and weekends?  That would make me think that some IT guys are turning idle cpu's into a hash farm on the weekends. Oh, don't be so coy, Ground!  We are all proud of what you have accomplished.  How many did you get to fit on your FPGA in the end? That's pretty much what I was trying to say. Not without the user's permission.  Some packages are not updated automaticly for similar reasons. How? This really shouldn't be a concern, as we are still in a highly 'inflationary' period.  Those "Rockefellers" can only be so by saving their bitcoins until that day comes, which will not happen overall.  No one saves a fortune to die from hunger, those bitcoins will be spent.  Classes are, themselves, not really an issue here.  Classes are a cultural phenomenon, and a naturally occuring one at that.  Those cultural classes are not natural on the Internet.In 120 years, we may have such class division.  Likely not so much within a future Bitcoin economy than we do presently in our managed fiat currency economies.  Standard Oil is a funny choice to represent this point, since Standard Oil didn't come to dominate because they were first, or even early.  They came to dominate because they were *cheapest*.  They had the most efficient distribution system ever devised at the time.  They were the Wal-Mart of energy in their own day.Deflation happens, that's why it's good that Bitcoins are so divisable.I'm afraid that what you are suggesting here would break Bitcoin.  As an alternative, you could look into the LETS systems discussed elsewhere, and potentially 'back' the LETS with some number of bitcoins.This is already considered in the Bitcoin system.  Bitcoin will continue to 'inflate' at a predetermined rate for about 120 years.  The max number of bitcoins is a function of the 64 bit number itself, and the declining rate of inflation chosen specificly to exploit that binary number to maximum effect.  The current appreciation of the value of a bitcoin is only a function of the expansion of the economy that Bitcoin represents at a rate higher than the inflation rate, which is still over 100% APR.  (as expressed annually, that rate will hit 100% APR near it's first anniversary, 50% APR near it's second anniversary, and 25% on it's third.  However, the inflation rate APR % will be about 6.25% on it's fourth anniversary)  Despite this high initial rate, Bitcoin cannot inflate indefinately, and a declining rate was chosen that fits well into the technical constraints of that 64 bit number.  (A bitwise shift, as I understand it; so the number of 50 coins per block currently was not chosen arbitrarily)  As for the 'lost bitcoins' issue, how would you identify which are lost, and which are simply saved, without a non-anonymous record of who has what?  That, also, would break the system for a great many. I can see this as a security risk if the updater were able to be set to automatic.  Invariablely, some users will disregard the risks in the ongoing absolute trust of a particular server, and enough might be able to break the system if some cracker were to be able to compromise that trusted server and replace the client download with a compromised client with malware.  Even if that only lasted for a short time.  If the client were to ever include an update notification function, I disagree that it should *ever* update without user verification.  Even a normal client modified to send a copy of your wallet.dat file to a particular email address would screw a lot of people over in a hurry. LETS credits are, indeed, 'currency-like' in function; yet are not a currency.  This is why the LETS communities had to define the term 'mutual credit' first.  LETS is like a unified standard for private bearer bonds, where all the bonds are defined in an agreed upon unit and agreed upon rules.  LETS is also, at the same time, a market and clearinghouse for those same standardized bonds.  This is why the 'market capitalization' equation that you referred to before fails with regard to LETS.  The regular creation and destruction of the LETS credits are an intended function of the system, and therefore are not a destablizing economic force.  As you mentioned, LETS is intended only to be a means of trade and not of savings, and is therefore not well suited towards savings.  It is the design of currencies in general to be a unit of both trade and savings value, and it is the future expectation of value that drives the increase in a currency's value during times of deflation of the monetary base. That would be wonderful, but it's a bit early for embedded systems.  We need to implement the protocals for the 'light cleint' before we would know how to proceed with interfacing an embedded system.  As far as I know, no one is currently working on the 'light client' protocals. You would make a fine economics student.  You are correct on your basic observation, there are many variables that affect the perception of value of a currency.  However, despite the common usage, "money" and "currency" are not interchangable terms within economic theory.  Money has a certain set of characteristics, most of which a currency also has, but with a notable exception.  Money can be a currency, but not all currencies are money.  The reason is that currencies represent a debt of whatever trusted institution that created them, usually a government (fiat) but sometimes a private entity (banks can issue banknotes, private companies issue bonds).  However, if the currency is itself devised of a material that has value unto itself, it's money.  Although a minted silver coin issued by an institution can still represent a debt of that institution, and therefore trade with a unit value greater than the silver itself, the silver coin represents a minimum value by virtue of the silver content of the coin itself.  A silver certificate, however, represents a debt because it is a promise to exchange a note (another name for a loan contract) for the exact amount of silver that is printed onto it's face.  Yet a silver certificate will become worthless in the absence of that promise whereas the silver coin will not.Since Bitcoin is neither an object with value unto itself, nor does it represent a definable debt of anyone or any institution; Bitcoin is technically neither money nor a currency, even though both those terms are convient for expressing the *function* of Bitcoin.  This is why I noted in another thread that Bitcoin was something altogether different and new in the realm of economics.  To call it a 'cryptocurrency' is as good a term as any, provided that we are willing to note that word means that it is a system with the *function* of a currency within a realm that currencies don't function well.  We would be wise to note, also, that 'cryptocurrency' does not imply that the system shares the common accepted characteristics of a currency.  It is some of those very same characteristics that make existing currency regimes unsuited to online commerce.
You claim that a tally system is the best analogy while in the same post admit that you don't understand the LETS/GETS analogy.  You invalidate yourself, as your statement that a tally system is the best cannot be considered authoritiative in any sense because you don't understand at least one alternative.The tally system is basicly a system of national debt, closer to US Treasury Bonds than even a currency.  The king would need gold & silver to fund an army, but experience tells him that soldiers don't take kindly to paper promises, so he would need to get that gold and silver somewhere.  The treasury almost never had enough, so ultimately he would take a loan from the goldsmiths of the country.  The accounting would involve the etching of the sum of the debt on two ends of a stick, and then the stick would be broken in half.  Traditionally, the goldsmith would keep whichever end was shorter in his vault as proof that a debt had incurred, and the treasury would keep the other end as proof of the debt.  The debt could be claimed, eventually, by anyone who had the proper stick that fit with the end that the treasury held.  It was a bearer bond.Here's the problem.  As you mentioned, kings sometimes lost, and when they didn't they were often to broke to repay.  So, being the soverign, he would just declare 'ursury' illegal and the debts void.  There was nothing that the goldsmiths could do about it, and they would be bankrupted because they probably lent gold that was  being held for others, not just his own.  This is literally where we, in or modern English speaking world, get the phrase "he got the short end of the stick".In a LETS system, credit is created between two parties with a set value in a local or familiar unit, and that credit can be thus traded away in the same way as a tally system could, with or without a physical symbol of that debt.  However, it is also possible that someone could fail to repay the LETS debt.  This is not realisticly possible in the basic design of Bitcoin, since a good or service must be provided first.  The only way for a default is if the Bitcoin system itself were to fail, and thus all positive account holders would see their value drop to zero.  Any banking or debt system imposed upon the system would be a third party add-on. I can see it now, but when I looked for it earlier, it was *not* there. I've been thinking about this a bit more, and I thought of something.  If a programmer were trying to put as many sha-256 coprocessors as possible on the same FPGA chip, and I/O was his real limitation; he wouldn't need to set it up so that the processors would report the entire hash upon success.  All that would be neccessary is that the coprocessor report the nonce used to get that hash, and the cpu use that nonce once to get the proper result.  So fewer pins would be required for output of each coprocessor.  Also, the cpu could supply the initial nonce for each coprocessor, so a random number generator would not be neccessary, maybe?  I would love to try even just one custom cut coprocessor on one of these FPGA's.  Properly done, I'd bet it would be sick fast.  I agree that it was a great article, and I'm glad that you echoed it to the forum; because when I went to that link all I ended up with was the Apache2 default webpage.  Looks like this author is already facing some blowback, and perhaps someone has nuked his server. That's it!  My brother's clock was set wrong, it thought that it was 2001. The problem with the bitcoin markets is that they all use some other online payment processor, killing one major advantage of Bitcoin, the very low cost of transactions. Well, things sure have changed there.  Brazil is one of my final 'bug out' possibilities if things really get ugly here in the States.  I think that I would prefer Argentina, but sooner or later I'm going to have to pick a second language to *really* learn.Sobering?  Perhaps to some.  It's what I'm expecting.  Every few generations the tree of liberty must be watered with the blood of patriots and tyrants, and that day is coming.  The real question is not if it will happen in my lifetime, but do I want to participate?  I'm beginning to think that I might be to old to be a captian of men by the time the thin veil of civility collapses.They do, indeed.  I know of an actual German who seems to believe that Godwin's Law doesn't apply to himself, because he is German and would know better, and has actually stated it as such.  The problem is that the Third Reich is such a perfect, and widely studied in the Western nations, example of an entire culture going insane due to a shared dillusion that it's difficult to find as good an example that all readers can relate to.  Certainly there are other examples, but none both so widely shared and so close in human history. Well, I did try restarting it, but it didn't help.  I have not removed the blockchain or index files yet. I've never read Halting State, but I have read Cryptonomicon.  But I don't get the reference.  Cryptonomicon was not about surviving a future.  Are you sure that, The Diamond Age wouldn't be a better reference?  That entire book was about a future nearly devoid of involutary governments, but instead a set of cultures in balance and intertrading with a cryptocurrency that could not be back traced across the Internet.They are both great books, BTW.  Neil Stevenson is one hell of an author. Not always.  Sometimes the cost to the greater society is harsh from an experiment gone wrong.  Two such examples would be Easter Island, which destroyed itself and erased any possibilites of the rest of humanity from learning from their mistakes along the way; and the Wiemar Republic, which destroyed itself and begot a society with a very destructive meme that nearly infected all of Europe and Asia.And it doesn't appear to me that humanity learned all that much from the Wiemar Republic, either; since we appear to be starting down their same path again in the modern world. True, the supply of privately supplied computational power will rise to meet the demand or the computational power will decrease to meet the demand.  Either way, it'll balance out in the long term.  Unless we hit the 'singularity' before then, only my grandchildren will have to worry about such things. I said I waited about an hour.Do they give it away free?  If not, there is no way my brother has it.  And if I find out that I'm wrong about that, I'm raising his rent out of spite.I don't know, but those are a couple of good ideas. Personally, I prefer silver rounds.  I keep them in my desk.  I would recommend worrying about getting out of debt and building up your pantry closet first, however.  If it ever gets to the point that I'm trading silver as the common currency, it's *already* bad enough that most people won't be willing to trade anything at all. If you are still alive in 120+ years, you probably will not *personally" care to be generating blocks.  However, assuming bitcoin is still running then, anyone who has a large number of bitcoins is going to still have a personal incentive to keep the currency strong; even if the transaction fees are too small to compete over. To remove all doubt, I went over to my brother's house to use his older Windoze machine; which isn't all that hard considering that he lives over my garage.  I started the client on his computer (which uses my broadband) that I know does not have *any* security programs at all, and running over a broadband connection that does not have any blockages at all (because it's mine).  The client started up fine, and within a minute was reporting 60+ connections.  I'm thinking, "I'm good now", but an hour later it still had not incremented the block count even one from the blockchain that I downloaded at the same time as 0.3.10.  I think is was 67,300; but it never moved.  I tried to turn on and off generation, which I didn't expect to work and it didn't.Any ideas? Is that right?  SO I guessed correctly, there is at least one member of the bitcoin community with access to at least one FPGA.  Are you going to post your code now that you have been outed?And I buy Rogaine for a friend of mine...Holy crap!  Are you serious?  This is an average desktop these days?  I'm still using a single core P3 running Ubuntu.  Well, at least I was until my power supply crapped out and killed my motherboard.  Can you believe they want $200 to upgrade!?My root point was that, those who already owned these chips, don't really need to "compete".  The FPGA would simply add to what their CPU(s) can already do.  They don't have to *replace* the cpu.So do you think that a coproccessor using local memory on a FPGA could go faster than the hardware on a VIA 7 due to I/O limitations?I'm guessing at least four, maybe as many as 10.  Harder to guess if one is using local memory, that stuff can be wicked fast on some things.Sure, for those who have a GPU and not a FPGA.  Sure 55mhz doesn't seem like crap compared to 8 cores at 3 ghz, but a sha-256 setup in software can't process a hash in a single cycle, whereas a well made 'solid state machine' (which, as I understand it, what a FPGA program actually is) can process one hash in a single cycle, if the I/O isn't a limitation anymore.  Multiply that by however many cores can be programmed onto a single chip, and there is serious potiental here. To a programmer talented enough to hack his GPU, hacking one or more parralel sha-256 coproccesors into one or more FPGA's would be child's play.To be honest, I was over the top when I said that a set of four FPGA's would look like a supercomputer.  I can't really say what can be expected, until I try it, but my own (admittely limited) experience with FPGA's is that a single such chip can replicate a pretty complex shortwave receiver, tuning and all, including all of the currently popular modes on shortwave with zero aid from the master cpu.  Two are required only for the experimental modes, and they may even be better/faster these days, as it has been a number of years since I played with these things.  They are certainly cheaper.  At first glance at the complexity of the sha-256 algorithium, I would expect to be able to get at least four such coproccessors into a chip comparable to the kind that I have used in the past.  Any one of which should have a kh/s rate somewhat less than the hardware found on a VIA 7, assuming that they are implimented in pretty much the same way.  The 'virtualization' of the solid state circut within a FPGA does impose a slight (yet measurable) penalty, but I don't think that it would be so high as to really matter.  If all four chips, each with four coproccessors, could be successfully coded and utilized; I would expect that the resulting kh/s rate would total at least 14 times what the single coproccessor on the VIA 7 can run.  And that doesn't include the additional kh/s that the CPU or the GPU could add to the mix.Sure, but I was assuming that someone already has a set of these chips for experimental ham radio hobbies; in the same way that using GPU's to crunch numbers assumes that one already has the GPU.  It doesn't make economic sense to buy these chips for this reason any more than it makes sense to buy extra graphics cards solely to generate bitcoins.  Honestly, I don't know if this is the reason, and I can't know.  But if someone has done this, it's another game changer for the bitcoin community.Anyway, I imagine that FPGA chips will eventually become a standard thing to have in a high end PC, and most OS's will be altered to take advantage of them on a regular basis.  Can you imagine what a game company could do if one of these were in every PS3? Well done, indeed!  I think that you have nailed it one the head.  A Global Exchange Trading System.  I think that you should write an expanded article along these lines, if you are willing, and post it both on the wiki and wherever else that you would like.  So that we can establish early that Bitcoin is a 'trading system' and *not* a currency (hard or otherwise) and *not* a commodity or intended to be traded  as such.Are you willing, Red? I suppose that I am in your pragmatic camp as well, as I do not really require the anonymity of bitcoins, yet I can also see the value to others (and therefore to myself). Isn't the limit just shy of 21,000,000 possible BTC?
As I mentioned, it's a hacked up version of GNU/Linux that Asus used on their older netbooks. I've attempted to get the linux bitcoin client to run on my Asus 701 netbook, but it just complains about missing gblic libraries.  Installing all of gblic on my Asus would not only take up too much of the flash storage, it seems like it would break a number of things.  The version of linux on the 701 is a bit of a hack, as it is really an embedded device at heart that was intended for kids to play with.  Is there any way someone might be willing to compile a staticly linked linux binary for me to try, or would this just be too large anyway?If that isn't workable, is there a command prompt or Midnight Commander-like client forthcoming, or am I just too old? Nor would all nodes show up on the IRC channel.  I, for one, would not.  IRC is blocked for me, so my client on my thumbdrive wouldn't show up, and I imagine that mybitcoin.com would only count for one.  Any user's client who was offline and not interested in generating coins wouldn't likely show up either, since is a good chance that he turns off his desktop at night. Why would the addresses need to be fake?  It is a good way to inexpensively referrence a purchase online.  Say, for example, that you wish to order something from an automated commerce website that costs 205.53 bitcoins.  There is still six digits of the bitcoin that can be used to imprint an order number.  Say the order number is 633729, the total cost of the order would look like 205.53633729 bitcoin on the blockchain.  Granted, the commerce site could issue a new address for every order, but what if they had some reason not to do that.  What if each unique customer had an address assigned to them, but the ecommerce site desired to positively identify each of that person's orders from one another without requiring some kind of additional message parameters that bitcoin does not support, and even if it did, would provide TMI about the transaction. Yes, but there are two points that you overlooked.  First, the software transceiver ususally requires four of these chips.  (two for receive and two for transmit, one does digital signal processing and the other does digital filtering of the raw signal.  Said another way, one is the virtual mike/speaker and the other is a virtual tuner.  Not all such software radio setups need four, however)  So if a ham has four of these, all four could be programmed to this end.  The other point is one that I didn't explicitly mention, one FPGA does not equal only one sha-256 processor.  It is possible, even likely, that more than one such processor could be programmed into a single FPGA chip.  These chips are fairly large so that they can 'virtualize' some pretty complex logic circuts, and a talented programmer could program one chip to be several sha-256 processors running in parrallel.  All this, and his main CPU and GPU are still available if still more Kh/s are desired.  Any hacker with the skills to program one or more GPU's in the same system to crunch hashes is already elite, and doing multiple sha-256 cores on a single FPGA would be child's play.  And we already know that there is some elite talent within the Bitcoin community, some who desire to run it, and some who desire to break it. I can't say that I'm familiar with them, but I soon will be.EDIT: It's interesting, and I would call the project well intended, but I don't have faith that a return to hard money in any form is likely to occur within my lifetime.  In fact, I hope that it does not, because that would imply a dystopian future such as depicted in "A World Made by Hand". I would be willing to bet that someone used one of these...http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field-programmable_gate_arrayto do this...http://www.springerlink.com/content/765kta4qr92daea8/which is something that I, myself, obviously has considered.  Whoever is doing it is probably representing a great deal of the current hash percentage, and hogging a pretty good amount of the new bitcoins.  Considering that up to four of these programmable arrays are used by modern ham radios for this...http://www.dsptools.com/Radio.htmand this...http://www.softrockradio.org/The successful coding of the sha-256 algorithim into a fpga and recoding of the bitcoin client's generation function to use one or more such fpga's would produce a khash per second rate that no desktop could match.  It would look like a super-computer from our perspectives.  As a ham radio operator myself, I was aware of these devices, but I don't presently own any.  Even connected to my netbook over USB2, the khas/sec rate would be sick.  The program for these things are normally kept on the master computer's harddisk, and only take a few seconds to swap out; so a ham could use his software radio whenever he wants to, and then rewrite all of his FPGA's with the sha-256 algorithim before going to bed, and make money while he sleeps.Another possibilty is that someone owned or bought one of these...http://www.via.com.tw/en/initiatives/padlock/features.jspor some other cryptographic coproccesor on a daughtercard.I'm sure once Bitcoin takes off, anyone with enough of the coins to have a deep personal interest in the strength of the currency will be running clients with hardware exceleration for the sha-256 has function.That also makes me wonder if there are PCI daughtercards with FPGA's on them yet.  The last time that I looked into them, they were only available as external setups. What is the GSM? This is not quite right either, I think.  However, I have heard the explaination that the US FRN is akin to a national stock with a reverse dividend, so if this manner of thinking about it helps some people wrap their heads around it, then I won't object.  That is, other than to say that this is an analogy only.Personally, I don't think that there is anything we really can compare Bitcoins to that anyone really would have any prior experience with.  Bitcoin is something altogether new in the realm of trade.  It is a solution to a set of problems, and (potentially) serves as a solution well.  I don't, personally, think that it's a good idea to compare Bitcoin to *anything*.  Expecially since most people, including most people that seem to post often on this forum, lack a true understanding of what these other comparitive things are.  The best thing to say to describe Bitcoin is to talk about *Bitcoin*, and accurately describe how the system works as well as what it was designed to accomplish.  Think about this, children have experience with money very young, but have you ever tried to explain what money actually is to a child?  Complete understanding of a monetary system is not a requirement of it's successful use. I read about Loom at loom.cc.  First, it's by invitation only, so it's an online  barter club, really.  Second, Loom isn't really a currency.  It's like trading in digital titles or digital 'shares' of real assests.  An individual can 'create' a currency within Loom, but Loom itself is not a currency system but only a slick online form of secure barter.  A member can create crypto-titles to assets, such as a car or a bushel of wheat, and trade them online, as a form of contract barter.  It is very different, in practice and in intent, from Bitcoin. Sounds like either "Alongside Night" or "The Diamond Age".But a legal defense fund isn't a bad idea. Considering that the website is ran by and frequented by people who don't believe in free trade, or even *money*, as a positive social order; I wouldn't think that any argument for bitcoins would be well received.  Other sites might prove to be worthy places to make such an effort, but not this one. I'm assuming that this was a sarcastic response, since I didn't make an argument.  I didn't make any argument, because I considered such an effort futile.  I am starting from a given that you do not accept, and you will cling to your interpretation no matter what I come up with.   You would need to be more specific, I would think.  What other cryptocurrencies would you be referring to? I already have a mybitcoin.com account, but I'd still like to have one running one my thumbdrive.  And now I do, thanks to the many suggestions that I have already received. Hmm.  Yes, the transaction fees as 'negative interest' I can agree with; coin generation as positive interest is a bit tricker since it doesn't require that there be any positive account intended to draw the interest.Regardless, I can see the logic and I think that I understand your point. It doesn't matter what your or my opinion about it really is.  Bitcoin *is* a currency.  And to call it a commodity, which it is *not*, will offer any enemies more legal ammo than calling it what it is.  Calling it a commodity is *fraud*.A wonderful definition.  It's also completely wrong.  I don't even care where this came from, it's wrong. It would be helpful to me if someone willing could set up an email(website) to bitcoin gatway to post transactions, and perhaps a website to download a relatively recent blockchain regularly.  I have not been able to find any network that I can use that does not block bitcoin *very* effectively.  I'm sure that I'm not alone in this modern world, either.  I'm only willing to go so far with regard to getting on the network at my workplace, which has an allergic reaction to anything peer-to-peer; and I don't have a computer at home.  Even the local library computers have a pretty strong firewall, and prevent bitcoin from making any connections. How does it differ from a LETS regarding the "no interest" condition?  How does bitcoin imply interest without a bitcoin banker? This statement is not true.  A commodity based (backed) currency is such because it physicly is (or represents) a particular commodity of a defined metric.  The nature of foreign trade is irrelevent.
A strong enough of a node could do *anything*, the entire point of the proof-of-work is that as the bitcoin network grows, this kind of takeover becomes; if not really impossible, increasingly and astronomicly improbable. A big thing that would help the bitcoin community would be to get zazzle.com to *accept* bitcoins. Rather than reject it, it could save a backup of the original and accept the new chain tentitively if it's moving back more than, say, two weeks.  So about 2000 blocks.  And it could also notify the user that it has a new blockchain that reports a reversal of fortune so far back, and give the user the chance to find out about it before accepting the new blockchain.  Odds are that if the user doesn't know what is happening, he soon will since every other user paying attention at the time will also know there is something to look into.  Bitcoin is a very well automated system, but absolute automation is not often wise.  Talented support needs to know that something is broken asap.  This is another example of a 'watchdog' process and/or function that could add security to the network.  I think that, even though this should have been submitted to the test network, the release of this mal-formed transaction has highlighted an issue fairly early in the lifespan of Bitcoin.  Which allowed the small community to respond to it quickly and effectively.  This would become much harder to do in the future, if many people start using it, since most of them will not be programmers, and many won't be paing the level of attention to the client as the beta system currently needs. Indeed, there are notable differances, and I noted that it wasn't quite right to start with, but it's as close of an existing example that I could think of quickly.  As for central bookkeeping, that is what we have with the blockchain.  There does not need to be any actual script with LETS, either.  Nor is it a requirement that all credit balance to zero within a LETS, but zero sum bookkeeping is a commonly used method within the LETS style local currencies.  Bitcoin is *not* a zero sum system, but upon thinking about it further, I can still say that it's very LETS-like in structure and practice; and as such, we can expect the same kind of legal issues (and defenses) that previous LETS systems have faced.  It's a very good analogy, and a strong precendence to lean upon.  The main differences between other LETS-like local currencies and Bitcoin is that Bitcoin's local sphere of trade is the entire Internet, and not the physical world.  Any reach into the physical world only occurs as an extention by others, not neccesarily an intended use of the currency.  IANAL, but I think that this is something that we could lean upon legally speaking, but only if the bitcoin.org main page and FAQ were to allude to being a "LETS-like" online currency as an intent prior to any legal troubles.A currency can be a fiat without a central issuer, but not likely without legal tender laws.  The very term 'fiat' implies it is a currency of the nation by a matter of law, as opposed to a naturally occuring currency such as gold coins.It still doesn't matter what you say or don't say.  Bitcoin is not a commodity.  For that matter, neither is any LETS or LETS-like currency that exists or ever has existed.   None of the above.  They are closest to a fiat, without the 'legal tender' part.They are closest to a LETS system for the internet, if the entire online world can be considered it's own 'locality', but even that isn't accurate.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Local_Exchange_Trading_SystemsBitcoin is something new in the realm of currencies, which is what was neccessary. That just becomes an appeal to authority.  Yes, there are better definitions of financial terms to be found than within a legal dictionary, but I'm not going down this rabbit hole. http://www.ithacahours.com/ Everyday laymen don't get to decide the definition of a jargon word.  "commodity" is a jargon word used and defined by consensus within the finance and economic worlds.  Any looser use of the terms, inside or outside of these disciplines, is incorrect; regardless of whether or not the speaker is understood.I know that doing this means I'm using an appeal to authority, but from Economist.com...CommodityA comparatively homogeneous product that can typically be bought in bulk. It usually refers to a raw material  oil, cotton, cocoa, silver  but can also describe a manufactured product used to make other things, for example, microchips used in personal computers. Commodities are often traded on commodity exchanges. I'm not attempting to do so, and the same accusation can be leveled at yourself.  This is also borderline an attack upon the man, not the argument; something not done in polite circles.Only as an abstraction, as all currencies ultimately are.  This makes it easier to think about on a day2day basis, but those professionals also know the differences.I'm a bit more tactful than that, but I sure wouldn't trust him with my 401k until I was certain he was only using the term because the proles at the dinner party don't know the differences.Again, currencies are an abstraction, and as such can easily *represent* an underlying commodity, or several.  Yet, sometimes the distinctions between the object of desire and the symbol are important.  Even though someone might say, "I just do this for the money."  They are both quickly imparting information and lying in  the strict sense.  No one *ever* does anything for the money.  The pursuit of money is never for the abstract symbol itself, but for what you can *get* for it later on.It might if that were a common or intended use of a bitcoin, but not only is that not so, it's not even true that bitcoins contain anything at all.  To be precise, bitcoins are *themselves* an abstraction of currency ( a symbol of a symbol?) and no such object as a bitcoin actually exists, digitally or otherwise.  Your bitcoins are only a balance on a collective ledger, and a transfer is merely a notary upon that ledger that increases the balance of another account at the expense of one of your own at your direction.  So even if the bitcoin client program could be considered a commodity, which is another argument, the bitcoins themselves would still not be part of that. Do you think that you might have replaced them sometime in the next 28 years? Trying to avoid labeling bitcoins to 'stay under the radar' of those whose little fiefdoms might be threatened by a competitive currency is a self-defeating exercise.  We are more likely to face charges of fraud by perpetuating Economic myths around here than by calling a spade a spade.  There are several local currencies that continue to exist within the United States that do not draw the hammer of fraud charges by avoiding claiming they are 'like' anything.  Avoiding reality will just attract more attention. Sorry, but bitcoins are a currency by definition and design.  You can avoid the term as much as you like, but a currency is what they were intended to be, and there will always be people to will refer to them as such, no matter what we few here choose to do. These already posted definitions are incomplete and overly broad.  They don't help, nor (much) harm your opinion.Except that bitcons are not a 'good' in the economic sense.  For that matter, the terms 'good' and 'commodity' are largly interchangable in the economic sense, and this is a circular definition.  Even if it were a well written defintion, it doesn't support your position that bitcoins are something more than a currency.There are whole markets founded upon the spot trading of floating currencies as well.  This does not mean that the US dollar or the Euro are commodities.  I think that you are going to have a very hard time supporting this position.Electricity is not 'virtual'.  It is a very real thing, one that can do very real harm if not handled carefully.Different people can look at things differently from a mathmatical or investement perspective while still understanding the differences.  And as good a reference Wikipedia may be, it's not remotely authoritative on the subject of economics, or anything else that I've ever studied.Nothing that you have referred to would, no.  Yet nothing that you have referred to really supports your position, either.And the point that I had made that started all of this talk is that all of those people that draw those parrallels are *wrong*.  One can be in the majority and still be wrong, Economics is a science, not a consensus.  And science doesn't care about our opinions.  Semantics is how we frame the science. It is a commodity within the game if you can transfer it to another player *and* it has some other use within the game.  A game weapon, for example, that can be given to another player at the will of the owner, is a commodity. If you were to replace "commodity" with "currency" I could accept your statement as a valid way of viewing bitcoins.  Such as it is, I still cannot except it.   Your statement that bitcoins are a planned commodity is not supported by your chosen definition.  Would you care to explain why you think that bitcoins are a commodity? A raw or processed material that is useful in some widely known, common way; that is of fairly consistiant quality.  It does not need to be something that can be made into something else, although that is a good example.  Grain is a commodity that can be made into bread.  Oil is a commodity that can be made into petrol, but petrol itself is a commodity that is used to provide motive power as opposed to being made into anything else.  (Unless you consider carbon dioxide a manufactured end product)Since their only use is as a medium of exchange and a store of value, no.  If I can't eat it, burn it, or build with it; it's probably not a commodity.Duly noted, and thanks.  Perhaps a better example would be wood.  It can be made into many things, but once cut into a shape, cannot (easily) be made into anything else except firewood.  Therefore the 'added value/utilty' of the wood is in the utiltity of the object.  Like the wood handle for an ax.  If the handle ever breaks, the 'utility/value' of the ax is reduced to it's scrap value, until such time as the ax head can be mounted to a new handle.  The only thing that the broken handle is good for is a few minutes of heat in the woodstove. 1 - 4 )  No.5) I don't presently own a working computer besides an old netbook. I understand what you are trying to say here, but again, I don't think this is a good way to say it.  Unlike gold coins that can be melted down for their material value, bitcoins are irreverseble.  More so than even the printing of a US note, since if the value of a note were to drop below the value of the paper itself, at least the paper can still be burned for heat. Then we are arguing about the semantics of the word, "value" then.  Fair enough, I accept your point that value is in the eye of the beholder.  Would you accept that a can of soup or an iron nail both have an 'inherent utility' then?  At a minimum, they are both products that have an intended use.  I suppose our disagreement can be summed up with a jar of peanut butter to a starving person who is allergic to peanuts.  The jar of peanut butter has no 'inherent utility' to the allergic person, and therefore no 'inherent value' from his *solitary* perspective.  The jar of peanut butter can only be used in trade with someone who can consume it safely, but to the *other* guy; the jar of peanut butter does, indeed, have an 'inherent utility' and therefore an 'inherent value' from his perspectives.  It is the second guy (and all the other second guys within a given sphere of trade) that imparts an 'inherent value' upon the jar of peanut butter; but the first guy is (presumedly) aware of the jar's 'inherent utility/value' to others, so it has very much the same value to himself. They didn't die from natural causes, they were assasinated by edict.
Hmmm, I don't think that this is a very good way to say this.  Not that I disagree, per se; but I think that it is more confusing than anything since the coins can be melted and return to a commodity by anyone at will. Amen.A code locked wallet, along with a regular backup elsewhere, would also help a great deal.  If someone steals your cell, you should have plenty of time to get home to use your backup wallet to transfer your cell phone balance off of it before the code is cracked.  Your backup may not have all of your money, but it will have some of it.And if you don't have the diskspace for the blockchain, just a light version of a client should still be able to *spend* bitcoins, and accept bitcoins on faith. Pretty good up to this point, but it's become obvious to me that you still don't understand the difference between a barter system and a currency system.  Money 'evoloves' is any free society to permit an unknwn third party trade.  So that the chicken farmer does not have to negotiate with the baker to accept a trade in chickens.  The farmer can sell his extra chicken to the doctor, and then by some bread, then the baker can go get his checkup.  No two parties must need be aware of the third in order for the trade to occur.  The thing that is traded between all three parties is the currency.  It's not neccessary that this currency be a commodity, but historicly that is the case. Yes, an educated mind.The utility that I get from bitcoins, or from US dollars or Euros, is only in what I can trade them for.  They have no 'intrinsic' utility.  Not for me, and not for anyone else.  Feel free to try and come up with a use for currencies outside of their monetary trade uses.The Romans used many things as money, besides gold and silver.  More popular than either of the traditional metals were salt and iron nails.  It should be obvious enough that both of those have utility beyond their uses as a medium of exchange.As an aside, that is where we get the convention of sizing nails in "pennies" even though the actual metric is denoted in a small letter "d".  It was originally measured in 'denarius', the *official" standard silver coin of the Roman empire.  That alone should give one a clue as to how highly valued a simple iron nail was to the common Roman, since a normal nail for home construction is called a "16 penny"; and a man named Jesus from Nazarath was betrayed for 30 denarius, significantly less than the value of the three large nails used to pin that man to a dead tree.I think that a great many people on this list would benefit from a book called, "Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?" by Ray Bradbury. This could open up a potiential attack vector, if any thief were to discover that you have a bitcoin client running on your home machine with continuous access.  It could also serve as a sign that you have a client running on your home machine, even if your server was indeed secure.  The main reason that most people have never been actively hacked over their broadband connection, is that most people don't have anything on their home computers worth stealing.  All this will change if bitcoin takes off.  If a talented thief cannot beat the blockchain, he can likely still find a mark in the wide world; and if the home pc is well secured, then the home become a physical target.IMHO, it's worth the disk space to be able to run a full client on the phone. I need a portable bitcoin client, one that can reside entirely on a USB thumbdrive.  I would prefer to be able to run under both GNU/Linux or Windoze, but Windoze I need.  Can the client reach out from within a network, even if the ports are blocked?  Is it possible to configure a client to reach out using a different port number and succeed?  I can use port 443 almost anywhere, but the high ports are blocked in most of the places that I can get Internet service in public.Any thoughts would be appreciated. No, it is not.  The US dollar is a fiat currency, and nothing more.Historicly the yellow metal was prized for it's beauty in jewelry.  In our modern world, there are many uses for it in industry for which it is ideal even though it is too expensive.  For example, lead is poisonous to humanity, but it's mass number makes it both a wonderful material for making ship ballasts and radiation shielding.  Gold has been used for both these things in the past, but only in very specific situations.   A personal question, Red.  Is English your first language?   If there is no use for something outside of the context of a currency, then it is not a commodity. That's not true at all.  It seems too many people who post on these lists, do so under the pretense of understanding economic theories.Gold has an "inherent" value, not because other people value it as a medium of exchange or a store of value, (a currency) but because it has real utility outside of this context.  Gold is used in many products that *require* it, and would be used in many more if not for the monetary premium that the desires of all of the people who desire it for it's currency uses.  Gold is, in fact, less abundant in our modern world in an "above ground" refined state than silver.  Silver, however, is not prized (by enough people) for it's properties as a currency.  So it's value is much closer to it's value for it's industrial uses, for which there are many.  And are you are seriously going to claim that a can of soup or a can of soda doesn't have an 'inherent' value? The calculations are not wasted, they are an investment into the cryptographic strength of the system.  If people were willing to donate clock cycles to some other endeavor, they would do so.  For a great many; however, the thought of helping to defend an online currency system, for which each is personally invested, is a far reaching act of service. Then you should make a simple but separate webpage to put on the 'trade' page.  This forum buries things to deep, and only represents a small percentage of people who would otherwise use bitcoins to buy a book from you.  You have a right to your own opinions, but not your own facts.  It is impossible, by definition, for bitcoins to be a commodity.  A commodity requires a utility outside of the context of a medium of exchange or a store of value; beyond being simply a currency.  Not for you, personally, but for someone.  Historicly, gold and silver both have (and still do) have utility as jewlery.  Presently, silver has industrial utilities, and gold would also if it wasn't valued so much more than other alternatives.Bitcoins can *never* have any utility beyond their use as a medium of exchange or a store of value; and a FRN or a Euro wouldn't even make decent toilet paper. Bitcoins are no more a commodity than US Federal Reserve Notes are, and nor are they backed by any fixed commodity standard. "Hard money" is a commodity that is 1) durable 2) divisable and 3) difficult to fake and 4) difficult to produce.Bitcoins are a currency, but neither are they backed by a commodity standard of any kind, nor do they represent an obligation (debt) of a bank or government like a fait currency.  Money can also be a currency, if they are minted into a standard denomination, but money does not have to be a currency.  But a paper currency is not money; at best, paper currencies are a symbol and substitute for the money.  Even this mush has not been the case anywhere in the world since the Swiss were pressured into dropping the gold standard. That's what I said.  The video is misleading, and will perpetuate the 'good as gold' myth.  This is not something that we want to support.  It's only an analogy. I'm sorry, but I didn't care for it.  I makes a decent ad, which I imagine was the goal, but it will perpetuate the myth that bitcoins are comparable to gold.  This is not so, and should not be repeated.  The process may be an online comparable to mining for gold, but gold is hard money.  Bitcoins are not hard money. Speed is a secondary goal. I understand the Y2038 problem from a layman's perspective.  My point was that, I doubted that a Y2038 problem exists within the structure of bitcoin.  Since the timestamp is relative only to a particular position within the blockchain, there is no reason that a client should require an accurate timestamp within the block.  And then, what would that be?  GMT?  I'm pretty sure that my client is doing fine with local time.  If that could be getting any successful blocks rejected, let me know, please. I'm not a programmer, but I have doubts that any of those 32 bit variables are subject to rolling over antime near 2038.  My understanding, however limited it may be, is that the timestamp of the blockchain is relative only to it's position within the chain, and not subject to any such limitations.  I'm sure that the two week difficulty calculations require an accurate count of seconds, but at worst, that would just throw off the calculations for the two weeks around the rollover in 2038.  And since there is a limit to just how much the difficulty may change in any two week period, even that isn't particularly crucial.
Transaction fees are currently very rare, and cannot be collected by anyone except the computer that solves the block anyway.  The only way to get bitcoins from the system is to 'generate', but the best stragedy, IMHO, is to offer goods or services in exchange for bitcoins already in circulation. The power used is not wasteful.  It is simply what the owner is willing to commit to the project.  Even so, it may be used even as "waste heat".  I am an electritian by trade, and years ago I had the following idea form, while installing a 'heat trace' network on insulated sprinkler lines inside an open air parking garage.The 'heat trace' is a fairly expensive cable that has a continuous resistive core to produce low intensity electric heat along the length of the pipe that it's taped onto.  Insulation is then wrapped around this assembly.  The best, and most efficient, systems have a temp reactive core; so that the closer to the freezing point that the cable itself becomes at any given length, the lower the resistance across the core becomes, resulting in an increase in heat output along the colder and less well insulated sections.  At the time, I was playing with an early form of distributed computing called "Condor", which allowed single processes to be exported to other computers upon a network and their disk I/O shipped back across the network to a master server without the process being able to tell the difference.  I thought then that a small "computer on a chip" wired upon a flat network cable would be able to effectively perform the same functions of keeping the pipes above freezing with local temp sensitivity while also crunching numbers in exactly the same way that bitcoin requires.  Such an idea would require a network that permited quite a bit of power in order to not need an unacceptable number of power points along the pipe, but imagine the usefulness of such a system for companies that have such needs in very high (or very low) latitudes.What if such a system were retrofitted onto the Alaskan Oil Pipeline, for example, one mile at a time? Another way would be for a bank-like institution to print banknotes with only an address, in both machine and human readable form, onto a difficult to copy banknote.  That way, anyone who was to see it would be able to check the blockchain to make sure that said money is actually associated with that address.  However, the banknotes would have to return to the bank in order for anyone to claim the bitcoins, and the address used would have to be retired.  This allows the pubic to 'audit' the bank at will to make sure that there is full reserve related to the banknotes, and it's difficult for anyone to nab the bitcoins before you deposit them. Another similar way would be to use the plastic rfid tokens that casinos use, each could have a face value, but report a checkable address when a rfid reader was available.  Once they return to the bank, the rfid tag could be rewritten with a new valid address and sent back out into the flow.There is no way that I can see that easily copied paper money could work, particularly without a bank. It's not required that the kid have a bluetooth phone, although he is likely to already have one.  It's not even required that *you* have one, although that might make the transfer more convientent.  All that is required is that you have an address of his.  He doesn't need to verify that your money is good; he knows where you live and he couldn't force you to pay him if you refused anyway.  He is dependent upon your honesty from the start, although if you screw him, not only are you going to have to cut your own grass, you might wake up one day and find someone has salted your flowers. Yes, the Iphone app that allows two people who meet in person to exchange contact information.  It would be easy to include a bitcoin address field that could be accessed by the Iphone bitcoin client to permit one to send money to the other immediately.  This wouldn't work in the absence of service or a network outage, however, so it's not the ideal solution for direct IRL transactions. I don't.  In fact, I don't think that the IP option should even be on by default.  I think that it would be a security risk.  Not only can a probe determine if a particular website/server/laptop-in-the-cafe has a bitcoin client running, and therefore a potentially profitable target for a cracker to break into; performing multiple requests on the same IP could give the attacker multiple addresses to the same person.  By themselves this seems unimportant since cranking the hash math backwards upon one hash begets an astronomical number of possible results.  But crypto can be undermined by comparing the reverse hash results of one to those of the other, significantly narrowing the possible set of public keys that could have begot it.  Not to say that this is a particularly easy computation to make, either; but a possible one.  Of course, even knowing the public key will not help an attacker to steal bitcoins from said person, but it would allow the attacker to search the blockchain and see all his transactions.  This would not only tell the attacker how much this person has, but could also be used to identify the owner by data mining the transactions.  At least that *could* be possible.  I don't know if this has been considered already, or even if this is a realistic concern.  But I do know that a laptop that responds to bitcoin specific ports or requests already says too much.  That alone could make choosing a target for a laptop thief an easy one. Beyond the message feature, none that I can think of on the open Internet.  However, it would be useful for direct smartphone-client to smartphone-client trading over ad-hoc wireless.  It would need to be secured, however.There might still be a better way for two people to do an in person transfer than use ip addresses.  Something similar to bump, perhaps.  An in person transfer would require some kind of two way communications, however, which is not currently required.  In order to allow the receiving client to verify the transaction against it's local copy before the actual transfer. Yes, but I was pointing out that waiting for verification is not usually neccessary in common usage of the currency.  It's the unknowns that call for waiting for verification or the use of a trusted third party.So most everyday transactions, either online or IRL, can be performed with faith instantly, or with the additional confidence of the local client verification almost instantly.  The 10 minute lag isn't really a detriment. I see problems already.First, there are no crypto-objects in your wallet that could actually be called coins.  You could, at best, print out a 2d scancode that represents the signed transfer chain, but you would still need an address first.  You would need some kind of bitcoin bank reserve willing to issue traditional banknotes or checks.   There was another point here that I intended to make.As with the example above, most cash transactions are not actually anonymous, but psuedo-anonymous.  For example, one party can be well established (the shopkeeper) while the other is mostly anonymous, (the bargain hunter in the above example) but even the buyer is not truely anonymous.  He has been in the shop many times before, and even if the shopkeeper doesn't know his name, he has seen his face enough times to recognize it.  So there is some trust that, since he is a local or regular customer, that he is not some pro trying to sting him with an opprotunistic scam.Another example of a psuedo-anonymous transaction is the kind that both parties are anonymous to the world, but not to each other.  This is actually how *most* cash transactions work in the real world; but online it could go like this...You want to get something, let's say, unusual.  You find this guy on, say, Tor with a hidden website selling your wanted commodity.  He is known to you only as, "pothead420" on the website.  You have no other way to contact him, and no means of finding out who is actually is.  You don't trust this guy, but someone is going to have to take a leap of faith, and that someone is likely going to be you.  So at first, you order small.  After a few succesful trades, your trust grows that "pothead420" is an honest dealer; so your orders grow larger.  He could screw you over at any time without recourse, but then he would be cutting off a regular customer, so he has an incentive to continue to treat you properly.A third kind of pseudo-anonymous trust relationship could be found on this very forum that depends on reputation.  Most of us do not use our real names, but some of us do.  We assume that the member who uses the name of the bitcoin programmer is the actual programmer, and have some evidence to support this, but we cannot know for sure.  But, as far as this forum is concerned, he has a reputation.  So if you were to do direct business with him, and screw him, his word that you are not trustworthly would harm any business that you desired to conduct in the future, solely because he has a longer reputation than any newcomer.All of these examples involve some kind of two party trust, but not one requires both parties trust a third.  Not even the verification of the blockchain. There is more to it than just hoping.  For starters, you could already have an existing business relationship, and trust built between two parties due to honest prior trading.  Counterfeiting bitcoins is really difficult as well, and that is what a local blockchain check would protect you against.  It would also protect you against a double spend that wasn't concurrent, as if one guy backs up his wallet file and then spends his coins the night before and attempts to yank your chain.  It does not protect you against a professional criminal, but against the petty attempt.[/quote]With bitcoin in the version I have seen (not red's), you cannot build a local machine that verifies it. [/quote]I know from other threads that Red has a different understanding than I about how the system works.  Either or both of us could be wrong.  My understanding is that, at present, the clients attempt to announce a transfer and then wait for the collective to confirm the transfer via accepting the claim as valid in at least two blocks, after which point the network believes that you have valid bitcoins, therefore you do.However, two clients can interact directly, in theory.Imagine this picture...You have a full client on your Iphone running in the background, and then there is a power failure.  You head down to the corner store, and find that the shopkeeper has put everything in the cooler on sale half price, cash or bitcoins only.  Your cellphone client connects with the shopkeeper's cell phone client over ad-hoc bluetooth.  Signs the transfer accouncement (there are no actual cryptocoins in your wallet, they exist only as a series of entries into an encrypted ledger we call the blockchain, more like writing a check than actual coins) over to the shopkeeper's address.  Shopkeeper's client can then (but does not have to) check his copy of the blockchain to verify that you actually owned said bitcoins at the time of his last blockchain update.  If it's good locally, he can assume that you are not trying to cheat him and accept the trade and you leave with your half priced milk.  This does not protect the shopkeeper from an intentional double spend, but you still had to have honestly owned the coins at one time in order to do this.  If you did not own the coins at the time the power went out, his client would have rejected the transfer.This also means that the shopkeeper can only spend bitcoins that he had at the time of the power failure himself, since any new bitcoins that he receives will not yet be included in the blockchains of any other vendor, and any attempts by his client to transfer his unannounced coins will be rejected by the other clients.  All transfers will either be verified or rejected by the network within 30 minutes of network reconnection. That still requires prior intent, along with the expectation that you will be the one on your side of the break to make bitcoins.  And the risks involved to others is still dropping at a log, proceeding from very unlikely risk currently to astronomicly improbable over time.I'm not saying that it's impossible, but neither is it impossible that the Mayans had it right and we only have two years left to live.  Personally, I don't think that it's a problem worth spending much time on. I think that you are getting lost in the choice of wording on this list.  Every bitcoin client, whether or not it is 'generating' or not, has a very recent copy of the entire block chain, and can check any new transactions against that block chain to see if those bitcoins were owned by the *address* that the other client claims he owns, at least up until the last block update.  I'm not saying local verification is implimented in the current client, but it's possible.  But that doesn't protect you from a concurrent double spend.  The distributed verification will add confidence in the validity of the transaction with each passing block, but it's not neccessary to perform a transfer.  Cash in person has similar problems, as the vendor can never be *certain* that the customer isn't passing off counterfit currency.  The risks of fraud are included in the costs of retail business, and if speed of transactions are paramount, the vendor can simply accept the results of his own client and take the risks that he might get burned.  Waiting for confirmation would help protect against fraud, but it's not a *requirement* for completion of a trade.  I would expect that smartphone clients would do this quick local verify by default, particularly when communicating with each other directly over ad-hoc wireless.Also, the system doesn't even require that the receiving client be on the network at the time of the transfer.  You can send money to any address at any time, and their client could find out about it long after the transfer had been verified by the bitcoin network. Be careful not to confuse your ideologies.  Libertarianism and agorism are closely related, but they are not the same thing.  Generally speaking, agorists are libs who have dropped the 'live and let live' non-aggression principle in favor of an intentionally subversive market stragedy with the intent of 'starving the beast'. I think that he already did. An honest client can't really do that without spending the older coins first.  It doesn't *have* to spend the older coins first, but an honest client will not show any preferences towards spending the newest coins.  This would require a previously hacked client, or some rapid coding skills. Go for it.  In the meantime, I think that you both miss some fundamental truths.1)  The point of the system is not to 'mint' coins at a high energy cost, but a high computational cost, to protect the system no matter how high Moore's law may go.  2)  The award of bitcoins is not 'minting' really anyway, it is an award by lottery for participating in the strenghtening the currency.  Those 50 bitcoins already existed from the moment that the rules were conceived and the process set into motion.  They are just distrubuted from the original owner in a systematic manner.  The computations are a neccessary part of keeping the system strong and confidence high, and are a small price to pay when compared to the costs that we all incur from the administration of fiat currencies.  I think that it was a brilliant idea. Also, a powerpoint presentation might be handy in the future. An open offer, you say?  It's been a while since you had some pizza.  Feeling a craving, Laszlo? What town would that be? Also, there is a case of diminishing risks as the number of blocks grows and the number of nodes continues to grow.  Relative to the existing coins, new coins represent a smaller percentage of the monetary base with passing time.  Even though the risks of catching a bad coin created since a split increases with time as well, they are relatively remote, and tend towards zero over the next 120 years.  But the risks also tend toward zero at a log, not in a linear progression.What I'm saying here is, by the time that bitcoins catch on, the risks of trading with bad coins during a network outage drop as the popularity of the bitcoin increases *and* also decrease simply as the blockchain grows over time.
