Count me in!I played a long time ago with a friend and it seemed like you had a good concept.   Good to see you've done more development.Obv., I'll spend the hour to get free bitcoins....just hope nobody else does, lol.I'll schedule for any evening Eastern Standard Time.  If it helps if I'm more specific then I'll take a tour at 7 Eastern on next Thursday, Friday, Saturday, or Sunday.  I'll have to install my own computer!How do I sign up officially? Man this is frustrating.  I don't understand how the forum swallowed most of my post.  It was about 3x longer, well formatted, and included suggestions, etc.Also included was what an explanation of what appeared to be a MAJOR bug in which the rake was not even based on the correct pot size!  I'm too frustrated to retype in entirety, but here's Cliff's:* I'm 200 BB deep, Villain is 50 BB deep.  I CRAI on turn for my 200, villain called.  Rake appeared to calculated on a 250 BB pot (!!) when the pot was 100 BB (both of which, obv., should be above the cap.)Winning ~3 BI over 75-150 hands and walking away with a ~25 BB profit is equivalent to a 92% rake.  A particularly harsh way to punish those players willing to play HU to start games, and a definite way to dry up your NL pool VERY quickly.  I wish I'd been paying more attention.Site op, feel free to PM me with requests for elucidations/suggestions, etc...I'm happy to deal with a perhaps necessarily clunky interface because poker and BTC are both fun things for me, but these issues really need to be addressed.Best wishes, and kudos on the initiative; let me know if I can be of any service.- Cynosure I'm sorry if I'm late to the rake discussion, but I'd like to know the current state of affairs...  I've played there a number of times.It appeared to me that the rake was exorbitant, higher than live, especially for what are often HU games, without hand histories, etc., I can't verify these things, but it struck me that the following were the case:Rake was not capped?!  I believe that in some huge pots, i.e., larger than 250 BB), the rake that flashed by was some VERY large number, and certainly not a simple, truncated number that would indicate a cap, and NO ONE has a rake structure that is capped above 250 BB, even at the lowest limit live raketraps... The consequence of this is that a relatively short HU match (in hands - it's a slow interface) that involved me winning maybe about 2.5 buyins total, I ended UP maybe about 50 BB Freemoney - Courteous, smooth, fast, fair. (Apologies in advance if this is not standard here - exchange-reviews are de rigueur on poker forums.)I'd just like to report two very smooth and successful (and even fun!) exchanges with FreeMoney.My BTC for his PS$; I sent first both times and his response was instantaneous and as promised.Would trade again in a heartbeat!  (Alas, I probably will have to when I inevitably busto.)-Cynosure
