Yesterday we closed well under the 100 day average.Today we move even further away from it while breaking through the bottom of the triangle.We've broken major support and nothing is stopping a deep fall.Also notice how mainly BTC is falling and altcoins remain stable or even raise significantly.Billions of BTC capital is flowing into blockchain 3.0 technology and people here still believe BTC's blockchain 0.1 Beta tech has a future... lolDown we go guys,  you've been warned. Oh man you guys are too hilarious and dense to not see there is a huge problem here.Store of value? Are you kidding me? You still need decent liquidity which Bitcoin Core cannot provide.Why would you or anyone else use a system that can't properly handle transactions as a store of value and not move to one which has the same scarcity and security (actually better since it doesn't have SW attack vectors), yet also provides for liquidity with cheap and fast transactions! One picture says it all.Behold the pathetic hilarious state of Bitcoin Core and the potential and oportunity of the real Bitcoin (Cash).https://txhighway.com/Yea, we totally don't have a problem here... lol...And there are still people posting here daily asking why the price is crashing... Gosh... I wonder... I suspect within a few weeks the whole tether scam will collapse and the news will be all over it.It will trigger a bitcoin sell-off like we've never seen before when people realize that 90% of the market cap of bitcoin is fake printed tether money. There is nothing healthy about a mass sell-off of an asset that is fundamentally broken on so many levels. We broke to the 100-day we'll probably close well under there.There's no support until the 200-day and even that is very weak.We'll probably see sub 7-8k within 2-3 days. LOL here we go again.This time it's different and there will not be a bounce.We can tell by the fact that it's just bitcoin crashing and altcoins keep their btc value or even rally!We're going to close well under the 100-day and drop down to the 200-day HARD!200-day has some support but i doubt it will hold while everybody is dumping this and moving to good coins and we will revisit pre-2017 levels! The problem is, Bitcoin Core has become vaporware. Endless promises that will not be kept, that cannot be kept.SegWit, barely being used while creating new transaction attack vectors.Lightning Network, mathematically impossible to even work and is overhyped to solve everything, which it wouldn't even if it could work. Nobody addresses the big problems it introduces. Plus it's a pain in the a** to use in the first place.Once mainstream media starts publishing about this prices will drop back sub $1000 very quickly.Bitcoin is done, it simply offers nothing anymore in these days.Ah yea i can hear the comments already "Bitcoin is a store of value, not a currency."Oh is it? What happened to "Decentralized peer-2-peer digital cash." as stated in the whitepaper?Remember that was the goal of Bitcoin before it got taken over.Why would Bitcoin be used as a store of value and not a different digital crypto that DOES work as a digital currency AND a store of value..?Exaclty, like i said, Bitcoin is only going down to where it belongs, at the bottom. Apart from half of the points you state are just untrue, do you know of any feasible solution?Bigger blocks don't solve the problem. DAG structures don't solve the problem.IMHO a proper decentralized secure base protocol with second layer scaling beats any other proposals we have now, they all decrease decentralization and/or security at the base level. The most important thing people should know is that Bitcoin Core is fundamentally broken and taken over by a commercial club of banksters.Bitcoin Core is an environmental disaster.Bitcoin does not scale.Transactions are extremely expensive.Transactions take hours or days to confirm.Bitcoin Core network, 200B USD market cap, can be consistently attacked with roughly 600M USD/day, compare with PoS this would likely be several times the current market cap to attempt even a single attack!Bitcoin Core is not private.Bitcoin Core is not fungible.99% of all coins are owned by a hand full of people.Maybe it will go up a little more by idiots not understanding technology, after that it will plummet and better crypto will take over.Bitcoin Core will be forgotten within 5 years. I doubt that very much. He's a scam artist that likes the spotlight, i'd be surprised if he holds more than 500k in fiat worth of btc. Roger Ver Annd That's how you lose money. I think this confirms what i've been saying for some time now.Bitcoin has had its time.Losing capital really fast now and no signs of recovery.Technical capacity is not there.Community support is not there.Media support is not there.Economic support is not there.So many altcoins that solve the problems of this giant cluster f*ck that is Bitcoin Core. It took a few more hours than expected but the crash is rapidly accellerating now EXACTLY as predicted.123abc ignore the idiots here. I've been warning them for some time now but they have their pink glasses on with dollar signs, lost track of all reality long ago.Bitcoin is going nowhere but down. https://localmonero.co/ I can give you some why it most certainly will not.1. Bitcoin does not scale. Lightning Network is a fad. It is a commercial initiative that does not work in a decentralized secure way and is only intended to make companies big money. Create an artificial problem (1mb block size), propose a commercial solution, profit.2. Bitcoin is outdated technology. On many levels Bitcoin has been surpassed by altcoins, in network topology, mining/securing mechanism, distribution mechanism, economic vision.3. Bitcoin is an environmental disaster for which there are amazing solutions, yet the community and dev team refuse to work on clean future ready technology. NXT uses very old first generation PoS, basically all problems have been resolved at this point.Plus there are other solutions to PoS as i mentioned.You really think Eth would move to PoS if it was a bad idea? (Yes i know it will be hybrid at first and moved full post at a later stage.)Have we? Source? I don't know anything about this. The communities arguments keep getting better and better.As much as i like coincidences as the next guy, i doubt Bitcoin value will rise.We've clearly entered a bear market. Bitcoins dominance keeps dropping every day, it's almost under 30%More and more people are realizing what i just talked about here in my original post.Instead of solid arguments all i see is shilling. I remember a time when the community looked down at this. When it still valued innovation, tech and solid arguments. With so many innovations in the crypto space and solutions for every problem bitcoin has.I keep on hearing that Bitcoin Core is still King of crypto, and not only in market cap."They have by far the biggest and best team behind it."- Orly? What have they done? We're still using old code and innovation is nowhere to be seen. Instead we are seeing bankster like solutions being proposed by this group."Bitcoin has the most secure network."- Orly? Only if you discard anything else than PoW. Proper implementations of PoS, BFT, PoR, PoB are much more secure than PoW and they don't waste gazillions of valuable energy and don't pollute the environment."It's the mother of crypto."- So what. Parents die, children prosper. *repeat*Let's sum up what other innovations we have in crypto space that Bitcoin does not offer.As a currency:- Fungibility.- Privacy.- Anonymity.- Smart contracts.- Scalable p2p network.- Secure 'green' mining/network.- Sustainable fee/mining reward setup.- Decentralization.- DNS.- Governance.Other:- Secure Communication/messaging.- IoT compatibility.- Data storage.- Decentralized web.- Exchange.There's probably a bunch more i can think of.The question remains, why is bitcoin seen as superior and valued as such while it offers almost nothing? Even at it's basic function it is surpassed by almost every other crypto.The only thing backing it's value is big whales shouting how awesome bitcoin is because they have a big stake in it.
I suspect crypto will be banned as a whole in 90% of the modern world. We have greed and bs ICOs to thank for that. China is banning miners.Which will cripple the network, cause even higher fees and confirmation times.That's it. Nothing we didn't know already.The future is not blockchain, it's block-lattice. LOL aaaand it's gone again.Almost -10%When will you guys learn that there is no future with this crippled system.It does not scale. It's infested with banksters that took control of it.Just look how elegantly Raiblocks solves this bitcoin mess. I'm sorry, i don't understand why everybody keeps repeating this nonsense. The arguments against PoS have been either thoroughly debunked or the issue has been fixed.Just look at Casper PoS, it's as decentralized and secure as it gets. Compared to that, PoW looks like a complete joke. That is really interesting, but i'm pretty sure those are non-wraith transactions, which are supposed to be public. Yea i doubt that very much. Wishful thinking in light of knowing better.The competition for monero is rising very rapidly, both in community and technology.It's fair to say that now Wraith is active on Verge, it has technically surpassed Monero. And they already had a much bigger community behind them.And then we have Spectre being technically similar but going environmentally friendly with PoS.Tbh i can only see Monero go down from here, probably back to around 0.008-0.012 btc levels.Yea yea, i know you're all going to hate on me now and say they are shitcoins.Try bringing some solid arguments this time instead of just brainless bashing. I'm speculating on Moneros potential for future growth and sustainability within the crypto space.Fungibility and privacy are important feats imho but the system still has to compete, be sustainable and scaleable.Can you elaborate on "sacrificing decentralization"? You mean more decentralized than Bitcoin? *Surprise* It's not, with current 1000 ETH min. in Ethereum for example we get to almost 3000 validators. This is a variable that can and will be lowered in the future, increasing the number of validators greatly.Now look at Bitcoin, how many entities are mining? *clap**clap**clap*What great arguments Sir... Your refutation of my points have completely convinced me. The problem with Monero is essentially the same as with Bitcoin, it's outdated tech with limited to no chance of real world growth with the ride of new coins that actually solve big problems.Wasteful PoW should have been replaced with PoS. We keep on hearing the same outdated 6 year old anti-PoS arguments over and over, but those issues have been resolved for some time now. We should have switched long ago.Inefficient blockchain. Blockchain fundamentally cannot scale globally. Second layer solutions are no solutions at all becsusr they break the entire concept. DAG solved this. We should have switched long ago. Oh boy, this is too great a Christmas gift.I've been warning people for months.All the worlds leading experts in the field have been warning everybody for months.Biggest bubble in recorded history. I don't even want to know how filthy rich a few have become with this and how millions have lost their savings! Hilarious! Watch this, Bitcoin Cash Surging to new ATHs while Core is plummeting into new lows since weeks.Mining power is rapidly switching chains and merchants are adopting Bitcoin Cash at an exponential rate.THIS IS THE FLIPPENING! The only thing you need to think about to know 100% certain that it is a bubble about to pop is this.Why is litecoin, ethereum, or any other coin worth so much less than bitcoin?There is no reason, they have all the same value and they can just create 1000 or 1000000 new other copy coins. Effective real value, ZERO. And soon the market will find out and it will drop like a rock to values we have not seen in years!I know some of you will call on the network effect, but that is temporary, and it WILL CRASH!Other than that, every single real bitcoiner that got interested in it for its p2p cash concept will cash out as soon as Lightning Network goes active.It's nothing but a banker instrument that undermines the very principle of bitcoin. It only serves to keep the banks in power and make blockstream filthy rich, not to start an economic revolution. Why it will crash? Boy you must not have been paying attention.Bitcoin does not scale and development is pretty much non existent. It's an outdated 10 year old system that is a complete environmental disaster.DON'T HOLD THE BAG! In case you didn't notice, a big crash is already going on, and will likely not stop.Other superior and green crypto are rapidly taking Bitcoin Cores place.Bitcoin does not scale. There are hundreds of thousands of people waiting for their insanely expensive transactions to be confirmed.Most of these people will realize Bitcoin Core project has failed. You seem to easily navigate around the corporate bankster agenda of Bitcoin Core. The upcoming access to Bitcoin futures market will not cause a correction as many suspect, but a total collapse of Bitcoin.It is inevetable as the network is already unable to cope with current transaction volumes, the price will plummet so hard the coming days that miners will have to stop mining, stoping the network dead in its tracks.Exactly what Roger Ver planned and predicted for the flippening all along.This is just a fair warning to get out now before big money starts crashing the price and the network. Nope. Simply impossible.Already we see governments cracking down on Bitcoin.It is becoming an environmental disaster but Bitcoiners in large are willing to pretens the problem doesn't exist just because they want more dollars.Within 6 months governments globally will take action against Bitcoin to protect our world from further destruction by Bitcoin. How low will we go? Will we see early 2017 prices before the end of the year? Very likely. Will Bitcoin Cash finally take its rightful place at the throne? Good possibility, prepare your orders. Monero community looks more and more like verge.Trying to hype people into buying.Monero is NOT as good as it claims.Many new privacy coins are taking their place above Monero, implementing better scaling and safer privacy features! What's next? Operation Dragonslayer.Bitcoin Core will be taken down by the superior real Bitcoin (cash).
I very much doubt bitcoin will still be around during the holidays.Operation Dragonslayer will take care of that soon. Lol.After Operation Dragonslayer the value of bitcoin will be exactly 0.I usually don't agree with agressive attacks but people just won't listen.Bitcoin does not scale and is vulnerable.Don't want to listen? Fine, feel it. There's little choice when the system becomes unuseable for people to run in the first place.Already it takes several days to do a full sync on a fast connection with proper hardware. I'd love to see second-layer solutions that preserve privacy at the level of Monero on-chain transactions. Links or details are very welcome. The reason Monero can never be highly valued is because it doesn't scale.Basically the same problem as Bitcoin, but even worse."But, but, we have second layer solutions."Fine, go ahead with your second layer centralized off-chain solutions, *poof* gone is your privacy.Wasn't this privacy why you wanted to use Monero in the first place?I'm baffled by how very few people realize this. Then again people are only on these forums to make more fiat and have very little interest in the tech itself. Even at current,  which many fanatics consider to be low, value, that is 20 million usd which is assumed to get lost. Not to pop your bubble, but i doubt there's any whale that would invest in Monero as long as its coin supply is infinite.Yes i know you call it tail emission which doesn't make it any better. It's by far the worst property of any coin. It assures people the value will decrease over time.All the non-arguments about fees not being enough to keep the miners active are so tiresome, there's no evidence to support that claim and completely oversees the fact that it is self balancing system.Sure some coins get lost here and there but to assume you can even get a rough estimate of how much this would be is delusional. Why would the coin supply need to stay level? What is wrong with remaining coins being more scarce and gaining value?If somebody were to fork Monero with a hard cap, now THAT would be a serious competitor in the market. This right now is nothing but a pump and dump. Infinite coins wheeeee, infinite coins for everybody (just because it's 'slow' doesn't matter, still infinite, making the real value exactly 0) LOL Bitcoin Core is not "back in the game.".The only thing happening is the Cash team is getting the maximum capital out of Core.They have accumulated billions of USD and own over 60% of all mining power.The recent dumping and price rise of Bitcoin Cash was only a small test to see how much resources and capital is required for a full take over and destruction of Bitcoin Core.Follow the Bitcoin Cash channels and you know exactly what is going on. It's been like this for months, i suspect they will be bankrupt soon and will vanish in thin air, doing a little Mt. Gox there. Taking all our crypto with them. Don't be dense.There won't be a come back.The network is basically dead already. Hundreds of thousands of transactions are not getting confirmed, people are waiting for their transactions for days without any idea when or IF they are ever going to be confirmed, even though they paid max fees. Feel free to buy while this things is sinking.I've transfered all my Bitcoin Core to the exchange to sell 35 hours ago with max fee in GUI. Still waiting to get confirmed.Bitcoin network is basically dead already. Sounds like a smart plan considering the bitcoin network is basically dead.Almost no blocks are being mined. Hundreds of thousands of transactions remain unconfirmed for the foreseeable futute. This overtaking of Bitcoin by Bitcoin Cash has long been planned and is now being executed.https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/comments/7c7eiz/segwit_2x_is_not_going_to_happen_it_never_was/ Bitcoin Classic ≠ Bitcoin Core. Read more carefully with all these altcoins and forks. It should be. All the hundreds of millions that flowed into Bitcoin in hopes of SW2x are now flowing into Bitcoin Cash, as it's the only one solving the problem right now and staying true to Satoshis vision.Transaction volume in USD of Bitcoin Cash was almost equal to the transaction volume in USD to Bitcoin Core itself. If that doesn't scream FLIPPENING i don't know what does! There we have it guys.People were hoping for SW2X but got disappointed.Now the only working real bitcoin is Bitcoin Cash and big money is flowing into it.I suspect it will be equally valued to Bitcoin Core before the end of the year.Every serious Bitcoiner know it is the only implementation that Satoshi thought would ever be viable.Not this mutable SegWit nonsense. There was a very good reason he included signature data and keep transactions immutable! We can already see massive dumping of Bitcoin of people to get their hands on Bitcoin Cash Oh boy look how wrong i am again. Yesterday we were at 7800 usd,  now we're at 6800,  losing 1000 usd in a few hours... mehhh it's not crashing at all. My prediction is so unrealistic lol.Fact is hope is gone for Bitcoin.It doesn't scale, it will not scale,  it's an environmental disaster.People will invest in real scaleable solutions that work. SW2x was Bitcoins hope. Now that scaling bitcoin is once again out of sight for the foreseeable future,  we can expect prices to fall back to levels before there was any hope. People will look for scaleable alternatives again as they did before.We can easily fall back to 2500-3000 levels within a week. 1000-1500 within a month is very likely.No hope, no value. As big as demand may be. 99% of all btc is in the hands of something like 10 people. If even one of them decides to dump,  even partially,  the price completely collapses. This in turn will cause a chain reaction of others panic selling where the price drops probably to single cents permanently. Trust in Bitcoin will be gone forever.A matter of time really. When,  not if.
This is part of the Sw2x team to kill off bitcoin core.Expect another similar adjustment before the fork.Since they have 94% miner support (even higher if you consider how much mining power they are themselves directing at the core chain right now to bump up the difficulty) such a high difficulty on the core network will guarantee a success for SW2x team and instantly kill the entire bitcoin core network. You realize Bitcoin core is not the Bitcoin it used to be right?It's controlled by banksters and government people.Read my other post. The fact is people don't want bankster bitcoin core.They want a coin by the people for the people. Which is what btg is.We will see massie capital flow from bitcoincore into btg.I suspect it will be valued around $2500 within a few days. And bitcoin core will lose that value, at least. I remember a time where Bitcoin stood for independence of the bankster and goverment system.Satoshi envisioned a future where people were free to trade on-chain and not through some obscure third party solutions or corporations.With years of change to the core team it has now transitioned into a Corporate Bankster cartel where the only thing that matters is keeping the blocks small so the users are forced to use their 'brilliant' off-chain solutions (aaand we're back where we began...)Most people don't know this i suppose.The only true Bitcoin alive nowadays is Bitcoin Cash, which is the only true independent implementation of Satoshi's protocol where transactions are immutable and on-chain.It's a sad state of crypto that we are in in general when ideas like SegWit, which is just incredibly insecure, can be pushed mainstream this easily.People need to educate themselves.Yea go ahead call me a hater or shill whatever you come up with. It's all bs, all i remember was the vision we had for bitcoin many years ago and what has become of it.Here you'll get an idea how corrupted this all is https://i.redd.it/15auzwkq3hiz.png It's always like this, right before the massive crash it runs up.Fact is, people don't want centralization like Bitcoin.They want decentralization, which is exactly what BTG offers.BTC is Bitcoin of the people, in contrast to the now Corporate Bankster Bitcoin Core.Bitcoin Core will be sold hard to get BTG by anyone but a few people that don't understand the fundamentals.Just 40 more hours before shit hits the fan and rivers of blood will flow through bitcoin land once again.We'll see news stories again of people suiciding because they sold everything they have to get into Bitcoin Core and losing it all. Verge Wraith protocol will make Monero look like a joke.Soon the real privacy King will rise. Verge is the name. Who knows, it's a serious bull trap. But don't forget that the whales know very well what is going on.They are well aware that the network will collapse with the hard fork and prices will plummet through the floor.I suspect they withhold selling right now just to boost the price so they can dump even more and harder when a little bull market seems kicks in just before the big disaster strikes. This has to be the biggest bull trap so far.Just grab some popcorn and coke and watch the price crash through the floor within a few weeks running up to the November hard fork (aka bitcoin network collapse). The same goes for 99.9% of all OSes, people either use Windows or a pre-built linux variant. Even people that are able to read all the code won't take the time for it as it's just undoable.I don't consider the OS to be the biggest thread here, that would be the malicious apps that pop up by the thousands in the app-stores and as drive-by downloads everywhere.. Consider a very big portion of all banking is done on mobile devices these days, this problem is not limited to crypto.Mobile apps can be safe but using a 3rd party app from some unknown anonymous random guy on teh interwebs, sounds very safe! Oh great, an unofficial mobile wallet.If this doesn't smell like a great scam to steal a shitload of wallets i don't know what does...It's also nice because they can't just steal your Monero, they can steal every other crypto you have on your mobile as well, gotta love mobile wallets and the mobile system security.Be warned. Gotta love the 80+% premine of bcn too. This is a very old idea.Several big sites already had btc payments implemented.What happened next? Bitcoiners were happy but nobody was actually using it.Same with real stores here that started accepting btc, simply nobody using it, so they stop accepting it. Somebody explain to me why a system that can't even handle low volumes like we have now would boom?Something that solves a problem can boom. Bitcoin can't even handle current transaction volume, which is like 0.00001% of global transactions. Geez you really don't understand the severity of this upcoming hard fork and the destruction it will cause to both bitcoin as a tech and its economy. China's fake ban is irrelevant.The only thing that matters now is the global bans that are in the works.China TAKING OVER mining operations, effectively owning and controlling the bitcoin network.The next thing that matters is a complete shutdown of the bitcoin network due to the November hard fork.If you thought you've seen drama and panic, just wait a few weeks. This will be world news.One of the biggest economic disasters of the century where billions were lost. Lol this guy.Just two days ago he was tweeting that he heard from "trusted sources" that this was just the beginning of the China ban and that things would get much worse from here.I think we found one of these whales he's talking about...It doesn't matter though, even if China wasn't planning to ban Bitcoin initially, you can bet your life that they got wind of the influence Bitcoin has with all this drama and they want nothing of it.So bans ARE in the works, and not only in China, the only thing allowed to be in control and set strict rules are the Governments and banks in these countries, and they are big in numbers.My prediction is that within a 2-5 year time frame Bitcoin will be illegal in 99% of the worlds countries and only be allowed in Antarctica or some other place where nobody actually lives or does anything with it.You have to be really naive to think the 0.1% of people holding 99.99% of the worlds wealth will give that up for a silly monopoly money computer program. Of course it will go down. Everything looks dark now.China and several other countries are in the works to ban Bitcoin.November will see the most horrible chainsplit ever seen in crypto.This thing is going to see double digits again within 8 weeks.But maybe if you write more capitals it will go up and fix all the problems. Well that bulltrap wasn't hard to see, here we go. Down 10% already lol Whether or not we'll see a hard fork?Are you kidding me? With almost 95%!!! of the miners signaling SW2x support you can bet your ass we will get a hard fork and chaos like we've never seen before.A 95% incompatibility between the users and the miners... my God if anyone was waiting for double digit Bitcoin that will be it!Core team effectively being fired from their job.Core network will effectively come to a complete HALT!SW2x network will not pick up where Core left off, they have a different agenda, they don't have user support, they don't have the market.This is going to be one clusterfck of unearthly proportions.The price will reflect this, hence i can guarantee (still open for the bet!) every single person here the Bitcoin price will plummet far under $1000 before November fork.
How would a company release a decentralized open crypto? It won't and it can't. Not in the sense that we envisioned Bitcoin.Also, using it as share as well as currency pegs its value to the real world market value of the company even though they are detached. That is a problem in several ways of course.You can however use colored coins for example or tokens to represent a share expressed in real world economic value. That Sir, would be the potion of having 80% of all trading volume and 60-70% of all Bitcoin holdings. Why would anyone buy now? China has only STARTED to close small exchanges, they will be shutting down the rest soon.After that they will release official statements some weeks from now, hammering the price down even more.Other countries will follow China's ban, as we're already seeing.If that doesn't cut current price more than in half, you can bet the November hard fork will do it for us.This is no time to buy. Unless you like to lose money. Buy back range is 600-800 USD, if it holds. As China has about 80-85% of daily trading volume and is estimated to hold about 60-70% of all Bitcoin, we can expect prices to fall much much lower.China has only begun to close exchanges, more will follow and panic and sell-off will increase.We will likely find some support at the 650-800 USD levels, above that is free fall from now on.If we reach those levels before November we can even break those support levels with the hard fork destroying what is left of the bitcoin network.Very dark times ahead, a darkness Bitcoin and crypto in general have not seen since its inception. Don't worry, there will be no bounce.This crash will keep on going on and on.Don't forget that this was just a small ban, bigger nation wide bans will follow, other countries will follow, the November hard fork will follow. This is the end of the big hype/bubble. This nonsense drama will be over soon and the entire marketcap will move to crypto 3.0 coins.For people delusional that Core coin will just recover as it did in the past, no it will not.We are in a completely different situation now where we have so many alternatives that are vastly superior in every aspect to Core coin.People will refuse to (re)invest in Core coin as it will be considered the original but failed project.The seed which allowed us to develop a proper coin.It's too bad Core coin is now controlled by the corporate banksters otherwise development could have continued and it could have grown into a huge success. Lol these reactions. Bitcoin hasn't fallen much.Naaah it has only lost twice last years entire marketcap in less than a week. Yea, remember all that FUD i was warning people about Core coin crashing hard, that was all nonsense. It's not crashing at all! It's still going up up up as you can clearly see on the charts. LOLI'll just eat popcorn now and watch y'all lose money. Sorry you have it all backwards.Core coin is the bankster controlles coin, not SW2x.The Core coin developers are paid by Blockstream which is owned and controlled by big banks, they are actively stagnating Bitcoin development.The SW2x team is a free team that tries to make Bitcoin work again and scale properly just like Satoshi envisioned.Core team has been infiltrated and compromised for a few years now.Anybody who thinks big banks and government will let  a project as big and world changing as Bitcoin develop without their control is nuts. Some of the news is fake, however China IS cracking down on crypto, we just don't know how badly yet.What is worse is the new attack vulnerability of bitcoin that was exposed today for which there is no fix.This will likely trigger a serious downward spiral as investors no longer have a guarantee that their coins are safe. LOL Speculation is essential to bootstrap it into society.Once the coin gets distributed among more users the effect of speculators becomes less. Are you kidding me? You either don't understand the implications here or are just spreading BS to keep the price this high.If 90% of the miners stop mining Bitcoin and start mining Bitcoin2x, the Bitcoin network effectively comes to a complete halt.The new SW2x blocks mined by these miners will be incompatible with 95% of all clients.Users will be forced to switch to the Bitcoin2x software and chain in order to retain any of the value of their holdings.Congratulations, a hand full of people in a conference room successfully completely hijacked the Bitcoin project and took over total control.Yes, nothing to worry about...  The ignorance on this forum is sometimes mind blowing. Blocks are still full and the backlog is huge! The steemit article is just promoting DeepOnion as the next Bitcoin, completely glancing over the huge demand for an open ledger and the flaw of dependency on Tor, essentially you can achieve the same by running Bitcoin over Tor.Technically Monero is way way better in every aspect, DeepOnion doesn't even remotely start to compare to Monero when it comes to anonymity or security.I agree that Monero can be a big thing, but i very much doubt it will surpass Bitcoin even though it offers optional transparency when desired by both parties. Here is some beginner material: https://themerkle.com/what-is-delegated-byzantine-fault-tolerance/https://cryptoinsider.com/byzantine-fault-tolerance-blockchain-systems/ Gosh all this nonsense about PoW vs PoS.They only way crypto can really work is by using x-byzantine-fault-tolerance, resolving the problems of both PoW and PoS. I'm pretty sure turning back to the 'stone age' requires the human race to still be around... We live in some dangerous times? Where do you get that information? We don't, we basically live in the most peaceful time in human history, the media just enables us to see everything going on (including made up stuff).The last thing i'm worried about is countries pointing nukes at each other, for exactly that reason. They both know they both lose if a war starts. Although I have some doubt as to whether Trump has the intellect to internalize the consequences of a nuclear war...If a global nuclear war happens your last concern will be Bitcoin and the only safe place is likely to be underground. I've been pointing out critical flaws in Core coin for many years. I was a fan of Satoshis vision and of Bitcoins promises.What i'm not a fan of and dispise is the development not addressing these issues for all these years and being taken over by Blockstream which in turn is controlled by big banksters. Satoshis vision was lost with that over the years.Bitcoin Cash is the first revolution we see going back to his vision as most of us planned and wanted from the beginning.
As predicted a lot of mining power and money is moving out of Core coin into Bitcoin Cash.Even altcoins are losing value to Bitcoin Cash now.Here we see the future of Crypto expanding, as Satoshi envisioned. People won't like what you have to say here.You'll be shunned and ridiculed. . It's not just about ICOs, read the PBoC statement! It's all crypto and even platforms that offer background information, pricing, etc.Already some other countries in Asia are following in the footsteps of China. It will be much much worse than 2013.Bigger crash, bigger losses, many many more victims! You really don't understand what is going on do you?Whales are taking their profits from the new investors on a massive scale before sh*t really hits the fan.The November fork will leave the entire ecosystem devastated if functional at all.This is just the beginning of the biggest crash we've ever seen in Bitcoin land.We are looking at a 6-15% daily down trend for the upcoming 3-6 months. That is IF the network survives it at all. Lol and here we go again. Core coiners flipping from delusion in denial. Losing almost $800 in two days and still denying it's crashing.Good thing China banned ICOs thise were getting really toxic for the community as well. Something people seem to be ignoring here.BCH is gaining mining power and value everyday but the Core coiners were already celebrating their illusionary victory right from the start of the fork. BCH is guaranteed to be at least as valuable as Core coin. Well yes. Even without the November fork, one look at the charts will tell you that. I wouldn't say it's bad per-se, you need speculation to bootstrap it.But the level of speculation within the bitcoin community is too much to be sustainable and will effectively kill the whole concept. But that will be done by the November hard fork already so it won't get to that.A few years ago many of us were all excited to get merchants to accept Bitcoin, but nowadays the only thing people do with Bitcoin is buy and sell at exchanges, sell your tulips to the greater fool.Almost nobody is using it as a medium of exchange or payment method.All 99% of people involved in Bitcoin care about is to make more dollars out of it.Which is sad in my opinion considering Bitcoin was invented to give people an alternative to current monetary and economic systems. Maybe in the very far future some fork of Bitcoin can reach $5000 again, but with all the upcoming drama and regulation it's highly unlikely. Your best bet is to get your money safe while you still can, this drama and panic is only going to get worse for the foreseeable future. A healthy correction would end around 1000-1500 USD.But it is extremely unlikely the panic will stop there with the November hardfork around the corner.With over 90% miner support Core coin is likely to stop functioning alltogether, effectively dropping the price to exactly zero at the moment of the hardfork. Of course the new Bitcoin will also gain instant value but i doubt it will be anywhere near the Core coin value, maybe a 200-600 USD level like BCH is realistic.Overall it's safe to conclude that the upcoming months will result in a ~90% value loss in regards to Core coin / SW2x.I suspect altcoins will do the same, maybe some value will move to altcoins, resulting in less loss, but i think the vast vast majority will be dumped for fiat.As for the people crying about losing their money the past day...I hate to say I told you so... You don't "sound like KwukDuck".You sound like one of very few people here with some sanity and realism left in his brain. Max Keiser is one of the big whales in Core coin. He is estimated to hold around 20.000 to 50.000 btc.In the past he has been caught lying about many things. Be very wary of his advice! A matter of days, or weeks at best before we will see the biggest "correction" in Core coin history.Anyone thinking this is normal market growth is completely delusional, this is pure manipulation to pull in ignorant users to feed the whales more money so they can dump the price hard and leave the majority with nothing left. Even my grandma talks to me about investing in Core coin because it's "the future", even though she has no idea what it is used for or how it works or even the idea behind it. This is the game tactic of the whales.A guide to what is going on right now with Core coin.Step 1: Feed them a dysfunctional system that is bound to collapse as a dream come true.Step 2: Boost up the hype, this is it, this is the future, you can't miss out!Step 3: Sell your coins for millions of dollars as the price collapses and leaves millions of people broke and ripped off.Step 4: ...Step 5: Profit. Oh cut the crap already. Demand is not increasing, it's just pure market manipulation by whales to pull in more innocent souls to which they can dump. They will become more rich while those people lose all their money and become the victims of this scheme.Yes Bitcoin technology is great, but the community made it into the biggest scam of the century. With Monero the problem is again privacy, right now it offers reasonable privacy, but once the RingCT gets cracked the problem is that every single transaction will be traceable, the entire blockchain will be exposed.This is not the case with other privacy coins like PIVX and DASH, they are much more secure in that sense.But as long as RingCT stays strong Monero is a decent option technically.Another issue with Monero is the likelihood of big whales, that would be much bigger still than any Bitcoin whales, i don't think people hodling 500k XMR are rare in this community. You can bet your ass they will dump soon, people just want Dollars, not crypto, as sad as it is, it's still the truth of this world. Just wondering, Bitcoin started as a project to offer people freedom from bankster/government fiat and the banking system. Yet almost every single person involved in Bitcoin is using it to try to get more of that very thing Bitcoin was designed to 'get rid of'.I never cared for Bitcoin as an investment vehicle, it's a tool that offers people financial freedom and independance.Yes tell me again how stupid i was selling cheap and how bad i should feel, notice how i don't care.Because for me Bitcoin was never about making more Dollars.If none of the horrible things that are waiting for us in the future will ruin bitcoin, maybe the mindset of people just wanting Bitcoin to gain more fiat will be even more devastating.This mindset seems to have been increasing for years now...People don't even ask me anymore how it works or why it was invented, all they care about is how to make fiat with it. My answer is always the same... "Bitcoin is not a good investment for you, only invest in things you understand and believe in." I've long moved on from my past mistakes.I'm just here to warn everybody that will listen to reason and facts.FACT: Bitcoin protocol is flawed.FACT: SegWit transactions are extremely vulnerable to theft.FACT: November hard fork WILL cause chaos as the majority of miners will go to the SW2x chain.I'm not here to spread FUD, i'm here to warn people so they don't lose money.Many people seem to be way in over their heads in this, selling their houses and shit to invest in bitcoin. When November hits, those people can live on the streets, that's something i don't wish on anyone.Even with smaller investments or loans people got to get bitcoin, they will probably lose it and be in serious trouble! November hard fork is coming.Miners are aalresdy moving to Bitcoin cash.The remaining miners will probably mostly move to the new fork.You will get your cheap coins. There seems to be a careful up-trend again and the bulls are starting to get vocal again with SW activation.Let's just forget that SW is not a feature for the users, it's a security weakness introduced by the bankster controlled blockstream team.When the SW2x and Bitcoin cash team decide to reorganise the SW chain there will be blood in the streets and Core coin could very possibly never rise to these heights again.Remember it's just a matter of time before the news of the November hard fork hits mainstream media and people will start panic selling.Miners have alread, and are still migrating to Bitcoin cash and 92% of the remaining miners will move to the November SW2x fork.There won't be much left of Core coin by then.Let's just ignore this reality and get burned... again... Don't be dumb this time...
Yea you can be all yelling about his new estimates of $10.000, let's just forget that a few years ago he was predicting $500.000-$1.000.000, i see a trend here... it's not a positive one for the value of Bitcoin.He knows what is coming and it's not good. Fees will be extremely low soon when bitcoin price crashes as the bitcoincash team will reorganise the core chain to send the segwit coins to themselves.They already have almost a majority of the mining power on their network. It's only going to get worse for core coin, not better. How is the domain name relevant? Only the data matters. There is no next level.Core coin does not scale beyond this point.Bitcoin (cash) is where the future is at. Bitcoin (cash) economy looks very promising at the moment. Healthy liquidity and orderbooks. With influx of new investors and merchants we can expect 50-100% increase in the upcoming week. Here's a more realistic one for Core coin.I wish people would stop calling it Bitcoin. Only Bitcoin Cash is true to Satoshi's whitepaper and vision! Not this blockstream bankster scam. Wild times. People dumping and panicing Core coin bug time.We already dropped under $4000! And going deeper!Smart move seems to be to move money into the stable Bitcoin cash or Ethereum. The reason BTC is going down is because it's about 30% more profitable for miners to mine bitcoincash.Merchants, exchanges and miners are switching to the bitcoin upgrade called bitcoin cash.Many people are still unaware of the upgrade and will possibly be left behind and lose a lot of money as bitcoincash is quickly replacing bitcoin. Omise isn't supported by Vitalik it just runs on top of Ethereum, which can't handle the advertised load at all, isn't secure and isn't decentralized.In short, whatever this will turn out to be, it has nothing to do with the decentralized independant economy that was envisioned when Bitcoin was created.Sure you can speculate on it and it may become the next PayPal or something but i doubt it as the tech behind it doesn't scale as they want to. Ethereums insecure contracts you mean? Lol...Idk where you got the idea that ethereum (or any PoS...) is decentralized.... And how hard is it for them to switch? Exactly, it's not. There's a reason it was airdropped and not created as a new coin from scratch. No FUD.Pure truth. I also predicted this two weeks ago. All part of Jihans plan...Oh yea please go on and ignore Jihan so he can go on and destroy bitcoin, everything is fine, nothing to see here except one of the greatest inventions since the internet being hijacked and systematically destroyed by a greedy Chinese and his associates. Lol no he doesn'y just support BCH he is the mind behind the whole plan to bring down Bitcoin core, which includes BCH. He is actually in control of pretty much the entire network.BCh will reach parity before the end of august. Once the Bitcoin Cash team is done with Bitcion Core the network will effectively be disfunctional, worth exactly "zero" in any currency. It will be 1:1 within a few months before Bitcoin Core will be destroyed. Don't bother people here don't want to hear the truth. Probably best to buy BCC at this point with Chinas upcoming attack on Bitcoin. The main thing we should be worried about is Jihan Wu and his team trying to destroy Bitcoin through the hard forks and SW with chain reorganisation on the mainnet.I don't know how on earth we can stop this from happening, this guy has control over so much hashing power i don't think there is enough time and awareness to stop him. You guys are friggin nuts.Why not forget about all the fundamentals and political games going on and just draw on charts eh?The November fork will be the biggest disruption and crash in crypto we've seen since MtGox. Both politically and price wise. Funny how almost the entire community here seems to willingly ignore this eh?It's either to deceive new people to pretend there's nothing going on, or sheer ignorance.
New bear trend is setting in, it's a long term one like the one before. This downward spiral could easily last 12-24 months with at least one big crash in november inbetween.We are looking at a low end of 800-1200 assuming BCH and SW2x don't gain any traction (which i think is unlikely)If either of these does gain traction we can even fall much lower. Dropping nicely under 4000 eh? Who could have predicted that.... Jesus you guys are completely delusional. I've never seen this kind of mass delusion before.Even if hundreds of millions of people are interested in Bitcoin, which is extremely unlikely all on its own, the price will not go extreme as they will USE Bitcoin for what it was intended instead of mass HODL like the delusional bunch here. Lolwut? Who are those experts? Your thumbs?Every classic nuke also releases an EMP, it's part of its physics.How radio waves can melt circuit boards? They aren't specifically radio waves but a broad spectrum of EM waves.How does a laser cut steel? How does your phone charge wireless? How does your microwave heat water? It's all the same. Resonant EM radiation. Gosh you guys are so ignorant.Just because the crash seems to have been postponed at this point doesn't mean there isn't a HUGE imminent thread to the continuity of the bitcoin network and ecosystem in November.Everything that is happening now is whales preparing to walk out with their bags full of fiat cash before the Novemver fork. I guess we're not crashing this hard yet. But it will happen that much is guaranteed. Believe in any delusion of your choice. Facts are facts. Bitcoin will not be able to survive anywhere near this price level with the upcoming hard fork. Now this is still some time away but before that the whales will take their profits more than ever before because this split can be and probably will be a great disaster. If you deny this you are intentionally deceiving attempting to deceive ignorant people into buying more into the pump. After the biggest pump in the history of Bitcoin we are now witnessing the biggest crash crypto has ever seen.This will be epic and popcorn worthy. The main two arguments made are the 'problems' a capped coin runs into with;A: A static limited block size.B: A large (effectively infinite) block size.I think i don't even need to explain why these two statements fail to make their argument work as they are just non-existent or at least unlikely scenarios.With scenario A the issue raised is that it will cause insane fees and horrible scaleability causing users to leave the network.With scenario B the issue raised is that fees will go down to zero causing miners to lose incentive to mine.There is a fear that block rewards will not be sufficient to incentivise miners to secure the network.The block reward doesn't drop to zero overnight, it's a slow process to which the users, miners and entire ecosystem adapt over time.As for the block size, this should be dynamic, built into the protocol, calculating the size to be both sufficient to handle the majority of transactions while maintaining scarcity in the block. If the algorithm doesn't do this it needs to be reviewed.The lost-coins argument is also mute right from the start, coin loss is not a bad thing, it increases the value of all other coins, making it more scarce.I've heard the argument that this causes hoarding instead of spending which i believe is an empty argument too.I hold a certain number of XMR static and i use it as well. Whenever i use XMR i also buy back to keep my amount the same. I do the same with other coins. I understand why people would want to hoard but that doesn't mean people won't spend just as well and just as much.The only thing tail emission does is potentially dilute the coin supply into oblivion and suppress the price. I actually do. I think it is a crypto with big potential.As many people also misunderstand me regarding bitcoin, i'm not here to hate. I'm here to point out points that need improvement or better argumentation. What great announcement?The only thing that can save monero is if we change to protocol not to have an infinite coin supply but have a hard cap like Bitcoin. All arguments defending tail emmission fail horribly and make even worse baseless assumptions. The reason is the upcoming hard forkBig whales know this is going to be devastating. So now they pump Bitcoin so they can dump all they have before the hard fork.This apparent rise also causes a lot of people new to Bitcoin and unaware of the upcoming hard fork to invest, enriching the whales. What do you guys think is at the heart of this rise?With the upcoming hard fork of November is it whales pumping it before taking huge profits and causing the biggest crash we've seen in Bitcoin so far?Or is it new people investing in Bitcoin while having no idea of the upcoming hard fork? SW entails a lot more than extra capacity for transaction volume... Nobody knows.The only thing that is certain is that it will be one big cluster f*ck! I don't understand peoples issue with a 'large' ledger...Bitcoin blockchain is less than 3 BluRay movies... What's the big deal? I wonder how much use the users will have for Bitcoin when the miners move to the BCC chain and leave the Core network stagnant. I'm not hating on bitcoin. I'm warning people of what is logically going to happen.Simple economics.Miners go where it is profitable and the group that doesn't care about profit much will move to the other chain for political reasons. Moon? You mean Ground.A lot of miners hate the SegWit corporate bankster code.The ones that were not going to switch to BCC for profitability will now switch because of this SW evil. The reason bitmain is full force mining Bitcoin is to make its difficulty even higher and minibg less profitable than the BitcoinCash chain. Once the new difficulty locks in they will leave the Core chain and switch to Cash with many other miners. Leaving the Core network in a stagnant state.We could be looking at the litteral death of Bitcoin Core.Not a gradual decline in value. Just the network coming to a complete halt.
Hey all Bitcoin Cash haters, i thought you promised us a big dump once exchanges started to accept deposits.I guess that dump isn't going to happen and BCC is only gaining strength.What is your excuse this time?Question for the hundreds of people announcing they would mass dump BCC, what happened? LOL Considering a lot of mining power is likely to move to the BCC chain for selfish reasons i don't think there is any room to go up for at least a week.If Bitcoin survives the difficulty adjustment of BCC the road could be clear till November when we will probably have another hard fork. It IS pathetic, that's not the point i was trying to make when i started the topic.My points are:BCC is true to Satoshis whitepaper. Giving people, specially early adopters that use it for its fundamentals rather than a tool to make more dollars, incentive to support it.BCC will be incredibly easy to mine in about 5 days because of the difficulty adjustment. All miners now have big incentive to mine the BCC chain instead of Bitcoin, even at a lower value, this is incredibly profitable for a miner.As a result of miners mining BCC en masse instead of staying on the Bitcoin chain, the Bitcoin network will stagnate, it will be extremely slow or just come to a halt.Transactions are already not being included into blocks without ridiculous fees, imagine the fees when block times become worse than they are now for BCC.... We are looking at fees of hundreds if not thousands of dollars.I'm sorry but if you really don't understand the danger BCC poses to Bitcoin you really don't understand economics or Bitcoin.People are really getting fed up with the bankster/blockstream NWO agenda of Bitcoin and that will show sooner rather than later.Remember we created Bitcoin to have an opportunity to get rid of those banksters, big corporations and governments influencing and controlling our finances. The volume is really big like bitcoin? You're either nuts or lying...BCC last 10 blocks, took 8 hours to confirm, in that time there were 3.483 transactions worth 61 million USD.Bitcoin last 10 blocks took under 1.5 hours to confirm, in that time there were 15.438 transactions worth 428 million USD. Now scale that up to the BCC timeframe and we see BCC has less than 2.7% of the economic traffic of Bitcoin. If you read satoshis whitepaper you would know the direction Bitcoin is going is not what he would have wanted, he only wanted to scale to bigger blocks over time, which is what BCC is doing, no fancy protocol changes to cripple the whole thing.Devs worked so hard a few years ago to get rid of transaction malleability just to now reintroduce that attack vector again through SegWit... Sorry but if you don't see the bankster/blockstream scheme behind this you're just not paying attention. You Sir, make no sense whatsoever...How does an investment in something cheaper per unit give a better investment at a continuous rate of 10%?Math much? This has nothing to do with being a fan of one or the other, only with incentives and money.You can't deny the Cash team is several orders of magnitude better funded than the Core team.The other big factor is mining profitability, which will give miners huge incentive to mine Cash instead of Core.Of course the difficulty of Core also adjusts but only if there is enough mining power left to find blocks in the first place, which i very much doubt. The incentive to switch is equal for all miners. I can't think of a single reason why miners wouldn't switch en masse to the BCC chain, mining is a selfish business, they go where there is profit to be made.Unless Bitcoin reaches like $8.000 within 6 days it will be more profitable to switch. This has nothing to do with SegWit(2x) and everything with BCCs mining difficulty and enormously well funded team behind it.Only a hand full of miners will be left to mine the original bitcoin blockchain for ideological reasons, the rest will switch to BCC chain to gain the most profit. Causing network stagnation well before November. Sorry but the bitcoin network is unlikely to survive that long. Current price reflects stupidity.Once BCC gets the difficulty adjustment miners will point their rigs to BCC chain and leave Bitcoin for bigger profits on the BCC chain. Resulting in a crippled Bitcoin network, likely leaving it in a completely dysfunctional state.*aaaaaand it's gone* When you look at it logically it is the only possible outcome.BCC is true to Satoshis view of Bitcoin, it has the most support from all the big Bitcoin investors and infrastructure.The price is very high compared to current mining power, this means miners have big incentive to switch to BCC instead of keeping their rigs pointed at the classic Bitcoin chain.BCC team have enormous wealth ensuring price stability, development, infrastructure growth and security.Once people realize this and the Bitcoin network loses computing power to BCC all Bitcoin capital will shift to BCC. Leaving the blockstream bankster Bitcoin we all got frustrated with over the past years in the dust.The new ATH is nothing but a distraction of capital moving to BCC. Whales don't want you to get your hands on BCC  cheap while it lasts. Yea everybody is dumping, therefore the price is skyrocketing... Stop lying and admit Bitcoin will be surpassed real soon. 0.13 and rising! Yea people seem to be forgetting Jihan has hundreds of millions of dollars worth in both fiat and btc that he will use to basically guarantee BCC will be a big success and be considered the big successor to bitcoin within 6 to 12 months. Does anyone know why even ByteCoin has more transactions than Monero? I thought Monero was the to-go privacy coin... Just wait two more days and you'll have your cheap bankster bitcoin while we all move to Bitcoin Cash. The real Bitcoin as Satoshi intended it to be. Call it shitcoin all you want.It properly solves scaling problems without the addition of bankster incentivised code.People will realise soon enough BCC will never be this cheap again and sell their BTC for BCC. No it will be exactly opposite. People buy BTC now to have that BCC and sell it for more BCC as it is super cheap.It's an opportunity to get rich real fast. BCC is the only elegant solution. Nobody with deep understanding would support BTC and their bankster bought developers. This is one of the best times to make big money really fast.Buy BTC now, on 1st of August you will have x BTC and x BCC.You sell your BTC to get a whole lot of BCC while the price is still super cheap. Watch people panic as their BTC plummets and your Bitcoin Cash grows exponentially. Now that Bitcoin Cash has hit some of the exchanges already we can see how much demand there is for Bitcoin Cash. The value shot up to $400 dollar already! It will be a matter of weeks before it's on par with the crashing Bitcoin.
Of course it's dropping. What did you expect?BIP91 lock-in doesn't mean anything.We will still have the SegWit and SegWit2x hardfork.We will see 1500 again in the next day or two and itbwill probably drop much lower from there as we approach the break point of 1 August.And all of that because some people are impatient and don't want smooth protocol changes. Or rather they are in the pocket of Mr. WU. SW2x is completely unnecessary, badly coded and causes tension within the community. Just because a bunch of miners were basically tricked to sign up for it doesn't mean the users have to. Regular SW resolves all the problems we have and ensures a smooth road for the future. If you do your research you'll see that bitcoin will split in the near future, resulting in two versions of bitcoin, both claiming to be the real bitcoin.This will cause complete havoc in the bitcoin economy, crashing the price to new lows. That's where you'll have a small opportunity.But make sure to cash out after you make a little profit because a complete recovery is extremely unlikely. Nothing changes. Bitcoin will still hardfork.Bip91 is irrelevant.The split is SegWit vs SegWit2x. Impatient parties pushing miners to conform to 2x while the users just want SegWit in a normal way.This will cause disaster in the bitcoin economy so, yes, we will see sub 2000 again very soon. This is exactly why Monero will be banned in every single country. Banksters and governments will never allow us such freedom.As great as monero technically is, it's doomed to fail because of our social and political environment. You don't seem to understand how PoS works or don't see its inherent problems as such. I'm confused how you would even dare to talk about centralization in comparison to Bitcoin, assuming you have a rudimentary understanding of Eths fundamentals beyond the mining process.Accepting or ignoring that is a choice of course but deviates quite far from the philosophy with which Bitcoin was designed and gets us right back where we started. Yeah with proof-of-vitalik we surely have a solid house of cards to build on... oh man... *facepalm*Somehow i expect more technical insight from people with 1000+ posts. I have to admit i didn't see that coming.But remember we still have 10 days to go before the chain split. It can easily fall to levels way below what we have seen last week.I can only hope bitcoin survives and developers learn to address issues in time instead of waiting till it's too late. I've been complaining about this for years! That's only where the problems begin. Still a nice speculative vehicle  Welcome to the forum Mr. Shill. Nice first post.As much as ETH will rise, it will not displace bitcoin, it has a completely different setup, use case and works fundamentally different.Although i believe there is good profit to be made with ETH, it is based on PoS, or in this case Proof-of-Vitalik. Which means it just another shitcoin hidden under a whole lot of brilliant ideas. Still good for speculation and making a lot of money though. Yea sure all fud... look here for a nice blockchain analysis.... monerolink.comOh wait isn't that supposed to be impossible? Hmmm.... Moneros privacy/anonymity has been compromised for some time now. I'm surprised it even got this high knowing it's no longer safe to use. What a load of bs.SegWit was long planned and would solve these issues without any forking attempts.So if these problems were already being addressed by core, i ask you, what IS your true agenda...? You just can't wait a bit to let SW activate smoothly? I think it's something else... considering the impact of these choices... Lol you're right about the bloodbath not being over.So wrong about UASF though. Nobody in his right mind will run your badly coded fork. I have 40 connections on my node of which exactly 1 UASF. Keep spamming it everywhere though, Bitcoin isn't having a rough time as it is. Keep dividing the community even more...Cores roadmap is fine, it's smooth and planned. Nobody needs that badly coded shit you're trying to push. We will get what you want anyway through core if you're just a little patient. Ah sorry i forgot that's not what you want, you basically want a muntiny and take over Cores position.As much as i've bashed core in the past for being passive, they have by far the best team and skillset to resolve the scaling issues, SegWit takes care of it for the forseeable future already and blocksize will increase over time, smoothly without pushed forks and panic.But hey don't hate. People use my speculation as insight to do the opposite xDWhich unfortunately for my wallet seems to work for many of them when it comes to trading. Of course the bloodbath isn't over.The hard fork is two weeks away. Even the weeks after that will be complete chaos when the community fights about which bitcoin is actually the real bitcoin and we have two or three bitcoin tickers on the exchanges. You really think people will not start dumping bigtime once the chain has split maybe even in three...?Sorry mate, it will be complete utter chaos. Prepare for a panic shitstorm and sub $1500 prices. The charts are going to be magical tonight. How low will bitcoin fall? You want to hear me say that was stupid? Yes it was, price will crash a lot more as the panic and chaos increases for the weeks to come. Consider how far it has crashed so far, and how much time we still have to go until the chain split. I can tell you the crash hasn't even started yet! Yes, nothing to lose except free Bitcoin on the split chain, which you can sell again for real bitcoin. Unless you want fiat of course.
Yea... No... You're either trolling or don't understand what you are talking about.80% is the fraction of miners signalling support, major user support is also required. Feast?You call the destruction of a revolutionary network and its ecosystem a feast?You realize recovery is extremely unlikely with the complete chaos that is coming.... maybe a small bounce but after that its finished, just as i predicted so long ago. It's going down because of the hard fork that is going to happen.Therr will be double the amount of coins. Ao that at least halves the current price. And one, if not both of the chains will die out quickly and it will all be a giant mess in the ecosystem forcing people to move to safer and better coins. Dropping the value even lower.That's how so many experts, including myself, are certain it will drop under $1000 soon. I may buy some btc when everybody starts panicing even more than they are already now, we're just getting started, and the price drops to triple digits.BTC WILL be overtaken by superior tech but there will always be a rebound where i can sell for a nice profit. Just look at the markets. Follow the money.Capital and resources are flowing into superior modern technologies. Not outdated unscaleable slow stuff.Big companies and vc are investing in new tech not bitcoin. I fail to see your logic.If anything segwit could give btc a temporary last boost before it dies off completely. Sorry to burst your bubble but there won't be a dip. There will just be endless decline as bitcoin is being rapidly overtaken by superior technology. After last qeeks crash only Ethereum recovered really fast. Over +32% recovery just today. Bitcoin is barely hanging positive with 3%.If this isn't a huge indicator of what is the future coin i don't know what is!Don't be left holding the bitcoin bags.People want ethereum.The world needs ethereum. Only a fraction of seized coins were auctioned. When they decide toal auction the rest, which i believe i is around 500.000 btc total it will destroy the value. No it's not 80%. It's 42% signaling and 38% full protocol compatibility. They overlap Yea all you need to do is fool yourself.If you read about bitcoin for the past 6 months all you will read is how shit it is and that its rapidly being overtaken by superior tech.With that in mind and the lack of development on Bitcoins end i can guarantee you there is no high-value and/or high-use future for bitcoin. I'm still willing to take serious bets on this, i'm guessing nobody will dare to take this bet, as always... The main reason is that superior crypto tech like Eth is overtaking Bitcoin rapidly, but since the market is still led by the bitcoin price everything including Eth will have to go through a dip first before rising as the superior and biggest coin that will lead all of future crypto tech development. Smart move. We're clearly in a strong downward trend and with Ethereum taking over Bitcoin we are sure to see a strong crash soon.I've been warning people for years that we had to fix Bitcoin before it was too late. Nothing has been fixed and surprise, look what happened, bitcoin is being overrun by superior technologies.The bitcoin religious will soon feel the pain of ignoring critical flaws that should have been fixed years ago in order to make time and space for hype and greed for fiat. The scheme is collapsing! Maybe grab the correct chart first...It's been declining all week... The time has come faster than we all expected. Bitcoin is about to be kicked from the throne by Ethereum.What is your view on this? Is there any place left for Bitcoin? All functionality is replaced with Erhereum, we don't need bitcoin anymore.Have you converted your bitcoin to ethereum yet?There's no time like the present. Probably much lower, at least significantly under 2kWe see already now it's dropping really fast with big volumes being dumped.Don't believe all the lies about the Chinese not leading the market anymore, just look at trading volumes, the Chinese are still in control and there's nothing happening that causes a legitimate price rise, it's all a pump and dump as we've seen before, classical pnd patterns are clearly visible in the charts as we've seen before.For the upcoming 24 hours we can expect 2100-2200. Right.... and what causes this delusion that this will happen any time soon or even at all?We've been promised a solution since 2012 and were told not to worry.... 5 years later the fees are theough the roof, the network can't handle the transaction volume and a solution is nowhere even close to being implemented. Maybe look at the trading volumes. I doubt that very much.Based solely on TA we will see a small recovery and another big dump that would take us to 1500-1700.Selling during this small recovery seems a smart move. Unfortunately you seem to completely miss the point i'm trying to get across.The price isn't that important.The greed for fiat is corrupting this economy and causing these wild speculative hypes and dumps.Anyway my point is that Bitcoin doesn't scale nor offer privacy features, both are key in the vision of our global decentralized free digital currency we all had back when Bitcoin was still young.These core problems still have not been fixed but instead are being ignored and actions and concerns about them replacred my fiat-greed and other nonsense.
Getting into alts is something you should be very careful with anyway, even more so than bitcoin generally.But with fundamentals missing and a price rise of 10% per day you can expect that to pop ofcourse at some point. Ehm No. Pumps and dumps are not healthy in any economical model. Specially not when lacking fundamentals.What is hralthy is fixing crucial issues as early as possible and get gradual acceptance and rise. Oh look at that -25% and the day isn't even over yet. Oh all the i-told-you-so's.... I'll say it again. We are still missing any and all fundamentals. The network can't handle the transactions anymore. No decent privacy is maintained.I'm still waiting on a transaction to confirm that i sent over 30 hours ago with normal fee.The price will not rise this was pure hype bubble by Chinese whales as i've been saying all along. They are now taking profits on gullible people that think we will see 3k again. Good for them they are making hundreds of millions on y'all that don't dare to think for yourselves and just follow the hype. @Leopard2 if that remains we can very clearly state that bitcoins mission has failed and all there is left is some speculative tulip bubble, not a revolutionary global digital currency.@N7PathfinderSegWit is not supposed to address the scaling issue directly, it makes transactions more efficient which saves sace on the blockchain, in no way does this solve the issue.We don't need fork after fork to deal with this, a dynamic or smart blockchain can scale by itself. There are and they should have been resolved years ago, but instead the community chose to stick their heads in the sand and call my calls for change unneseccary for the time being. Look at this shit now, it's sad. China is trading 100 USD under US/EU now. Still believe this bubble isn't popping? LolChina price went from 2900 to 2000 in 24 hrs. Naaaah nothing is crashsing says the bitcoiner. With China pushing this entire rally leading the price with +10-15% we can be sure to see big dumps now that the Chinese prices are UNDER the US/EU prices and falling further. Yes it will go from 2.000 to 13.000 this year. But that's the beginning don't sell two months later it will be 100.000 and by the end of the year we probably have 500.000. My prediction is we will see dump after dump after dump until we reach around 700-900 levels.We've already seen two big dumps today. More to come. Lol.As i've said several times before, i've always been very positive on the original idea of bitcoin.It's the greed and head-in-the-sand mentality that messes everything up. This whole scaling drama should have been resolved in 2012 or 2013 at the latest. Just to name one of the critical problems we face now, unnecessarily... Lol dummies. Crypto is in the innovator phase, maybe starting an early adopter phase. Ah yes the strong fundamebtals we have now...Like the networks inability to process transactions in a reasonable time with reasonable fee.Oh and  those amazing privacy features that are non existent.Ahh yes and the upcoming hard fork.Thise are great fundamentals to build a fiat-greedy hype economy on.. The majority of people is clueless on these issues, they've never heard of it.The ones that are aware of it just have fiat dollar signs in their eyes now.Notice something here? People don't care about bitcoin or blockchain. They care about making money in fiat.Which is really sad and quite opposite to the vision with which this all started... Also don't forget 2k will be a HUGE selling point from a technical investment/trading perspective. Don't worry. You'll soon be able to sell under $1000.We still don't have working fundamentals.Bitcoin still doesn't scale to anywhere near the size needed to support this value.Bitcoin doesn't offer any useable privacy.A hardfork is very likely and will create absolute havoc within the btc economy.What we have here is a bubble about to pop very hard. A new long term negative trend has been initiated, technically that is, but with the chain split upcoming this will probably be a very fast and deep crash from which there will be no recovering. Not.With the imminent thread of the BU hard fork and the destruction of the bitcoin network and ecosystem bitcoins prime time is over.Soon superior coins will take over its place and bitcoin will sink down among the failed altcoins. I think you need help... You guys all keep ignoring the elephant in the room that caused this hype in the first place and will also cause the crash....The hard fork. BU is gaining support daily nearing 50% while SW support is diminishing.When it actually hits 50% in a week or so shit will hit the fan. Every single whale will dump all he has and the average Joe will follow selling at great losses.
With the upcoming hardfork almost certainly going to destroy the entire ecosystem this is just a last hopeless attempt of the whales to make bitcoin look worth something. Dreams will be shattered soon when bitcoin forks and the whales will dump all they have. Oh look at that nice balloon deflating... who could have expected that?  Yea  no evidence at all....There's no parabole... there's no fork... keep the delusion going... you'll run out of money soon enough like this. Even if they come back, which i don't expect since an all out ban on crypto is in the works, they will not help us to the moon, the chinese want out. @Amph the hardfork will cause complete chaos on the network, on the exchanges, whole vats of politics and emotions will be opened up and all of it will cause bitcoin to become the next shitcoin. And it will happen in a flash basically.It doesn't matter if they know or care about the hardfork, they will care when the house of cards comes falling down. IF bitcoin will not be criminalized AND IF bitcoin does not get forked. Current prices are to be considered very low even. But we all know either let alone bith IFs will happen only when pigs fly. Yea sure and next week or so it will hardfork and crash the complete btc economy. This is pretty much the end. We will probably go from a new ATH to being a crappy altcoin in a matter of hours when the fork happens. It is at least an order of magnitude overvalued and it will pop soon!Proper TA put's a supported price around 700-900 usd with a true target value of around 500 usd.Don't be left holding the bags, you have been warned.And that is all considering we can maintain current core situation which is almost sure we cannot.The hardfork is pretty much imminent with 46% BU support and growing. Only 4% to go before we have the hardfork.It will not just crash the price it will oblitterate it. Bitcoin will sink into the abyss as a low value altcoin.Oh bets are still open on this. I'm offering 10k USD up for bets. Still no takers i guess? Cause you're all so certain... Yes i'm full of bs... let's look at the facts since most of you DO agree that the 2013 spike was not due to the actual market.For the dummies we forget about gox and draw a red line of an estimate of what the real market would have been doing... I think we can all agree it's going as parabolic as it can right now and we all know that ends in blood and tears sooner than you think. Some of the delusional minds here think that a cup and handle is forming or double shoulders making for crazy future prices.I would like to remind everybody that this is not the case. This is a pure bubble that's on extreme tension.The 2013 peak was caused by a hack, a bot at MtGox, not by real market trading. It is a false indicator and should be completely ignored in any TA.This craze can't go on much longer before we crash hard again to $800-$1000.You are warned. You guys have no idea of what FOMO  actually looks like in a TA.Maybe go back to playing wow in moms basement instead of sprouting this nonsense. Lol well here's your crash. Let's see how deep we will fall this time.I've been warning people not to invest in outdated unscaleable tech like bitcoin.I guess who doesn't want to listen will have to feel it in his wallet. Fake volume, no different than the Chinese sites. Finex is guaranteed bust.When it becomes public we will see a huge crash. (Mtgox will look like a joke)With confidence destroyed and no fundamentals to make bitcoin great again it will die off slowly.Superior coins are quickly on the rise and will probably take over bitcoin within the next months as finex drama unfolds. Almost 42% and rising.Suuuuure that fork is never going to happen. Lol. Try withdrawing your fiat, you can't.That's why you buy BTC at a premium to withdraw that and sell on another exchange to cut their losses, nothing but smart trading.Finex is going to be MtGox all over again so you have a choice; 1) Lose everything. 2) Buy BTC at premium and cash out at other exchange and take your small losses.And yes, this is basically a trap for sellers, people that don't know what's going on and think they can sell their btc at a premium. You're delusional. BU is steadily gaining support. 39.4% now. SegWit losing rapidly, barely having 28% support remaining. The hard fork is coming soon, if you bankster shills want it or not. Oh wow... you're a genius. It must be a completely new idea that war is bad for both sides... That's why we had so much war in the past, people didn't realize that! BU is almost back at 40% which brings the hard fork ever closer. That is what crashes the price. Bitcoin Unlimited is slowly recovering from all the trickery that caused people to put it aside for a while.Now that the air has cleared people are switching again to make the network better and future proof.BU block numbers are increasing where segwit is losing.This is also clearly reflected by the price being dumped again in fear of core losing value.What tricks will be pulled next?
And you think a billion dollar mining industry will let the core devs destroy their position?BU will be forced upon us no matter what the economy or users want. If you read my posts you will know i'm a big supporter of what bitcoin stands for. I'm just disappointed in the community and lack of development. We are dropping under $800 soon. A big crash is coming.I'm very disappointed in this whole situation really. People being so deceived by the BU scam. You clearly don't know how a hard fork works. It's not just an alt-coin. It takes the place of the other chain. What's wrong with you? I'm not scaring people. I'm just atating the facts.If BU gets adopted we have an even bigger problem than we do now with the scaling issue. BU is fundamentally unworkable, this has been extensively explained in other topics. But people don't care about technical and fundamental workings, they care about hype and getting rich quick. Ruining bitcoin in the process. There are no giant investors manipulating right now. This is only the effect of people massively moving towards bitcoin unlimited without knowing they are supporting an even more flawed system than core. Effectively ruining bitcoin while presenting it as some sort of solution. Wow BU at 46% support! Crazy! This thing may go down this very weekend. And people know it. The price is plummeting again. With BU adoption rates getting closer to 51% the hard fork seems imminent.Target price is around 75% of the split price. Which will put us under $400.Is there anything that can save bitcoin? Are people really delusional enough to think that there are actual reasons the ETF got denied beyond the single fact that they cannot control bitcoin and it's transactions?None of this will get approved, even worse, in the upcoming years exchanges will lose their licenses and ahut down. Trump also has made clear atatements about this. ProfessionalGoogler, maybe you should google a little more. All this can do is cause chaos and panic, not the future of Bitcoin.BU is inherently flawd, IF it get's a majority by lying and hyping as they do now it will be temporarily as the system fundamentally can not work. Others have explained this in detail, google it... If core adopts segwit,  how is that good?Hey look we have this super complex code that people barely understand and gives the blockstream corporation and banksters direct control over bitcoin, let's adopt that!There is no good way for this to end really.For a long time i believed it wasn't too late yet.Now i realize i was just fooling myself, the solution should have been coded and implemented years ago by the devs that still cared about code and economic freedom. Not by the banks and corporations taking over bitcoin now. Stop spreading lies. What's the deal with all these lying core shills?BU is real and rapidly growing numbers of nodes and miners, they are very close to hard forking it. Almost 40% and that's in a very short timeframe! Yep, never right except for the fact that i predicted exactly this months, ago! What statement would you like to make? That you enjoy losing money?We will be very very lucky if we can hold around $500 but i doubt even that value can hold with such a severe fork. With BU hardfork happening soon there's not the slightest chance bitcoin core will recover. Increase of BU adoption causes another 20% loss in value for bitcoin.The question is when will it stop crashing? WILL it stop crashing?The hard fork hasn't even happened yet and people already realize Bitcoin core is done. Well that's what we are seeing right now.Going down really hard now, about to drop under $1000 in just a few minutes. Seriously? You really want the banksters and corporate blockstream shills to be in control of bitcoin?Already down 10% the last 24 hours and still tanking. As BU is rapidly taking over the ecosystem the price is plummeting. Will you be left behind? All the reasons?Like not being able to scale?Like having a community that refuses to adopt critical improvements to ensure its very own survival?Like offering no useable privacy?Ah yes this should definitely be valued at $1500. Lol man you're delusional.
It's kinda important miners adopt these improvements.... since that's not going to happen we have a big ass problem for the future of the ecosystem. It fundamentally can not recover as the community refuses to accept solutions to the scalong problem.Of course manipulation can still do things but it's nothing stable.As long as we do not fix bitcoin it can not grow! This roght here is the biggest problem right now; the community refusing to accept function critical improvements. Effectively signing the death sentence for their own investment. Quite hilarious if you ask me. Anyone that ever thought it would get approved is completely delusional and doesn't understand both the power of bitcoin and its flaws. Both sides are reasons why a value above $500 can bever be sustained.Unless we fundamentally start fixing things this boat will only sink. And the community has basically already voted for that by rejecting SegWit.Sec ruling will take us back to $500 and when chinese exchanges enable withdrawals again we could even see $200 again. Byebye $1000 until never. With bitcoin crashing hard again and continuing it's downtrend of almost -10% today it's clear we've entered a new bear market for the unforseeable future.The problems are only getting bigger and bigger.ETF will be declined. Chinese exchanges will soon be shut down. US governments are probably also going to crack down on crypto.There is no solution to the scaling problem and all proposals are being rejected by a stuborn and ubthinking community.We will hit $800 by the end of the week and are  probably not going to get that high anytime after that..I'm really befmginning to doubt there's still anything to do to repair all the damage and actually fiz bitcoin. ETF will be declined causing a major crash.China announced strict supervision on Bitcoin and are lokely to shutdown exchanges in the near future.BU bitcoin hardfork will cause big chaos within the ecosystem.Oh i almost forgot... Bitcoin does not scale ornoffer any usable privacy!You really wonder why it's coming down from deluded insane high prices? What the heck is wrong with you people? BU is a solution to some of the biggest problems bitcoin faces and instead of embracing it y'all angry because you're too stubborn and stuck in old ideas. Even Satoshi wrote in his papers that this change would be essential with the growth of Bitcoin. As we can see, we don't need ETF to fail. Bitcoin will crash and burn just fine without it gettinf approved or denied.The Chinese are hardforking bitcoin with a huge userbase and better properties. This time there may be no recovery. Of all the crypto aimed at privacy DASH has to be the worst investment of them all on a technical level, the only thing they have going is for them is HYPE and bashing better alternatives with lies. The number of people that completely lack any basic understanding of networks or economics seems to be growing rapidly. This combined with manipulators is the only thing driving btc at the moment.You can't just overcome fundamental protocol flaws with idiots adopting something, it will crash hard at some point.Bitcoin fundamentally does not scale and there is no plan or consensus on how to resolve this huge problem.Bitcoin offers no usable privacy. The ETF lies and hype is all that is holding this bubble together.Bitcoin failed to deliver over and over on its promises. It does not scale, not even to its current size. It does not offer any useable privacy. Stop spreading these toxic lies. It's not helping bitcoin as a whole. Not this bullocks again.There is no ETF coming.Every few months or so for the past 4 years people have been yelling that. Not going to happen and this bubble will pop again as it always does. Because it takes time to convince enough fools to buy into it and only a second to dump to make profit on them and leave them hanging with losses. Where are the more likely options like 800? 500?Have we forgotten that bitcoin fundamentally does not scale and offers no useable level of privacy? It seems i was right after all.An insane amount of shorts are being filled right now. Smaet people making massive profits. We can expect this to continue for a while. For God sake don't buy now.When the Chinese exchanges open up again you can expect a massive dump. And i mean MASSIVE. We are looking at 50-70% drop in price. As the CSO stated, they will not let that happen, they will protect those people. Rather shocking to see that comment. It's none of their business. To protect their customers they will attempt to manipulate the market once more? As if there isn't enough manipulation going on.This CSO should be fired imho.
My prediction was wrong, but be careful with your dismisal. This only means the manipulation is bigger than i expected and the fall will only be harder when it comes.Shorts are building up rapidly. Today we've permanently broken the $1000 barrier and are staying under it.It seems a new down trend has been set for the foreseeable future.With China cracking down on Bitcoin quite hard and people realizinf Bitcoin can technically and economically hold nowhere near the value it has now, a new panic wave has set in.Will the community take control and continue to develop bitcoin for the future or will we see more dramatic years spiraling down and down? @OP i can help you find a good psychologist to help you with your issues of delusion.Bitcoin economically and technically can't go even near those values. Try reading his whitepaper. He made it very clear this was a temporary soft limit that had to be increased in the future with a smart method. It needs to scale only if you want a lot of people to accept and value your currency.With over 1k replies i expected at least an entry level understanding of economics and Satoshis work and vision. Oh man.. this gives me a head ache... the levels of delusion are through the roof.Seriously none of you see critical problems with Bitcoins inability to scale and the community refusing to adopt protocol changes that would resolve this to some extent? None of you care for you privacy?Oh yea i forgot, you're not here to change how we do finance, you're here to try to trick others into it and make a lot of fiat quickly. LOL the things people say when their scheme is falling apart.Bitcoin is fundamentally flawed at protocol level. It doesn't scale and offers no usable privacy! There is no application for the system in a real world economy with real people. Do you actually have arguments against my case or you just like to shout nonsense and stick your head in the sand? I doubt it very much. And even IF we will see a new ATH it's nothing but a fad.Why?! You ask...? Simple, the technical fundamentals to support this value are still missing, bitcoin does not scale, SegWit has been rejected by the community. Bitcoin does not offer privacy. And most importantly price-wise; the orderbooks are extremely weak. It would be if Bitcoin would scale. Which it doesn't. It's running at maximum capacity already and solutioms or stwps towards a solution are being denied by the community.It would be if Bitcoin took privacy serious. Again, which it doesn't. We need miners to adopt it, not just nodes. I mainly wonder why people seem to be so strongly against SegWit. It's a great optimalisation and preparation  for additional important features i think. Again, if you'e going to spread lies, make sure it's not so obvious...https://blockchain.info/charts/bip-9-segwit Ah yes! Censorship is what we need here to make the world a better place. When you're going to lie about something i recommend you do it about something that's not so easily checked by people...For the last 1000 blocks (blocksize in bytes)Mean   882,942Median   927,633Mode     998,640 The only reason there's no 'hell' on this forum is because the vast majority is delusional and everybody keeps telling everybody else to look the other way and everything is fine. Meanwhile the house is burning.Explain to me how the refusal of SegWit adoption and currently continuous full blocks are not a big problem, please enlighten me! It's been two months since SegWit, the magical non-solution, was introduced.After its release adoption appeared to go quickly for a few days but stabilized after that and is now declining again.With less than a quarter (23%) of the network accepting/supporting SegWit I think it's safe to say this adaption of the protocol will not be accepted by the community and the blocksize/scaling issues will escalate. Bitcoin will remain as it is without being able to handle more transactions and being more efficient.Pretty much every block is full nowadays and waiting for confirmations can take many hours, sometimes days if you don't put in an extraordinary high fee.Don't get me wrong, i think SegWit is a smart and important change in the protocol but it is not the solution it is often advertised to be. Gosh you're even more delusional than the average bitcoiner.Anonymous coin hype isn't over, it's an essential feature in digital currencies and other tech that will gain more importance and value for many years to come. It's not a hype by its very definition.Smart contracts are not an essential feature but they do offer automatization, which is always valuable for obvious reasons. Again, not a hype by definition. Check the charts, it's 2014 all over again.It's plummeting again (gosh who would have expected that..) as we speak... I bet many delusional bitcoiners were thinking we were heading for $1000 again.Fundamentals are still flawed and not being fixed, there is no support in the orderbooks, forget $1000.To maintain $1000 i think we need many more smarter and wealthy people to be invested in bitcoin, which they won't because it's not smart to begin with.We are going back down to 2014 values as there is nothing to hold these prices once the manipulators are done taking your dollars!See you at $500. SegWit increases efficiency maybe 2 or 3 times, which just pushes the problem forward and is no solution.It also does nothing to make Bitcoin truly fungible or add privacy in any other way.
Bitcoins protocol fundamentals are still broken. Bitcoin does not scale, offers no privacy and no fungibility.The community largely still only cares about making profit in fiat, not about establishing and evolving a revolutionary alternative monetary system. Sure call me a moron when you run out of arguments.Still waiting for valid arguments why bitcoin is so great compared to crypto 2.0 I would recommend cutting your losses. Big money is on crypto 2.0. Bitcoin is outdated and not adapting to real world user demand and expectations. It could be hyped and manipulated again but it gets harder and harder as the community becomes more aware of bitcoins fundamental flaws. Many of us don't hate Bitcoin. We recognize its flaws and hate the communities delusion and greed that prevents it from actually growing to address these problems. As long as bitcoin doesn't scale or offer good privacy and fungibility it fundamentally cannot sustain a high value ($500+). That has nothing to do with anyone hating bitcoin and everything with what is technically and economically sustainable. I doubt it will ever rise this much again. We are at a 3 month low and people are more and more aware of Bitcoons inherent flaws and quickly looking for alternatives that DO provide what they promise.Bitcoin is old tech. Smart investors and whales are moving assets into blockchain 2.0 technology. There is no coming back from that. Yep totally not a bubble... lolThe fact remains that bitcoin has big fundamental problems with scalability and fungibility.Adapt or perish, it seems like we are going for the last option. This is crazy... panic is completely escalating. Where have we seen this before? Ah yes... MtGox 2.0 here... I see now that both systems are vulnerable to sybil attacks. :ĺ There is nothing holding the price down. There is however big manipulation to try to keep the price artificially high to prevent the whole thing crumbling down. In the mean time big whales are cashing out. The way TumbleBit works essentially requires a 3rd party service for an essential part of its function.I think it would be way better if everything could be done on-chain 100% within the bitcoin protocol itself.I know ValueShuffle also has some form of centralization for easy inplementation but it can work 100% on-chain if implemented.Am i missing something about TumbleBit? I'm surprised this hasn't been talked about here.At the end of last year a paper was published building on Bitcoins current protocol with SegWit activated.Resolving what i consider to be Bitcoins biggests shortcomming/flaw, its complete lack of privacy anonymity, and with that even more importantly, fungibility.I've been rambling on about this for years now, mostly being ignored and made fun of.Here are people that do consider it an issue and actually found a working solution:https://bitcoinmagazine.com/articles/valueshuffle-brings-together-the-best-of-both-worlds-for-privacy-1483557170What would the drawbacks be to implement this?Does the core-dev team have any plans to prepare Bitcoin for a strong future with this?Next to SegWit i feel this should be top priority for Bitcoin to stay strong and actually become what many of us wanted it to be right from the start. My predictions are based on the critical issues i pointed out above and on many other occasions. However, this is not the only effect at work. Hype and manipulation are an extremely strong factor still. This does not mean my points are invalid. At best it means i have underestimated the strength of the hype and manipulation in the past. Ok, it boils down to this; Bitcoin is running at and over peak capacity already as it is. It does not scale. Even if SegWit becomes active this just pushes the problem ahead a little. There is still no concensus about how to solve this problem and a lot of people even think it shouldn't be addressed at all. This is a serious problem is we want Bitcoin to grow its use base. Other coins aolve this problem.Another critical point is its complete lack of privacy and anonymity. Yes it is possible to make it complex to identify and track people and their usage but that's difficult, expensive and time consuming with bitcoin and certainly not safe.For the digital currency of the future both these points are critical and if not addressed will be serious growth and application limitations if not its demise.Now you can expect a flood of comments of people calling me a fudster and worse without even the smallest attempt to resolve the problems or show how these are not problems. I don't care about the price, hype or manipulation. I look at protocol and network fundamebtals and how basic markets and economics can work. Maybe wait a bit, we're about to fall under $800 It's going fast again. Sub $800 within the hour. Here we go again! Sub $800 here we come! A full block is a full block is a full block. No amount of fees will solve that problem.If you get up to idiotic fees (which is already the case) somebody else gets pushed out.Only the top fee payers get in, for the rest the system will suck. How very future proof... It's NOT fine!We need the fundamentals fixed if this is going to even survive at all.Right now superior coins that solve bitcoins core problems are rapidly gaining userbase and i suspect them to soon surpass bitcoin.I had hoped bitcoin would be the crypto of the future and be fixed along the way. I guess i overestimated the community in their intentions of why they are involved with bitcoin. Right... you realize the network is already operating at and over max capacity...? With transactions taking 12 hours or so to get into a block.... How can that sustain even 1k usd?
Will you look at that, people are beginning to understand what i've been saying for years. I guess this pretty much guarantees we will visit $600 again. We've seen this all before.Now that the last hopes of a continued rally are harshly shattered by this bull trap it looks like we are in for another slow dramatic decline.Last time it was from 700-800 towards 200, i suspect this time trend reversal may occur again around 300-350.It was a nice run but until Bitcoin gets fixed at a fundamental level, these prices are unsustainable and marketcap will keep on leaking to superior coins. Looks like it was a bull trap eh? Here we go again! You have to be a bitcoiner to be so delusional to consider a 27% drop in value in 30 minutes not a crash. Lol it's not just going down this thing is vertical. Gox all over again. Lmao Juup aaaand here we go again. Hold on to something guys, it's going to be a long way down.There is basically no demand up to around $500. Anyone holding a few coins can cause complete market panic. The bubble really seems over now. We can expect one or two more big dumps before people start panic selling and the whole thing crumbles down to 300-500 again. The attitude here is so toxic and it is what ruined bitcoin in the first place.Everybody is concerned with how much profit they make in dollars or euros instead of being part of a new system that moves beyond fiat. Sickening... Because it's a russian scam site.It's hard to get money on your account and even harder (if not impossible) to get any coins or money out of it. I can't think of 25 reasons but the fear reasons that are there are critical and giarantee the crash just as well.I'm willing to bed a good sum of money on this, again, of course nobody will accept this bet as always. You see nobreason for it to drop? Are you delusional?The protocol is fundamentally flawed.There is barely any support until around $500.The exchanges have likely been hacked or more likely been infiltrated to make this possible.We are set up perfectly to drop down hard. $500 here we come.And with all the fear happening then we will probably fall even lower go back to the 200-300 range again as we've seen before after we all got played by the manipulators and hypers. Considering the extremely low demand in the orderbooks i would say this trend won't last more than a few weeks.Although it's hard to tell. It's clear the manipulators have infiltrated the exchanges at the highest levels. Only that can explain the weird things going on at the exchanges and such a weak orderbook pushing so hard up. Obviously it's not.The thing to keep in mind though is that bitcoin is fundamentally broken at protocol level. It doesn't scale and has no regard for users privacy or anonymity.Current prices are the result of hype and internal exchange whale manipulation. Just look at the market depth, there is no support till around $500. Thanks, I didn't know about Tumblebit, i'll read up on it. One of the biggest core problems of bitcoin is its lack of privacy and anonymity.Do you think Bitcoin will adapt and accomodate users that want more privacy and anonymity in the future or will they need to use one of the superior coins out there to serve their needs?It seems to me it will be near impossible to enhance the protocol without breaking (hardforking) it and people losing coins that are for example locked in scripts.On the other hand i think this is a critical feature that has gotten people interrested in Bitcoin in the first place but turned out to be nothing more than hot air. It needs to do something in order to stay ahead of newer superior coins that address tis and other big problems. @orpington@lambdaEBesides the support being extremely weak at this point.The most important indicator is flawed fundamentals that are not being resolved, this pretty much guarantees a system doomed to fail in its current state.The only thing countering this downward spiral is hype and manipulation. Hype will blow over but the manipulation can be sustained for quite some time, as long as there are fools to trick.We need crypto in this world but bitcoin isn't the solution (at least in its current form).The price will reflect this. It could be that.Unfortunately that is not what it is with all the fundamental flaws in the protocol.And even worse, what the community made of it. And of course  zero balance addresses are excluded. Yep. Just look at that chart going up right now. I was so wrong...
Last 24 hours clearly indicate a change of direction, that sub $900 is coming faster than you think. Look.. this is statistics 101. You have to use the same distribution for all addresses if you don't want to make more assumptions than needed. No matter what you pick as address distribution per user, the outcome is economically horriffic. Our fiat system looks like a friggin diamond compared to bitcoin when it comes to coin distribution.Also when comparing these numbers from prefious years, it only gets worse, confirming the already clear manipulation by the whales. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=316297.msg14241773#msg14241773As you can see here 95% of all btc is contained within 0.17% of all addresses. You can yell bullshit all you want. Facts are facts.You realize anyone can investigate the blockchain right? We can see where the coins are concentrated and which transactions correlate to eachother in regards of usage and accumulation. Prepare for free fall guys. The manipulators have taken enough of your money for now and will let the price plummet again to 300-500 levels in order to play the same game all over again.Anyone thinking this is a free market is delusional. 99% of all coins owned by 5 people lol. Yes... very unique with its forks and hundreds of clones of which some vastly superior and in the progress of taking over the bitcoin economy.For anybody claiming bitcoin is in its early stages of adoption, you clearly know nothing about technological advancement. Maybe finish highschool first before shouting all this nonsense. Why would i want to give somebody that i love an asset with broken fundamentals that is overbought in a hyped pyarmid scheme market? Unless i really really hate them of course... I don't claim to be any better unlike many here that try to sell bitcoin as a revolutionary technology which it could be but isn't for this very reason. At protocol level bitcoin does not scale, is too slow, energy inefficient, not anonymous. Those are core problems that need to be addressed for a stable and durable cryptocurrency to flourish and last.Other crypto 2.0 is rapidly taking over from bitcoin as they solve these problems while butcoin development has basically stopped.  It's not crazy at all considering the level of manipulation and scamming going on, what surprises me is the apparent sheer number of people willingly getting scammed.It IS crazy however considering all the flawed protocol fundamentals. But nobody looks at that, all most people here care about is to be on top of a pyramid scheme. Maybe stick with the translator?There is a: no reason for it to go up. B: Many reasons for it to go down.So no we will not see 1000 during Christmas or any time soon.How about we fix the fundamental protocol problems first before shouting dumb things about unrealistic and overhyped greed prices? This is two things. Manipulators playing the market and newbies falling for the same scam all over again. Bitcoins fundamentals are still flawed. It doesn't scale and is not anonymous by any means.Your choice if you want to be stupid and get scammed out of your money by buying into this scam. If it can go from 1300 to 200 there's no reason it can't go from 800 to 500....You don' need a complex analysis for that.We have less active traders now, demand is shrinking, weaknesses of the system have been exposed for some time now and alternatives are on the rise. Hell it could even go to 50 in a matter of hours once one whale starts dumping. Well if you hadn't been a bull for 5 years you could have made a helluvalot more profit on bitcoin. Reality is a bitch. This is looking more like some fundie spiritual religious site every day... This isn't about crypto anymore, it's about who is detached most from real life and has the greatest delusions.I'm glad that for some of you reality is kicking in though, we've seen expectations go down from 10000 by the end of the year to 6000 to 3000 to 1000 to 800. Shouldn't have said anything man... Now you made it crash. Boy... somebody is greedy for profit... you almost sound like all the other failing prophets here. Yea we just need that killer app. You realize bitcoin is already operating at maximum capacity right? A big influx of new users would cripple the entire network. It would quite litterally be the "killer" app.Bitcoin DOES NOT SCALE! When do you guys get this? Yeah sorry but people have been saying 'soon, no really, this time it will be really soon' for years now.It's like Christians that have been saying Jesus will return soon for 2000 years now. Gosh another similarity to religion, considering bitcoin is sort of a religion full of blind and ignorant followers that's not so surprising. LOL better start to wonder what will happen if the prophecies of $1000 in December don't come true.Last time, and all the times before, we went through such a failed mass delusion prophevy we had a significant crash.I would say a crash between now and January next year is pretty much guaranteed as all of your 'to the moon' predictions, again, didn't come true.I'm detecting a pattern of failed 'to the moon' predictions here.Time to wake up sheeple!
D-oh of course it's manipulation it's all there is left of bitcoin.When you have a product that is flawed and doesn't work... isn't secure, is slow, doesn't scale, isn't being developed, is owned 95% by less than 10 people, is technically controlled by those same people... and is still hyped and "worth" hundreds of dollars, you have to be some very special kind of ignorant wacko to think that's legit and not manipulated. Maybe look at the charts... it's comming down rapidly. Good call. Dropping like a rock. How low will we go? We are talking about it but topics that tryvto point out flaws in bitcoin or the manipulation on the market are being removed.The main reason i assume is either that the manipulators stopped for a bit or can't keep up with all the selling pressure as a result of the elections that promise to be disastrous for any crypto.Add to that people are learning more and more about all the flaws in bitcoin and solutions of superior coins. Lol people calling themselves ambitious investors while hodling while the bubble is popping. Top class entertainment. Ahhh yez, that $800 (that never was) surely is starting to look like a memory indeed.Lol what a joke. Crypto 2.0 is the future.If you look at the 3 month chart the only thing anyone with eyes and a brain can see is this bubble popping. You talk like it's a thing of the past... The price is still tanking as predicted. And will continue to do so for the forseeable future.I thought you were all so sure bitcoin could only go up up up with Trump being the winner. LOL Trump policy will not be helping Bitcoin or any other crypto for that matter.He will crack down on bitcoin like it's a big crime syndicate. Bitcoin goes directly against everything Trump stands for both phylosophically and economically/technically.Regulations will be extremely strict or it will be outlawed completely.If yiu think otherwise you have no udea about who Trump is and what Bitcoin is. It's not China, its bitcoin itself and this fake manipulated rally.If it was just China restricting crypto other coins would be plummeting too but crypto 2.0 coins are flourishing! With China restricting BTC this fake manipulated rally has finally ended.With crypto 2.0 rapidly taking over the market we are bound to plummet under 500 within the next week or two.Oh here's a kicker... all the fundamental issues that bitcoin has, and of which we were promised they would be solved... they are still there.Time to move to the future of crypto and leave bitcoin behind.Half of my posts and topics also get deleted quickly, censorship here is crazy. Gosh i wonder why that is... Everyone that was here from the start knows what great potential bitcoin had, what a great idea it was.We also know the current price says nothing and is pure manipulation by a few big players.My idea is to hard fork bitcoin for normal users and put the big manipulators out of play.We can remake bitcoin to invalidate the first year of all bitcoin. This would take away hundreds of millions of get-rich-quick money from these manipulators that are trying to scam us out of our money.It sounds like an extreme idea but cryptocurrencies can easily survive hard forks as we've seen over and over.We NEED to get rid of these overly rich GREEDY manipulators in order to SAVE Bitcoin.We also need a new team of motivated and intelligent developers that can address the flaws Bitcoin still suffers, as current development has pretty much halted.Bitcoin still has so much potential.What do you guys think, how would this work out? Y'all completely delusional. This market is owned by a hand full of people. It's pure manipulation to get you to spend your fiat and make them rich.Consider all the flaws in bitcoin at protocol level.Bitcoin does not scale!Bitcoin is not anonymous!Bitcoin is a privacy risk!Bitcoin is too slow for real world applications!Bitcoin does not allow much more than just fake fantasy money unlike many smart dynamic blockchains!Bitcoin is mostly owned and controlled by a hand full of people!Bitcoin makes you suspect of illegal activities! Taking crazy profits in arbitrage here. Keep it up. Yea... except for the fact that your prediction didn't play out... geez... it looks like every single bitcoiner is delusional... I've been warning for this for years but nobody seems to care. Everybody is blind and greedy eventually making them lose everything they have because the system and economy around bitcoin will soon collapse rapidly. So mempool backlog has been exploding again. With almost 100k btc awaiting confirmation and people waiting hours/days for their transaction to be included in a block, how do you guys think this will affect the price and adoption of bitcoin? Will it be resolved, if so, how? Sorry but with 100k btc mempool backlog this isn't going to happen... People are waiting for hours if not days for their transaction to get into a block... Really the revolutionary fast digital money of the future eh? And we're not even trying to process any amounts close to even one small real world payment processor...It won't be long now before the whole thing falls apart... Unfortunately for bitcoin it comes way too late.Companies, venture capital, banks are already switching to superior networks like eth and monero.Bitcoin is slowly dying a quiet death. Every day there are less and less people buying bitcoin and more selling. Even worse, every day there are less and less transactions on the network. I guess your name says it all. All i can say is anyone buying bitcoin is a fool. ETH is rapidly taking over the entyre crypto economy and even banks are now integrating it into their systems. I suspect it to overtake BTC before the end of the year.It's basically doing everything we all wished for but was never realized by the community and devs.We just witnessed another massive move into ETH out id BTC. 2% of the entire btc economy just got transfered to a better system in mere minutes! It never really did... just because everyone was using one exchange that got messed up by a bot doesn't mean it was actually valued that high by people... Even people qho claim to have sold at the top (funny how many claimed that in the first place) were never able to get their fiat out. *POOF* aaaand it's gone. The real value people trading those ranges got was exactly or near $0.
Told y'all to sell but you just wouldn't listen... I hate to say " I told you so.", but... I told you so!This is only the beginning of a huge sell-off. Voor de liefhebber.Werkende BFL 60 GHz MinerInclusief voeding.Doe een leuk bod. Hier komt de 3% "winst" vandaan, de fees zijn namelijk geen 6-10%  I don't know from which dark hole you pull your analytics but all indicators indicate a hard downward movement. Very short term we can go up a little, maybe a few days. Of course it's manipulation. A system so fundamentally broken can't have a realistic value this extreme.Considering the niche of people that really care about bitcoin as a system i don't think the value is above $30.However, there is still a lot of blind faith and ignorance, which allows bitcoiners to sell their bags to the next fool with stories that one day they will be rich if they buy their bitcoin. This also produces a perfect environment for market manipulation by big players, which is exactly what's happening now.Now we wait for the next big whale dump. What got me hooked was the idea, the concept of a free (as in freedom of speech) currency and ledger.What got me unhooked was the horrible implementation, lack of privacy, lack of capacity, lack of development, bad economic model, use of outdated crypto and more, maybe worse of all, an extremely toxic and greedy community. Sorry to burst your bubble but mods are actively removing posts criticizing bitcoin. About half of my posts vanish. Some is allowed to give the appearance of an open uncensored community which it clearly isn't.Good ideas don't need censorship, they can withstand scrutiny. Yet somehow pointing out the many flaws of bitcoin will either result in the removal of the post or nonsense replies that don't even address the issue. It's not fud.There's just no reason for the bitcoin value to go up.It's fundamentally flawed on so many levels. The flaws are being ignored by the devs and community at large.It's extremely overpriced right now. I'm surprise we lasted this long at these insane high prices.This market is fully controlled by a hand full of people sadly. But there's no way but down, that much is clear. Very careful and correct analysis.You're right except for one thing. Bitcoin will not recover, it simply can't.The network will collapse if the prices drop to these levels. Mean time between blocks will be days if not weeks. It's just the buildup of another 10-25% crash, we've seen this pattern countless times before. LOL you're suggesting we buy? Might as well just burn your dollar bills while you're at it... Oh look, here we go again... LOL Down another 4% I'm willing to bet a nice amount on it being sub $300 by the end of the year but i don't see anyone here that actually dares to take this bet and put their money where their mouth is. Of course with escrow.It's all nonsense talk and lies of everyone 'im betting by buying coins' yea sure that's why the price is dropping, because everyone is buying...Be a man, make a real bet. Well i don't know about a big drop but it certainly isn't going up.With a possibly critical mass of users having been scammed out of 30% of their btc at bitfinex you can expect them to dump and never touch bitcoin again. Believe me, they are not going to recommend btc to anyone unless they hate them. It's just waiting now for everyone to get access again to their funds. So far i can't do anything on my account, just view it. Except for the fact that it never did recover from the Gox drama... The market will just absorb 1% of the entire supply being stolen as if it didn't happen? I highly doubt it, maybe in Unicorn Land... Though that's where many people here seem to live anyway. I guess you haven't been around long. Bitcoin has never 'recovered' just like that after such an event.This is a complete clusterf*ck for the entire bitcoin economy and it's going to be a very close call whether or not the entire network will survive this.Anyone believing this was a "hack" and not just another scam in the bitcoin world has lost his marbles. Considering we are likely going down to $400-$500 buying now is just dumb.
If the past is any indicator this would only mean we are in for much lower prices in the future.I recommend to sell now and buy back around $450-$500 if indicators are better by then. Hang on there fellas, we're in for a sharp drop and a wild ride as panic and fear starts to dominate the market.Exposure of bitcoins weaknesses to the bigger public will have a dramatic effect on the market. Nothing new. We were on a slippery slope long before the halving hype started. We had a small boost because of all the hyping. Now it's back to the slippery slope we were on 3-5% decrease daily if not more and if we don't get a massive crash. Those are baseless expectations a lot of people have, being ignorant of bitcoins fundamental flaws or simply sticking their heads in the sand.Exactly why a big crash is pretty much guaranteed and bitcoin is about the most dangerous investment one could have. It's skyrocketing like everyone is expecting, can't you see? Lol...*laughs at chart* Just because a conman is successful at pulling of his scam doesn't mean it's not a scam set up to fail/get exposed eventually.Bitcoin is fundamentally flawed and can't work as it doesn't scale nor offers any usable anonymity.Worse, everybody ignores this and don't care to fix it. Nope. Just going down further. Don't hold onto illusions. You should really educate yourself.Bitcoin is fundamentally flawed, not anonymous and does not scale.All this bitcoin promotion you see is just guys afraid to lose their tulips imaginary worth and sell asap to the next fool.Invest in crypto 2.0. The truth about the bitcoin scam and its fundamental flaws is getting more and more exposure but slowly. The bitcoin scammers are trying hard to keep their ponzi scheme alive with promises of magic and wealth for everyone.Fundamentals are broken. It's going down slowly but will accellerate as soon as we deop sub 500. Panic kicking in nicely again. It's getting harder and harder to suppress the truth about this failing coin. What is happening is dump after dump after dump. Every day more and more people learn about bitcoins flawed fundamentals and realize it can never work specially since nobody seems to care to fix it.Second thing that is happening is dumps by people who bought into the halving hype that never happened.The only thing that will happen now is more and more dumps as exposure of this scam grows.I have to point out bitcoin is not a scam by itself but the community has turned it into one. One with far too many victims already. Be smart. Be safe. Educate yourself. Invest in future proof crypto. Still holding onto my balls here for that 'moon after halving' you were all talking about...*Looks at an ever sinking chart...* What is happening is everyone is waiting for that price rise that isn't coming. Once people start realizing there will be no rise the prise will plummet towards 200-300. We will see from there but i suspect by then the network will be severely crippled by all the miners quitting, stagnating the network as a result. And this is exactly how it's going to cripple bitcoin. So many miners will stop after the halving as they don't feel like running at a significant loss. Leaving the network crippled, crashing the price, causing more miners to quit, and there we have a nice vicious circle where Bitcoin ends up as Tulip Mania 2.0. Crypto 2.0 can probably do this, bitcoin can not, fundamentally impossible because of all the flaws in the protocol. Worse than no market depth, the protocol is fundamentally broken and people are trying hard to hide that fact just to get other sheeple to buy their bags. Still two days and the charts are already plummeting... this is going to be one massive clusterfuck... It's already dropping like a rock, exactly as i predicted. And this is just the start of a massive crash during and after the halving that will cripple the entire bitcoin network.We had a great run and an even better chance to make something revolutionary but people got too greedy and well here we see the result, a sinking ship with no way to save it. LOL well that illusion got shattered quickly.  In fact, i can guarantee it will plummetIf anyone wants to make a bet with escrow on this, please send me a pm.
What is so hard to understand about flawed fundamentals?A system that can't support any reasonable size of userbase is doomed to fail. You seriously believe that segwit crap? We've been promised a solution for years, it never happened and development has never been as dead as it is now. The halving is already well calculated into the current price. It's actually quite overhyped because of it. What underlying bull market?You're deluding yourself.Focus of all the smart people is on crypto 2.0.Bitcoin is fundamentally flawed and nobody is willing to fix it. The dump is on! See you guys at $500 later today. Because the fundamentals are still flawed and you just got scammed again by the pump'n'dump whales. Right. Please PM me if you're willing to make a serious bet on that with escrow. Unlikely to truly rise.Fundamentals are broken.The community is dominated by whale scammers and pump and dump schemes. What's happening? Really? It's called pump and dump scam.Rich get more rich and the average Joe gets scammed out of his money. Right... This bubble is dropping like a rock and you're talking about a rise...The delusion is quite strong isn't it, Let me think... Considering this was all a sham... Mmm nobody.We will probably settle around 300 again. Dip isn't in yet, we still have at least 20% to drop. Call me a contra indicator all you want, that chart says it all... The panic is only going to accelerate, always does... You can expect that 650 within 30 mins Completely irrelevant, all he needs to do is convince a bunch of non tech people that he invented bitcoin. Which is why he's so dangerous. Ignorance is our societies worst enemy. Very dangerous indeed. He only has to trick them into making them believe he is satoshi. Which he apparently is very good at. He had the vast majority fooled with his false proof last time. We will have a new ATH they said...It will plummet again because we haven't fixed the fundamentals I said...*stares at the charts* Anyone talking about cashing out does not remotely understand what bitcoin is about and is sadly stuck in the old world economics. I highly suapect we are back on the slippery alope again with anotger serious dump or two coming right up. Possibly, the hype is on.Fundamentals are still fckdup so take profit while you can and be safe.
You can yell FUD all you want, fact remains Bitcoins fundamentals need to be fixed. @r0achYou speak many truths but you also keep ignoring big problems with bitcoin.ETH being a scam is irrelevant to bitcoins problems.If we want bitcoin to work we need to fix IT instead of bashing altcoins. Why i'm a permabear? Are you kidding? Flawed fundamentals is not enough?http://blockspeed.info/ All i can say is this is turning into one giant clusterfuck exactly as i predicted well over a year ago... Who cares about its effect on the price? Only if you're interested in bitcoin to make profit in fiat i guess one woule care.This should be if much greater concern to all of us that want bitcoin to actually work and bring something good to the world economy and financial freedom for the people.I've been warning ahout this for well over a year now but people in large numbers seem to happily stick their heads in the sand and act as if there is no huge ass problem right in front of them.I'll say it again, this will kill bitcoin within the year if it is not fixed. So far i got 2 people on board that are willing to work on a future proof scaleable Bitcoin but it would be even better if we got the entire community and specially main devs to actually solve this. Are you really all too ignorant about flawed fundamentals? Nope, already down $40 today... That's not up and up.. WARNING: DO NOT INVEST IN OUTDATED TECHNOLOGY LIKE BITCOIN. Well there's your answer, plummeting real nicely.... Probably a whole lot more of what we are seeing right now, dropping like a rock. Bitcoin dropping like a rock. Future proof and feature rich ETH is skyrocketing... What a complete surprise. So? Remember the tulip mania? Just because something is being hyped doesn't mean it's fundamentals are right or effective or even functional for its purpose.Realize bitcoin does not scale first and that there is no solution in sight, even though we've been promised it will be solved in time. Currently any solution would cause a hardfork bringing a whole shtload of drama and 'sides' with it.And that's only one of the big issues that just need to be addressed before bitcoin can really be a thing with a future. Sure, except you're forgetting the network will stop working once blocks are full all the time. Nobody in his right mind want to use a fully NSA traceavle currency anyway. We have to improve on these points as many alts already have. Brexit won't happen regardless of votes.The importance of EU stability is just too important for the big players to let the public change their plans.Anyone thinking brexit will or even could happen does not know history or even what the EU is about. ... Does not exist.Looking through the recent pump scam. Please all remember that the price does not matter, the systems fundamentals do. Anything else is just hype.Let's consider for a moment that the network is slowly stagnating as blocks reach their maximum size. Bitcoin still does not scale.We have been promised 'everything will be fixed in time', this 'time' has long passed.The community has been taken over by scammers, many developers have ran away to more promising projects, development in general has halted, mining has become centralized by the Chinese.IF we want bitcoin to survive in one form or the other, we have to work together and address all its problems.I want to propose a fork to address all the big issues in bitcoin, mainly scaleability, anonymity, speed and security.Please send me a PM if you are a skilled experienced programmer or cryptography expert, also we will need people to promote the new fork but let's work on the actual fork first.Let's show everyone how bitcoin was supposed to be right from the start. You're all ignoring the huge btc stash getring auctioned for low value, you can be certain this will be dumped at the market shortly after the deal. As the Chinese are preparing to sell, it will trigger a chain reaction of panic selling.The Australian auction will cause the initial massive dump and we could even drop under $200 if the market is as weak as i suspect it is.There may still he a little profit to make here but be careful, these will be bloody streets soon. Stop it with all the bs already, there won't be any rise. Any increase that would happen has long been calculated into the current price.The only thing we will see caused by this nonsense is disappointments on crazy expectations, causing panic selling. Nope. We will just slide back to around $420 and hang around there for a year more or so. Of course it's 'okay' they either destroy confiscated property or sell it, if it's money it will be used as funding directly.
I agree, this whole halving hype will leave so many in the community burned...We might see a crash never seen before and even stagnation of the entire network.Sad it has come to this. Right now bitcoin is a very dangerous investment, it's at the top of a hype now. There's notging backing bitcoin, and i'm not talking about value backing with tangible assets, I'm talking about the community and developers ignoring fundamental problems with the system.We can save bitcoin only if we want to offer ourselves and the world a solution and not think of our personal greed for a moment. Anyone thinking a 24k btc dump won't drop the price is out of his mind... ETH will take over bitcoin because it addresses problems that the bitcoin community fails to do.The bitcoin community and developers stick their heads in the sand and act if there are bo problems.I'm a big proponent of bitcoin itself over ETH but the community is killing bitcoin.I'll probably get another ban again for saying this , so be it, the only way bitcoin can survive and grow is if we recognize and acknowledge its problems and try to address them. Bitcoin is crippled and with the rise of Ethereum it's soon to collapse conpletely by superior competition and because its destroying itself. ETH is quickly taking over crypto, nothing can stop it basically. It's superior in every way imaginable to all other crypto.Haters gonna hate. I LOL'ed quite decently at this... It's possible this will happen later today, i would wait till 0.00001 to buy a whole bunch just for fun and take a scresnshot, afterwards we won't be able to use them anyway. Amaxing, the tension within the community is so high, even outside it is. My frienda who know nothing about bitcoin are asking me what will happen now.Well here's what, an epic crash which we have never seen before, the MtGox aftermath will look like a joke.I believe it is fundamentally impossible to recover from the exposure of Satoshi.If you want a nice reminder of the fun times we had, place your orders now at 0.0001 $ and you can tell your grandchildren you once held hundreds of thousands of a 'revolutionary' cryptocurrency that vanished in the blink of an eye.I can only hope the new verification tuens out to be fraudulent too.Bitcoin deserves to be fixed and saved, not put to waste. When Craig verifies he is Satoshi later today we will drop to double digits within minutes and not recover.Exposing Satoshi, no matter who he is will almost instantly destroy bitcoin. Which i believe was the whole plan of Craig and Gavin in the first place. They will probably offer us a 'magical solution' once bitcoin and its economy are in ruins.Problem-Reaction-Solution-Profit All that was shown is that the signature he posted wasn't a 'satoshi signature', which he never claimed it was in the first place. It's the media and people here that made those claims, not him.We will see verification later today.Then there is your ensurance for an epic crash of the whole system as the only thing he can and must do is sell hundreds of thousands of coins to pay his huge tax bill. At this point i would say holding bitcoin is one of the dumbest things one can do.With Satoshi revealed he either has to hand control of millions of coins to government or he will sell them.Both cases will destroy bitcoin. I believe they are 'protecting' the real Satoshi and the they need time for him to do this verification so they can publish it.  Received your coins, thank you so much!    fipo 17AVBgzwt7CSieFEmBrU5oaFjLFxoeXvNy Tell me how youbhack or fake a digital bitcoin/pgp signature... Roght, you don't. It's time all you nay sayers in denial accept and praise the founder of bitcoin. You all respected him before he got a name, now you know the face behind it y'all go boo-hoo?Sad... Really sad... Weeks of slow hard gaining undone in a few hours by the whales holding 99.99999% of all bitcoin and controlling the network Of course. It's not about the country, it's about basically a hand full of people owning and controlling the entire network. Except that it's not nonsense because the chinese are in control of that mining power that people put to their pools. The CEO of Bitcoin told me it would be $1000/btc byt i'm sure he's lying as the system is fundamentally bound to collapse with the halving.
That's good news. Unfortunately steam is so ridiculously expensive compared to other game stores. What i hate about it?It's not anonymous (fully traceable).It's slow as f*ck.It doesn't scale.Mining has become centralized.Development is very slow (if any is left..)Banks, governments and regulatory bodies are cracking down on it.The community around it lost all vision to build a better future and something actually functional and beneficial to society. Everyone is just in it to make more fiat. It looks like the dumps are on again. Prepare for a wild ride!Will we drop below $400 this time? OB offers very little privacy and nothing that offers a trustworthy transaction.I can't really see it go anywhere without those basic features. Would it hurt to stop straw manning me? Sure... Waiting for that signed message...... Let me guess, they won't use that as a method of verification but instead use magical stories. It looks like the latest rumors are starting to affect the market. People getting scared that satoshi will dump.I can see that $400 breaking within the day. Yay panic! No effects it's not him anyway. Extremely easy to prove. As more and more people discover that the implementation of SegWit only pushes the problem forward for maybe a few months, we can expect prices to plummet again. Unfortunately OB doesn't have a trust system.  This would have to be done by a 3rd party outdide OB somehow... which really complicates things and doesn't help the whole thing get off the ground IMHO.  It looks like the buyer picks the moderator and the funds will be sent to a 2-3 multisig address.Sounds like an easy team up between buyer and moderator to scam the seller.Possibly the seller has to agree with that specific moderator first? If that's the case, how would a seller determine the moderator is trustworthy, since there's not trust system builtin to OB? Besides a hype. I would call it a scam.There are only a few at coins that bring something significant to the world of crypto where bitcoin can still grow, eth is definitely not one of them.I just hope all of bitcoin,  that means the main developers all contributors, miners and the community as a whole will work on making and keeping bitcoin strong by learning from others and acknowledging there are problems that need to be addressed.Reading up on SegWit gives me some hope. I assume it will work with Web of Trust, which will be rigged right from the start with thousands of fake accounts giving each other good ratings and fake feedback.I suspect this will turn out to become a big scam fest.  We will see. The idea as a whole is awesome of course, just like bitcoin.  How about we try to fix all the problems with bitcoin before we go on to declare it the future. Something which in its current form is an absolute impossibility.  Maintaining the status quo for now is the only thing profitable for them but will kill uᴉoɔʇᴉq in the end.The Chinese, like most if not all emerging cultures, are in for short term profit.They really couldn't care less about what uᴉoɔʇᴉq is or what its potential is or how their actions could harm others.When uᴉoɔʇᴉq dies they will just jump on whatever next thing is profitable at that time. I'm not anti-bitcoin. I'm anti-ignoring-problems.There are some serious problems with bitcoin itself and its ecosystem that are structurally being ignored, harming the future of a potentially great and revolutionary technology.China dominating mining is a problem because they have limited and totally controlled bandwidth to the rest of the world, limiting any new proposal we will try to roll out for the block-size problem. They will not accept bigger blocks because it requires a lot of bandwidth which is expensive for them. I'm guessing the database got hacked.  With China now owing about 75% of the mining power i think in all their greed they will destroy bitcoin.They will never allow the protocol to change to accept larger blocks since it's not in their interest.You don't have much time left to sell your bags. Just because the price went up from point A to point B doesn't mean that it hasn't been in decline most of the time. The big spike by the willy-bot caused this high value but trendwise, most time was spent on a decline.Of course they consist of many small miners. The point is that the pools are in control and can push changes in the protocol easily before people would have time to notice and/or switch, causing again a hard fork at a later point if people will move away from those pools in big enough numbers.MURICA! What i'm talking about? Really?Bitcoin does not scale. "We will solve it when it becomes a problem." is what we've heard for the past years, now it's becoming a problem and there is no working solution or even remotely a consensus of what a solution should look like. This will almost certainly result in at least one split chain when people start forking bitcoin and promoting their 'real bitcoin'.Bitcoin does not offer reasonable (pseudo)anonymity. Something which has been one of the core ideas of bitcoin since the very start has been proven to be false and it's in fact very traceable and easy to correlate.Mining centralization, it's not just happening, bitcoin mining is already very centralized, basically the whole thing is run and controlled by a hand full of people, which are probably the same people that own 99% of all bitcoins anyway.Globally governments are criminalizing bitcoin (or crypto in general), either legally or on the media/public 'wall of shame'.Banks are increasingly refusing to do business with bitcoin-related businesses.Exchanges are getting locked down and want to know every little detail of your life. Who are you, what do you do, where do you live, where do your coins come from, how do you plan on using them, how many do you have. This is worse than what's happening with fiat, and on purpose of course, they need to destroy bitcoin to prevent it from catching on and getting development again.
People will realize it was a hype/scam all along and they aren't making any profits, in fact, the price is slowly declining as it does most of the time. They get scared to lose their investment, they sell, more sell, panic sell. We drop to 230-260. Of course we know what's going to happen.If your car runs out of engine oil and has two broken wheels you know you're in for trouble right? Well that's a problem.There's not going to be any good news. Development has pretty much halted. Problems remain. Unless something is done to solve the big problems bitcoin suffers and people start developing bitcoin and its ecosystem again, it's guaranteed a silent death. Or it could be quick too when big players start to dump. Looks like the market is answering your question... the developers are still not solving the big problems so there is no clear future and much uncertainty. The only option left is down. It's crashing and you're thinking it's undervalued?Nope. It's worth exactly what people are willing to pay for it. And nowadays it looks like people rather want to get rid of it than pay for it to get more. Bye bye 420  you look so far away already... In case you didn't notice we're having quite some difficulty staying above 400. We've seen similar patterns before and it only ended in a 50% reduction of value. The same we can expect now, possibly even more with the halving-scam going on. I don't think there has ever been a rise in value after a period of 'stability', only crashes. 4. Although crypto nor bitcoin will completely die anytime soon. The whole halving is so extremely overhyped we can expect at least a 30-40% drop in the days following the halving.Several governments and banks are picking up on blockchain technology. Smart people invest in those technologies because they will be the only ones that survive and be legal in the future. More harsh times for bitcoin across the horizon.Now that merchants are stopping accepting bitcoin in their stores we can expect a significant (20-30%) drop in the next weeks.  I'm not anti-bitcoin. I'm anti-hype and I think problems should be recognized and worked on instead of ignored and left unattended.IMHO bitcoin still has great potential. The distribution of wealth will always be unequal. Even if you give every person in the world the same amount of money it will end up distributed very unequal.Some people just know how to offer services and products that others want. The masses will consume like sheep without ever investing in themselves or the society they live in. You mean dump, right? Because there are people with money pumping it making you feel it's a good investment so you and many others will jump on the bandwagon so they can sell and make profit? I don't see ETH as anything significant but I'm sure the shills that will comment in this topic next will tell me how wrong I am and it's the best investment ever. This is starting to get really annoying. Educate yourself and realize the protocol is fundamentally broken and will not scale realistically without seriously addressing those issues. Any rise in price is nothing more than a pump and dump to take your money. Bitcoin has been declared long dead by all foremost experts in the fields of applied economics and Internet technologies. Everyone investing in bitcoin just deserves to lose their money after ignoring so many warnings. A lot of you guys still don't seem to realize that bitcoin is fundamentally broken and unless these things get fixed there is no bright future for it. I doubt it. Lower 300s are much more likely. There is no reason for bitcoin to be valuable as it is with current broken protocol. Congratulations. You got scammed out of your real money once again by the pump and dumpers.After hundreds of warnings I can only laugh.The apparent strong uptrend completely got shattered again and we can expect prices to drop down to 300-320 before stabilizing slightly.Just warning you guys again.THERE IS NO UPTREND UNTIL THE PROTOCOL GETS FIXED. It's almost certain that the bitcoin network will collapse after the great disappointment of the halving. I explained all the reasons before.
Hey guys. Look at that. It's crashing again! How on earth is that possible?Tnx for the profits by the way. Keep buying! Waaaaait for it...... Right now to profit. Bought a bunch at 380. Dumping right now before everyone else. It's a great market to make big profits.  Stop spreading lies. Bitcoin doesn't scale and doesn't offer much protection in terms of privacy.@amph of course it won't magically skyrocket bitcoin but it is one of the first requirements for it. You can replace that question with: Are the problems being fixed?Answering that questing will also answer the question if the price will go up or not.Considering bitcoins problems and limitations at this point I believe it's still highly overpriced. The price will rise once the core problems have been addressed. Any rise before that is a pump'n'dump.Bitcoin is being artificially and possibly intentionally limited by both the community and developers.My guess is that the government and banks involvement with Bitcoin is far greater than we could have ever imagined. I guess we will see if this is the case depending on weather or not these core problems get resolved. Although I'm highly annoyed by the community ignoring the problems with bitcoin.  Most of these alts are just a scam and a very bad investment at best.Eth is definitely in this category of things to avoid. It's hyped like crazy right now by the loads of shills. We all know what happens after the hype.IMHO the best bet is fixing bitcoin.  Ah yes Gold. Thé resource with amazing intrinsic socially constructed value. We were on our way back but then people decided to panic dump again. This has been going on for two years now. People are scared and there is no solution in sight for all the real problems bitcoin has. Don't expect the "slow rise, hard dump" pattern to change for a long time to come,  if ever. Y'all talking about core devs fixing things...You realize they have been 'solving' these issues for like 4 years right...? What changed this time? Oh wait nothing changed, we will still be having this same discussion 2 years from now when the price is 10-30 and Y'all be saying devs are almost ready to roll out the solution.Until I see some actual improvements I remain skeptical.IF solutions are implemented, bitcoin can be really great. This applies. Replace 'bass' with 'bitcoin'.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XCawU6BE8P8 I don't see why it would rise as long as fundamentals are broken.Bitcoin needs to be fixed before we think of a price increase. Sorry where was that floor again? With the blocksize drama escalating we clearly see people flee to alternatives that offer a solution. I wonder if we will be able to maintain bitcoin as the number one crypto currency for much longer. Things are changing quickly and the downward spiral is going down faster and faster.People seem more scared than ever before.I feel sad that everyone is so scared and dumping. You're not helping the cause of what bitcoin aims to be.Is this what we wanted? I think not. Let's change our mindset. Let's make this work instead of fleeing scared. Why is the most part of the community ignoring the fundamental problems bitcoin has?I'm just flabbergasted every time I see people either ignore the problems,  claim they are no problem at all, or say 'oh it eill be fixed when it becomes a problem.'.I can't believe we are letting such a wonderful project die slowly without even attempting to fix what went wrong.Many of the problems Satoshi planned to have fixed years ago,  every day it will become harder to fix it as the network grows, until it doesn't and dies.My question is... why?Are too many of you invested in Altcoins that it benefits you to kill bitcoin? Are the developers compromised by banks or government or do they have a different agenda? Recovered to 390 and falling... some recovery....The only recovery possible is fixing what is broken!  I'll say it once more...Broken fundamentals and stagnated development.Broken fundamentals aren't bad if there are people willing to resolve it.Right now that last part is totally missing within the whole of the bit coin community.Sure, go ahead and tell everyone it will be fixed when it needs to be. I've debunked that argument over and over. The time to fix what's broken with bitcoin is yesterday rather than today or tomorrow. You know what accumulators do with their assets when they find their investment is broken at its very core? They dump... Aaaaahhh so that's what this continuous downward trend means!  It's growing! Now I finally understand. Thanks for clearing that up  Well there's your answer...Still no reply from the dev team regarding the current crisis and technical issues...I don't see the price going up as long as development is dead...
It's fixable yes, but it requires a hard-fork, which could be problematic if there's no consensus within the community. The dynamic or scheduled blocksize increase should have been implemented years ago to decrease the risk of split chains and all the drama. The longer we wait with this, the bigger the risk of it resulting in a complete catastrophe.True, but i believe there are more green ways to sustain the network than using PoW, however green, i'm not a big fan of the alternatives i've read about so far for economic and security reasons.Let's hope so, it naturally balances out but i think it may just be too big to distribute somewhat fairly across the global community. Considering the value bitcoin could get with mass adoption this could be very dangerous i think.This comes back to my argument that development has stagnated... "X will not be an issue when Y is solved." That's all nice and flowers and honey, but Y1,2,3,4... do not get addressed, as such, the problem remains. - It doesn't scale to any level that could be considered significant in the world of finances. We can barely get the 3tps, which isn't close to the theoretical 7tps. If you compare that to even small payment providers it isn't even anything significant.- Only 8% of the money supply is physical. We have moved on from your ancient view of money a long time ago.- Inequality is far worse within the bitcoin community than in regular fiat systems. Inequality will aholways be and isn't bad per se, what is bad is that bitcoin operates more like a ponzi in this sense. A small hand full of users was given big handouts right from the start when other people weren't even aware of it. At least with fiat everyone has aware more or less fair start. You do work aware earn depending on that. Early adopters got Rich by doing nothing.- Credit cards have had their best time. Banks are deploying newer more intuitive and faster payment methods every day. There are many systems far worse than bitcoin in this sense, there are also systems far better.- No.. I don't want a 3rd party. One of the core ideas behind bit coin was getting rid of the middle man, your solution: 'add a middle man'...?- No, correlating addresses has become quite easy with all the blockchain tools available to us now. You only need to connect one of them to a real-world identity.What agenda are you talking about? All i would like to see is bitcoin get back on it's tracks of being an innovative revolutionary system that solves problems we have in our current monetary system and that is available to everyone.- Yet, blind groupthink is what's going on here on a big scale, everybody ignoring or lying away problems in order to sell their bags to the next fool. How about we address and resolve these issues before we start to promote it to the average Joe again... He doesn't call bitcoin failed because of the price.  It failed because of broken fundamentals and stagnated development to resolve these issues. Bitcoin doesn't scale.Mining operations are becoming more and more centralized.Mining is an inefficient wasteful and toxic process for the environment.The vast majority of coins is owned by a hand full of people.Confirmations are too slow for every day use.Transactions are fully traceable,  not anonymous.Need I go on? Convince the operators of antpool and f2pool to change the system one way or another and there you have your 51% Right... 4 people holding more than the botom 40% USD is worse than 2 or 3 people holding 99% of bitcoin.Somebody missed emelemtary calculus... Sell. It's called pump and dump. This was the pump, you can guess three times what comes next.Fundamentally broken protocol does not get fixed by some pumpers increasing the price for their own profit.A long time ago we were not here for profit, we were here to change the world of finance.Oh well, that time is long gone... Don't worry. There will be plenty opportunity to buy sub 400.Fundamentals are still broken. Bitcoin doesn't scale and has become centralized.Just have to convince two people running mining pools and you can change anything you want. I don't think it's hard to pressure people into doing that. Ahh yes.. centralized... can't have that... oh wait... bitcoin is centralized... I don't know who in their right mind would ever even think of investing in something with a broken protocol... Why is it almost every single one of you guys just ignore the utterly broken fundamentals? I'm not a pwrma-anything. I just recognize real problems and that there isn't done and my thing about it... this simple fact endangers bit coin. As long as problems aren't tackled there is no future for bitcoin. We've been promised for years that it would be solved. It hasn't. .. I would wait at least till low 300s before buying. Wait a few days for that price and see where the market is standing then. I think everyone can agree that were looking at a ~200 target but it looks like we will arrive there rather quickly.Of course the halving has already been calculated into the current price, Wichita will result in another disappointment when the halving is due, causing again another crash which could bring us to 50-70. Against all hopes of the development team responding to this emergency situation, as expected, it remained all quiet.Orderboek are shifting again. Selling pressure is increasing and investors and even average Joes are moving their assets into safer more future proof investments like Dash and Ethereum. Another sad day and week for bitcoin I'm afraid. No it's not. We've been hearing that for years now. Bitcoin development is dead.The only real action taken was Bitcoin XT, it was a chance to solve the scaling issue but it got rejected and censored by the community. We've been hearing those 'technical challenges' will be overcome for well over 5 years now...I'm not convinced! Always go back to fundamentals.How are they?Currently very bad, not supporting a rally.When problems get addressed we can move on up again. Let's hope sentiment hasn't killed it by then. No need to wait for lower 300 by halving. We will be there before Sunday.By the time of the halving we will be way sub $100 if nothing is done to repair bitcoin.  Hearn didn't kill anything. We all did a long time ago by ignoring serious core problems and wishing it away instead of working together to solve it.
You're right, the mining power has recovered a bit. Question is for how long, with the price continuing to plummet I feel the only thing that can save is from this downward spiral is an upgrade to Bitcoin Core resolving the biggest issue at hand, the enormous backlog of unconfirmed transactions and scaling problem. Ehhh no they aren't.  Which is exactly what Mike Hearn revealed to a larger audience. So you're saying bitcoin doesn't have big problems like a huge backlog of unconfirmed transactions caused by it being unable to scale in its current form?Please enlighten us? We have to acknowledge the problems and work to find solutions, not put dirt in our eyes and hope it goes away and we can sell coins to the next fool that is unaware of current problems. He mentioned all of this long before his blog post. It's basically a summary and announcement of him quitting.I can only hope this shakes and wakes up the community to unite us all again and we can finally start resolving bit coins problems to make it future proof.  Cryptsy event is completely irrelevant.  The amount of coins stolen is so incredibly small. Yea we should really censor this place even more... we have to recognize problems and take them by the head, not ignore them and let bitcoin die. About 1/4th of my posts are removed..  I think that's more than enough...Price goes up price goes down.. it's all people care about these days... greed... I remember a whole different kind of community. I joined bitcoin for very different reasons...Everything was openly talked about back then,  people would actually listen to each other and bring arguments to the table that could help improve bitcoin as a whole. No he doesn't need to apologize. Only the community is guilty of bitcoins current messy situation.We have to stop scamming around and start working on making bitcoin work for the future.What many of us are doing is just killing it, which also means killing your own investment.Acknowledge existing issues and try to work on it instead of playing blame games and pump and dumps.We want something to change the world for the better right? Sure.. when you run out of arguments or evidence, just call bullshit. Hash power is down to 693 mln ghash/'s from 909mln ghash/s It's a downward spiral. Already 30% of miners have shutdown their operation over this crash. Making the network significantly weaker and slower yet again.Bitcoins scalability problem doesn't go away with 'oh it will be fine, the price will recover'. Besides an unfounded position it's also a selfish one not considering the potential of Bitcoin for this entire world. There is serious work that needs to be done for Bitcoin to survive. -25% in 48 hours. No investment other than bitcoin will get rid of your money this fast!With Mike Hearns revelation to the public the collapse has only started.In the coming weeks more dirt will be revealed and the price can easily go down another 50-75%.Remember Mikes blog is only now starting to gain attention. This is a small thing compared to what's coming. Poor dip buyers... they keep on getting screwed over... It was pretty obvious bitcoin was dying for everyone in the light.A lot of people tried to hide, twist and censor the facts. Mike Hearne finally exposed them. Total collapse = price jump?Mental issues? There are a lot of reasons why it is crashing and will not recover.Go educate yourself on when you're investing in. I guess you haven't read his blog.Maybe you should. The problems run much much deeper. Why?Mike Hearn quitting bitcoin and revealing the dirty truth behind bitcoin...Crytsy exchange scamming people for millions... Will you still be satisfied tomorrow when it goes sub 350? Sorry but holding is just stupid. If you're a true believer it's stupid because it's an opportunity to sell high buy low and make enormous profits when it rises again as you claim to believe.However, belief in bitcoin is totally unwarranted,  the system is fundamentally flawed and rigged and the ecosystem has become corrupt to its core. Gosh... you people are so blind...The whole thing is collapsing. It couldn't be any more obvious... Ehh no... there is no support in that range... check the order books. ... No high value future for btc.With Hearn leaving it's pretty much guaranteed we won't even hold $300...Over the past week almost 2 million btc have been dumped.. that's insane..
This. I'm not against it. I just see it for what it is right now and what some of us wanted it to be.I recognize the flaws and the lack of development.Bitcoin isn't dead yet but it definitely needs serious action if it wants to stay in the game. On both the development level and economic/social level. Panic is kicking in, prepare to dive below 400. https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1323131.msg13516984#msg13516984 I did. Read my two posts before this one. Surprise! I warned you all and you all ignored me. Enjoy your losses. Oh there will be a huge dump already.If you just look at the thousands of coins being loaded into their enumerated deposit addresses you know this thing is about to go down...Just a matter of when people will hit the sell button.  Yep, causing a slow collapse of the entire network...Confirmations will take forever and the network security will plummet. People will lose trust in the system and sell even more, and the spiral continues down. I'm predicting 380 at the day of halving after a few day run up from the high 200-low 300 range.In the days after we risk falling down to around 120 because of all the disappointment and panic caused by that.Price should have doubled too! Angry! Sell! Stoopid bitcoonz Oh he... will you look at that... it's going down. ..Who on earth expected that... 15% gold15% stock30% silver20% real estate 10% fiat8% altcoin2% bitcoinYes I still have bitcoin in my portfolio. All the problems bitcoin have can still be solved, it doesn't look like it's going to be solved or even worked on, but who knows.@outofmindI don't think you're a good investor if you think the price will go up because of the halving.... check amazon for Economics 101 for dummies. Just watch the charts.. the crash seem to have been delayed but it's going down right now.Sentiment is negative. Selling pressure is high. Fundamentals are weak. Where is 450? I'm pretty sure we've hit the top.Fundamentals are still problematic and the halving is already calculated into the current price.When people realize all the problems of bitcoin and the predictions of a big price increase at the halving doesn't happen a major crash is guaranteed. Haha another scammed trying to sell his bags to the greater fool.This thing is going down any time now. We already dropped under 450 You can expect btc to crash real hard soon. Fear is really strong right now and growing rapidly, it's a matter of time before people start mass panic selling again. I recommend putting most in alternative and more promising investments. Maybe keep 1-5 btc. I guess you haven't been paying attention to the bitcoin development and projects built on top of it to solve some of its problems  Added features? Oh you mean premine and PoS scam? Lol Altcoins.  ..I know bitcoin has plenty of problems but Altcoins are not a solution neither do the vast majority of them have any potential or future. Ahhh yes.. you mean those fundamentals that are broken on so many levels? Good argument! Lmao I hate to say I told you so....So I'm not... just watch your money burn away...
Bitcoin thrives on illegal activity.Once the criminals running these activities get caught the bitcoin scheme will completely collapse. Sorry to disappoint you. But TA and fundamental flaws do not lie.If there ever was a time to sell/short, it is now. You mean like an exact chance?Well it's hard to be exact but that would be between 0.0% and 0.0% Fasten your seat belts. This crash is going to be interesting.  Make sure you have nothing invested that you can't lose.TA shows this could be a new low. Happy new year man.Although it seems you already had a liiiiittle bit too much to drink with your predictions.I really hope bitcoin will have a bright future and a great year upcoming, there is a lot to be fixed, let's fix it! It's going down again, expecting a big dump soon bringing us to $400-405. Will we be able to keep our heads above $400 or do we drown? You realize that all VC going into block chain tech is not doing this in bitcoin but their own or other corporate alternatives right? Yeah it's all looking very grim. Let's hope we don't fall below $320 the first week of January already. You'll just continue to blindly ignore all the serious problems bitcoin has? On protocol and socio-economic and political and legal aspects? $37 Stop lying roach. This scam is going to end soon. Lol if anything the bear market is growing.Sentiment is very negative. VC is retreating from bitcoin investments. Early adopters are selling massive amounts... If there is no price rise (which there won't be,  I can guarantee you that, pm to make escrow bets).So there are only two options; People don't care and the price stays roughly the sameDreams are scattered and people sell off causing yet another crash.Of course the latter will happen as there are very high expectations throughout the whole community.Don't forget that these extreme delusional expectations are already calculated into the current price! I understand that you feel positive about this year's up rise of the price.But there's really no need to throw in lies. For more than two years bitcoin has been in steady decline, a trend which seems to be similar as to what we are seeing now.We are still waiting for the big crash like the one that caused the two year decline after 1200-200 crash. New calculations indicate this upcoming crash will land us around $63 per btc and slowly down from there. Which is surprisingly close to the real economic value of bit coin, maybe it stands after small chance of stability at that level. If banks and governments don't kill it off first that is. You realize bitcoins fundamentals are utterly shit right?It isn't anonymous. It doesn't scale.It's mostly used for criminal activities.It's no longer being  actively developed.Big capital is no longer flowing into bitcoin, big companies realize it has no future. Couldn't have said it better,  although I doubt it will only be 10%. Once $400 is broken the road back all the way to $320 is wide open, no resistance.And with the upcoming devastation of the hard fork that is even optimistic! No it's live but nobody really uses it and it doesn't add anything new to the table. Just one of many exchanges that comes and goes. Both EFT and decentralized exchange are things that were supposed to happen not just this year, but already the year before and possibly earlier. Since the very start people started shouting that I've been telling you people it's bollocks and not going to happen.I guess people are just comfortable living in a delusion.  There are much better indicators than difficulty increase caused by one new mining farm.And they all point down... My rational bet would be sell now buy back around $320.I got tricked by my gut feeling earlier today..  reminded me not to trade on feelings... emotional trading always ends badly.
The thing people here  don't like is when it breaks $500 it will likely keep going northwards....-- oh? Why?The adoption is increasing, like it or not( because numbers can't lie)-- what numbers?  Nobody is adopting bitcoin, regular people really couldn't care less about it.The halving is coming too, like it or not-- this has already been calculated into current price levels for for a long time.There will be scarce supply and increased demand-- in a fantasy world... sure...That can only lead to higher prices based on the history of the world's resources.....-- bitcoin is not a resource. It's a useless piece of computer code with more flaws than functions.-- so many new, revolutionary future proof c systems have been a de made since. Bitcoin is technologically dead. The only thing still somewhat alive is the hype.Everyone wants to buy it cheaper... Hence the doorm and gloom threads but they are weaklings as far as the btc economy is concerned.....-- sure everyone wants to buy cheaper. That's why everyone is selling.... History repeats itself all the time.... Let them dump at $4xx and pity them when $10,000  is the norm.....Smiley-- the delusion is strong in this one You don't feel strong about bitcoin  and WANT it to drop? What? Why?So you can buy more of what you don't believe in? Why? Because the real price is around $50 at best.. when there is no fake pumping going on the price will lean towards that. If it drops below $400 I can tell you... SHTF... if we break $400 then $300 is closer than it was from $410 to $400. It seems the dumping continues... Just bought back at $415... gut feeling.... could still easily go below $400 though.. Yeah. .. you guys should really check the charts... my comments are such nonsense... lol..  Why would I buy for $430 if there are masses of people selling them in panic for less than $420? Just quoting so I can point at it later today as it continues to drop below $400. Jup, looks like it's jumping.... from the roof... It's hilarious to see people trip over each other to sell in fear time and time again... also a bit sad... $440 and going down. If you just look at how much volume it took to bring us slowly back from previous $440 to $460 and how very little it took to bring us all the way down again you know the only thing it's going to do is go down for a while. Just in case you missed my warning earlier today...It's dropping quite hard  Ik expecting a small crash the upcoming days. After that a slow rise to 450-500 usd and mid januari a more serious crash to around 200 usd Just sold 80 @ $456 less than an hour ago.Waiting for around 320 at 28 december to buy back. Satoshi planned to take care of the blocksize limit years ago. Unfortunately development has pretty much halted and it has become just one of many dead-code open source projects.His logic and plan was fine, his trust in others to resolve problems in a timely fashion, not so much.Even if a solution is found, it's basically impossible to implement now without completely ravaging the existing ecosystem. Looks like the game is 'Sell all, hold nothing.'  Things are burning down rather quickly these past few days. Lol sorry I had to laugh... that's just funny. Because there's no reason to go up... or even to be this high. The only way is down. If you think this is drastic you'll be in for a complete shock the next 2 days...
The worrisome part is that it took 15k dump 3 days ago to drop $10. Yesterday it took 10k to drop $10. Today it took 5k to drop $10. Aaaaand there we go! Lol.Notice how it drops deeper and deeper every time with the same amount or less coins being dumped? Very bad sign... Yep,  for now sell and see if we can gain some momentum back in the 360-380 range. Low volume going horizontally is pretty much a guarantee of a nice dump upcoming, those are very profitable moments, you can easily take 10-20% profit just in the upcoming 2 days. Interesting to see all these 'expert' opinions missing out on very high maintenance costs...You people certainly never did any mining of any significant scale.... We can't even stay above 450 and you're thinking of 10.000? The delusion is strong in you my friend. Regardless of what he is trying. The price is certainly coming down! Take your profits and wait for sub 400 to buy back. Which is right now. Did you mine or try to mine yourself? If so, you know it's not easy profit, it's risky and requires very large investments for very small profits. The only big profit to be made with mining is if you hold and the price will rise a lot, which is rather unlikely.The miners that we still have left aren't mining for profit, they are dedicated to a cause, they are people who were around with bitcoin when it all started,  for an idea! For the past two years the profit game has been SELL. There 's no reason this will change due to the nature of bitcoin.  Hitting the nail on its head. Someone, most likely a single big party in total control of bitcoin.  In case you hadn't noticed, we're currently at 'the moon', the price has been unable to get any higher and there's an increasing number of significant dumps happening.Very dangerous position to hold/buy at this point. Eventually the miners have to be paid by fees only, forcing the transaction fee to skyrocket. Mining competition is really tight so there are only a hand full of big mining farms.. they will eventually eliminate the weaker ones leaving one or two parties. Meaning bitcoin is no longer decentralized and very vulnerable to manipulation,  lowering its value. Making international wire transfer with your bank 100 times cheaper than using bitcoin.  It's not. Not at all. And one of the many reasons why the bitcoin economy is guaranteed to collapse, essentially making it a ponzi scheme. http://www.coindesk.com/european-union-to-crack-down-on-bitcoin-after-paris-attacks/ If we look at adoption rate it shouldn't be worth more than 50 bucks.... ask yourself. Do you really know anyone else in your real life that uses bitcoin? I'm predicting you'll have to say 'no' in order to be honest. It can easily drop to a tenth of that once EU and US finish their new laws criminalizing the use and posession of all non government/bank digital currency. From what I understand quick progress is being made to push this within 2016. Christmas always seems so far away, right until it's tomorrow!There is no possible scenario where bitcoin will be valued at $700 at least until the halving of the block reward. It's already heavily overpriced and downward pressure is rapidly growing as people start to realize this.Nonetheless I wish you a happy Christmas.God bless. Just quoting so you'll feel silly next month. Just be prepared for more hard drops. Remember there is a hand full of people owning 99.9999% of all btc. They have nothing to lose and only your money to gain.
Great analogy to show that bitcoins are actually monkeys. The only time to buy is immediately during or right after a hard crash. Any other time frame in bit coin is extreme risk to lose a lot of money. So yes, it's time to sell. Buy some back when it's crashing hard and profit from the bounce. Jesus... the price rises a few percent by Chinese manipulators and y'all falling back to your delusions again... For the same reason everyone buys bitcoin; to sell to the next bagholder for a higher price. Gimme those dollars baby! With the biggest governing bodies of the world; USA, China, Russia and EU cracking down on bitcoin while making sure the established banks now own the patent to the technology, the scam the community is making out of bitcoin is so obvious it's mind-boggling how people don't see it.Charging over $400 real dollars for a made up virtual token that will be one of the most illegal things in the near future? What? Yes... this is what greed and ignorance does to people.We had a great idea, they took it from us. Don't let them or the remaining scammed take your hard earned money as well. At best the value of btc will be around $30-50 when used in a niche of underground illegal activities. I'm absolutely laughing my a** off here. You must feel like a complete douchen buying at 470 or whatnot and see it go up in smoke in seconds. Now desperately trying to make people buy your bags before it crashes sub 400.How many of you got your finances burned to ashes today? Just curious... Which is exactly what's happening right now... people don't believe in bit coin, they don't use bitcoin as we envisioned, they don't want bitcoin.Face it, the only thing anyone holding bitcoin right now wants is getting rich in USD or whatever local fiat currency they use. Looks like you got your answer xD Waiting for that PGP signature or movement of coins from the first blocks... let me guess, not going to happen.This guy totally doesn't fit the profile of Satoshi. The explanation is an extremely small market where relatively small trades by slightly more wealthy people can move the entire 'economy' of the currency in a blink of an eye.  Maybe a small run-up towards $500 before early next year new EU and US legislation criminalize all possession and use cases of unlicensed (read: not government/bank controlled) digital/virtual currency. I suspect this will bring the prices down well under $50 before it slowly fades away into a distant memory of what could have been. People have been shouting 'Collapse of the economy soon!" For over two decades now... not going to happen. To our big surprise the big dump has been postponed. It will come soon but we may stay at current levels a bit longer.Notice how there's an enormous pressure keeping it under $400? There is theoretical room to temporarily go up but there's a lot of pressure to keep it down. What do you guys think is going on here? For many people losing 2-3% of their money is a big deal. Although in short term it can lead to similar profits of course,  it's a risk that one should not take lightly. In the end every bitcoin holder will lose it all, if not for the scheme collapsing it will be for the many technical flaws, if not for the flaws it will be for government crackdown (as we see happening in EU right now).This thing and the people in it is starting to look more like a religion every day. Yay for manipulation and bots on a fake market. If anything people get money out of btc in order to cover for the huge holiday expenses. December and Januari are the months of highest debt rates so you can draw your own conclusion as to what people do with their money. You realize the entire Chinese bitcoin market is fake right? This short ramp up will only make it fall Harder.  We will see how the weekend ends.I'm guessing it will be bloody... Just a heads up from our analysis team.We suspect the price will take a hard hit twice this weekend resulting in prices around the $300 mark and recovering to around $320 towards the end of the weekend.Several big players are making some moves in response to the Goldman Sachs patent. I've been saying to get your money out of this thing for ages now. Development has pretty much stopped,  with that any chance for success went down the drain. This is it,  don't lose it all guys. This thing is coming down hard. You forget one problem for this mass adoption... It won't happen because bitcoin doesn't scale.
Whooptiedoo.... and it's as fake as it's always been... So... you're saying criminals do things that are illegal? Now there's a revelation if I've ever seen one...Bitcoin will be offlimits for law abiding citizens that don't want to risk spending their lives in jail.  Are you really that naive?EU claiming terrorist groups have a fortune in bitcoin to fund their agenda is a very classical and effective way to sacre people away from it away to get acceptance to criminalize all use of it. This is exactly what is going to happen.I'm willing to bet a nice amount of real legit money on this if anyone thinks differently feel free to contact me so we can set up an escrow on the bet.I suspect we will see a ban on digital currency (non government) within 6 months time and bitcoin dropping under $30 within that same time frame. No need to stop bitcoin, enough to stop people from using it.Can't ban bitcoin? Russia did just fine with that, no issue whatsoever.Extremely sad and depressing... but this is the unfree and manipulated world that we live in, fully controlled by a hand full of people.  Sad days again in bitcoin land... full bear mode enabled.We will be dropping under 300 within te next 12 hours. Very unlikely. There's an enormous selling pressure growing by the Chinese realizing the market is fake and having been scammed by the exchanges. Also many people realizing the big flaws in bitcoin are moving towards superior coins. The only thing keeping bitcoin this high right now is the fake market and bulls putting in their last money in an effort not to lose everything they have invested in bitcoin. It's not allowed? Then why are pretty much all financial markets dominated by scams and manipulation? XD Thanks. It's a nice read. @zimmahThat's very possible,  wouldn't be the first time. But that's the fun of it eh? You win some, you lose some. People cutting their losses? No idea.... 21% drop in 24 hours... we haven't had that many times before yet.Panic is real I suppose. Sad but true... I think it would make Satoshi a little sad.... That's what they said about 800,  then 700,  then 600,  then 500 and so on... we all know how that worked out...This recent pump and dump only added more victims to the very long list of people who lost big time on bit coin. Isn't bitcoin to help everyone? That was the vision of many of us long ago,  unfortunately a whole new greedy and selfish wave of users pretty much took over the community and ravaged it and all the potential it had.I think a safe buy-zone right now is 150-170 this crash has way too much velocity to buy around 300 or slightly below. Those are some pretty deep cuts we are taking... I don't think we'll get to a thousand at this rate.... So yea I just have to answer your question.... I'm doing very well. I made roughly 4-5 times the amount that I lost during the recent pump. Thanks for asking. If you consider everyone planning to dump their btc when it's profitable in fiat 'not real bitcoiners' then the whole community is 98% non-bitcoiners... As I said many times before,  the potential is enormous but as long as people don't care nothing will happen.As it stands now people still don't care, most people aren't even aware of the problems our economy faces and the ones that are consider it to be too big of a problem to be solved by them and think it's up to big corporations and governments to solve it.Anyway,  mmm could very well be responsible and it's not because of one man. Mmm works by people for people. Many people buying small amounts of btc to help others in need. This easily gets a huge volume. Well what can I say... Your prediction is starting to look a little laughable isn't it? With only 11..!! Bidders on the latest SR auction I don't think anyone in his right mind can still think that bitcoin is something that is desired by the people. This is a perfect demonstration that there really is no general interest in it and the crumbling down of this new rally strengthens this position.It's time to wake up.Any thoughts? Maybe the auction only allowed billionaires to bid? XD This is another reason why bitcoin can never succeed. It's like an environmental disaster covered in flowers. Complete waste of scarce energy and sold as something wonderful.
I suspect we will go back to 200-230 within a week or so. That price seems fairly stable. Although we may fall under that to the 160-200 range for a while because of some panic. You forgot to add 'to collapse' in the title... or so would the charts indicate.  Really disappointing to see but it looks like we are back on the slippery slope that had us on decline for the past two years. I suspect we are not going back up a little at least until the halving.Could be a smart idea to sell now and buy some back in 6 months at about half the current price. A lot of blood in the land of bitcoin right now and the slaughter continues.Yeah keep on hating guys. Keep telling me how wrong I was and how much profits you made. I'm not crashing the price, I'm warning people for exactly what's happening right now. Feel free to ignore me and buy more $500 coins. It's already crashing rapidly.. boy who would have expected that?...I highly doubt the auction can possibly have any upward effect,  if anything it will accelerate this free fall. Nope we didn't or aren't going to make those 5 digits.Poor panic buyers. Reality is coming down on them quite hard right now. Side effects? You see that dump going on right now? That's one...Also the network already starts to stagnate. I've been waiting for 4 hours on one of my transactions now. As I've been warning before. Bitcoin is not ready for more adoption.This will only scare people away from bitcoin because pumping it like this when it's not ready will only cause disaster in both the network and people's finances. When things look too good to be true they probably are... too good to be true.I'll repeat it again. The protocol does not scale to adoption levels that would have this price sustainable.  Until that big issue is solved all higher values of bitcoin are a dangerous area to invest.The higher they climb, the harder they fall. Specially when you're climbing on a broken foundation! Actually no. Those insane prices are not possible. At least not sustainable. The protocol doesn't support the adoption level that is required to sustain prices like 1k. Who would have thought that. Any reason for this? I'm guessing there was no reason for it to go up in the first place. In other words pump and dump Let's hope so, i consider it a serious roadblock right now. There are some interesting proposals but i'd be unable to point to one as being the best.@molecular You're absolutely right there. Let's wait and see where this goes alright? There's no reason for the price to be this high at the moment, adoption is too small and there are plenty of technical issues we have to overcome before bitcoin can really grow.I've heard it before i think, let's review... Oh cut it out with the lies already. 'Viral'....See things for what they are, take of those pink glasses.Bitcoin transactions on average account for less than 100 million usd value per day. Just visa alone has more than 10 billion usd value in transactions per day. That's several orders of magnitude less and it's not growing (yes the last months have a slight increase, but nothing significant yet)Overall of course this is something impressive already that we can all be proud of, but let's stay real and not claim that it's going viral and taking over markets when it's not even close to attempting to do so on a small scale.@mods, thanks for censoring me again. Can't say anything skeptical or even realistic about bitcoin here or else...I mean.. TO THE MOON! @Dafar Yes that's what i'm referring to here. I don't hate bitcoin, i recognize it's not perfect and it needs a lot of work on the protocol before it can grow to become what many of us have envisioned a long time ago.@brg444 We've all seen how well that scaling proposal went last time, and that's the drama caused when there is minimal adoption. Can you imagine the utter economic devastation a hard fork will cause when there is considerable more adoption?These 'future' issues should be addressed asap if you ask me.@NeuroticFish True dat.@Fiat_Hodler What's in a name? I'm here for an idea that can benefit many people in their everyday lives, not to make a quick buck. I did what i had to do at that time. @NeuroticFish We all know why that happened. We all got goxed by willy bot. We don't want bubbles right? We want a useful tool in a healthy sustainable independent ecosystem i think. At least, that's why i got interested in bitcoin in the first place, at the time many more seemed to share that vision.@brg444 It seems you have a very different vision of bitcoin than the people early involved, including Satoshi. Maybe you're right and that dream went down the drain a long time ago. What does stating facts and serious issues have to do with trolling? You want to deny that a system providing 7tps to a global economy is not a serious problem to the core idea?Denial seems to be extremely persistent with some people here.I'm telling people to be careful. TROLL ALERT!!Right, who's the scammer/troll now? It's scary that people will just ignore fundamental flaws when they see the price go up a bit. That's setting up for disaster in your finances. I'd like to remind everyone to stay calm in these seemingly 'positive' times, most of the indicators including complex wave analysis show this trend is only short lasting and will drop down to previous levels (maybe up 5-15%) soon.It's important to remember that bitcoin DOES NOT SCALE. Roger Ver's insane predictions may work in an ideal environment where the bitcoin protocol has been perfected. This has not happened in real life and probably will never happen because of the lack of development and technical obstacles. Bitcoin does not scale to the levels where it's reasonable value is around current price level.Add to that several other protocol flaws you can be sure a drop is imminent when people start to realize their investment position is utterly weak when holding bitcoin.Don't invest what you can't afford to lose. Here's a more accurate model of what's going on...
The longer the bitcoin network exists the weaker it's security becomes. This is built into the protocol.Sorry I have to add to that before the permabulls come out.The protocol encourages centralization. The protocol doesn't push the price up, instead it pushes miners out.The protocol uses weak algorithms that will be broken within a few years. If anything it's sell time now. 24 hour low is in. Prepare for a harsh drop towards 230-240. Please tell use more of your perma-bull lies.https://blockchain.info/charts/n-transactions-total In case you missed it. This issue will not be solved any time soon. If ever... I'm not a permabear. I'm a realist. I recognize obstacles and flaws in the current protocol and ecosystem. As long as those issues are not addressed there is not a lot of room for bitcoin to break the long going trend. I  would like to warn everyone not to get tricked into buying the latest pump and dump.It's already going down hard as I write this message. I suspect we will end even lower than where we started earlier this week.Just another dead cat bounce like every other run up the past two years. Don't lose your real money! Lol no. It's just another dead cat. You should know by now... within a week we'll  be back down to low 200s No worries,  nothing going on,  it's already sliding back down like usual. You're forgetting that one of the main reasons people wanted bit coin is because they don't want regulation. Now that that's out of the window for a possibility,  nobody is really interested anymore so there will not be larger amounts of money.I expect the exchange to file for bankruptcy within 6 months. It already has failed for many reasons.The protocol doesn't even scale anywhere near the adoption level that would be required to get to 10k usd Don't worry the entire market is fake anyway but within a few hours there will be a massive 'dump' again and we'll be back at 240 or lower. They celebrate and decide to invest in something that actually has potential and value. Everyone with half a brain knows the whole btc economy is fake. The real volume is maybe a few hundred btc per day being traded globally. If that's not failing I don't know what is. Not a good idea to hold bitcoin if a $10 value change is painful... btc is absolute torture in that case. Just another place where people can easily dump their scamcoins so it's guaranteed to push the price down. It's not becoming.. it already has been do a while. If you hadn't noticed. Every new crash happens harder and with less volume. My prediction is that by the end of the year people dumping 100-200btc can cause panic and a crash. Ehh no.It's already going down again faster than it went up.Boy.. who ever expected that?! Lol fail currency is fail Well we knew right from the start that government and banks would crack down on bit coin to get rid of it once and for all. It seems it's happening rather fast now.Price is also extremely bearish with a 4 week expectation of a whopping -40%.Panic and fear is growing so fast. It makes me sad but these are the end times of an are maxing project that we all enjoyed for the past few years. All of you that have been paying attention to recent block chain movements and sales have probably seen the ever increasing cash outs by early adopters.What do you think the reason for this is?
Indicators for upcoming weekend seem even more grim. We could be looking at 190-200. Exactly one of the problems of bit coin.  It's a pain in the * to get something real for it because regular people that don't have relationships with virtual money realize it's worthless in real life. There isn't anything or anyone that can move bit coin. It's too crippled.  Doesn't offer anyone anything except wild speculation over nothing. After recent talks with big investors and recent market movements I think it's safe to say we are looking at an incoming new big crash with lower lows.Investors have given up hope on bit coin because one of its main promises was broken. Remember how bit coin would be resistent to somebody changing the rules?  Recent XT drama has shown us but coin cannot live up to that. Investors are cashing out and moving to superior crypto.Market is feeling enormous selling pressure and is at a panic point.Brace yourself for a steep downhill ride! Everybody ready for the crash tomorrow? The network congestion will cause serious panic I'm sure. I wonder how the miners are going to deal with all unconfirmed TX.... discard them? Queue them? Switch to bitcoin-xt? Dead cat, as always, nothing has changed and the market seems more bearish than it ever has been. Don't be fooled by the quiet and slowly rising price. The next dump will bring it all the way down to at least $180.There simply is no demand.Put your buy orders around 150-160. It's a matter of minutes now before we drop under 200 and insane panic will hit the market... These will be interesting and bloody hours upcoming!Sad how ignorance and misrepresentation once again in the history of humanity ruins something that could be so nice. Right now 99.9% of the bit coiners are at a Net. loss.Only the very few early adopters that never sold and hold tens of thousands of coins are still off with good profits.They will probably accumulate more at these dramatic prices,  causing even more wealth in the hands of the 0.1% It's  starting to get really painful for many of us I guess at this point. I think 220 will be a critical point. If we can't hold it we will drop very low I'm afraid. What's equally startling if not more... two rogue programmers can mess up the whole thing...Wasn't bit coin supposed to be resistant to this? XDI guess it just isn't what we all thought and hoped for. That's just wishful thinking. We are still sliding down the 'classic' 3-5% per day :/ I doubt this is the time to accumulate. After last week's quick rebound I had good faith the market was strong.I was wrong again it seems.Until somewhere early next year it seems selling is the only smart thing to do. It will probably go down to around 160 before the whole fork drama starts to fade. I don't see how there's room for a bubble, it may rise a nice amount yes, but i really can't see a new ATH or bubble... I never claimed to hate bitcoin. I just think there's a lot to be done, both on bitcoin itself and within the mindset of the people involved or using it in any way.For a while things were looking pretty grimm to me, i'm still not going to tell you it will be worth $10k though :p But i certainly feel more positive about it reading more on the XT drama, whats ACTUALLY going on instead of all the FUD, and this quick bounce also instilled some confidence.Not sure, like i said, feeling fairly confident that we have a stronger market than i thought before, for now i'll hodl a bit and maybe spend a bit for fun. Maybe you should educate yourself a bit more about the whole XT thing... I thought exactly like you, turns out i was very ignorant of what was actually going on.. It's been a while since i bought coins, i didn't really plan to but my sleeping orders around 175 were all filled Seeing how quickly we recovered from that smackdown combined with more getting more educated about the whole xt thing, i feel significantly more confident in bitcoin than i have been in a looong time. Damn, somebody made my day! Had a bunch of orders just sleeping at 175 What can i say... thanks?! What makes you think both chains would have the same value?If they are valued equally, which is the winner?? Can't expect anything else from mainstream media. They live on drama.Then again if this scares people they obviously don't know what they have invested in in the first place, better to get rid of them if you ask me.
The whole fork thing is overly dramatized. It's a big deal that needs to get resolved for sure. And when not handled properly by the devs it could cause serious drama but I'm confident that the devs care enough are out their creation and it's users to attempt concensus and a smooth transition Bigger blocks require better hardware and connectivity, pushing the average Joe away from participating, causing more centralization. This is partly negated by rapidly increasing availability of good hardware and connectivity around the world to the average Joe . XT will only be accepting bigger blocks when 75% of the network agrees, now this can still be a bit dramatic, but i'm glad to see the XT devs took some precautions to attempt not to lay the entire bitcoin ecosystem in ruins.I know i've been dramatic in the past week or so about this hard fork, but it seems the implications of just hard forking were well considered by the xt-devs.We need bigger blocks that's for sure, how to go about it is another discussion and we need to aim for consensus and a future proof system before big changes are applied.So maybe it's not the end of bitcoin yet  That's what we hear about bitcoin too for over a year now, every month we go lower (trend) xD I don't think litecoin is a player anymore.I can imagine a small amount of btc being sold for ltc quickly before the halving.Maybe people sometimes forget those halvings are accounted for in the value long before it actually happens. Right, nobody knows where this is going... Upcoming hard fork... Orderbooks showing massive selling pressure...Nooo ideaaa where this is going.. lol I think somebody broke the cup, cause this is not going to $400 xD I can't even see it surviving the upcoming fork disaster and if it does survive with say roughly half the current value, what's next? Somebody will come up with some idea that gets some community support again a year later, causing another fork, and another, and another... No thanks, i think the average Joe will agree this is not going to work in daily life and can't sustain any value over any useful time. It was a nice experiment though! My vote would have to go to $0 but i'll be optimistic and put it on $10. Feel free to clear up any technical misunderstandings that I have about it. (And it seems many with me..)Just yelling "boohoo you're wrong." Is less constructive than any of my worst troll posts. Feel free to explain to all of us why that would not happen.Nodes will only confirm and use the longest chain matching their protocol AFAIK. Supermajorities are important to avoid situations like this, as satoshi himself stated, a hard fork will only work if pretty much everyone agrees to switch. The last time the same happened just for a fee blocks and people were already trying to double spend back then! I understand very well what will happen...We'll have two chains, both claiming to be the real Bitcoin or at least claim Bitcoin as it was meant to be. All bitcoins currently held will be spendable on both chains. One part of the community, merchants and exchanges will accept core, the other part xt, some both. We'll probably even get an xt/core market rather quickly after the split."Can i pay with bitcoin here?""Certainly Sir.""It's not accepting my tx!??!""Oh, we only accept real bitcoin here!""That IS what i'm paying you in!""..." It's not just the panicing traders we should be worried about.  The entire ecosystem will lay in ruins! Just wait for the hard fork... I think 110 is a very positive estimate considering what will happen...I'm  completely flabbergasted on how so many of you permabulls don't see how this fork is absolutely devastating in every conceivable way... I agree in a thin market the heat can get intense real quick,  in both directions that is.But after 6 years of drama I think most of us will be a bit more careful which could negate this effect. True...Is it known yet what the core devs are planning on doing with the blocksize? I probably totally missed this.. Maybe i shouldn't call them scammers, and they are serious investors or even just regular big users, could be...But there is still a lot of extreme promising going on, which is just scamming to me, those people are making bitcoin into a ponzi.I don't know what's with the personal attacks, pretty standard these days when you say something that doesn't promise the moon for bitcoin.@paashaasNo anger here, i did what i had to do back then.Now i'm just trying to stay realistic and observe the market and movements in the ecosystem. Maybe, for once, you can comment on what's actually going on instead of yelling 'boohoo'. Did you guys notice how it took just 1/4th of the pump-volume to bring the price down to under yesterdays levels before the pump?This happened a few times before and it just shows how desperate the scammers are to keep the bitcoin price up, they will even put in some big losses in order to ensure it doesn't totally collapse.I feel this thing can pop any moment and when it does, it does so real hard. The tension is rising every minute! Orly? https://twitter.com/kncminer/status/631098358657077249Nothing is happening?Are you done spreading your lies yet in order to hold the price up to sell your bags? And so the disaster unfolds...If we go over 50% we could be looking to drop under half of current value.Opinions? Other perspectives? Solutions?https://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/3glfo1/44_of_bitcoin_mining_hash_power_is_currently/
Unless some huge news comes out of nowhere?How about a hard fork that will ravage the entire bitcoin economy and community?My bet that we will drop below $100 within 2015 is still open, no takers yet. I wonder why... It's  not a fork yet but soon will be.This will be one of the most devastating events in the history of bit coin. I can see it become a much bigger disaster than the whole MtGox drama tbh.We could be looking at a value well under $100. I think we've already seen the top. It will only go down from here. Bit coins market cap and trading volume won't be bigger. It's only getting smaller by the day.I think we can see a stable price in the 30-50 range. Which I think is still insanely overpriced but I think there are enough fools to support it at that level. I predict we will fall under 240 before Monday.  I see. I wasn't aware of that.Of course we have to stay neutral in that case. Are the devs finally realizing bitcoin is collapsing and trying to desperately make some last profits before it all crumbles down?I find it strange altcoin-talk is not allowed on the forums besides that specific section, yet they are now using official banners to promote them? The more bit coin is used for illegal and harmful trades the worse it is for the future and policy that will be applied to it by governments and banks in the future.So it's a bad development I think. It's ot a question wether you can lose money. You certainly will. How much? Everything. If there ever was any chance,  it's gone now. Let's wait and see. There seems to be quite some force behind this. Orderbooks are shifting rapidly, clear indication of panic if you ask me. finex cold wallets compromised? Damn it's coming down really fast! Crazy...267 already This is going to be an interesting day don't you guys think?What do you think caused this sudden panic? Just broke below the 280 resistance again. Slippery slope is getting stronger. We may be looking to slide down to 240 again sooner than expected. In case you've  not been paying attention.. the price has big problems remaining at this level tending to slip down again into panic selling down to the near 200 range.We won't get anywhere near 600. The problem is this is an international case.During the process the big problem bit coin poses for the real system becomes clear to people that matter in this world. Following that I think it's likely we are looking at a global ban within two years. Without gox I think the current price would be around 20-40 usd. With a past ATH around 70 usd. Early adopters have long cashed out and are living the rich life on your lost money.  Every single bit coin you hold supports this theft of wealth. Every day we stay at this price range increases the likely hood of a total collapse. Which is already pretty much inevitable anyway.
This thing is coming down faster than expected. Already broke that 'solid' $280 that many of you called. Uhh  no. If we follow real supply and demand bit coin wouldn't be worth more than $50 at best.This market is being rigged from all possible sides.If you still don't get it after 6 years... people have rejected bit coin and moved on to superior technology. I doubt it. The hype didn't last long this time and the downward pressure is ginormous. We could even be looking at new lows for this year. I'm saying slippery slope because that's what it looks like, there's a lot of room for the price to both increase and decrease, it's an extremely small and sensitive market after all.Bitcoins problems are much much bigger than its price.Just look at the upcoming hard fork / chain-split for the blocksize... We'll have two competing chains, instantly doubled all the bitcoins, current holders can double spend, merchant and user adoption will be split and both will talk about the real bitcoin... And that's just one thing of many...   You're really showing your true colors here eh?I'm warning people to be very careful, because there is a lot of delusion going on here and people new to bitcoin and new to economics may be influenced by this and make big mistakes with even bigger real life repercussions. It seems to me this can only be called spam and fud by people with a very dirty agenda, right?You and many others may not see me like it, but i'm still a big supporter of the concept of bitcoin. The execution and environment are just... horrible... Again... anyone else sees a repetitive pattern here?I'm getting quite annoyed with all the permabulls trying to scam newbies into buying their beanies.Every time the price goes up a tiny bit floods of grandiose predictions come to this forum and the chat.Technically bit coin can only go down, flawed fundamentals, lack of social demand, outdated tech,  stagnated development, ruined reputation.I would like to warn people once again, don't lose your money on foolish decisions.  Yeah it looks pretty grim from here.If we had broken 300 we could have stayed there for a bit and build some resistance. But hope is slowly fading in the community. People are starting to realize it's all a fad and they are holding unbacked VIRTUAL money in their bags.I feel panic selling will soon commenced.  To warn people of the dangers of investing real money into this fantastical delusion that's being sold to them by scam artists and their false promises of big fortune.I agree that it's easy for crypto to gain value, even in these dying stages of old crypto like bit coin. Fact is it won't last and quickly after any growth would occur you can expect major panic and a huge crash. You Sir, made my day.I see the delusion is still strong in the community.  My job is not done yet. They will keep hunting every single bit coin holder and user until everyone is too scared to even look at it.Another reason why it's guaranteed to crash. People are just slowly waking up and realizing it can only go down.Still willing to bet a good sum of money on this as before,  still no takers.Y U NO BET?! Come on permabulls,  free money! If anything a big reason bitcoin will completely plummet is because of long time unmet expectations.Many people have invested in bitcoin expecting big ROI. Ever since it's been getting hammered down and down over and over.At one critical point these people will call quits and things will finally collapse. This is why smart people call bitcoin a pyramid/ponzi scheme.Wake up,  don't be a bagholder. If you are willing to bet a nice sum of money on your bs prediction please send me a pm. Nothing left to say but "i told you so"...These short deep crashes will start to occur more and more, first on btc-e, later they will shift to other exchanges.Just look at the orderbook on btc, even a small dump will hammer the price now.Sellers will want to move to other exchanges, causing demand there to plummet, the cycle repeats.Don't say i didn't warn you guys about a huge upcoming crash after the last 'rally'. Just because they are able to doesn't mean they will. In fact it's most unlikely they will.Smart companies don't get involved in these kind of scams. I'm just warning people for the inevetable and hopte they wake up from their delusions. Looks like panic is slowly taking over the market now that people realize the latest run up was just another scam.This day could get much more interesting even. Sorry what? Nothing is being addressed. In fact development is stagnating more and more. 
It's still dropping. Don't worry, we will hit that -25% within a few days tops. I have a feeling this day will be remembered in bitcoin history. Things are going down real fast. I'll say it again. Get out of this fantasy delusion while you haven't lost it all yet. Well.. that went down quickly. I think.. After current pump and dump scheme we will drop slightly below 200 and enter a slippery slope again towards 160-130 for the foreseeable future.  Hahaha good thing i didn't warn anyone about this huh? Roflmao Sheer fact that it's going up way too fast again is a near perfect indicator of a very big crash. If it would gradually rise to 500-600 range again and stay there for a significant time i could be changing my view, for now this just looks like a pump and dump and a major crash event is building. Don't worry, within a few days this thing will come crashing down 10x harder than it went up. Lol this is hilarious look at you guys... biggest pump and dump ever playing out and you're holding a party for your future losses? Which will never happen. No investor with a SaneBrain would even consider investing in outdated unscaleable technology. Very representative of society.Most people that i know don't care about bitcoin, worse,  they laugh at it and make jokes about anyone involved.Not saying this is representative but at least i have a bigger sample size. "... and the person who set it up committed suicide."If anything, this short quote perfectly represents what Monckton is all about. A lot of nonsense and sophistry about things he heard or read somewhere, or in his words "peer-reviewed" (where he seems to not know the meaning of that term...).Sure he makes some good arguments here and there (don't we all?), but that's not his original and/or intelligent perspective on things, that's hear and repeat.[offtopic]@iCEBREAKERWould you agree that atmospheric CO2 levels correlate directly to global temperature? If so i'd love to get some feedback on this short visualization https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bbgUE04Y-Xg[/offtopic]  Well... that didn't last long... xDHope you guys sold at the top. I doubt it. It will look totally ridiculous. The greeks have other priorities than buying funny internet money right now.Even if they wanted to, most of them couldn't.Plus bitcoin couldn't even scale if the greeks were to start using it for real.One of the major problems why bitcoin fundamentally can't work or be worth the thousands of dollars you all imagine it to be. It's built into the protocol. You can point out that bitcoin will keep on crashing all you want. These people will just ignore smart investing and lose more money all the way to zero.At least your chart clearly shows the downtrend is still strong. Lol fallling wasn't wrong at all. Look how badly bitcoin is struggling to stay even above $250.  That price isn't even remotely reasonable if bitcoin was succesful. A few people pumping it and everybody becomes hype again, meanwhile people are panicselling their bags to new bagholders. You don't have to take my word for it, just look at the chart..
What can i say... i'd say i recommended or talked about bitcoin to roughly 30 friends, of which half has a technical/IT background, only 1 accepted the idea and is using it. Others are just complaining how it's overpriced and dumb to buy something so overpriced and without 'real' value. Yes, VERY wrong, it's not going down fast, it will go down (relatively) slow with some significant dumps over the coming days. Meh, look at the orderbook, rapidly growing selling pressure, almost nobody buying. Tadaaa. And it will continue to crash back to 200-220 the upcoming days.I hope finally some of you will wake up now and realize this is nothing more than the latest whale pump-n-dump.Haters gon' hate. Not 'going to', it just did, and it will continue to fall down to 200-220 levels the upcoming days.I hate to say "I told you so." but... I told you so... I would comment on the chart and predictions but mods are just going to remove my comments again.Very open and balanced dscussion we can have here when critics get silenced. So people will use their own  centralized propietary blockchains. So what... We are all betting by selling or buying or shorting.I for one sold last night. The same happened with bitcoin. It is extremely overpriced right now. That will become clear next year with block halving. We will see permanent double digits and maybe even single.With the rise of superior alternative technologies combined with the stagnation of bitcoin development we could be looking at bitcoins quiet death within a year. The only thing "working" is the scam that's being played out by the whales, allowing them to dump their stacks of coins for a higher price. And you're all falling for it. Again.... The scammers have used the crisis in Greece again to set up a new pump-n-dump scheme.If you buy now you will lose big time! Once a critical mass of traders realizes this whole 'rally' is nothing but the next scam from whales to sell their stacks of funny fantasy money for real money at a higher price, the price will shoot down within minutes to the old level ($220) probably dropping under it quite a bit because of velocity. We could be looking at a new low being hit around $150. It will quickly rebound to $200-220 though.We will see from there. My guess is more slippery slope for many more months to come, at least till block reward halving, then we are looking at another significant crash. Within a few days the bitcoin economy will realize nothing will happten to the price,  the Greeks are not buying btc. We are looking at another long term down trend again.Don't be fooled. There are several vastly superior altcoins. But i'm not here to promote those. If anything i think we need to work together to repair both bitcoins protocol and the rotten community/economy.And no,  Litecoin is definitely not one of those coins... -.- It will have no effect. Even if bitcoin is bought in order to buy etherium. The people selling etherium for btc will dump the btc as fast as they can. For them it is pointless to hold onto a failed outdated technology. We have moved on from bitcoin. It had its time and charm, but now we have much better things that actually offer something and work in the real world,  not just for criminals. Yesterday it took over 8000 btc to get from 243 to 248. It took a 600btc sale to go back again to 243.Downtrend is NOT broken. Still very strong. But feel free to hang on to your cognitive dissonance. Ehhh no...Pay attention to the market. Just look at yesterday.It took about 8000 btc to go from 243 to 248. It took about 600 btc to bring it back again to 243.Currently greatly overpriced and there is hardly any room to go up even with a lot of pumping being attempted,  it will fail. Will never happen, Bitcoin is in direct competition with their own coin. *POP* goes the bubble... Oh boy, who would have expected that... a dead cat bounce, what a surprise LOL...
Shaking of weak hands? Come on... you permabulls have been saying that for over a year now... Seems i wasn't too far off. Slippery slope is back.. Well i'm surprised we are still at this price level.I was wrong in the time frame.But anyone with half a brain knows this won't last and will come down faster than it went up. Pressure is already leaning downwards. I think it's very pikely we fall all the way back to 220 from before this dead cat bounce.Thte time to sell and take your profit is now. Haha so funny to read this ignorance. Market cap of bitcoin is an illusion anyway.Many altcoins are being used as money more than bitcoin. Bitcoin is just 90% speculation. There is no real value.Even worse. 90% of all the funny internet bitcoins are owned by about 5 people. If that is the future of money we have not done well.Altcoins are the real revolution, offering rigid, fair and scalable systems. It's not so much conditioning. When a ship breaks in half, is sinking and burning, is it not wise to get the hell out? I think it is. Nothing to so with conditioning. Soo... basically nothing is happening and they just hope people don't see what's going on and start buying funny internet money on which they lost millions... okay.. Maybe i'm dead wrong, it wouldn't be the first time either but you're also aware that i made very accurate predictions in the past as well.Right now the market is absolutely not doing what i'm expecting it to do on a small scale, but i feel strongly that the negativity towards bitcoin and the downward pressure are very high.If we do not break this price point soon you can actually consider me quite neutral or even slightly positive on the future value. I'm guessing it's a matter of days, they aren't the only one who have been shifting massive amounts of btc to the exchanges, hence my prediction. Also something i noticed... People keep repeating that at every price level.If it does drop like i predict you and many others will probably just say the same; "well it's looking pretty dimm right now, i'll wait for it to drop another 25% to buy..."That's part of how we arrived at this low value in the first place. I'm here to spread awareness in that bitcoin needs to adapt in order to survive and that people will not make horrible mistakes with their hard earned money.Altcoins are important as experiments of new ideas, but when an idea is sound and proves to be adding significantly to the technology it should be adapted by bitcoin asap in order to not lose the first mover advantage. Sure it has the network effect behind it now, what do you think new coins will get that bring features that speak even more to the average Joe and industry, that's right, an even stronger network effect.If we want bitcoin, as a currency and its own blockchain, to be successful, things need to change on several levels i think.Many of us have too much invested (not just talking holing btc here...) to let it fade away so easily without giving a kick, hoping somebody else will do or say something.. The majority are shitcoins for sure, but we can't deny bitcoin has some serious issues that if left unattended will be its downfall.Altcoins offering mining/consensus without wasting a lot of energy, fast confirmations, true anonymity, dynamic and fast blocksize and difficulty, truly distributed network. I could go on. You can consider the technology already failed horribly as it has been surpassed by several altcoins on every aspect that is important for mainstream adoption. The problem is, gold is relatively unique, there are 500+ possibly superior cryptocurrencies to bitcoin.Yea sure, network effect yadayada, you all know that's bullocks and people will choose the system that is most reliable and practical, unless huge changes are made in bitcoin, bitcoin will never be that system.Some altcoins are very quickly gaining traction and for good reason, they are what people will want in the nearby future and will make bitcoin's ATH look like a joke. For the past week we've seen a lot btc shifting towards unknown addresses and exchange addresses, the sell walls seem to be growing and overall pressure is becoming critical.We could be looking at a 25% drop this upcoming week. Unlikely we will hover around the $200 mark for two more years... Hmmm where did i read that before?Ah yea i remember... at 700... 600... 500... 400... 300... 200... Well we're getting awfully close to that point with the upcoming fork and all drama surrounding it.I don't think the price movements of the past few days are any positive indicators, movements in the order books also show an increasing sell pressure and less and less buyers every time i hit F5.People are just losing confidence in the system, and rightly so. In my opinion it's fair to say the experiment has failed. (Yea i know it still holds value... -.-) Eehhh no.. I think you don't understand Bitcoin yet... Well KNC is a significant player in this economy and they have a strong network to inform them of any upcoming events. This move would only confirm our worries that a massive event is going to happen soon that will move the price lower than anyone will expect without a realistic outlook of recovery.
Upcoming price movement will look a bit like this... Ad-Hominem much? Some more slapping in the face going on.You delusional permabulls are all welcome to deny this is happening of course. You guys really don't reallize you're being slapped around by hackers and early adopters. They will keep on doing these 2-5k dumps until the resistance is so low it triggers a cascade. They will buy back at the bottom, wait for you all to pump back the price again in ignorance and repeat. You honestly think btc can be stable wich such intense drama in the background with a hard fork about to happen and completely disrupt the system?What you're seeing now is called cognitive dissonance,  it leads people to say and do insane things,  of which this forum has ample proof.We don't even need a hard fork at this moment to bring this thing down 50%. The sheer tension is enough,  one minor action can trigger a cascade of panic. That is why it's not moving,  that is why there is such low volume. Pure fear. I never try to make bitcoin look bad. It's the community and economy that's messed up.Yes, there are several big issues with bitcoin that need to be addressed and that also cause major distress, just look at current drama over the blocksize, this is one of the bigger reasons this week is going  bring us to new lows and a loooot of panic selling.The fork won't destroy bitcoin but it will bring it down on its knees and we can just hope it will be able to crawl back up again. Stop your scam talk already!Stagnant over summer? Don't be joking, just look at the chart, we are still sliding down and no indication of change!Gox paying up? Are you completely delusional? Mark still has his life to live in wealth, he will not be paying back those coins. He will be dumping them along with the other ~500.000 stolen btc. Probably during this summer. (where you claim stability lol..)The effect of block halving is already calculated into the price, many bitcoin fundamentalists are screaming 'moon' because of that already, nothing will happen and upon that disappointment a lot of people will sell off, triggering another big crash at an even lower point. Seems the bagholders can no longer counter the immense selling pressure...Prepare for a fight to stay above 200 the next two days. Bitcoin isn't new, everybody in the 'west' and beyond has heard about it.I don't even dare to talk about bitcoin anymore, it used to be interesting to people, but now they just laugh about it and make me look like a fool for even defending the concept (which i still do!). Right... everyone sees the life being sucked out of bitcoin by superior alternatives, the real value of bitcoin is lower than it has ever been before. It's only been held up by bagholders who want to keep up a show in order to trick people to buy their bags. When a critical mass of bagholders has sold off their coins to the next fool, bitcoin will crash faster and deeper than we have ever seen before in its history.I expected this crash already way earlier but it seems a big group has decided to coordinate this a little different and extend the period of scamming for some more profit. You can be assured bitcoins total collapse will be all over the news and many many small people with a hand in bitcoin will be hurt and lose all they have.Get out now before you ruin your financial future! Fixed that for you... Look at the charts and see a ship that's sinking... there is no 'big recovery' or 'tothemoon'. Bitcoin has been surpassed by several superior altcoins a long time ago. Developers are refusing to adapt bitcoin with new important features and important scaleability adjustments. It's pretty much ancient technology by now.The only thing keeping the price up is the bagholders trying to trick everyone into buying their worthless bags.I said it many times,  the concept is great but with a rotten community and no development it's destined to fail. "Assuming no major crisis in bitcoin"...The delusion in this guy is strong. Oh stop it with the lies already!There is no working implementation of colored coins! The entire concept has been wiped from the table for about a year now. Those are smart people, unlike the majority here that's just looking for a get-rich-quick scheme.They know a scam when they see one. Why o why would a scam come crashing down...? I have no idea... Yep, i've found basically the same. We are getting awfully close to the breaking point.Time for a chain reaction. I've been a little preoccupied so I haven't done any TA lately.I did take the time to asses this claim and i can confirm a significant crash is likely within a 48 hour time frame.Significant, means 10-20% down. I wouldn't call it big, that will happen later this year. The concept and motivation behind bitcoin are solid. Basically it's the people that are ruining it.Greed and ignorance rule the world. Trolls? You mean peoople that realize what is going on and no longer live in an illusion?Those trolls have been right about bitcoin being a sinking ship for over a year now...
Sorry not interested in your scammy altcoin. In bitcoinland?I'm not sure about that. If the price doesn't increase that means the difficulty/hashrate have to halve as well. Meaning the entire network becomes 50% weaker. Against any attacker.Bitcoin needs value not just to be able to transact significant amounts of money, also to secure the network properly. I wouldn't exactly call this whales dumping, i mean one fifth of the volume what it cost to get to 245 brought us back again.When whales poop,  you will notice. Aaand we are back where we started. Who would have expected that... a dead cat bounce... shocker!  I suggest you read the Bitcoin whitepaper,  should make more sense then. You know what it's called when everyone around you has moved on and tries to explain why it didn't work, when more and more people in your environment apparently seem to have become trolls..?Yes,  it's cognitive dissonance.Sure there are many trolls around,  but also many smart people with a realistic view of why and how bitcoin has failed as an experiment. We can only learn from that and develop based on our mistakes. No need to get hostile. Activity: 1Sounds legit and trustworthy. All buy bitcoin! You sound like Neo.. i would recommend you take the red pill and wake up, but you seem all too comfortable in your bitcoin bubble.Bitcoin was presented to the world. The people have seen it, the government has seen it,  and they rejected the concept. Worse, they laugh at it and disgust the fundamentalist ideas that often go with it.That's where the story ends. Sure there will be a few years of hopeless trading,  crashes and dead cat bounces, but this is it,  has been for a while now. Nothing will happen. If anything it will crash more.the 2016 halving is already calculated into the speculative price at this point. In 2016 people will get scared if the price doesn't go to the moon as they hoped. So they panic sell, more people panic sell. Fine, we all know how this story ends, we all watched Titanic. As strong as my inner troll may be.I think this is a nice post. I am quite sure about that. These dead cat bounces happen all the time. But the general down trend is still very strong and selling pressure is only growing. We are already back again on the slippery slope of about -3% daily. LOL who would have expected that! Total supririse.Sorry i'm laughing my *ss off here. For every day we hover around these ridiculous high price we can expect the crash to be even more severe.Right now it looks like the next crash will completely oblitterate everything left of the bitcoin ecosystem.It won't be much longer before the true ponzi nature of bitcoin is revealed. Very possible. He would at least attempt to get a huge user base to steal coins from again. Who knows what he would do to avhieve that.I doubt that's going to happen though. I think he's good for now sitting on 500k BTC with his fat ass. The entire bitcoin system wouldn't even be able to scale to supply service to 1%... so no... that will not happen.  yada yada. People have lost interest in magic money a long time ago. Just try to talk to friends and family about it and you'll get laughed at.As we calculated there are roughly 1.2 million btc waiting to be dumped by hackers and scam artists. This pressure is beyond anything even a big group of bitcoin fanatics can negate. Oh Lord... this ship will sink even faster than expected now. With this exchange all the hacked and scammed coins can be dumped much faster. Prepare for free fall.. I've been trying to get my fiat out of bitstamp for over 2 weeks now but the transaction stays in queue.I resubmitted the withdrawal request but same thing all over.I've sent support a ticket, no reply yet.Anyone knows what's going on? Miners haven't been mining at such great loss for a long time, so they hold or they short. Most of them are smart and know the market is collapsing, so they short, causing more pressure for the market to go down, causing them to have to short more, causing more pressure. See this market CAN only crash, there isn't even potential to go up.
Yes, absolute rubbish! Care to look at the charts for a minute? Don't forget to look at the pathetic order book also, 30k btc dump brings us sub $50... We've seen bigger dumps in the past..When a dump of 0.3% of a currency's total supply brings complete chaos to it's economy there's something very wrong... If anything this is THE time to get out of the system, it will completely collapse real soon, the pressure is higher than ever before. It may climb back a little bit after we drop to around $100, but it's still better to get out now and don't look back. Move on to more innovating and scalable technologies. And it's back!The very few bulls still left can't fight the massive selling pressure anymore, we'll continue this slippery slope for a few weeks i think (-3% to -5% daily) until the pressure is too much they can't even reduce the decline to that level and it will plummet towards $100 within minutes to stay there for at least 2-3 months. We will be under $100 way before 1st of July..Pressure is building up really strong.. upcoming crash is going to be devastating. Yea i fail totally.. being right about this thing sinking hard all along...We are dropping a steady 3-4% per day and it's only accelerating. The past few days have clearly shown there isn't even a small chance of recovery.Drug addicts are bad, but bitcoiners are a whole new level of denial and cognitive dissonance. Stop trying to put the blame on somebody or find excuses.It's simple. Nobody wants to use bitcoin, it got exposed as a ponzi scheme and now people are panicking to get rid of their new crypto beanie babies.There is no use for bitcoin, it is flawed in pretty much every technical and economical aspect, it has no real value. THAT is why it's crashing, not because of some sophisticated reason. lol no it's not, pay attention to the charts.Support is already extremely low and getting noticeably lower by the hour. This 'support' is both fake and not enough to hold back all the incoming dumps.We will see sub 100 within weeks now. You heard it here first.There is some serious panic going on in relevant channels. You want to get out at this point, maybe get back in slightly under 200 for a small bounce. Ok, jokes are over.Analyzing the charts and order books today i noticed how we will fall straight down to $160 if we break $230.Chances are around 93% that we break $230 within the upcoming 2 week period.This will be the start of the crash I've been talking about! Fasten your seat belts for the drop of your or get out while you can! Very interesting. I didn't expect this bounce so quickly$250 already and going strong!.. Now that we've hit the 2 month low. The price will rally back up to 245!Happy April fools day! It doesn't take much to cause the price to go up, that's true, the concept remains great and its highly undervalued for that specially on a global economic scale. Problem is people don't care for that, they care for beer and football. Oh yea and many dollars to get that latest big 4d vision TV.The people are the biggest obstacle to bitcoins success on several levels.Not much seems to be going on to spread the idea of bitcoin by current bitcoiners either. Possibly because it sounds like a ponzi to most people when you tell them about it. Yes, bitcoiners vare very smart, losing money every day.If you think bitcoiners are here for the technology and principles, you're dead wrong. They are here in an pathetic attempt to make dollars. I told you so...Also look at what people are searching for... Exactly, the value.People don't care for bitcoin as a technology, people care to make quick money in fiat with it.As I've said before, even though bitcoin may have some technical points that have to be addressed, it's really the people that are destroying it at an ever increasing rate.This makes me very sad though. It goes to show the level of economic and social awareness and motivation of the average human being.I have talked about bitcoin to so many people in the past, how it challenges established standards, nope, that's not what they wanted to know. Considering all things.. Market being taken over by superior altcoins.Governments banning and regulating bitcoin.Hack and scam after hack and scam.Demand has never been so low. On bitstamp a 6k dump brings us instantly to $0! You read that right, the entire order book is 6k btc deep! (sure bring up bitfinex because bitstamp isn't big enoug, fine, you'll get 10k depth..)From a few simple calculations we did yesterday there are around 200k stolen coins from the past year that have we haven't been able to confirm dumped on the market. That is a potential 200k dump incoming any moment! If one party starts dumping (if there are more, we suspect there is one big party behind most of the big hacks), others will immediately follow in order to not lose their profit, causing even more panic from other regular parties. Miners will call quits at double or single digits, the network stagnates, people panic, value remains $0.This my friends is the near future of btc.Get out of the ponzi while you can! Double spending still takes considerable eff and money to pull off. People are not going to double spend on small amounts. I assume you can wait for a few confirmations when you're buying a car or anything of considerable value... Lol what support?It's like a sinking and burning ship with people on it screaming everything is fine, don't worry. Upcoming weeks target is around 170-180, stabilize there for a few days up to a week, then hard down to around 100 where we will face some serious resistance that may cause a small dead cat bounce. After that cat dies, bitcoin will likely sink into the forgotten depths to double And single digits to be laughed at in the future. You don't get why people don't want to use funny fantasy internet money? Okay...There is a real life out there you know, with real problems and solutions that go far beyond the crazy utopian fantasies of a bunch of crazy nerds. Yea, cause nobody knew that was coming...Nonsense.It just shows how strong, or rather weak, the support at this price level really is.It took 3 weeks to get from this level to the peak, just 2 dumps with regular day volume to bring it all the way down again.Time to wake up and sell before you lose everything.
It's actually much worse than that.The supply is infinite as it requires only a soft fork to increase the number of digits. Now its 8 but it could as well be made 10 or 20 or 1000. This makes the whole concept flawed by design and  one of the big reasons why any value above a few cents is total bullsht. Because when it goes up it's just a dead cat... I've shown this time and time again. Regardless of all the fake good news you may be reading. I hope you don't get fooled into believing the price goes up.  You think people that were into bitcoin in 2010  were there to make big money?No, they are there because they see something is wrong with current system and this new concept has potential to overcome some of its biggest problems. At least I was. Some might just be interested in it from an IT perspective.I sold all my coins many years ago because i needed fiat to pay my bills.I'm still here for the same reason, current fiat system is screwed up from the bottom up and we look to explore alternatives.The whole alt-coin business is even more screwed up by the community than bitcoin is, so i would still bet on bitcoin.Please refute the points i made...Confirmation times are unpractical for POS, yes there are workarounds Blockchain size is huge, causing centralization, which is opposite of what would be desirable. It's also ever increasing, since 2010 I've heard every.Transaction capacity is way way too low to be a global payment system.Since 0.6.x not much has been done on bitcoin, some minimal changes where many and big ones are really due.Bitcoin works on supply and demand, exchanges are faking a lot of the volume and price, the real worth isn't even a tenth of what it shows on the exchanges if it was real supply and demand.US and Australian government are still in the process of selling huge amounts of BTC. A lot of hacks and scams have happened in the recent past that also cause panic and selling pressure.I have yet to encounter the first person in real life that wanted to have bitcoin instead of fiat, even after explaining the whole thing for an hour... It doesn't mean bitcoin is the one to blame here, it's the people that are mostly ignorant or messed up. Fundamentals are f'd.Many stolen coins to be dumped by hackers and governments.Outdated unscaleable technology.Development pretty much stopped.People don't care for funny fantasy internet money.Considering that, I'm extremely positive with my prediction.@IncaI will say i was wrong when it goes back to $500+ steadily and stays there for at least a few months, any big spikes are just cats waiting to die once again.And yes, i'd love for that to happen.I still think the concept of bitcoin has great potential, the community just f'd up on so many levels that i don't think we can overcome that dark shadow anymore.. Thanks internet! It will reach 200 very fast, don't have to worry about that, but it will go much lower, i don't think it's smart to buy back at 200 already, try 180 or even around 50. 180 is possible but im unsure if we will stabilize or have a dead cat bounce there of which you can profit. the bitcoin economy is being overtaken by superior technology so don't expect it to go up again, the way i see it this was a final wasted attempt to make something of bitcoin. We've broken 250, next temporary stable point i suspect will be around 180 next week. Seems you thought wrong. As so many with you... I agree this looks very dark, this gradual increase was bitcoins only small chance to ever become something of true value.I guess that ship has really sailed now. It's a sad day today.. Now that the crash is accelerating, it looks darker than ever before, we may even drop under 200 tomorrow or the day after.I also adjusted my expectations for long term value from 50-70 to 20-30. Bye bye 300! 50 here we come! Lets see if we will go for new lows this time.Nothing changed, this dead cat bounce was just bigger than the others. All flags are currently RED for about a 7 day time frame! I think you missed the trend reversal yesterday..There's not going to be a 300 as i said before... Look at the charts... Long term, no certainly not, short term up trend has just been broken, we are heading back down to 200-250 for the weekend. Geez wake up man. It's not a bitcoin start up, they will just use the blockchain idea for their own products, not bitcoin or its network. This may seem like a big deal for bitcoin, however, it's not.They will use the blockchain technology for their own products and leave bitcoin hanging in the cold.Don't expect this to be relevant to the bitcoin economy.Interesting startup though. Lol... No.It will stagnate for a few hours, maybe a day, then somebody will dump 500 BTC and we crash all the way down sub 230 again.You guys still don't realize this market is fake and there is no real demand? You're all welcome.
You guys are still denying this new bubble is popping hard? My friendly advice for anyone that bought coins in the past days.Right now the trend is reversing down again probably back to around 210.Sell now if you want to make profit. You can be sure people will forget about bitcoin soon enough now that big companies are releasing their own bitcoin alternatives. I expect a collapse sub 100 within 2 to 4 weeks.All indicators are there, if you don't want to lose money, get out now, don't fall for this new dead cat bounce! Just peg it... Make your own exchange point.. You know that expectation is already calculated into current price right? Anyone can make their own coin on the same fundamentals as bitcoin and claim it's interchangeable 1 on 1. Effectively doubling the amount of bitcoin in circulation. So the real supply is infinite. Dumbest thing you can do now is buy this stuff.You should be selling or shorting. The big collapse is coming very soon now. Well here is the start, the dump volume should multiply around 5 times the upcoming days. A lot of people will sell when the weather gets nice. They want dollars to do fun things and enjoy their lives instead of having made up hacker money on their computers... Buy orders are vanishing before our eyes, selling pressure increasing massively. The path is clear to drop below $200.OTC prices are already around the 200 mark with big volumes being sold.This is a huge indicator for upcoming big dumps.Short and sell now or hold the bag. Some of us are just here to warn you guys.It's not nice to see so many people lose so much money over and over again. Still laughing?I rest my case.Again, it took 4 times more volume to get to 260 than it took to go back to 230. This only shows there is no way up.HUGE gap at the SAR indicator right now, so i guess we will be a day late to drop below $200 as i predicted earlier. LOL here comes the crash... With chinese exchanges hacked we have pretty much a guarantee to end the weekend way under $200! POP goes the bubble xDIt's falling again rapidly, perfect time to short all the way to $200 Rawdog, is that you? Here's your bubble. Hope you bought at 210. Time to sell is now. If you seriously think there's room above $250 you lost it...Just look at the failed fundamentals and collapsing market. We will fall right back where we were just before this pump, probably much lower.Current price still includes the illusion of getting rich quick with values of 50.000+,  wallstreet fantasy ETF, the lie that bitcoin is scalable or even workable.. Right now is the biggest profit are ever going to make on bitcoin, sell or short. This is the very top. It will never be higher again. Next up is a huge dump, then decline to $100 or possibly even below before some stabilisation. We expected this coordinated pump today, time frame for a 19k dump spread over all big exchanges is scheduled to be executed in about 12-32 hours.I don't have more information at this moment. Well i hope you're right.There's just so much bad sht going on right now, i find it very difficult to look beyond that.
So we get to 140 tps...What happens if we reach that in say 5 years... Another hard fork?I just don't think changing it like this is a smart way of dealing with the issue, why not a dynamic size that scales with the network as some other coins do...? Just wondering who of you still has not learned there's no way up anymore and bought into the latest dead cat only to lose more a few hours later.Also, how do you feel about your loss, having been warned a hundred times over by experienced economists and traders? With more panic and hate towards bitcoin.This upcoming total collapse is what I've been warning people about for a long time. Big bank issues  a warning based on fake news... Nice...Prepare to fall below $200 today. This will trigger some good'ole panic.Nice event to short all the way to sub $100 If you really want to make money, get into the top alt coins right now.Im not talking petty stuff here, I'm talking making tens of millions with only investing maybe a hundred dollars.Get in on the action before you miss the boat.Bitcoin is only going to zero, get your BTC out now and invest in the bright future of your life! Lolwut?Are you watching the charts?We are still crashing, and it's accelerating as we speak, we will be below $200 within 12 hours probably, big volume of dumps happening and growing.Very likely to hit $150 upcoming week. It's not completely without risk, but i did some more reading.It seems this will be very carefully planned in phases, yet unknown when.It's also the only real option we have for bitcoin to make it future proof.I would like to have seen a more 'smart' solution though than just increasing the blocksize. Something that will automatically scale on demand, like the difficulty.All in all it's not as bad as some here would have us believe. The show is just getting started.Probably a big chaos, but a bleed out is also possible for many more months.There are so so many hacked and scammed coins (estimates are well over 15% of current supply) that need to be sold. Enough to completely obliterate bitcoin from all crypto charts. Appreciate the approach here  Not at all. For a hard fork to be successful it needs almost full concensus, meaning something like 99+% adoption.A lot of people don't agree with the changes involved, so they won't adopt the new protocol, which will cause two separate chains and double spendable coins. Which chain will merchants and exchanges use?Also it will cause a massive increase of growth of the blockchain, cause miners to stop and spam to increase.No problem at all... lol... another day in failcoin land...EDIT:Did some more in depth research on this.Apparently it's not all that bad and it will be carefully and timely phased in. It's an important step to make bitcoin scale better. Extremely unlikely.It will crash hard even before the hard fork.Bitcoin will basically be completely unusable and destroyed after the fork. We just had a small taste of China.Prepare for more soon. Sunday target indicates to be around $160 If you don't want to lose more, sell now. This is the best price you'll get for it. To short and make huge profits...And to warn people that are over invested, of which there seem to be a lot...Get out before you lose your life's savings...! Lol stop the bullshit already with your tulip scam. People are done with bitcon.It's only going to crash harder and harder as i have been predicting time and time again.We've seen another beautiful example just earlier of what the future looks like. Price falling below 200 within the hour.China is dumping massive amounts. Temporary? I'm sorry but it will totally destroy bitcoin and the economy around it.Smart investors are aware of this, hence the massive selling.The speed of this current crash will only accelerate and bitcoin should be happy if it still ends up with the highest market cap of all coins around the point of the fork, which i seriously doubt.Why would anyone with half a Brain invest in such a crippled system? Specially when there are fully functional alternatives out there that resolve all these issues from the start... That 'before it will rise again' is a huge assumption of epic proportions... It is extremely unlikely it will go up again, next generation coins are taking over. The bitcoin economy is slowly collapsing but will soon accelerate. Lol... No...To be clear.. There is no bullish trend.We are expected to drop quite hard this week and upcoming weekend.Big dumps and panic incoming.Fasten your seatbelts!
This is nothing really, there are some huge dumps coming like we've never seen before.. Causing panic and even more decline than ever before in the process. Lol dropping like a rock and you're talking about strong buy...Panic sell incoming you mean... We'll break $200 tonight and then its panic time, new lower lows since 2014. Found this earlier https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5LMS0PIzGh8http://www.newscientist.com/article/mg22530060.300&utm_campaign=youtubebitcoin $35 will be broken in the 3rd crash wave from here, time frame is 2-6 months. The sheer fact that you would consider ripple a "credible alternative" is completely beyond me... I don't know if you're aware of the full history of the thing though, but whatever credibility it had, is long lost...It doesn't mean there's no place for it in the world, I'm sure there is, just not in my open and free world. I'll pass on this one. lol @ rippleBitcoin has some serious problems that have to be addressed... But ripple... Seriously? It's not even a comparison nor competitor... If you followed the development in ripple since the start you can see how it turned from a great idea like bitcoin into some messed up rigged banking scheme. Well yes, it's most certainly manipulation. That's been discussed at length in the past.The problems however run much deeper than manipulation. I hope you're right  Well the concept is nice, as with so many things, it just gets ugly when people get involved and greedy and intolerant and hateful and well a lot more of that stuff... I don't think it's positive for the image of bitcoin, then again, people generally don't seem to care that the large majority of terrorism is funded in USD... It will be used as an argument against bitcoin but it's not all that strong. Bitcoin currently has much bigger problems that prevent its growth.I don't think you want to restrict certain groups from using it either, that would break some very fundamental ideas on which bitcoin was created.There are much more efficient ways to deal with criminals of any kind. Any specific reason you're bullish?Both technical indicators and market psychology indicate a rapid decline...Add to that the massive amounts of stolen btc still to be dumped.. I guess there's a good thing to the price decline now...IS is now up to 80% less funded and able to cause terror. $160Just saying... Better act upon it than lose money.. So? Whats your point here? We should ban bitcoin?I'm pretty sure they will exchange into fiat before doing something nasty with the money. A1 - Who knows, the economy right now is very speculative.A2 - Any moves in the market from whales can create massive swings either up or down. The only thing that can prevent this is if the ratio speculators/users changes in the favor of actual users in great numbers. The moves by the whales will be absorbed by a market much more easily if it's a big one.A3 - There are many guides online on how to read these charts and indicators. It's important to realize these are either purely mechanical, statistical or psychological. Whatever indicators you use, it is still speculation and there is a risk it will go in the other way you expected it to go based on your analysis. (Don't speculate with money you can't afford to lose)If you just like bitcoin for it's function as a currency, use it as such, get bitcoin when you plan to use it relatively quickly, and don't hold onto it as speculative asset. I don't think it will go that low this current ongoing crash, we'll probably bounce around 120-130, back to around 180-200, then decline again to 60-80 before returning upwards a little again...You could wait for a 3rd crash that goes lower but that could take a while. These are the indicators for the upcoming period, they were there before the coinbase trickery, and they are still valid now.There's still a risk of complete collapse of course, so the safe bet would be to invest in proper smart and fair digital currency like ripple or things like that. @unsoindovomostly scaling issues..- max of 7tps due to block size limitation, increasing the blocksize has some negative effects too and just moves the problem to the future, removing it adds more problems.- ever exponentially growing blockchain size, other coins have developed a solution to this issue, regardless of cheap bandwith and storage, it's highly inefficient to store a full history of decades or centuries and increases centralization (and i like the initial decentralized aspect of bitcoin a lot..)- 10 minute confirmation time, i don't think i have to say anything about this, quite a problem in real life transactions where you're not interacting with the other party for half an hour... - not anonymous, fully traceable and possible to make very good correlations.- no multi-sig implementation that's usable for the average Joe. It's just as easy and affordable to buy btc at $5000/btc as it is at $5/btc, you just get more or less btc depending.. I'm pessimistic because the fundamentals are screwed, things that should have been fixed years ago are still being dragged along and devs are either unresponsive or come with 'oh, we'll deal with that when it becomes an issue.'.But, i have to admit you can build a fully working economy on something totally messed up, central banks are doing just that world wide... So who knows, but i don't think there's much hope left for bitcoin unless there's a hard fork which will be a disaster at this point, i doubt there will ever be consensus. Because the economy is dying, the few bulls left just got killed by the winkelvii and coinbase...Sure, bears can become bulls, but it requires working fundamentals, which are completely lacking here..
Buy pressure? LOL, look at the order books, the only thing happening with buy pressure is it's reducing by the minute.With current economy you pretty much have a guarantee we'll see $100 rather sooner than later. Seriously, what makes you think that?There's basically no news that can save the price now, ETF won't do anything, ATM's won't do anything, merchant acceptance may grow but only pushes the price down... More exchanges won't make a difference...Add to that the fundamentals are messed up beyond repair...How is that going to go up in value... please explain... Sadly there's no cure, terminal sickness will hurt a lot of people when it finally dies...When it does maybe a lot of people here with crazy anarchistic thoughts will realize why money is regulated in the first place...  coinbase is going to drag us to 1k per 10btc yes...  After coinbase' trick, we will continue or downward spiral even faster.Bulls have come back from a cold shower now and will probably panic sell around the 200 mark tomorrow or friday, accelerating bitcoins demise.I'll just warn you guys again... get out while you still can... Here's the fun part... This is exactly what is going to happen with the upscaling plan, increasing block size limit. It will be a total clusterfuck in a last attempt to save bitcoin, completely obliterating it in the process...It will destroy the entire bitcoin ecosystem and the trust of everyone out there that still sees potential in bitcoin, which by now are not a lot of people any more anyway...I can't even believe they just want to up the limit instead of implementing a smart dynamic mechanism like some superior alt coins do. If you plan to fuck it up anyway, might as well at least try to really improve in the process... I think the comment section on those articles clearly show there is no going up for the value of bitcoin. The upswing broke the 2 month trend, but the down swing reversed the indicators again and it looks like the initial down trend is to continue strongly. Ah yes let's do a hard fork...You know what an utter total mess that would cause at this stage right? Could have done that in the early days, but not any more.I for one won't support a hard fork as it would just be another alt coin. It would no longer be bitcoin. Very good news, now even the winkelvos guys are lying about bitcoin.It fundamentally can't handle any relevant amount of transactions to ever become a real world payment system of any significant size.The only way around it is to do off-chain transactions, which kinda blows away the whole point of bitcoin... I can't believe satoshi didn't address this severe limitation. Back to 200 Yep, it's going strong... Downwards... Well yea... People expected the moon, they got another exchange, so, like i said... dead cat bounce...We will be back around 200 if not lower within 24 hours Maybe ome more run up before it all comes down again, but i don't think so.Seems the short bounce ends here. It's one of the most obvious signs of a dead cat bounce.Perfect moment to sell, we will crash quite hard within a few hours. I can tell you that much.Swings like this are unsustainable.  At this point we pretty much have a guarantee to drop down to the 30-60 USD range within 2 months.The worst thing, it's also pretty much certain there will be no return up. I can't see this fake ETF sht last much longer so probably down. I'll say it again.... The ETF is a lie. Yes let's waste money on scam coins, great idea! Sorry, i lolled hard with this one. Of course there will be investors interested in holding bitcoin, they will use different paths to get them. Paths that are already there for years and as such we can not expect there to be a big movement in that regard.
Also consider, none of these investors are getting into bitcoin. At best they get involved with companies that deal with the bitcoin ecosystem. So it won't affect the price at all. The site is fake so... Yea... None... To answer your question. LolFools..Nothing is going to happen... Except for another big crash 5% perma-bear miners? I think you can safely say that's way over 50%I personally don't know any miners that keep their btc or part of it... Best idea ever, use your money to invest in the next best scam coin or pump'n'dump.But they aren't all like that, you say... Well good luck with that then, you should remember the thing with the bag for future reference to yourself though... Lol  at Washington post.... They just don't stop repeating each others FUD don't they? Also keeping track of that topic, i'd be very surprised if something serious would pop up there, who knows...I haven't done any wood carving myself, but i have worked with lasers on different materials, what i've seen so far i would definitely say resembles laser art. Well let's see what he comes up with, since he announced he'd only show to "important people", i doubt anything will be posted in public. Well that was totally unexpected that WC would chicken out...Smartest thing to do in his situation, better keep doubt for a few that you can potentially scam in the future than admit to being a fraud publicly... You'd expect they have some clue of what they are writing about after their claimed 6 months of reporting on bitcoin...Reading the article it becomes clear they have no idea what they are talking about... Same, my bottom was 420, my dreams don't seem to be very prophetic..  A detailed clear video would show everyone you're the true artist that you claim to be.Yet, for some vague reason i don't think there will be one... Why does somebody have to purchase something from you before you're willing to show that person you're a legit skilled artist? Wouldn't it be better to show everyone, so they start buying your works? Did you notice how OP is not a trader? He used btc as a two year speculative investment. Please read carefully next time and grasp the context before replying. You think big companies will release it as an open source free technology?I think the answer to that also answers your main question.I really couldn't care less about this super revolutionary bitcoin replacement that will change the world forever and advance civilization 20 years if it's controlled by one party. A few cents.. No new bubble.If you look at the charts and statistics, you can see the price is declining, almost no trading going on, people stop accepting bitcoin, miners quitting, the network is stagnating, almost nobody is doing any transactions anymore...I think it's pretty much over, you missed the boat man... Sorry As bitcoin continues to grow, price discovery will become more decentralized and trading will become easier and more available.Just let the free market do it's thing. Bitcoin functions just as well at $200 as it does at $2000. (With limits of course)Every day more places and people that accept it and trade it.Unless you're here to get rich quick, it's all good and we don't need some scheme to protect the price. My goodness... I haven't seen so much apparent anger here in a long time... You must have lost quite a bit more than OP i guess...I can't even imagine a reason why you want to be involved with this tech or this community really if it causes you so much anger... I mean, sure you try to make a buck, but if this much frustration and anger is the price I'd seriously advice you to reconsider where you try to make your profits.@OP you only lose when you decide to take that loss and sell at that point.You did this for a well thought reason which is still valid.Why not stick to the original plan? Forget about your stash for a while and just go about your life and use bitcoin as a currency where you can without looking at the chart or your savings stash. This is it, the top of the dead cat bounce. Put your sell orders and shorts now or lose massively.You have been warned. @unsoindovoMy comment was directed at TS.. *sigh...*This link again...You clone accounts haven't made enough advertisement for your site yet? That would sound legit if that's your reason for trading. To make it a reason to flood troll the forum... meh, it doesn't do so well to defend that position...
I don't see any of these projects becoming anything interesting.They both have fully developed and functional alternatives for many years already now.FreeNetTahoeLAFS (over i2p) Apparently you're clueless about market mechanics, psychology and interpreting chart indicators.I guess i remember why you were on the ignore list now. I just did some more analysis of the market and chart indicators. We may slowly be working on a trend reversal it seems. If that's the case we should see strong support during the entire next week. This is thinking of a natural market, not a heavily manipulated market with hundreds of thousands btc ready to be dumped at an instant.So it really depends on what the manipulators and hackers will do next, i assume they are just involved in bitcoin for the fiat so my expectation is quite skeptical even though i can see indicators of trend reversal. Actually it's not that hard. With all the 'terrorism' lately bitcoin will soon be outlawed in pretty much every western country, you can bet your coins on that. We are far from the bottom, we need to reach $30-60 before its technically even possible to recover.There is so much dump volume incoming i doubt we can even hold up those prices and we may even drop to single digits shortly in a flash. Just cashed out 500btc bought at 170 for 200 Will buy again around $100 which will be rather sooner than later. I'm assuming he took his loss..So we'll probably be the ones celebrating on his panic sell. @OPIf you send me a PM  i can start helping you today.We will start immediately to work on controlling your anger and  generating rational calm thought processes.  Welcome back sub-200OP must feel silly now for buying overpriced coins.I recommend you sell now before losing half the value this weekend.There's a storm upcoming. Bye and thanks for distributing the cheap coins more.I'm kinda disappointed to see you leave like that, mainly for what dinofelis pointed out.Instead of 60m USD you only have 10m now? That's gotta hurt, your life is ruined man!Bitcoin is just getting started, there is still much more to experience. Just wait until later today. It will be mayhem in a few hours from now.I put quite a few short options, should cover me for the rest of the year. Very fast and good price trading.Thanks! Sold my last few at 200, no worries, this is just a dead cat bounce, it's already started correcting down to continue and trigger more fear and panic. We are far from capitulation. This is only the first fear trigger, there will be at least two more, and they will be bigger and harder than before. Good job Andreas.A bit disappointing from a public speaker. He knows this will be abused and only the "Bitcoin, the get-rich-quick scheme is dead." will hit the headlines everywhere, the second part will be completely ignored by most. "Bitcoin, however is doing fine." Sure 3600 a day is a big problem. Not...You're aware that just the four biggest exchanges have a total average trade volume of over 100k btc a day i hope? I'm not butthurt, i had no choice.I do however try to get a lot of coins back, there's still a lot of potential.These dramatic times do help me accumulate a few more coins though, and i'm happy for that.What i'm sad about is the impact this has in the eyes of the Average Joe. I try, i don't have much left though so it doesn't add up quickly. Unfortunately i sold pretty much all of my coins back in december 2012 for personal immediate need for fiat. Current indicators show this slippery slope will continue to about $150-160 before another massive crash sets in, caused by manipulation and mass panic, it will drop to about $80-100 similar to what we've seen yesterday.A bounce to $140-150 is likely to happen shortly after, to return to another last slippery slope and crash, dropping us to $30-$40, bouncing back to around $60-80. By that time i'll have more to tell on the matter.Feel free to quote me for later reference to how insanely accurate these predictions are.I may be off by a day or a week, but the predictions are always spot on when it comes to value.
You've been seeing this advice for a bit longer than a few months now... mr. Troll... don't buy!Bitstamp has to crash the market a bit harder and longer to buy all the coins back.Give it two days before we hit double digits.Then consider buying in the $60-80 range. Well we're a bit later than i expected, but here we go. Now that QE has stopped, bitcoin has pretty much lost all rights to exist.It doesn't bring anything new to the table anymore that current monetary system doesn't solve a hundred times more efficient.This is i believe the main reason people are running away from this ponzi really hard.Yes, i say ponzi because that is what it has become at this stage. Troll detected. Here's where you're wrong, its not hard at all to drop the price.Im fact it's getting easier by the day, the order books are getting thinner and thinner.A few thousand btc dump  will completely collapse the economy. That same amount in a pump will only increase the price with like 50usd. k baitnx for the cheap coins. You heard it here first.There's blood in the streets, and there will be a river.Sub 200 before the end of the day. Yes, definitely, somebody is going to buy 30k btc... Sorry my friend, not going to happen, it's pretty much a bottomless pit from here on. That's what the order books look like.Roughly 30k btc needed to drop to $0, also almost that amount required to buy to get back to even $300.This looks extremely bearish to.Will we stay here or where do we go NXT? We broke 260 which is an indicator of a further massive decline well into the double digits.Lets see if we break $60-70... By the time block reward halves we will have gone through quite some more drama and we should be very lucky if it can spike the price back to double digits again.I doubt there will be any market support though.Just look at the decreasing volume, its decreasing even faster than the price. Ehh no.There won't be a bottom anymore until it died out around a few cents.Call that a bottom if you will but it's not going anywhere from that point. True but for the wrong reason.The issue isn't securing the wallet.The issue is people that hold bitcoin will lose all value.I think that's what he's really warning for, just obscured. The peak is at 110k transactions per day. That's 1/8th of the capacity.The very real threat of a hard fork and altcoins being so much more advanced and better is more likely dragging the price down.*crumble* *crumble* I agree.Bitcoin has become pretty much the opposite from what it stood for initially.I can only hope people will realize they are getting scammed and invest in the NXT best coin. I love the argument that backing development is just slow and bog changes are upon us.However true that may be, the market is already fckd up as it is, a hard fork will be the killing blow for bitcoin, it will likely cause the biggest panic sale we have ever seen in this market. Good thing btc isn't crashing right? Rubble lost 40% last year, bitcoin lost 70%, i think bitcoin outperformed the rubble by far when it comes to crashing. Well the predictions are still on track 3-5% decline daily. The idea of bitcoin is good, the implementation is just horrible.Take a look at NXT and see a bright future.
Still waiting for those convincing arguments guys... I'll say it again, there won't be an ETF, it's just what the scammers tell you so you buy their bag. Under $10 is pretty much guaranteed within like a year time.And no, there will be no recovery, bitcoin is outdated and shown to be ineffective technology. Now that the return of Bitstamp has proven not to boost the market in any way, i think its safe to say that even big players now realize it's done and only going down from here.I think the return if Bitstamp was the only thing that could have boosted the value a little.Why do people keep talking about 'but the fundamentals dare there', no they are not, that's why we have 200 altcoins that are almost every one of them better than bitcoin in at least one aspect.Bitcoin has a fail mining approach, PoW.Bitcoin mining is centralized.Bitcoin has failed distribution.Bitcoin has slow confirmations.Bitcoin development has practically stopped.Bitcoin blockchain is bulky, its 30gb how much if it would be adopted, impossible to sustain.Most bitcoin transactions are of criminal nature.Please tell me why you invest still?Colored coins? Not going to happen.Side Chains? Not going to happen.EFT? Not going to happen.Enlighten me oh holy permabulls. Why are you buying into outdated failing technology? Might as well just burn the real money if you need to get rid of it so desperate.If you want to make big profits and support revolutionary technology of the future im sure you know what to do NXT. If there were so many people who believed im bitcoin it wouldn't have dropped almost 80% over a year.Its just a small hand full that are talking positive about it, just read the forum, everyone knows bitcoin is done and it shows, of course there's the occasional troll post promising big profits but i don't think anyone takes those serious anymore.Time to move to the NXT revolution in crypto. $55 Stop trolling and trying to have other people hold your bag. Your name says it all. You're making the big assumption that they will be back. I highly doubt that. Just look at the other hacked exchanges, even where hotwallets were stolen, they all promised to come back very shortly, then postponed, then vanished into thin air. The same will likely happen this time. Add to that the big incoming dumps... very bright future... lolll Well that was a nice bounce eh?We will continue to slide down with about 3-6% per day for the upcoming days, possibly with a hard crash to close the weekend ($100-$175). Bitstamp has to manipulate/force the market into a big crash to be able to honor the funds in all people's accounts, only with a much much lower bitcoin value they will be able to cover their losses.Be prepared. When bitstamp opens their trading again the bottom will be very deep down. I also bought a bunch, guessing there could be a bounce.Then bitstamp went down, so i'm assuming the funds are lost :/F5-ing for updates here... It will be gox all over again, we expect a 70% drop.Bitstamp drama will probably be the catalyst to the unavoidable total collapse that was about to happen soon anyway.Lost funds, panic, we've seen it all before. Bitcoin is taking a heavy beating at the moment. But that article from coindesk is just largely hilarious, most of the projects cited are complete jokes. Anyone able to withdraw?I can't get my coins out... :/ Once again, my predictions were correct.We have about 24 hours before we see $170.Probably have some bouncing back and forth there, but it will stay under $200, never to be seen again.Then we will see a 1-3 week gradual decline towards the double digits and we expect a big (~70%) crash again after we reach the $80-$100 range.Orderbooks make me cry, only roughly 30k btc to be dumped before we reach $0.The teams that are manipulating the price have A LOT more to play with.Bitcoin could theoretically recover, but only after it has been completely floored to have no value and when the dev team starts to work on making bitcoin competitive, fast, safe and secure again. Silly people, i warned you for a few weeks already... We broke 300 even sooner than expected, this ship is sinking faster than you will imagine.My experience from long time successful trading is to get out as soon as you can. Shitcoin beats buttcoin in all factors i mentioned before. Who are you trying to fool?Bitcoin technology has been surpassed by 3 generations of new crypto currencies.Bitcoin is slow, bulky, insecure, not anonymous, centralized, halted development, shitty difficulty adjustment. Most coins have been hacked or scammed from legit users, market is completely cornered by those criminals.
IT HAS BEGUN.This is the last week you'll be able to sell btc for 300 USD.Get out before total collapse! There will be no recovery! Wow.... This looks extremely bearish, trading has almost completely halted... I never expected to see this so soon.It's a matter of hours now before a huge crash, i predict we will drop below $100 quickly then bounce back and forth a bit between that and $230 and it could settle down around the $120 mark.Could this be the day bitcoin dies? We've seen the initial drop by people selling to get fiat for the holidays, then a small correction and stabilization from all the people buying btc as gifts and thinking it's the bottom. Now that the holidays are over and demand is lower than ever, we can expect a new big drop, manipulators and hackers will also have time again to do their thing.Just look at that huge ask-mountain, it's insane, people want to cut their losses that bad..! Don't hold the bag! Slow gain? We are sliding off the slippery slope again, you know what will happen at the end of the slope... Things come crashing down, as we have seen over and over again. LolPoll messed up by perma bulls and their masses of clone accounts.It is clear as day the rally is over and we are building a new crash the upcoming week, lower than it has been for over a year! Prepare to short hard! You realize how small the bitcoin economy still is right? It's very easy to increase over 10% annually. Add to that supply will halve again soon.Maybe a slow downtrend can be maintained in this bear zoo until the next halving. I guess we will return to pre-November 2013 values before steady growth will continue.Who knows though, if you check the orderbooks you'll see it's only one or a few people pushing the price down with a very thin order book. Any buying volume immediately takes the price up again.We may check the previous year low but i don't think we will go much lower, fundamentals are still good, more acceptance than ever before, good transaction volumes.Don't panic, don't let the shills, scammers and manipulators get the best of you. Ripple is a joke when it comes to the properties that make bitcoin stand out.That's not to say ripple can't be used, it's just a completely different thing, you can't really compare them imho.The fact that you even try to compare them tells us something i think Ohh and also.... wowww, this chart looks so much better than bitcoin! LOLApparently even adoption by Chinese banks can't save this ripple scam from being exposed for what it is. Update: We will be checking in on 300 within 24 hrs.Not what i expected initially, but things have moved over the past 24 hours, and not in a positive way.  To be honest i don't think we can expect a change any time soon. I was hoping we could hold around 320-330 for a few days before sliding down again, but support is all gone already and massive selling pressure is building rapidly. Quite sure we will drop below 300 within 24 hours.I'm very enthusiastic about bitcoin as a technology, but the way people treat it, spread around fud for their own profit, try to scam each other etc etc, just makes me sad. Just shows we have the technology to advance money and finance, just not the mentality. I doubt the people executing this manipulation have time for or even care about this forum or bitcoin in general.When people make tens of millions per week they tend to shift priorities. I've been able to detect 3 specific patterns of dumping over the past 6 months,  i suspect there are at least this many groups dumping a lot of stolen and scammed coins, adding up the volume from this entire period i would say we are far from done going down. They could be bots too ran by individuals or exchange owners though. Ehhh no...We won't go back up more than 3% (natural variation) before we test 260.For the next 24 hours i expect 320-330 where it may linger there for a few days tops.The i don't even think 260 will be a real test, there is zero incentive to use or invest in bitcoin, it's outdated technology and people are very much aware of it. Why would anyone buy if you have 99.9% certainty it will be worth 5% less the next day. That is the definition of foolish. You realize how many new coins are mined right? You also realize a lot of that has to be sold asap right?We would be tanking A LOT faster than this gradual decline over the past months if no money was entering the BTC economy.We are keeping quite strong for the current inflation rate. It's foolish to think bitcoin is still around in a year time. Just look how the system is completely collapsing and unsustainable.If it would still work technically, the value will likely be negative.Wow! You say, that's impossible you silly!No, it's not. The governments and banks will crack down on bitcoin and its users, criminalizing it. You will have to pay people like hackers to get rid of it safely to avoid prosecution. My bet is -0.2 USD/btc. Banks and government won't have to do anything. Trolls and FUD will do their task. People are gullible and scared easily to crawl back to their 'safe and trustworthy' scam fiat. Yes, what crazy fools to get fractions of currency worth 1000000 per unit which he can spend for the same real world value in goods and serviced...All them fools getting USD's...  We will soon enter the classic 'fear' phase where massive selloffs will happen. I'm not talking hundreds a minute, rather tens of thousands per minute being dumped until the system dies.Bitcoin will not die off slowly, it will be with a big collapse and it will be any day soon. I had hoped we wouldn't break this indicator, but we have, and quite so.We can expect sub 100 in a 1 to 2 month time frame now. Worst of all, there's no indication it will stop collapsing there.
Unfortunately those are extremely rare. Yes, there are hundreds, but we are talking global economy here, so yea, extremely rare.Plus most merchants apply higher prices for bitcoin than for any other payment method. Kinda ruins the whole point of low fees n stuff.. I would think there would be a selloff rather than buying. People need fiat for all those gifts. I can confirm this. The hack has been claimed by a very advanced small hacker community from India. Let's see what they will do with it. Well... There's our dump...Interesting how high volume always comes with price drops. I hate to admit it, but he has been spot on every time. It was just extremely annoying he would make a new doom and disaster topic every 30 minutes.Just look what happened the past 2-3 weeks, we thought the decline was over, big volume got us to 450 and in a few days we crashed all the way back , 6% lower than a month ago, with just 1/5th of the volume to get to 450, that is an extremely negative signal... Nobody is willing to buy apparently, so my prediction is we may see double digits even before the end of the year.I'm suspecting a bot again though. Notice how the dumps are always around 375/750/1500/3000 BT range..? Unlikely, this bubble already completely deflated in little over a day. Gradual decline towards 200-300 is setting in now. Very very bad indicators, we may even see lower than that before the end of the year...  Well that prediction didn't last long... A looooot of shorts were busted in the past 3 days. Good luck with that.  Well there's your answer lol...4 hour red indicator and still running strong, expect to see 360 the upcoming hours. Where are you looking? On Bitstamp it's the exact opposite, at least visible orders... Yes, the manipulator is stopping us from replying, he offered me 10 btc to not reply, but you know me, i had to refuse his offer for integrity sake. Nah, it's already correcting back to 300. Dead cat bounce. In order to use i2p you have to relay traffic also, making correlation and timing attacks harder.I2p also doesn't use a static 3-hop one-way path for it's traffic changing every 10 minutes, in and outbound paths in i2p are different and randomized in hop length with a set min and max. Besides this it also uses multiple paths to the destination, not just one. It does, to some extent, the security model of i2p is quite a bit more advanced than that of tor, i would say 'next level'.The things that make me say toe is inherently insecure were addressed in i2p many years ago already.There have been a few successful attacks against i2p services in the past, all very well documented, iirc none were to blame on i2p itself. (Please correct me if I'm wrong, it's been a while)I2p is generally faster in regards to bandwidth, more resilient against hidden service attacks and has a much lower latency. I've ran a VoIP server on i2p for a while, which worked great, try that on tor... You'd probably even have to modify your software to be able to work with tor, not so the case with i2p.One of the biggest 'issues' with i2p is that it's basically a closed darkness, unlike tor which provides 'synonymized' access to the normal web for most of it's (or at least that would be my guess) users. So the goal of the two are somewhat different. I did notice the outproxy on i2p was working again about a week ago, but that's not the networks main goal AFAIK.Best thing about roughly 90% less trolls than tor. Oh Hai Mr. Karpeles, how's your luxurious life working out?*mumbles something with karma* We are experiencing some difficult times now, that much is clear but this is hilarious.Maybe this is the real face if falllling? If you're looking at the charts properly you'll notice how we are heading for sub $320 within 24 hours I wouldn't mind a trend reversal at this point, i feel we are rapidly losing interest from the average Joe to even consider ever using bitcoin. Option, hold fiat and lose 3-4% a year to inflation, hold bitcoin and lose 3-4% a DAY... All long term indicators scream it's going to single digits and lower so how do you defend your position? The only possibility is an absolute total crash at this moment without chance of recovery. Cryptocoins 3.5 have taken over basically all volume and features that people want. If bitcoin was ever to be a success we should have had a new ath a few months ago. But no, just more and more dumps, faster and faster going down.It was a nice experiment, now it's time to admit it didn't work and move on. I really don't understand the fuzz about merchant acceptance causing downward pressure. Before those btc can be spent and sold at market price they have to be bought. But wait, you say, those coins spent are from the early adopters! Orly? If they wanted to use those btc or spend them so badly and never convert back they would have already.
"With this being said, as Apple Pay and CO. eat up the transactions market, price should drop."Ow man i almost took you serious, until ApplePay... Gosh that was a good one man! Thanks for the abs workout.In case it wasn't meant to be funny, we already have a lot of ApplePay and CO, it's still playing the old money game and doesn't innovate or change anything.  Well i guess we can forget about that up trend now....   Well there it is...  You really cant predict short term price movements based on the orderbooks.The past 3 weeks with strong downward pressure had only a very thin selling orderbook.A few big players trying to play the market while it's still immature and emotional. It's not stacked, just one big player. Oh look at that, they are reading this topic. They started using 3k batches now... Let's hope the community doesn't allow him to double up anything... That's all we can do for now really...At least he will need to start using higher volumes than the 1500 btc every few hours to start a panic this time it seems. They are absorbed quite nicely.But as we've seen before he just plays around with over 30k BTC as if it's nothing, makes me think he has quite a lot more even. Well the manipulator is back, that's for sure...Instadumping 1500 btc into the buy orders every few hours...He's gonna run out eventually, unless he succeeds to cause panic again as it seems to do almost every time and buy back even more to cause even more havoc later on...  It's the whale game, scare the market and start buying back when panic kicks in, easy 10-15% profits on your btc. http://youtu.be/_nVk25ZvTkU Of course it can snap back just as fast we've seen that before too, at least they are no longer trying to hide they are trying to manipulate the market, or corner it if you don't want to call it manipulation.. well there's a 32k sell wall at 300 now so you can bet your ass we will fall much deeper today...  Yep... I'm out of fiat too, all in BTC now.Funny how this dead technology works so well still  Grats  I picked up 0.6 at 330  didn't have more fiat available atm. Seems like we're about to witness exactly that... panic seems to get a hold on people slowly :/ Yea, 'cause bitcoin loses all it's utility when the price isn't considered to be high... The least you could do before saying stuff like this, is read up on what bitcoin is, how it works, the philosophy behind it's various uses.I still use bitcoin almost every day for purchases, i stack up again and i buy stuff with it, i try to accumulate some in the process for the long term to make profit.It's as useful to me at $50 as it is at $5000. We praten met bitcoin wel over een globale markt, de waarde van die 3600 btc is echt een muggenscheet op die schaal. Een paar grote jongens, of een enkele zelfs, kunnen bitcoin op dit moment volledig de grond in drijven of naar de maan sturen. Why? I'm guessing pure manipulation by one or a few whales.If you look at the order books you see there's almost no selling pressure. So basically nobody is crazy enough to sell at these prices except a few that want to trigger panic, which will work at some point of course. Then they buy back double... That's how you make money if you have money :p We dropped 26% in the past 4 weeks, we have risen and fallen even faster in the past, in this small and emotional economy it's hard to tell what will happen in a few days, extreme price fluctuations are a real thing here.Currently i feel there is a very negative sentiment. But that could just be because of all the troll posts.. I think we may check around 266 but i have to say it completely baffles me why anyone would sell that low considering the scarcity of btc and difficulty to mine them. Infrastructure growth and adoption are at an ever increasing rate.This is just panic selling. I suspect we will recover to 400-500 soon and hang around there for a bit. If the price had gone up we would see the same "I told you so!" spam flooding in the forums and chat...Probably even from the same people on some of their 101 sockpuppet accounts.You troll/spam guys all sound like religious prophets, maybe try your always correct predictions in a church some time, they've had some bad luck with their predictions, they can probably use you very well, and as a bonus you'll be relieved of having to endure in this community among all these 'fools' that don't want your 'saving' anyway.
Bitcoin is already dead, haven't you been reading the posts here lately? In fact, it was declared dead already in 2011, 2012, 2013, it's still dead. What confuses me most is how the order books look, add it all together and there's so much more buying pressure than selling pressure,  which makes me think that there's a few big whales (maybe even one?) that keep on selling down and not many other people.It's not very nice to see the value in such long term decline, on the other hand, we really don't want people holding 50-300k btc single handedly i'd think, so spreading the coins is good i guess... I don't know how much manipulation is going on but it seems panic is slowly taking a hold again over bitcoiners the last few hours... Still putting every free euro i can turn into bitcoin right now. It's a golden opportunity i think. My Aunt is psychic also and she said this is the best investment i could make...So one of them is not a real psychic i guess... There, fixed that for you. They may attempt to roll out their own digital currency (as if USD/EUR isn't a digital currency...) to jump on the bitcoin wagon and gain popularity once again in the public eye, however, they are not in the business of working for the people, they are in the business of making money and controlling everything and everyone, so any system they introduce will be completely in control of a few. I wonder why the Ricochet developer has chosen to use tor again, i have strong doubts about its security, add to that it doesn't seem to do anything different than the already existing torchat.The I2P protocol would have been a much more interesting and secure choice imho.I'm impressed by the Tox effort, going to keep a close eye on that one, open source, multi-platform, very good initiative!Bitmessage is great, but slow as #@$! and not available for mobile devices.Bleep is out of the question, closed source proprietary spy junk. I'll contribute to this very interesting topic  - What you know.- What you have.- What you are.Combining them is great. Using just one of them as your ultimate method of authentication is quite weak security. Oww wouldn't it be nice if people would think about their silly ideas for more than a second before they decide to post?The internet would be such a quiet peaceful place. Technically his sentences may be correct but its content is still retarded enough to enter the ignore list. It's quite sad that we start to see this kind of fear mongering FUD from people with credentials now, all too sad they missed cheaper coins it seems...In my view it's very unlikely the signature scheme will be compromised in any relevant way the coming years.Also, these weaknesses come in gradual steps, its not like all of a sudden it's all broken, things may become a few magnitudes easier to compromise, but at the magnitudes we are talking about here that's not very threatening.We have plenty of time to switch algo's long before there is a serious threat.Bigger problem is mist if other internet security, most will be vulnerable, including bank and government systems. I did, i checked his profile and posts. He's a new member that probably thinks he missed the boat and it seems he's trying to get into every altcoin he can just to make sure he's one of the early adopters. But that's not the content what was written here, that was the past.Let's look at what he wrote in this topic. He assumes the only reason people buy bitcoin is to sell it at a higher price than they bought it for. If not the only reason, then the biggest relevant factor.Of course speculation is part of the adoption curve and will have extremes in both high and low ends, as to be expected.However, the total neglect of how bitcoin works, it's properties, show me he either has no idea what he's talking about, or he's trolling. Being so active with altcoins, i assume he has at least a very basic understanding of the properties and potential of the protocol.No matter the bitcoin value, it's utility is still there. Only speculators care about the price, people that care about 'free' money (as in freedom of speech...) don't. It will remain useful for many many people around the world.  How can you have 145 posts here and still don't understand what a ponzi scheme is or bitcoin or simple market dynamics?The troll is strong in you my friend.... Two weeks ago on holiday i visited a psychic. She told me some good news but financially i would suffer catastrophic losses if i wouldn't appreciate what i have.I bought a lot of BTC at 570 thinking it would be the bottom, thinking i could make a good profit here, but what happened next we all know. I finally decided to sell at 505 take my losses and appreciate what i have before it all comes true exactly as she warned.I think this is a clear sign that we are not going back up any time soon. falllling, how does it feel to scare people into selling and buying up a shitload of btc this cheap? You must feel like a king now... Most worrisome to me is that this drop is caused by very low volume. Less than 9k btc.For an individual that's a lot but at the beginning of this year we had 30-50k btc trading volumes. 1. People get scared.2. They panic sell.3. More people get scared.4. Back to 2.I suspect most is coming from early adopters that were thinking to become multi millionaires fast but their dream is falling apart now and they panic sell to get what they can before it's too late. What makes you think we will go back up? People are losing interest more and more.Less transactions every day. No new money coming in. Old coins being dumped gradually. New generation coins taking over.There is no future really if you look at it realistically.We have been crashing since beginning of this year, wake up, there is no bounce back.
I think you may be slightly off here, panic seems to kick in again, pricr is falling pretty fast again. Not sure what you're worried about... Both volume and price are dropping like a rock Yes bitcoin is gaining traction.. That's why the price keeps crashing like a burning airplane without wings or engine... Whats the problem? You have 6.5 full BTC. That's gonna be a looot of money in a few years... You could have known as that transaction never shows any confirmations Very nice! Nahh it would never affect the price, people getting 30k btc at a bargain, they would never sell those off on exchanges the second they got them! This was a very good reason for me to sell every last satoshi i had yesterday, and it seems that was a smart choice, it's all starting to collapse now.When the development of such a big project comes to a halt, it's time to get the f*ck out. Based on the fact that auctions are expensive, a big chunk of the amount goes to the auction house and i doubt the buyer will pay 15-20% extra for their bitcoins just to be that nice guy.Based on the fact that most people are greedy, only have their own fat wallet in mind and couldn't care less about others or the world that surrounds them. Anyone who thinks this will not cause a crash is nuts.Think about it, 30k btc will be sold super cheap, maybe anywhere between 50-80% of the current market price. This by itself won't have an effect, but as soon as the buyers receive those coins they will be dumped on the regular exchanges to take that difference as profit and we will see a big drop.This drop will in turn cause a panic sell-off, so i suspect we'll end up anywhere between 200-300 USD soon. We can already see it coming down the past days, fear is grabbing a hold of people already even though nothing has happened. The Netherlands checking in.1MdKyDBWoGtgtjJivtv5s9BZBQXvGCF8rA I don't find pointing my phone at a QR code and hitting the send button particularly hard... But that's just me... Collapsing faster than we've seen ever before, get out while you can now! Not sure if trolling or serious...NXT is a joke... Along with basically most of the other altcoins or scamcoins as i prefer to call them. Only a very small number actually try to improve fundamentally at some points and they then serve more as feature experiments than anything else. I recommend you to be skeptical with the grandiose claims made by devs and tonns of altcoin shills, most of it has been refuted time and time again.That being said, the freedom is in the protocol, why do you want the core devs to implement all thinkable features? Everyone can build on top of it. Even you! I would rather have a well maintained core than a bloated buggy feature-bomb as core software for the network. Bitcoin-CoreAnd recently Darkwallet which looks very promising. Because next week it will be down to 300... Selling 2 PaySafeCard codes of 10 EUR each.PM me or reply in topic with offer if you're interested. Im talking about the gap between the bid and ask, causing big swings in very short time frames Anyone else notice how the gap between the orderbooks has been growing quickly since two days?In classic stock markets this has often been correlated with an upcoming huge collapse of the stock.I know bitcoin cant be compared 1on1 but what does this possibly mean for bitcoin?Scary developments... Maybe you learned a lesson? Get out while you still can, we will go down HARD very soon as the governments come cracking down on btc.
And back down again all the way lol They don't think its a terrorist thread. They just feel the need to keep their monopoly on controlled money. Export to CSV file and use the terminal to grab values line by line and pipe it through bitcoin-qt? They would love to ban bitcoin, but its very hard to do as it requires extensive and specific changes in the law to make sure it doesn't affect all means of exchange of information.Much easier to just cut off any flow of fiat in or out of the system, the effect is basically the same. Oh and while you're laughing so hard, don't forget to check the bitcoin price tanking like freefall in the meantime...As shown in that ridiculous chart of mine... Get the F out of btc as long as you can. We had only good news last week, and quite a lot of it. Yet still the rate of decline is only increasing. Things will go south really fast in the upcoming few weeks. It will be double digits before we can possibly get a rebound. I don't think they will be very impressed with 29 people willing to pay with bitcoin.Good effort on the video, but the ladies should have said 'the people' or something. not just the bitcoin community. Request granted, every day cheaper coins. hmm why is it going down? how about this?? Gotta love your signature man... The irony... All that's going to happen is a massive dump by students.. Yes great initiative... We need more crashes. Thanks for doubling my money. I doubt this will happen, bitcoin has been around for a while now and interest just seems to be very low. Even if it's an auction, they will probably be sold anywhere between 50-75% of the current market price, those coins will soon appear on the exchanges to be dumped for that 25-50% profit by the buyer.Even without rationalization, panic is whats going to happen, and that always affects the price. It seems that most people have been selling at a loss lately. Stop-loss tactics i assume, which isn't a bad idea considering the trend. I expect the bottom to be at around $200 Let's not forget that all PoS implementations so far also suffer from quite a bunch of potential attacks that PoW does not. Do your research.Maybe in the future somebody will come up with PoS that would really work. Bump If one party owns 90% of the network bitcoin is effectively dead, at least as it was intended. It's called a 51% attack.Some miners mine to support the network and will even keep mining at least for a while when it's no longer profitable, betting the future value will make up for it. The difficulty makes sure it will always balance itself to keep mining a relevant operation if the network isn't completely compromised. I guess these guys have never heard of FreeNet.ohh Hello, they have been around since 2001 i think...
Pretty balanced and clear short video.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LuA3xb-L8r8 Of course you need confirmations, recently we have seen demonstrated over and over how easy it is to doublespend. Try an education some day please. Stop feeding the troll...None of you guys noticed OP's signature?He's just an altcoin-shill.. Again?Try the search function. Aaaand it's gone... Hope you didn't lose too much...My buy orders are set at 60 The title of this topic becomes more funny by the day.... Hey guys,I accidentally pre-ordered the Reaper of Souls expansion of Diablo 3 a few weeks ago only to find out it would only be delivered the 15th of April, I wanted to play it on the release date so i also bought the GLOBAL key that allowed me to do that.I was unable to cancel my order (in fact my support tickets are still all unanswered...).So i have a key left.!!The key has to be activated from a Russian location or proxy/vpn!!It's playable global and in English language.This is an expansion, so you need the original Diablo III.Selling the key for 0.041 BTCPM me or reply in topic if you want me to contact you. We have seen massive volumes being dumped in China in the past few days, tomorrow will be the last day for them to get out while they can. So expecting massive price drop. Three years ago this could have worked. Right now nobody really cares, the only thing current bitcoiners care about is getting rich in USD as fast as they can. Sadly... Nothing new here, we have been talking about this for years now on both irc and the forum, but he explains it nice and clear. Hopefully putting it in a video this way people will start to care about it a bit more to find a solution. You mean its more perfect than using cash? Haha yea this is rock bottom, see you in the double digits in a weeks... Bye Maybe China will ban bitcoin again a few more times, but the only ones panicking about that are us and eu people. China is buying up well over 95% of all the coins being dumped. It seems this professor has no idea how bitcoin works...The effects he talks about are what 'just doesn't work', not bitcoin.That being said, feel free to continue panicking, my buy orders are slowly being filled. Tnx  Sounds like there could be a RAT in your PC. Its nice to see that you at least read somewhere that you can use variances in compression artifacts as a means to determine the likelihood of a part of an image being manipulated. That being said, the conclusion you seem to draw here based on this image is completely flawed and seems to originate right out of your thumb. Try educating yourself about certain methodologies before you say silly things as seen here.I'll give you that the image does look photoshopped, but there is no evidence in the image you provided as it is. All volume is moving to next generation coins. Expect the price of btc to plummet soon. Hahah i love this article, how they turn it all upside down, hilarious.Where is this bitcoin cult anyway? I doubt anyone else besides a newspaper journalist will take anyone shouting like a nutter on the internet any more serious than the next troll.Good job on the FUD and fearmongering NY-Times, and making yourself look like this very objective organisation. My guess would be he has anywhere between 10.000 and 80.000 btc.
25btc and 6000usd Just imagine what a massive, never seen before crash we will have when all the cheap goxcoins get dumped on the other exchanges.We may just see single digits again within a week. Just a question that i would like to have some people that do this answer. We all know MtGox is trying to crash the bitcoin value trying to save their own asses. At the time of writing the difference between Gox and other exchanges is 440 USD ( 73% under other exchanges ).My question is, why do you go with that exchange, panic sell your bitcoins for fiat that you will most likely never get back anyway, the chances of getting bitcoins out are a bit higher i think, but still extremely low. The only reason MtGox is manipulating their market is so that a massive amount of people will open up new accounts and dump loads of fiat on their bank account to buy cheap bitcoins, then they will open up the exchange again and the value will bounce back and voila, they just made a lot of money out of a manifactured panic.Why would you sell your coins at a 73% discount to somebody? Why would you knowingly help them achieve panic?Maybe it's just that you're trying to make a quick profit yourself somehow?- It hurts your portfolio.- It hurts the bitcoin economy/trust in general.I'd love to have some insight into why people do this. I'm glad you guys know what "relayed by" means. Specially when it's a high bandwidth well connected node with over 99% uptime. We are doomed.Why are you so optimistic saying it will be 100 USD? According to my higjly accurate calculations it will drop at least to under 3 USD within a month. Thanks for the spam, my day is much better now. Except for the fact of course, that ripple is a horrible idea worked out by an even worse intentioned group of people.Its more like this sickness that we can't get rid off, sockpuppets and ripple shills everywhere. Why would big boys start buying already if they can just artificially stimulate a crash this way? I would wait until the average Joe thinks its a good time to buy again and then scoop up all the coins before their eyes. I think its the average Joe that is mainly panic selling and the big boys are just buying more and more. Try checking some charts, the news, and general consensus on the forums and comments, just ask people arround you about bitcoin, they will laugh and joke about it.Even if 'rapid pace' isn't very accurate to you, okay, maybe it will take a bit longer, but it's inevitable, that much should be clear. So, it's illegal in Russia to use, hold or exchange USD? Who are you to decide when it's a crash or not?!We all secretly know we're doomed! Well bitcoin isn't money in the classical sense, its pure information (now of course that's true for their official money too), how can you make exchange of information illegal, specially when this information doesn't have any specific to say about anything other than it being unique and signed by somebody.Banning bitcoin is a really tricky thing to do for this reason I think. Should we ban email too? I value email, or websites, they go for quite a bit of money too, what if we start selling those as commodity...? Oh wait.. We'll it should be obvious right now that its all collapsing at a rapid pace, we can expect values of under 50 within next week, this will cause miners to stop mining at a loss massively, causing the network to stagnate, causing the campus to drop to exactly zero. Don't say it can't happen because somebody will buy it anyway, they won't, they can't, the network is stagnated remember?I'm glad I cashed out at 380 when I had the chance. Fools be holding.There's no reason for big government and banks to attack bitcoin, the community will do the destruction for them solely by fear, uncertainty and doubt.This is also why no crypto currency in whatever decentralized 'uncontrolled' form, will ever make it mainstream. We need control and backing.  (not because WE need it but, 'we', as in the average joe that doesn't care about monetary systems.) Seems god is faking ticker data, site has been down for a bit here, yet the ticker keeps going both ways Last time I tried it took 10 days, withdraw on 6th Jan, got it 16th.The time before it took 7 weeks, that was in november. I'm all for innovative ideas when it comes to the evolution of crypto currencies, but i absolutely fail to see how a full 'pre-mine' coin is anything other than a pump'n'dump or all out scam. It's the one thing that should not have been and this could have been very interesting.Good thing other coins are on their way that bring the same features without this scam-ish pre-mine. Sounds like the freenet project I wonder who 'they' is though, there's no information about who's behind it or even not even any way to contact them.The site seems to have a few serious issues and i wanted to contact them but unfortunately i can't. First off, by the time you can get TH miners without preorder at a massive scale, the rest of the network will also be hashing on the same generation of devices, drastically increasing the difficulty once again.Please sell me some of those TH miners for 1k USD....Secondly, you have to sustain your attack. And its not just the devices, housing, cooling, energy, management etc.
For all future scam coins, yea I absolutely agree. USA != worldSure it will affect the value, but it won't even begin to bring it down as a system. This lolMost Advanced Second Generation Scam. And you make it all sound so nice and sweet and oooh candy!Good job. Ahh yes makes sense, because bitcoin is NOT a currency, providing services around it requires permission from the financiën supervisory commission...I need FSC permission too for my hotdog stand now? Bitcoin doesn't scale. Saying that 3rd party companies and offchain transactions will solve this goes against the very idea of bitcoin.Also the deva saying "ohh, don't worry, we will look into it when it becomes a real problem" is a very bad sign IMHO. PAS OPDeze persoon lijkt weer actief te zijn met adverteren van zijn scam site.Deze keer op win-bitcoins[dot]nlWees gewaarschuwd.Hij was op IRC onder de naam Highbuddy____ met het IP 24.132.30.185De teamviewer sessie van de 'klanten service' wordt verbonden met 77.164.23.229Ik heb een screenrecording en network capture gedaan van zijn activiteiten, diegenen die geinteresseerd zijn kunnen een PM sturen voor de download links.Het interessante is dat hij java niet aan de gang krijgt en de oorzaak niet kan vinden xDVervolgens probeert hij de malware handmatig van zijn server te downloaden en installeren.--------------------------------Domain name: win-bitcoins.nlStatus:      activeRegistrar:   Metaregistrar   Jaagpad 20   2802AZ GOUDA   NetherlandsDNSSEC:      yesDomain nameservers:   ns1.metaregistrar.nl   ns2.metaregistrar.nl Reverse IP:41,861 other sites hosted on this server. IP Address    188.93.150.47Server Type    Apache/2.2.16 (Debian) I'm sorry? Can you repeat that? LolPlease do check the charts while at it. Lots of positive press everywhere, yet the price is still going down and the spread is big. Guess what that means.... We are not going back to 1000.Many respected financial experts have already said that bitcoin will soon collapse completely. The above mentioned is a clear sign that  this is imminent. Hmm seems you're right, expected time to share 9.5 hours.Any idea what could cause this, or better yet, how to resolve the issue?I'm using a bfl single. cgminer tells me shares get accepted continuously but the p2pool console says 0 shares. I've been mining at p2pool for months now, without problems, but over the past week i've seen my payout plummet, today it has arrived at 0.00000.The console tells me everything is fine, it's connected to both bitcoin and the peers, it's running at X GH/s steady, shares are being accepted and i have it running 24/7, yet it tells me 'current payout: 0.00000'.Whats going on here? Goed werk mensen. Ik was helaas te laat met wat onderzoek, het domein is al down.Hopelijk krijgen ze de dader tepakken en de slachtoffers hun bitcoins terug. Maybe we will stabilize for a few days or a week but the week before Christmas we will go into freefall probably finding the bottom at about 60-80. At the start of 2014 we will slowly recover towards Bitcoins real value of about 120 USD. Doesn't this mean that exchanges will be illegal in China? I would think they are financial institutions..? Somebody is begging for a ban I guess... Good move imho.+1 I don't cash out, i use it to buy services and goods and rebuy my btc to replace the old ones...How about we start using it as currency to change our current financial system and not use it as pump and dump and leave everybody hanging in the end. I can only hope for a whale like that to come along and dump them on the market, cheap Bitcoins for me and the price will bounce back as soon as the panic stops. Thanks in advance oh big holy whale! Yea, consumers have absolutely no need and self-interest to use a currency that breaks free from the corruption that is our monetary system right now.I grant you that most don't care, but that is, hopefully, just ignorance and awareness is changing quickly. Bitcoin doesn't kill people, people do.
It would mean somebody or group has the control to stabilize the value, *poof* free market gone. Also, if you can stabilize it, you can probably also push it in whichever direction you want. I noticed the current version on the website (v2.4) is quite old (2013-02-17) compared to the one at github (v2.5)(2013-08-29) a lot of changes seem to have been made.Why isn't the code on the website updated? Has the code on github been reviewed anywhere? is it usable and secure to begin with? Should i use the 'old' one or the new one? A dent in the world? Lol?The entire bitcoin market cap. is almost pocket change for some of our wealthy elite, lets not even begin to talk on a global scale...We are a long long way from even making a dent in the status quo... I don't think we can change the proof of work without hard forking bitcoin...So i guess we're looking at a new altcoin.. again xD Or rather an entire avalanche of momentum-pow alt-chains -.-' I don't know when you last used your bitcoin android wallet, but how hard is it to point your camera at your friends display or request a transaction with NFC and send it? takes exactly 1 second... Nice  can i donate without registering with the site? I watch KA on youtube and I'm not a big fan of signing up with every site i come across. *watching**rolling out botnet* And this is why the price keeps plummeting, smart people know this country is the first of many to ban bitcoin, people will be arrested and sued for even googling the word. they know they have to sell of now before it crashes to zero! Big boys are waiting for confidence to go up. Then do a massive dump again to cause panic, buy back more cheaply. Repeat. Hehe, this.World-class digital currencies? really? feathercoin, worldcoin and phenixcoin?That's just hilarious. Hope not too many people fall for this scam or we're all gonna have these but-hurt blog posts all over again.  Hey, at least he's trying to pack his shit(-coin) in a nice package, gotta give him credit for that right...? Ze willen de grootste Europese exchange worden, dus ik neem aan van wel. Even my phone has 64gb storage... Yes, of course not everybody has storage capacity, the point is, 10gb is nothing (some of my blue-ray movies are bigger), and even if the size keeps increasing rapidly, storage capacity is getting cheaper every day and is growing rapidly too. Same goes for bandwith bandwith.I really don't see a problem here, but of course it would be elegant if we had a 'solution'  to this perceived problem. Dev's are working on that afaik so i don't think there's need for another 20 topics on the issue. Boohoo we really need altcoins, bitcoin is dead!The 10GB blockchain is killing my 12TB diskspace! I can't download anything anymore because of this stupid blockchain files! I'm convinced it will be somewhere between $5-$10 by the end of the year, sure we're gonna have some big panic sells over the coming months, lots of people that desperately need some (be it at huge losses) money for summer vacations and then after for the holidays. Basicaly we'll be dropping hard till the end of August. We'll see a small rise back from Sept-Nov.Somewhere in November people will start massive dumps again to get money out for Santa n stuff, crashing the price completely, causing more panic and loss of trust than we've ever seen before. Just tried to implement this widget on my site, however it doesn't show anything. Checking the error console this is what it says:Code:Timestamp: 07/05/2013 10:42:00 AMError: TypeError: window.location.origin is undefinedSource File: http://coinwidget.com/widget/coin.jsLine: 319 Whaaaat??? the FBI is involved??OMGG sell quickly!But yea... welcome to the forum man, i hope your future posts will make more sense... How do they effectively seize bitcoins...?brainwallet? backups? gosh.. this again?How many times has this stuff been 'debunked'  or at least been pointed out that there are a lot of false assumptions and arguments?I have a feeling people aren't happy enough to buy in at these low prices yet and need to scare more people into panic selling to push the price lower and buy a shitton themselves.
This is great news! Good job guys. Im pretty sure we will hit 60 within a week from now, people are losing faith in bitcoin faster than they ever gained it. Mainly because of the bad news surrounding it and the promise of a stable and more rare usd. I was interested until i read about the 0.5% premine, it doesn't seem much, but it is.You can't make up silly services to cover up for your get-rich-quick scheme. The anonymity for bitcoin (and the like) will not be achieved by centralized services like you claim to want to provide, but rather on protocol level or by a layer built on top of it. From a legal perspective this ain't gonna work either, you'll be forced by regulation to keep track of every coin going in and out of your service and you'll be required to have people verify their identity. Not from the start, but if it ever gains traction, this will happen.Even if you were honestly going to provide this service, you still singlehandedly possess a huge portion of all coins, and you can call yourself rich soon enough if people are dumb enough to buy into this, which a lot probably are. As we have seen many times already with many other coins and scams. Quickly sell all your bitcoins! Oh wait nevermind you guys are already working on that. Tnx for cheap coins. This.OP just took first position on my 'dumbest posts' list. Congratulations. This pretty much covers it.] Well we're in a huge bubble now, expect to see single digits within a few weeks.Now, can we move this topic to speculation? You mean they are trying to pump it up really hard.. yes, true. Nothing new, thats wgat they all try, offer nothing new, try to hype it, profit. This just has more commercial incentive pushing it. You need about 3.5~5 mln dollars to retire at age 30.So that makes it about 30.000~40.000 btc.Since i can't see bitcoin skyrocket any time soon i think you need a lot more though. A few very nice videos that explain the different aspects of bitcoin very calm, clear and detailed. Good view! All the GPU miners will panic, dump their BTC, and start mining some shady pump'n'dump or scamcoin.It will affect the market heavily i think, probably (unfortunately..) single digits for btc within a few months, but those people didn't really believe in btc in the first place, they are just in for the quick buck and will lose out in the end. That, and there's no such thing as ASIC resistance, sure it will be somewhat less efficient (more expensive and complex to build), but still very possible and profitable, if any of these alt-coins ever get the valuation that bitcoin has now, ASIC's will be developed just as with bitcoin, probably even faster because we've all been there. And this is where shit goes horribly wrong, again...Keep spreading FUD, sell your coins quickly please while you can, bitcoin can be $0 within a day when people have read your post!I'll take them.Oh, and don't forget to buy litecoin, they solved all of bitcoins problems and will take over bitcoin soon! Aside from this being a very bad idea, i don't see how this could be achieved...? As blocks get added it becomes exponentially harder to attack, more blocks give more security over longer time frames.We're totally forgetting here that litecoin hasn't been maintained for a long time and suffers from some serious bugs.And also that it is extremely vulnerable to botnet attacks. ( take over hashing rate + DDoS the competition in one blow ) ( I think this has been demonstrated at least once before if i remember correctly ) There is not 100%, but it becomes increasingly difficult to cheat as more blocks land on top of it.Also do not mistake 6 ltc confirmations with 6 btc confirmations, 6 ltc confirmations is about as secure as 1-2 btc confirmations.. (yes yes, i know the ltc pumpers like to tell you differently.) I don't think allowing to change the original output is a good option (adding new ones is fine), other than that i think it's a good proposal. lol what a load of bullshit'unidentified source' 'unknown journalist'right... go on...I thought Zimbabwe is mostly underdeveloped as in, no power or much technology to support the bitcoin system...? Why do you guys even think bitcoin will recover?The media destroyed it, bubble pops, everybody is looking for the new virtual currency that 'solves the many problems with bitcoin', and ripple and litecoin are often named (not that that makes any sense...).It doesn't matter what a small community like ours wants or thinks, media declared bitcoin pretty much dead, i expect to see single digits soon.I was very optimistic long-term too, but i think the confidence is too damaged now because of the media hype and panic sells.Honestly i hope i'm completely wrong about it...! because you would have to find the exact same hash...? extremely unlikely to happen...
The official version of github is indeed v2.5, but it does not support encrypted private keys.The v2.2 i was referring to was the base of the version that has the encrypted keys, located here https://github.com/Zeilap/bitaddress.org There seem to be a lot of changes between v2.2 and 2.5 and since i'm not a coder i can't tell if the v2.2 with the encrypted keys is safe enough. (don't want to send funds to an address that can't be accessed later on) Magically create all units of account for the network (xrp), sell the service as an open and free solution to transferring money, profit.And you ask what's bad about it? Typing a pin is a pain in the ass? Are you kidding me? Everybody is messaging and browsing with their smart phones all day long and typing a pin is too much? O_oAnyway, it should be optional, if you don't wish to use it fine, don't, but i'm pretty sure a lot of mobile users would appreciate some security features that protect our wallet. Still no security features... With lots of people getting into bitcoin this is essential i think.My phone goes around my friends and family quite a lot, to view pictures, browse the web, play games, so it's out of my sight from time to time.I don't want anyone to be able to just spend my coins like that if they wish.I know bitcoin is like cash, but it should be protected by some kind of wallet encryption that requires a password/pin before you can spend whatever is in there.Time to take this serious i think... I've been nagging about this for what, a year now? xD And i'm sorry if it gets boring and annoying, it's too important to not have this feature i think. This is the worst thing Gox has done so far i think, i seriously hope this completely kills the exchange in the near future. They don't deserve to be an exchange for a free-market currency. By weaklings i see people jumping the bandwagon without having the slightest clue what bitcoin is all about, how it works and so on, they are only jumping in because they want to get rich quick (like the litecoiners and co). A lot of precisely those bought into bitcoin last week and probably sold at huge losses the past 48 hrs (tnx for cheap coins btw, can i get some more when gox opens pls?).I think it will take a few more years before the general public really starts using bitcoin on any noticeable scale. It will drop like a rock, i'm sure about that, but i don't see it climbing back to 250 any time soon, maybe back up to 50 in a few weeks, slowly.. Which is only good for price stability. because troll? *signed*For both performance reasons and to make a stance and show the bullshit scam alt-chains aren't worthy of attention. Is there an updated version of this or will there be one available soon?Current version is based on v2.2, official bitaddress version on github is v2.5.I compared them quickly and there seem to be a lot of differences.Also noticed the original development topic hasn't been touched since 03 feb. did it fail testing or what happened?Encrypted paper wallets are pretty important i think, specially now that bitcoin is getting spread wider.As for recovery safety, are both versions equal? Can i be 100% sure that the keypairs generated by the script are valid and that i can import them when needed? Don't feel like dumping my btc in a black hole... Worst mistake was trusting MtGox with my bitcoins. Lost pretty much all i had back then due to this lame vulnerability on their site. hehe nice xDthe bitcoin donation address is a nice touch  I award you no points, and may God have mercy on your soul.--The rest is history. Gaat dit zo'n clubje van rijke eliten worden binnenkort? xD netjes, mooie designsgoed om te zien dat er steeds meer mensen btc accepteren  Geenstijl was jaren geleden een leuke site kritische site die bizarre dingen aan het licht bracht.Dit bitcoin artikel laat goed zien waar ze naar zijn afgedaald en waar de belangen liggen.Ook de comments spreken boekdelen over de 'reaguurders', sadly. In case you didn't figure this out, that's the whole point of pretty much all of these alt chains  What happened? He scammed 500k btc and lives happily ever after. End of story. Don't you know ppcoin is the successor of bitcoin? bitcoin is unsustainable and will crash soon!There's a reason the ppcoin price is skyrocketing pump'n'dump! Better buy in now while they are still cheap! Wat Euro waarde betreft mine ik net zo veel BTC als LTC.Maar, LTC is DE SHIT zoals je op het altcoin forum kan lezen, de toekomst, volledig revolutionair.Vergeet alle bugs, de stilstaande development, de botnets, feit dat er ook asics voor gemaakt kunnen worden etc etc , en dat het eigenlijk niets nieuws toevoegt, gewoon minen en snel verkopen voor dat andere mensen door hebben dat LTC een p&d is.
There was never a time to buy unless you wanted to participate in the pump-n-dump.Better to put your coins in other alternatives that bring something new to the table imho. I don't see how Scrypt is going to keep Litecoin safe from the move towards ASIC's if it ever gains serious attention (although i can see no reason why that would happen).Scrypt requires lots of memory! That's the argument for Scrypt.If you're somewhat aware about hardware you should know that memory is extremely cheap nowadays compared to raw processing units.Litecoin will make the same move CPU->GPU->FPGA/ASICIt's just lagging behind because it started later and doesn't bring anything new to the table.I'm all for competing (virtual) currencies, and i'm sure the market will sort it all out over time. But all these people trying to hype it and come up with bogus arguments seems really like p&d.Also i'm a little worried about not seeing any commits in a while, some serious issues in bitcoin have been addressed in the mean time, were they all fixed in litecoin already? Misschien is het mogelijk 538 te contacteren over het idee, bitcoin in het kort uit te leggen en dat ze dan elke dag even dat adres checken en vermelden wat er op gedoneerd is?Ze hoeven niet perse de bitcoin-qt client te gebruiken, blockchain.info heeft een hele eenvoudige online wallet.Ze maken regelmatig reclame over de IT-department van 538, wat er allemaal nodig is om alles te laten draaien etc, dus er is ook vast iemand die in staat is een blockchain.info wallet aan te maken in less-than-a-minute. De indruk die ik krijg is dat mensen wel nieuwsgierig zijn maar erzelf liever geen 'risico'  mee nemen. Op IRC lijkt het er op dat er een handje vol hele grote spelers in NL zit. Het idee is leuk maar een onderdeel van bitcoin is dat je niet afhankelijk hoeft te zijn van derde partijen.Als je 538 nou gebeld had met dit idee en ze zelf een bitcoin adres had laten maken/posten op de site ofzo had ik met plezier gedoneerd. impressive  great work  Yea it does, like most of your troll posts.I doubt we will ever reach $1000, specially if the network isn't thoroughly tested and patched when problems are discovered. I think this is possible with multisig, or was this whole thing dropped a long time ago? Of course not. Why would anyone use a rigged scam system like ripple for something else besides pump'n'dump? haha this is crazy, everybody yelling it's a scam, and everybody still jumping the scamwagon xDThis way it may become a greater success in a few months then bitcoin has ever dreamt of. And the founders? Oh well, they are already enjoying the full extent of their premined coins100 million xrp (full) premine, exchanging at what.. 50.000 xrp per 1 btc... That is a very very profitable scam imho. rwFCTdw5Stmg4Ru9nJ6V5RDJHRLTxQnskH Here's the other part of the 'series': https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0UKC7iaBKvsThe really sad part is that he's removing all comments that do no agree with his vision or are in some way refuting his arguments. Cherry picking are we? Right before that line i referred to the 'Service Discussion' part of this forum to discuss any moral issues people may have with our service.We've been running our site for over 4 years now with over 36.000 members.The 'Wishes' project however is new and is still in heavy development.So far we've only dealt with donations and i think every donor can vouch for us that we provide what we promise. For donations this was just service development and maintenance and access to some exclusive content.Of course trust is required, as with any service. We hope our track record provides a basis for this and will result in some active girls and benefactors that complete several goals, strengthening our credibility.Most trust is required from the girls side, she has to trust we will pay up when her goal is reached.As a benefactor you just donate kindly or you get content for whatever you donated.You may not realize it but most doctors won't do surgeries they deem unethical themselves. Of course they are greedy, there's a reason these surgeries are so expensive, but operating on a psychologically unstable person is a serious legal risk for them too.Of course there are unhealthy situations, people get addicted to all kinds of crazy extremes. They will enable themselves one way or another, i prefer to see it in a way that doesn't hurt society.We just provide payment when she reaches her goal and don't get involved with ethics too much. Usually no, you just donate or make a deal with her something-for-something. However, you can be very creative.For example, if you see a girl that you think has huge potential as a model, you can make a deal to pay 50% if you can make a commercial website for her with her premium content and get an x% share of that. Then you could make profit. But really, that's all up to the users, we only get involved if one of the parties claims the deal was broken. Everyone means everyone, you're free to discuss all of this on our forum or in 'Service Discussion'. This, right here, is 'Service Announcement'. I don't think discussing the service belongs here. Obviously this service is not for you. Please move along.Those girls have friends and family and co-workers and doctors to tell them when their behavior gets out of hand. I don't think it's your or my responsibility to say whats right or wrong in this case.While you're at it, think of all the tattoos, piercings, jewelry and all other kinds of body art, those people need help too?Anyway, i didn't post this to get into a conversation about this, feel free to start a discussion about this on our forums. I'm just announcing the service for people that ARE interested.  @nikoGood thing we have different tastes, it would be a boring world otherwise.The girls will try to get people to donate to them so they will be sharing their story and why you should donate to them.Of course there will be many pictures and videos involved, some are public, some are for subscribers only. If you want to see the content that she made for her subscribers you need to subscribe to her profile, this will cost coins. Or if you don't want the subscription you can try to make a deal with her, maybe something like 'if you pose in this and that outfit i'll donate 500 coins to you', if she agrees you send the money, she sends the pictures/video. These deals will be logged and if one party didn't stick with the deal the donation will be reversed or the other way around. We will handle those disputes manually of course.In the end it's really up to her how she wants to convince people to donate to her, creativity is key i guess. In the near future we will try to provide some additional features to make this easier.So you kinda buy her time/pictures/videos instead of just donating. There's your reward, and who knows you'll get to make real friends or even better. With great pride we want to announce that the project "Wishes"."Wishes" is a project that allows girls to sign up to get some form of cosmetic surgery. This could be a breast augmentation, lip injections or anything to improve her looks.And everyone who loves to be a part of this can follow her progress and invest in her surgery goal. This can be small donations, but a lot of small donations will really help the girl to make her wish come true.So, you can now be a real part in a girl's journey to get her dream body. And she will be forever thankful, and of course she will reward you! As payment method we decided to use bitcoin primarily and only allow very small payments with other payment processors.We use our own virtual currency pegged to bitcoin (we just keep bitcoins and use a 1:100 ratio to make smaller transactions internally possible)There's detailed information on the Wishes website.There may be some bugs that we haven't discovered, so please let us know about it if you find one.The project is a work in progress, we will continue to expand and develop extra functions. Any tips and ideas are always welcome.-- But there's already a company doing this, i hear you say. True, but we are doing this for the girls, not for big profit. Most of the donated money (about 90%) will go to the girls surgery and not to some company (who usually take about 60% of the money you donate).Visit wishes now and have a look:https://theperfectboobs.net/wishes great news CWH has great girls -offtopic-You must be really bored to hang around at a forum discussing something dislike so much.If you don't have anything to add to the discussion, how about you just don't..?40+ hate/troll posts an still a bitcoin address in your sig..?-ontopic-I think it will take a while before, if ever, bitcoin will be accepted in the super markets. Just informing people about what bitcoin is and why it was invented will have to do it in the end. 
Nice.Looks like a very interesting project, i'm very wary of these 'free' cloud services. I think you don't really grasp what 2^160 actually means... let alone 2^2048... I think i asked this a long time ago also, but can we expect any security features any time soon? like wallet encryption or just a password/PIN requirement before sending funds? lolwut? I have a feeling the exact opposite is happening... everything is moving to 'the cloud', traditional p2p filesharing services get shut down, people are moving from torrents to download sites or to usenet. And the list goes on... Related radio showhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nghugzGybNY Some radio show report spreading a lot of crap.This almost looks intentional....https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nghugzGybNY[edit]Discussion going on here: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=130992.0locked for removal. This again...?https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=128413.0and many other topics... Maybe not, but if Pirate or some other guy with huge funds decides to become a (multi)millionaire (or just dump a shtload for the fun of it) you'll see it will have a huge impact on the value.There's still a HUGE amount of bitcoins in the hands of a few people that completely control the market in essence.Hopefully these coins are slowly being spread out while the economy is growing, but you never know... And the next day your money has halved... or doubled...But 'average'  people will never risk that. I tried this too with single full bitcoins, nobody wanted them -.-I figured nobody would take it if it were just pennies, but even full bitcoins or 2 or 5... nope, nobody... It was a while ago though... Primarily i'd like to see more webshops accepting bitcoin and just regular people for general trading. If both of these get feet on the ground, more and more 'normal'  business will start accepting them i think. Bitcoin in it's pure form can't (yet)... if only for waiting on confirmations...If we use companies that guarantee the transactions instantly it's very possible, then again, what prevents anyone from making up new non existing bitcoins that they can spend at shops if that shop accepts this specific companies bitcoins...? They will be bitcoins, but not really, or really not. Both Bloomberg and Reuters have had coverage on Bitcoin... Seems it's just a non-reason to tell us to piss off, i wonder who's behind that... I bet they got nice money for refusing it for whatever made up reason. Prima werkend moederbord met geheugen.Prijs voor moederbord: 36 EUR / 3.5 btcPrijs voor 2GB RAM kit: 18 EUR / 1.75 btcPrijs voor 4GB RAM kit: 36 EUR / 3.5 btcPrijs voor alles samen: 78 EUR / 7.5 btcBitcoin prijzen zijn ter indicatie! de daadwerkelijke prijs zal vastgesteld worden bij de verkoop op basis van MtGox koers.Gigabyte GA-MA785GM-USH2 Rev:1.3 (info: http://www.gigabyte.com/products/product-page.aspx?pid=3396#ov )Het clipje van het PCIe slot mist.https://i.imgur.com/dmTb1.jpghttps://i.imgur.com/Sn7Sd.jpg4GB (2x 2GB kit) Kingston ValueRAM DDR2 800MHz - KVR800D2N5K2/4G (top)2GB (2x 1GB kit) Kingston ValueRAM DDR2 800MHz - KVR800D2N5K2/2G (bottom)https://i.imgur.com/3OUaF.jpg So, say i find 3 confirmations acceptably safe. That's exactly 3 confirmations in litecoin too for the same safety?That's 30 minutes vs 6 minutes (it was 2min/block iirc)... on average. Why are we still using bitcoin instead of litecoin again? because it's most accepted? So, does this mean that litecoin and the like are way more secure against these double spends compared to bitcoin? assuming it would have the same hashrate backing it.... Clean setup in win7_x64Still syncing the blockchain (over 15 hrs now)Barely any CPU usage, but using 1.3GB memory. Also seems to have a lot of disk activity making the system a bit slow. Filesharing in a 'blockchain'?Oh.. you mean a distributed datastore? It has DHT yes, but that's nothing new i think, the nodes are not visible, just shows the number of RS nodes and the total number of DHT nodes.If they want to post something it could be one of your friends, or you, or one of your friends friends, or one of your friends friends friends...  etc.RS is built as an internal friend2friend network, so anonymity only goes to some extent.Tor is created mainly to provide anonymous access to the internet, which it is quite good at, the hidden services however are horribly slow compared to I2P.I2P is built as an anonymous internal network and uses a zero-trust philosoply, which is great i think. It can have high speeds but people don't seem to be interested in it somehow, it only has a few active users i think. However it's impossible to tell the amount of users or usage.Then there's FreeNet, which is also a great tool, they claim to have a fairly big user base (about 20k i think?) but the community also seems very dormant.I think we're just not getting spied on enough yet for people to look for alternative ways of communicating and sharing information. But that goes for Bitcoin too i guess... Until the shit hits the fan... Then it's too late Anyway i'll leave the node running for a while see if i can get me a small network.
Soo, is this bitcoin-retroshare group still alive somewhat?I lost my gpg key a while ago and i finally got a new retroshare version (thats not f*cked up with failing gpg integration) and a new key.I'll add everybody above and see who's still alive on there.I'm a little surprised as how their site shows tens of thousands of downloads, but the DHT network shows only ~750 retroshare nodes... anyone have a theory about why the number is so low compared to the downloads?Anyway,My new key is:Code:-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----Version: OpenPGP:SDK v0.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=MREz-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-------SSLID--250fcda24c6fb50552c7dbf9cc0a3ad2;--LOCATION--home1;--LOCAL--77.175.3.196:13838;--EXT--77.175.3.196:13838; Fairly neutral indeed, but still a considerable amount of just false information about bitcoin. Specially in an analysis like this you just can't make even small mistakes imho. None, i'll just patiently wait till they drop under 3 or 2 usd... expecting that to happen before the halving of the reward. I wouldn't be surprised if a big number of those were just gone because the user trashed his wallet or lost it in some other way, remember that btc weren't always worth 12 bucks....my friends trashed a few thousand bitcoins too in the early days... Trololol, you forgot to sell your SolidCoins? xD Sooo... i guess this was all just a big scam again with no actual hack and  no actual documents to reveal? geez, 9000 btc... thats big money...I feel for you man, next time dont keep it online, just print the keys encrypted, keep it safe and wipe the wallet. Did anyone contact them for an explanation and get something back already? lol wtf is this shit... bunch of liars! Whats all this talk about cashing out? In a few years you can just pay with bitcoin, no need to cash out to anything.  Today i noticed my bitcoin client crashed when i checked my pc, so i started it again but i got an immediate message that bitcoin-qt had stopped working. Rebooted, tried again, same story.Deleted my logs and ran it again to check if they had something usefull to say, but no log files were created.I downloaded 0.7.0rc3 and tried to run that, it crashed directly at start up too but it did give me 3 lines in the db.log:Code:page 4294967295: illegal page type or formatPANIC: Invalid argumentPANIC: fatal region error detected; run recoveryThat's all though, should i delete the entire blockchain again and redownload? That will take days... i hope there's a better solution. (already tried rescan too) "theft/scamming way more profitable (and riskless) than legal businness"Wow, it's just like in real life! With dollars and euros... i'm sure that now that's cleared up, bitcoin will flourish! Starts at about 8 minutes in.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IGpaFuGBJYENot sure if this is in the right section Basicaly the guy against bitcoin is talking about how bad deflation is and how it will stop economic activity because money will be worth more the next day. I tried to understand this point but to me it just doesn't do it... If people will think twice before spending money, it forces other people to innovate more and keep the prices sharp so that people will want to buy again... I think this will balance out just fine over time. <2 years. already there are alternatives popping up that solve issues that bitcoin has, imho it's inevetable that the community will jump on that and drop bitcoin why isn't this bitcoin-support line on their 'barrels'? xD how cool is this  Is it really that stupid? When the users in the network do more transactions then the miners can take in to process, stuff must get really laggy i guess? hoarding for the win xD would love to test but it gives a version error with p2pool  require 0.5 or higher lol you're already very late if you still have to sell, better be quick before it hits 0
The saddest and funniest thing about bitcoin is... That there are still people who think it's ever going to hit 10 again xD LOL you're kidding right?He was doing;Receive coins from idiot -> party hardreceive coins from another idiot -> party harderreceive more coins from more idiots -> buy sports carreceive some more -> get some hot escort girlreceive some more, tell people they got trolled -> party hard and go to Hawaii  Thank you, i checked that box in windows too and now i can use the same wallet in linux    After i totally messed up my last ubuntu install after a lot of work to get everything i need running i used windows for a few weeks only.Today i started building my linux system again and of course i run into trouble with bitcoin (again).I try to use the same datadir as i us in windows to make sure i'm always using the same wallet, and whatever OS i'm using at that moment will be synced.Problem is, when i try to load the datadir in ubuntu it gives me all kinds of DB errors and exceptions, when i go back to windows the same datadir works just fine. So i did some messing around.When i use a clean datadir in ubuntu (empty wallet, fresh db and blockchain) it runs fine and fast, however if i replace the blockchain with the same blockchain from my windows install it pops the errors again...Also, when i put my windows wallet file in the clean ubuntu bitcoin dir, it gives a db error and wont start.All in all very annoying and i'd like to know if there's a dependable way to use the same datadir for both OS'.Why is there some kind of difference anyway between the two??oh btw, the linux wallet.dat works on windows, but the windows wallet.dat doesn't work on linux... O_o I'm talking about wroking proof-of-stake alternatives. Beetje jammer dat nieuwe reacties onder aan komen te staan.De meeste eerste reacties zijn gewoon van onwetende mensen die maar wat onzinnigs zeggen zonder enig idee te hebben waar het uberhaubt over gaat.Wat later in de comments komen er wat intelligentere reacties naar voren, helaas zullen de meeste mensen die het artikel lezen niet door de comments naar onder scrollen en alleen de eerste bashing comments zien. Very nice video, too bad it was so short and we didn't really see a discussion . and their bitcoin donate option is broken  How can you guys be so optimistic when alternatives that remove or strongly reduce the cost of energy to maintain the security of the network are around the corner? Are there any exchanges? i want to exchange all my BTC to PPC, with this new bitcoin replacement bitcoin seems of the long past and has no future. Buy high, sell low, that's how we roll, and sometimes we troll.   Pirate drama has already ended, he got your money, he ran with it. The only thing that's happening now is people with false hopes and depressions making posts about it, oh and some more trolling at pirates end. i herd rumors the govt is going to shut down and seize all bitcoin servers from the owners next month! If i'm not mistaking this is an android device, so say hello to google's wallet service, you can forget about bitcoin really. I think some kind of 'warning' or note that the original client is still very 'technical'? could be an idea to point the average user to web-wallets, light-weight clients or mobile clients. Ik heb je een PM gestuurd, misschien dat je daar wel op kan reageren, anders kan je mn email adres in dat bericht vinden.  Also your validation times with and without fees are slightly off i think  Ik heb nog een hoop bitcoin flyers, als iemand ze goed kan gebruiken om te verspreiden, verhaaltje bij te houden of gewoon ergens neer te leggen kan ik een gewenst* aantal opsturen.Dit is het ontwerp: Since when is bitcoin low-risk high-profit?Sometimes i just write random shit too. Nothing that the 'project' can do can offer stability, that would mean it's not really a free market then i guess. Maybe alternative currencies?I see we get to vote on apps, nothing with bitcoin.
Soo... what does this have to do with bitcoin?Is this just an advertisement for some other commercial payment processor or what? What a demotivating read, getting kinda tired of all these videos and articles popping up, just stating that bitcoin is 'the digital currency created by hackers for criminal activities'... Is this the beginning of the third part of the  "first they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win" scenario? Thanks i'll just use a different pc to mess around with your version for now since i have the latest p2pool software.As for coin control, i surely hope this will be picked up in the main client, it's an important feature imho, i use it on a regular basis. p2pool tells me the version of bitcoin is too old, need at least 0.5 xD (next-test) Prijs bijgwerkt  Amazing, i can't wait for a new bitcoin alternative that uses MAVEPAY. Maybe Bitcoin2 from same devs? maybe something entirely new.It's very obvious bitcoin has had it's best time, now it's time to move on to something that may actually work. I don't think you can get funds out of multi-sig addresses yet.One of the most important features of bitcoin i think but it doesn't seem to have any priority for the devs  Today i noticed that my total balance displayed doesn't match the balance of the sum of all the visible bitcoin adresses, also bitcoind didn't list those so i was wondering where this magic money came from.I used Luke-jr's bitcoin test client and it showed some additional addresses with a balance and a groupbalance?Why aren't these addresses shown by the default client or available in bitcoind somehow? How does this happen anyway because i sure as hell didn't send anything to those addresses or received from somebody else at those for that matter.Any insight would be helpful  I'm selling some Diablo 3 Gold on European server, normal mode.I have plenty available for now.0.17 BTC per 1.000.000 Gold How does this work?1. Send me a PM or let me know you're interested by posting in this topic, and how much Gold you want.2. We meet in game to make sure we can join each other and make trades (test with 1 gold or something)2. I give you a unique bitcoin address to pay to, you send your bitcoins there.4. We wait for 1 confirmation.5. I give you the gold we agreed upon. Yea i suppose so, but since there seem to be a lot of people complaining about funds being stuck in intersango i have the feeling they will never get it back now that this is going on.Just hoping it won't cause many more people losses. Oh that's  great, so now instead of bitcoinica victims a few guys have decided to take all Intersango customers down the drain with them? Sharing is caring? very nice, would be cool if everybody could do that easily themselves. lololol in his video he talks about the 'bitcoiners' deleting comments and disabling ratings on their videos, so... i decided to post a comment...Guess what... 'comment pending approval'...   CPU dropsGPU nectarFPGA juiceASIC booze? APG has done a fine job for about 2 years for me now. Don't worry man, you're doing a fine job.  Merk: Volkswagen Type: Golf / hatchback / 3-deursBouwjaar: 2000Motor: 1.6L v16 BenzineKilometerstand: 79.000 kmToestand: uitstekend, schadevrij.Extras: Dak-spoiler + Trekhaak + Achterlichten in rookglasPrijsindicatie: 410 btcBij interesse of vragen voor meer info, laat een reactie in het topic achter of stuur even een PM.    Chances for that address are 50/50, why don't you try again? Get your coins back quickly  ^Made my head explode... fixed... no idea why it doesn't work well with diablominer but oh well..Code:Local: 637MH/s in last 10.0 minutes Local dead on arrival: ~1.1% (0-7%) Expected time to share: 56.4 minutesThe reward is still low but i'm sure it will go up after running for a bit.
After running on a pool for 12 hours or so i noticed that also the pool only registers about half of my speed. So i changed my miner, guess what, looking much much better now! I'm going to try on p2pool now see what it does.I was using DiabloMiner, now changing to CGMiner. Last block was 0.068, i've seen worse  Yes, i'm running 24/7.p2pool tells me my hash rate is much lower then my actual mining speed (about 60%) and whenever my miner finds a new share it's not added to the p2pool count.I recently started it and my miner tells me i found 50 shares (all accepted), p2pool says 15?very confused... p2pool window says 9%I also noticed a big variance in payout 0.02~0.09 btc per payout. i've been mining with p2pool for a while now and today i thought of counting what i had mined, the average of the last month is about 0.17 btc/day, i compared this to what i should get at my speed (625MHash) which is about 0.34 btc/day. I haven't used a regular pool for a while now so i can't really say if that would be any better.I knew p2pool had slightly lower rewards then regular pools but i didn't expect to lose 50%...Is there something wrong with my config or is this normal? Damn, jammer dat ik dit zo laat pas zie, opzich wel leuk natuurlijk, ga proberen of ik nog kan komen.Wat belasting betreft, het lijkt me allemaal stug dat je over informatie belasting kan eisen, zeker aangezien niemand een garantie bied dat je daadwerkelijk een bepaald bedrag aan Euro's krijgt voor je bitcoins. Hier wil ik opzich wel eens een uitspraak van een rechter over zien. A mesh nework of trust assigned nodes sounds really backwards.Imho the way to go is for no node to trust other nodes. As for routing just depend on capacity, relay times etc. Without the security multi-sig offers , there will never be enough people to even get to a scalability problem. Multi-sig is one thing that could make bitcoin really stand out. I already contacted support about this several months ago, they replied that they would not implement it because of the association with illegal activity (drugs etc.) I'm a little confused, whats going on with all this bitcoinica and intersango mix up? Can i still use Intersango or should i stay far away from it? Are you sure about that? I have to pay about 3 EUR a month just for 'having' my regular payment bank account (which is the cheapest option). 1. Dump 40k btc in market2. People panic dropping the price further.3. Buy back 50k btc for the same amount of USD you got for selling those 40k btc.4.  5. Repeat.6. Profit. phew... i was able to sell most at 8.5 USD, <1 here we come! No it's an AMD chip, as i said, the radeon is listed in my device manager next to the onboard vga device and it's not disabled or anything.Tried guiminer too and that one also only shows my CPU as available device... I kinda screwed up my graphics card with all the overclocking i did in the past, lots of artifacts, in short, not very usable for watching movies or playing games. But... for mining it still works perfectly!Since i have an onboard vga chip (AMD A55M chipset) i thought i would use that as primary device for my display and just select the Radeon card for mining.I switched the cable and bios settings, seems to work fine, and my device manager still shows the radeon device as well. But when i try to launch diablo miner it tells me "ERROR: OpenCL platform AMD Accelerated Parallel Processing contains no devices"Also i can't seem to enable the card to give output to a secondary monitor, just doesnt give signal but thats fine with me.Does anyone know how to get this setup to work? What i did wrong? You come from a middle class family, dont have much money left, but enough to just donate 5000btc for this? Dafuq?! 5k btc is a lot of money imho orly? just like gold n silver? people will just buy bitcoin contracts like they now buy gold/silver contracts, buying and selling bitcoins that don't exist... Wait a few years with spreading bitcoin to the masses. It's far from ready for the public.Let's make it a working system and work out all the flaws first. Add essential features, make it easy/usable for my grandma. etc. etc. keeps crashing every few hours.Win7-x64Code:Problem signature:  Problem Event Name: APPCRASH  Application Name: bitcoin-qt.exe  Application Version: 0.0.0.0  Application Timestamp: 4d44aa00  Fault Module Name: bitcoin-qt.exe  Fault Module Version: 0.0.0.0  Fault Module Timestamp: 4d44aa00  Exception Code: c0000005  Exception Offset: 0007ccf4  OS Version: 6.1.7601.2.1.0.256.1  Locale ID: 1043  Additional Information 1: 0a9e  Additional Information 2: 0a9e372d3b4ad19135b953a78882e789  Additional Information 3: 0a9e  Additional Information 4: 0a9e372d3b4ad19135b953a78882e789 haha classic support desk answers, just telling you stuff you're likely wanting to hear to get rid of you Don't worry he didn't mean what he was saying there xD
nothing really, just a fake wall, in a day or two it will be back where it was last week. this is very good news but the site is realllyy slooowww... Check the second post, he made a new channel. He's back! with a new video about bitcoin and how retarded we are ! xDhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B-MY3mNadU8Enjoy this top class entertainment. As Maged said, it's probably too much to ask for direct implementation into the AH, but i assume (haven't used it yet) you have to charge your account on their website using one of the current payment processors, they could add bitcoin to that and add 'euros/dollars' to your account at the current exchange rate. Thats not even hard or expensive to implement.The only reasons i can think of that make an argument for blizzard i think is that they have less overhead costs from the payment processor (none?). Also enables people who want to remain anonymous to use real money AH. (extra users)btw; i thought ogrr was bigger, my mistake  but still impressive site imho. There already is a huge trading platform for diablo stuff using bitcoin.IMHO it would be a smart and profitable move from Blizzard to adopt new 'revolutionary' payment methods.Will they consider it? That depends on who decides really, clueless employees will trash it yea... true dat.And that's probably where our tickets/suggestions end up, with the clueless employees.So will Blizzard consider it? I think they would if it gets to the right people. Does it get to the right people? I don't think so. IMHO it's the smartest thing you can do with any fiat currency this moment... Will there be any simple way for the user to export or backup private keys?? Yep, you're right  Seems it had to download the entire blockchain again, took a bit of time  Great update, thanks, still the best mobile client imho.When can we expect a wallet 'export' or 'backup' function? With the update my old wallet got screwed up and i lost some BTC in the process  That sucks, i loved his bitcoin vids xD[edit]He's back(?)http://www.youtube.com/user/SirRawdoglet Take your loss like a man...?As we all did.. Besides the whole rediculous ponzi idea.The users buying BTC @ 10.000 USD can still spend that bitcoin for an equal amount of goods and services. So, there's no loss for anyone using BTC as money. Only a high risk of loss or profit if you use it as an early investment.Also, bare in mind that IF those people become wealthy they did do something for it. They started a revolutionary global 'free' currency.  Of course the whole idea is idiotic in a practical sense for the users. But for governments it will be a key issue to kill bitcoin.They will require some form of regulation, if not at user base, it will be at exchange base.Forcing them to taint or quarantine coins will be one of the first demands. If they don't abide by those rules, they will be shut down. I hope it won't come to that, but currently i view this as inevitable. Oohh i see where you're going, with MicroCrash you don't need scriptkiddies to steal your moneys, the devs will do it for you! That's simply ingenious!Quickly, tell me how do i sell all my bitcoins to get microcash? (having them take my bitcoins AND my microcash sounds kinda silly, but hey, so does this whole topic.) OP another SolidCoin / MicroCrash sockpuppet? -.- @davout, where do they state that? tried to find it on the apple page but no hits with a quick search.Well if bitcoin hits mainstream they will only digg their own grave by not allowing their customers to use bitcoin. I think this will be a heavy burden for the economy to bare...But yea, better now then in the future.Very interesting, meanwhile i'll continue to develop my bitcoin alternative that does not require a blockchain. Why would they not allow bitcoin apps? Hoe veel heb je er nodig, PM anders even wat details misschien kan ik je helpen.
Misschien dat je er nog een paar losse mhash uit kan persen maar veel meer als wat je nu hebt gaat er niet in zitten met die kaart hoor. Not sure what you mean exactly with a payment processor with bitcoin, but i'm still waiting for a payment gateway that allows people to pay in bitcoin using existing methods.So the customer is charged with x BTC, then gets the option to pay with BTC/PayPal/CC whatever, and no matter how he pays, the seller gets BTC.Currently you have to convince your customers to use bitcoin, then they have to find a way to get bitcoin, (then withdraw them) and then send them to the seller. Which just makes bitcoin a hassle to use. I'm not talking about small /home/ business, i'm talking about big business, like amazon.com or other big boys. I agree that even for them bitcoin will only get them a few transactions. But if it becomes more mainstream, so will their finances. Ofcourse normal customers won't go thru the trouble of figuring out the blockchain, but spying on competition is a big business on it's own. Naturaly you would use different addresses.for each transaction, but following where those transactions all come together is very easy. Using an external mixer service is tricky too, need a lot of trust to do that and it will probably be very expensive at high values and volumes, making bitcoin not so interesting for busines ... I was hoping somebody had a better idea then mixer Services. So, continuing from a critical video...How can a company accept bitcoin without completely opening their financial  status to the qorld.Are there any guides to keep this somewhat private?How do you guys see this? The fair value is exactly what it trades for at any moment. I just watched the last part of that video again and it's really bad, he just wipes the floor with bitcoin with dumbed down conclusions that COULD be true but don't have to be. Also his not trusting the bank but trusting anon is weird... man o man... that's not what bitcoin is about, i'm not sure what this guy has been smoking... (sorry for the chaotic rant-ish comment) Yea, horrible idea, maybe RealSolid is up for it  ^^ this Yea, good point, Bitcoin is so 2011, might just as well throw away that damn antique yubikey. Obvious scam is obvious?Just log in to mtgox and check what they say about when and how to identify yourself. yep android app disconnects:Code:java.security.cert.CertPathValidatorException: Trust anchor for certification path not found. Woa didn't expect to see my money back Tnx for fixing the issue  I'd love to test this for 'safe' transactions with an untrusted party.However, i'm still unsure how to do this, if even possible. 1. mine some bitcoins.2. buy some bitcoins.3. get scammed4. start at 1.I seem to be stuck in this loop. First time getting scammed?Don't get your hopes up for your bitcoins m8.... I will, when it's standalone, currently it is really annoying to have to run the official client and armory together to make use of it, also it eats away all my memory, so no thanks i'll wait a bit til it's developed more  Very good and clear videos Thanks for sharing, hopefully you'll make them public soon for anyone to see and learn from. Why all the effort to take bitcoin down when fear mongering works just fine for 99% of the people. tnx Luke.No? this is just the normal satoshi client, but maybe it would fit better in the development forum 
probably the same guys that own ten and hundred of thousands of bitcoins, we all know who that are . Running 0.6.0.7 @ W7x64, so far all good.Can you tell me when we can expect;- message verification in gui- importing/exporting private keys in gui- coin control in gui- multi-sig transactions in guiWill this be in a 0.6.x release or 0.7 or much later?I consider these features very important specially the last one.The question is just out of curiosity not to push anything before it's ready. Yep, performance went down the drain... (W7x64)730@11.11 674@12.4Not happy with that...! What? maybe a million people are using it...? ehh wut?Where do you get these numbers, the statistics sites show about 100k active nodes daily, i assume most are the same each time... And i highly doubt there's 900k people using ewallets or whatever... I'm not a coder, but i can see how this is really usefull, now if they would only accept bitcoin pledges... Hm yea, he mentions bitcoin once and it sounds like 'hey they tried but failed...'I wonder what he means in specific by bitcoin having it's problems, since it does exactly as he describes 20 seconds later... 0,24 EUR/KWh Excl.Netherlands As long as the btc value keeps rising steadily to some point, fees will cover just fine for the miners i think. If the use of bitcoin doesnt grow, yea, then we are screwed. Very happy with my S2, i don't understand the comment above about iPhone having superior battery life?I can run about 3 days on my S2 (that is if i don't watch youtube movies all day long... xD), just regular calling, messaging, looking up  some stuff on the internet.When surfing a lot and watching videos, having all kinds of messengers logged on, facebook tumbler stuff like that, yea it's  drained in a day then. For a while now i've been regularly contacting game companies and platforms like steam and origin asking about if they are or are going to support bitcoin payments. Stating the simple reasons; i want anonymity and security for my payments, and also informing them that it's probably profitable for them because no fees or third party processors are involved. (up for discussion..)Some have completely ignored my question, and others have replied like "no we don't , please use paypal or your credit card." (even had one reply that bitcoin is used for trading illegal drugs and they didnt want any relation with that... -.- )I was wondering if any of you also contacted gaming related companies to ask / advertise bitcoin?It may be a very essential starting area for bitcoin to grow big.How do you guys write these questions or advertisements and how do they reply? Maybe i'm just doing it all wrong and that makes them turn their heads or something... forking the blockchain, or starting a new one is not a good idea, if bitcoin is to be banned from the internet the current blockchain could just continue inside i2p, no need to fork or start a new one. i guess bitcoin is doomed thena digital currency with all the features and good things of bitcoin, without the bad. W00t! MD5 encryption! can't get better then that   one of the biggest online illegal underground drug stores? never even heard of the place ... either it's not so big, or the concept was just flawed to begin with... I've noticed a few times that during battlefield i get enormous lag spikes, or just a very high ping in general for a few minutes.So, i went looking and found that the bitcoin client was the cause, eating away all my upload bandwidth.I couldn't find a setting to limit the max up/down bandwidth that it should use.Any chance this will be implemented in the near future?? Hey allI'm trying to export some keys as a safe backup, i'm using an external drive as my datadir and that usually works fine but now i'm running into some trouble.i'm running:./bitcoind -datadir=/media/BTC listreceivedbyaddressit then returns:error: couldn't connect to serverAm i doing something wrong or how should i go about this? This Didnt you know? Canadian bitcoins are worth at least twice as much as normal bitcoins! Dafuq is that sht?! My coins belong on my phone, nowhere else But nice initiative for new users. Yay, more false information about bitcoin... -.-The only link between bitcoin and mintchip is that it's digital as far as i can tell.
Nope, my point exactly, and i think people will already be drooling over the idea... 'oh wow, if only this would be released to the public!'Also, im just ranting out of frustration by how people react to bitcoin..  Reasons why mintchip will succeed and be massively addopted and bitcoin will not:- Videos, just look at that one single video they put out, it's better then all the bitcoin videos from over the past 2 years put together. (they know how to market their product)- ... Hmm... that was it actually...When talking to strangers and bring up bitcoin, they have never heard of it, none of them... (and yea, then it all starts over again 'ponzi scheme, scam, blabla...'). But this, this is the Royal Canadian Mint, or FED or whoever comes up with it. They have instant trust, specially with these smooth videos. Will this system allow our site to accept customers to purchase something valued in bitcoin with any of the mtgox-accepted funding methods as well?Say im selling a 1BTC starbucks map, can a user go to the checkout, pay 3,6 EUR (or whatever current market value is) with SEPA and when processed, we will receive the 1BTC? Would be cool yes, but the miner software would have to be changed, since it's p2p you can't just use a server/client tunnel. Thanks for the update, looks like it's working perfectly! Tried this client, set up a new account, did verification but gives me "Error syncing wallet. Please check your internet connection." Ahh yea tnx, totally looked over that  I just got an email from what seems to be blockchain.info.Advertising a new android wallet that uses the remote blockchain like bitcoinspinner and the interface of bitcoin wallet (schildbach).However, i can't find anything on the blockchain.info site about this, nor on this forum...Is this thing legit or just another scam trying to steal from mobile wallets? Performance wise it's still a killer card, and also one of the most energy efficient ones i think. @ RaggedMonkTS  i thought something little under 400k Says the guy with almost half a million bitcoins... How can we take a single word you say serious or heck, even consider the meaning of them? Your mind has been compromised from the beginning... Venmo still uses fiat junk paper, some of us still call it money... I think that's the only real point that will make bitcoin win in the end. The blockchain started at 2009-01-01, the first public bitcoin version was released in march or april i think, so thats 3-4 months 'pre-mine' resulting in 600~800k btc. But even after it was released the community didn't begin to grow until mid 2010, so thats basicaly 1.5 years of mining of which say what? 80% went to the developer(s). Same here on win7 x64 English language. Hm not sure what to think of this, i get the impression she's making it look like toy money.Also telling people it's hard to use and facebook credits are easier? Ehh? She working for facebook or something?Maybe she's unaware of the mobile and desktop clients we have that allow us to use it with 2 clicks of a button... This site has serious privacy issues, it's bugged like hell. I can see all kinds of orders from other people... including name and address... haven't messed around with retroshare for a long time... gonna try again Code:-----BEGIN PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-----Version: GnuPG v1.4.9 (MingW32)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0wyX-----END PGP PUBLIC KEY BLOCK-------SSLID--720024c38d25e4ba1d3f4e344c446e2d;--LOCATION--;--LOCAL--10.0.0.157:44991;--EXT--81.207.100.183:44991; Stolen btc are a problem, currently there are over 800.000 stolen bitcoins... so the most wealthy people in our new economy are criminals... awesome! thats what we wanted all along... oh wait, thats what we already have today... criminals ruling the world...  Ah yes thanks, i missed the part about the folder in ProgramData  removed it and all working now. Updated from 0.6rc1 to rc2 (win7 x64), starts fast (10 sec) compared to like a minute or so with rc1, but after i get the gui the gui just freezes, seems the core is still running though since p2pool can connect to it.Tried to remove wallet and blockchain, no change, still becomes unresponsive after start.
Gosh i so hate these self proclaimed experts who are totally clueless....  If it's too hard for 'normal' people to install an app on their phone, start it, scan code, click send... then im afraid we've lost already.Also, remember that if you use cards with private keys from which the POS terminals extract the bitcoins for the purchase, the entire blockchain has to be rescanned for that key, last time i did this it took a while. yes, let's make it a toy for kids... no thanks, let's  keep it clean and professional. Am i right in saying that this feature will not be supported by the official client?Anyway, i thought it would be nice to have an additional feature that makes use of the new import/export keys command in 0.6rc1. If we could just rightclick the address from the anonymity tab and select export.And a new button to import a key. What can i say...?Welcome to the club! xD Well if we can trick enough people into thinking it's not a big ponzi scheme, sure it will get to 32 again  still waiting for my 0.72 cents before i do a huge buy...i know it's  passed the date i predicted, but as you can see in the past days, we're getting there, fast.  Yesterday my pc crashed for no aparent reason (just  went like what seemed to be standby, then after 10 seconds rebooted). When i started bitcoin client it took about 2-3 minutes to load before the gui popped up.After the gui shows it just freezes, can't click anything, task manager claims it's not responding, also RPC doesnt reply to commands.I did a chkdsk but all seems fine there...Also, all seems good when reverting back to 0.5.2.Can't really explain it or reproduce the crash exactly, all i know is that 0.6rc1 now freezes whenever i start it. Used to work just fine before. so far all seems good.signing a message with a key is nice, now we need an easy way to verify a message with an address aswell... signing only works if the signature can be interpreted by somebody i think on the roll  222 p2pool works fine over tor too @ranvieri hope its just that, ill leave it running for a bit longer, if only to push back on the big centralized pools  well this isnt working for me... I used to mine about 0.6 btc/day. ive been mining at p2pool for 1.5 days now and still no payment. the console shows 0.28 btc if block found.... so instead of 0.9 btc, i earn 0.28 in the same time? Where does the rest go....? Do you see that big mountain on the right of the chart? That mountain is going to crumble down in panic any time now. This is no correction man, just a bubble beginning to pop. 70 cents, here we come  Told you... At least you're spending those few bitcoins that you have wisely to ensure your position xDNice work! A setting to enter a custom server address would be nice too i think. Or some other way to get my bitcoins out when the program no longer works.Right now if the server goes down for whatever reason, my bitcoins become unusable unless i grab the source, edit it, recompile it, install it, import my wallet. Also the stuff with the server is probably very complex? well, the problem isnt bitcoin itsself, its the fact that people got used to and even addicted to getting loans. MU isn't the first, others have come and gone before. Welcome to the internet.I don't see how namecoins will solve this problem really, i do see the internet getting worse by the day.Also i don't think we can prevent this from happening, all we can do is find counter measures to preserve our own freedom.Use and built on existing and new darknets, set up mesh networks, things like that, where they have no control by design. Unless some legal regulation is set in place, i see this as a disastrous thing to happen with bitcoin: bitcoin banking (loans)Hey how cool is that! We can lend money without interest! 0%!!Really?! Assuming the value of btc will steadily grow over time, this gives the incentive and in fact interest, that companies are after.You may lend 1000 bitcoins right now, at 0% rate. Buy something nice with it, you can pay back in a year. So currently that's worth like 7k USD, nice starter car.In a year, if nothing bad has happened to bitcoin, you still have to pay back that 1000 bitcoins, but it's value is likely to have doubled (or trippled or.. lots more)You have to pay back 1000 bitcoins, 14k USD in wealth now! Since there aren't gonna be more bitcoins, your ass is now pwned by company X who gave you the loan.And ofcourse a 7k loan is really small compared to loans people get these days.In december 2010 i got 500 btc from a friend to play with (he mined that in like a week), i messed around with them, gave them away, sold @ 1.7 USD.I don't even want to start thinking of the situation where this was a loan, how the heck am i gonna pay back 500 btc at current value?People will need to learn how to handle real money again i'm afraid, but before this happens it might be way too late.
You're wrong, a week ago i predicted a drop to 0.70c within 2 weeks, i still think that's valid and we have about a week to get there. It's not the sites that are to blame,just look at the other topic on how many bitcoins people have, most have 1000+bitcoin has become exactly what we oh-so didnt want it to become, just a pump n dump, if 1% is using btc as a currency or commodity i think it's a lot. yep, discounts is the only way to get people interrested i think.I do this myself to, 10 eur or 1 btc for membership dampens your hope for 1k/btc?? The get rich quick scheme not fast enough for ya?? I don't know about you, but my paper address book contains information on my contacts, not on myself. Just as it is in the new GUI. Are you prepared? Almost no bid, a lot of offer.I expect prices to fall further down then we've seen for the past year, im thinking around $0.70 within a week.Any fool hasn't sold yet?i've been buying again at 3.20 and sold it all at 6.8, waiting for the sky to fall to rebuy  Bitcoin Wallet (includes blockchain)BitcoinSpinner (uses remote blockchain)all basic functions work on both afaik. Seems your comment has been removed... ? Meh you didn't make a mistake, you helped me greatly, thanks for the cheap bitcoins! Bitcoin Wallet for android works very well too, i've been using it for months. It's also open-source. Looking very good! ^ This Yes! Don't create a bubble! Sell all your BTC now, cheap please! Thanks. 72.00000 USD I don't think we have a maemo client yet?You can always use online wallet services just with your browser... See, people stop caring about their privacy, security and even sound money... as long as it's easy and they don't have to think about it for more then half a second. You won't sell your broken car to stupid people if it looks broken too. You have to patch it up, just to make it shine, then people will buy it, no matter how messed up the internals are. There's this new revolutionary system called Bitcoin, it could run  on devices that we pay 800 USD for but are produced for under 10 bucks each. But that's not the issue at hand here, right?Best thing is to institute a FED like system or like the ESM, that would nicely fill our pockets, have them thinking we're trying hard, and still keep them poor and powerless. The new A+B(or C) transactions will prevent scammers from running away with bitcoins in many cases. I still don't see the benefit of litecoin over bitcoin but wth, i'll give it a shot... LYehhwq1E7Aao3jVdHJCGFJc2Zh8XYLFYU
Lowered base price. I don't know this tv series. But i assume it's like most other series, just a story.I doubt the people that watch this will even stop a minute to think if this bitcoin thing even exists outside the fantasy of the story writer.Hopefully im wrong here and is this series based on real life events  (and that people know this...) Recently i started my Firefox browser and noticed they asked for donations on the start-page, i went to the donations site and noticed they only accept Mastercard, Visa and Paypal.I wrote them an email (donations@mozilla.org) explaining i don't have a creditcard and i wish to donate to the mozilla foundation only and not to paypal, so, i asked what their bitcoin address was so i could donate directly to them.No reply yet... -.- Is BIP 11 going to be usable (eg, by GUI) by the average person or just some core functionality for some potential future changes? As mentioned in the description the clock is 52mmI took a picture with a ruler: https://i.imgur.com/0dGwb.jpg(things look a bit blurry and distorted on the pic but it was taken with my phone under crappy light) Got this in the mail last week, didn't expect it to be this big so i want to sell it. Too big for me.I opened the package, tried it on, then put it back in the package without any harm done.* Dual quartz clockwork (two separate time indicators)* Mineralglass* Watertight* Leather band* Diameter: 52mm* Height: 14mm* Band with: 22mm* Band length: 27cmSample images: http://imgur.com/a/3BhVp11.5 BTC for the watch, including shipment within the Netherlands.International shipment +2.5~8.0 BTC (depending on the destination.)(All with track&trace)Anyone interested can reply here or send me a PM. Geez man RagedMonk, do you have some personal grudge against bruce?You may not like hist views or blame him for things he did in the past. But you take things nicely out of context to put him of as the devil himself.A man with wicked views and a criminal record can still have good qualities, and the show is a good promoter, nobody who watches this show knows Bruces entire history, and nor is there any need for that since that's  not subject of the show. This is a show about Bitcoin, not about Bruce. +9000 I really wonder why this hasn't been adopted by the main client yet, anonymity is one of bitcoin's key aspects, yet every transaction potentially leaks a lot of addresses you don't wish to be associated with. I don't see how this would be possible. Hmm, dwave again...They tricked us last time, i highly doubt this is the real deal.. I've been doing this for what? the past 6 months, if not longer, the usual reply is either, no reply at all or just an answer like 'no we accept paypal only' Yesterday there was a short item about bitcoin brought up on the occupy-mumble server and i was able to record it in time.This may reflect how most occupiers think of bitcoin.http://www.zshare.net/audio/97162286c26905e6/ (for some reason the audio won't play for me on-site, but it's only 14mb)Also, there was some chatting going on, that came down to 'we need a world without money!' and 'bitcoin will just fall back into a system that we have now'. True ofcourse, i did test it, and it works fine, i can't complain about that.I'm just pointing out some serious concerns i have  This is why we can't have nice things. I think you're confused if you think that this is going to happen before humanity wipes himself off the planet xDMost women just want to have more, bigger, better, shinier, and more, oh yea, and they want more.And not to discriminate i have to mention that most men are exactly the same.As for a movie, it's very inspiring to watch ofcourse. Since we're back at using centralized solutions, we might aswell drop bitcoin and go back to classical banking.How does something like this represent the idea that bitcoin stands for?I understand the point of the blockchain not being on the phone, for storage and bandwith reasons.The arguments i hear most are outdated i think.-Most new smartphones have at least 16GB internal storage.-You don't download the entire blockchain over the mobile network, use wifi for that and only mobile for transactions and updates.And yea, i know your phone may have only 512mb of storage, but that doesn't matter for now since the masses of people ain't gonna use bitcoin for at least another 5 years, IF it ever gets off the ground in the first place.By then, smartphones will have 1TB storage and at least a 10mbit mobile connection, so yea, we can keep it decentralized![edit]Ok, this is what i see is a potential problem.This bitcoinspinner company wants to make money.. but oops, the app is free. (ofcourse it, is, and always will be, you'll be paying with personal information from your phone)So, they invent the system all over again, they will start to lend out non-existing bitcoins to users, at a nice rate.Where do those bitcoins come from? Well, from the other users that have plenty balance, unless everybody wants to spend all the money they have at once, they will be doing fine, just like the banks!The 'you own the keys' argument doesn't really hold up imo, after all, you 'own' your creditcard too, still the company manages it and in the end has ultimate control over it. Ofcourse, it's new, it's scary.But i'm just very suprised that they aren't even 'open minded' (as they claim to be) to a brilliant concept.Yet, they try to think of their own kind of money, probably gets down to trading classic goods and resources...This was one of the few groups i really expected to jump on bitcoin eventually, maybe not initially, but in a few weeks or so. Funny though, i've just been discussing with an occupy group and guess what their #2 item was..."reforming the monetary system", yet if you bring up bitcoin they all group up and form a group that looks an awfull lot like this All of those physical solutions allow the private key to be read without damaging the 'seal', so i won't use them  weusecoins.com is a much better intro point i think. nice quote from a company that uses second grade outdated hardware and sells for enormous profits 
Every individual who supports blacklisting of any money totally misses the point of money i think.I for one would stop using it and switch to an alternative currency. Well yea, without this option in the GUI it's pretty useless for the average user I think it's one of the key features that people will like about bitcoin. Bitcoin isn't designed against making a profit or against big corporations.However, the current monetary system IS designed to keep the 99% poor and the 1% rich, and worse, it's designed to increase the gap dramatically over time. In that aspect, bitcoin is very different, i don't think everybody should be equally wealthy/poor, some people are just lazy /b/tards, some work their ass off their entire lives. Also money becomes useless when everybody is treated as absolute equals. Because they don't really care and most of them are just there to party...I tried several times to bring up bitcoin as an idea, but they aren't  even interested in the slightest way. (maybe some are, but i haven't met them) Banks don't need to do anything to push bitcoin underground, it already is underground and i don't see it go anywhere else any time soon.For the sole reason that people don't give a shit about the world as long as they can watch football and porn. I think this is a very important feature!Hope we can welcome it soon  Wait im not sure if i understand this right.So i want to buy beer from a friend, i send him 1 bitcoin, it's taken out of my wallet and sent into the blockchain.My friend can now see i have sent the money and signs for it but can't use it yet.When i receive my beer i give it another signature that unlocks the coins for my friend to use.Assuming that neither one of the parties can just 'redeem' the money in case of a conflict.Am i getting this right or am i totally off here? You seriously think that's weird and expected it to generate a new personal bitcoin address...?I always thought address books were meant to store other peoples addresses in... Seems in bitcoin it's meant to do exactly that  I like the new GUI although i partially agree on some points OP makes.However, it is extremely important to make bitcoin newbie-friendly so that my grandma isn't scared away by the initial look of the interface with tons of technical information.Some check-boxes in the settings panel should be able to fix this issue, adapt the interface to your likings. Yea the password strength meter is broken anywayusername: kwukduckaddress: 1LTm55vdCgaeP23Yc4dqETM1fm4SDW2dVZ Great interview! Yea don't focus on the 'shady' side, just put it out as a form of 'free' money. (as in free speech...)Everybody can reason that anything can be used in both good and bad ways, thats not a bitcoin issue at all. Great work on the GUI "bitcoin wallet" for android works really fine, with earlier versions i lost some btc, but those issues have been solved afaik. I was really flabbergasted when i noticed the biggest part (like... ehh 99%? xD) was totally not interested in bitcoin and a lot of them were also actually anti-bitcoin. (with ofcourse all the arguments mentioned above)I had hoped occupy would spread the word about bitcoin but no, on the contrary.  I've stated my concerns with Mt Gox many times, but even the big hack couldnt push them off as the #1 exchange so i doubt your post will do anything. Hm nevermind, i just found out i still have a lot of discount points with g2play, giving me almost a free game.Tnx for the tip though! Looking to buy a good priced Battlefield 3 key for PC.Since mining got kinda useless i think gaming is a nice use for my graphics card So anyone got bored of BF3 and wants to sell his/her account? What prevents me from voting with any x number of more satoshi's of my own?You give me 1 satoshi to vote with, i vote with 100 satoshis on my desired option. The people in the world are still sleeping, they are scared, and they just want to live their lives and watch football and get entertained. That's all.That's also the main reason why i don't see any changes in monetary or economic systems in this generation or the next. It's the people's attitude.
I think litecoin even has the potential to replace bitcoin. Dropping the BTC value dramaticaly.It solves one of the biggest issues technically and emotionally.Shorter block times somewhat increase the time it takes for a transaction to be verified decently.This also speeds up the adjusting of the difficulty, something that i still see as a potential problem for bitcoin.More user-friendly GUI.Announced before release, 'no' premined coins, no small group of early adopters.CPU mining makes it slightly more fair as the hashrate doesn't increase as extreme with newer CPU's as with GPU's.(I do see this as a temporary situation, at some point GPU's will be able to work scrypt)The argument that LTC is to BTC as Silver is to Gold is complete nonsense imo. Why? Because there are more LTC in the end?There is less Silver in the world then Gold currently, the only reason Silver is Gold for the poor is because poor can't even afford one Oz. of Gold. There's no technical reason, it's convenience and price related.Since BTC are extremely dividable this makes no sense at all. If you're poor and want to buy BTC @ $2.000,00/BTC then just buy 0.0005 BTC for a buck. Try doing that with Gold, find somebody to sell you 0.0005 Oz. of Gold     After that, find somebody to accept it or buy it back!LTC improves on BTC imho.BTC has the advantage of being already established somewhat, there are applications for it and there's an active economy. By far the best fork i've seen!I'll give this a shot.Still good fundamentals and some improvement to bitcoin.  Grats on cheap power!I had to quit mining when it dropped under 8 USD. Security of bitcoin grows with network size. So thats a very important point i think.Also, try turning the question around, why would you want to use alternatives?Most alternatives i know of implement some key feature that completely destroys the point bitcoin was invented for. Amsterdam and The Hague will hear about Bitcoin.I've seen some enthusiastic bitcoin people there. I've been asking merchants this for months, but bluntly said, nobody seems to give a shit they are all in the line of "PayPal, Creditcard or gtfo"Sad though... Glad i cashed out at 14, i'll buy back at 0.00001 cents  lol u guys are so optimisticu should all mine hoard and buy solid coin, cause this new scam will last at least 2 more weeks, whereas bitcoin will fall to -2.30 USD before friday! So get your 2 weeks more of profit with solidcoin!now gtfo. I thought of this years ago, and for the same reason Bitcoin will fail, this will fail.People are stupid and ignorant and listen to governments that do not like these things, thus, it will fail naturally or be made illegal. How much will you sell those for when exchanges trade @ 0.00xxx? Lol, alternative blockchains are fun to make some quick proffit, but to take any next scamcoin seriously on any big bitcoin exchange will only hurt the image of bitcoin in the end i think. The hell guys... I had to stop mining when it dropped under 15 USD...You guys have free electricity or what? :S This is the one big crash we will see, in about 1-2 weeks bitcoin is dead, no miners, no traders.Sell while you can. Just received an email from 'info@mtgox.com' with the news of 11-08-2011, a link in the message has the text of the mtgox newsletter link but truely links to:hxxp://mtgox.tk/users/logincarefull if you got this email too. Miners take it seriously only as a 'get rich quick' scheme.  Afaik they use AES-256 standard so it should be safe for a while, maybe there's a bug in the implementation though... check the source if you don't trust it. First, bitcoin will fall, people will jump and hype SolidCoin, because it's sooo much *cough* better...Then, people will say, well this is retarded and useless, SolidCoin crashes and dies out.Then they all have a laugh about how stupid ecurrencies were and how we left so many people holding the bag.Then the economy crashes and we whish we had put any serious effort into bitcoin instead of making it a personal profit sceme.Just what my crystal ball tells me. Guys calm down, SC value isn't exploding, since the BTC you're trading them for are dropping like a rock.. xDWonder if it's because of SC... Thats not how the blockchain works. Thats how the transaction 'order' gets processed.It just spreads like a virus thru all the nodes, the one node that manages to put it into the next block sends out this block to the nodes it's connected to, adding to their blockchain, those nodes will forward the new block to their connected nodes aswell etc etc, again, like a virus. However, this process has nothing to do with confirmations. confirmations = blocks.The block that contains your transaction gets 'burried' under new blocks, every new block on top is another confirmation.The difficulty changes at first made me pretty enthusiastic about solidcoin, however, thinking it over it doesn't make much of a difference at all. (still some though)If the value would crash and stay down this dramaticaly that most miners call quits i think Bitcoin failed as a whole. Most of the time the value will just recover and the few miners that quit will either stay out or jump back in again.SC can easily be pump and dump all that is required is a few bitcoiners with a few bitcoins to spare.- Keep buying SC for the first period of it's existence, price rises because of you pumping in bitcoins.- People think this is the next big thing, they start buying in, price rises even more.- Wait...- Sell your shitload of SC at crazy prices.I believe this is whats going on...
Better sell them fast and cheap before it's too late then, send me a pm with prices  I expect the community to have died out because of trolls and flamewars.Bitcoin will see it's biggest depression and biggest rise aswell in the meantime, in about a year i expect the value to be about 300-500 USD, not all because bitcoin went up so much but also because the dollar is tanking, as is the euro  And we're just getting started! Hope your stolen resources make you feel proud of your earned bitcoins... I don't think people are yelling 'scam'  because SC is a threat to BC.It is because SC doesn't offer anything really new.Main points for SC as far as i understand are FAST and SECURE transactions.As i've said earlier, the security of a transaction in terms of a double spend doesn't have to do with the time it takes to create a block, it has to do with the amount of work over a certain period of time at a given difficulty. For bitcoin that's generally one hour of work, meaning avg of 6 blocks, for SC it's still an hour of work so; 20 blocks.One plus for fast blocks is that the statistic variation for somebody to find a block is distributed a bit more nicely...In the end, blockchain method won't work for any instant transactions, we need and have other solutions for that.Other thing that simply annoys the shit out of me is the 'no early adopters with huge loads of SC' argument.The early adopters of bitcoin have/had potential to become rich, many have sold their stash at insanely low prices. Everybody jumping in at this moment is still an early adopter.People who farm SC for the first months will be early adopters too, having insane amounts, just because it's 1000 early adopters instead of 100 doesn't make any difference.In my opinion the BC early adopters deserve it for establishing all that we have now, whereas SC early adopters are just pathetic speculators or jealous people who can't stand anyone else getting rich for being first.I do like the GUI improvements, sucks that BC dev's don't work on that. Wallet encryption is nice too.This version crashes for me on exit by the way on Win7. I guess some people missed the point of Anonymous... As do the donators... They should have made a new video,Saying FLAT money just makes her sound stupid, clueless of what she's  talking about, something people will notice. Ok, so the whole bitcoin thing security is based on proof of work, how does your faster processing make it any better? Since more blocks != more work. You still 'need' the 'hour' of work.I don't see how SolidCoin solves anything here.Also, the static fee, how would that hold up if SolidCoin were to gain value? You release a new version with lower fees? Thats the same as BitCoin does now.Only real issue addressed here is lowering the difficulty when masses of miners quit. Very usefull if SC remains very small. BitCoin has a lot of dedicated miners who don't quit just because the exchange price would drop low. If either currency were to drop to zero, both blockchains die. Source and download link please   No, the purpose is to hype it, then cash out and let the project die off. I'll work on Dutch It would be nice if we had an option to keep it running in the background.I noticed it shuts down whenever the app doesn't have focus anymore. Seems it's some kind of giant supermarket where they sell almost everything... Haven't seen something like that in Europe yet. lolwut? I got a reply from TH.They said the account was deactivated because of the bank issues... :SBit strange...As soon as the issues are resolved i will be able to reactivate... Just now i wanted to login to tradehill but i got the message:Code:Account Disabled. Please contact info@tradehill.comI sent an email and im awaiting a reply.Anyone else having this issue all of a sudden? Say HI to address collisions.  Sad to see bitcoin has died, well i just deleted my wallet and moved on with my life. Interesting, honestly i didn't expect they would get downgraded out of self interest. I had a similar experience. I totally understand why everybody warned me about bitcoins being a scam and i see how it fails. I'd vote for Mumble aswell, superior quality/bandwith/latency in my experience. And ofcourse open source and encrypted.
I had the same problem in the past, only way i was able to solve it was to make a copy of the wallet.dat, remove everything, blockchain, database. Put back an old backup of the wallet (one that doesn't contain these transactions yet) and let it redownload the full blockchain.Today -rescan might just do the trick, but since the transaction is stored in the current wallet.dat i think it still shows the coins missing. The idea is to make people think, geez, that's more then all my savings TOGETHER!And then, they watch TV. Why do you need the blockchain for an offline wallet at all?? Wait, what?They donate over 4K to some game? Yet refuse to take (even partial) responsibility for theft of 20 bitcoins??? God bless. This is a great possible addition to secure bitcoins 'offline', problem is, it's very user-unfriendly.These functions should be in the normal client, using a nice interface, instead of the need for 2 or more different command-line tools. I can see these online wallet services go the way of the banks, afterall you are just assuming the btc showing in the account are really backed by what they actually have, if they start handing out loans they can just edit their database to show +100 btc, no matter if they have it or not, unless all people start withdrawing at the same time they should be fine, specially if everybody uses this service anyway instead of bitcoin itself.  Most effective i think, would be to just make bitcoin exchange illegal. Arrest a few people, give them a few years jail-time. Everybody gets scared, value drops, more people cash out, only a hand full of die-hard hackers/anons keep using it at 0.05USD/BTC Because that's what people do...? Like, all the time, everywhere... Guess the value will drop even more then  Nice price!I completely fail to see why anyone is still using Gox when there are other exchanges that seem to do a much better job at less cost for the customers.. I just reinstalled win7 (64) today and downloaded the latest diablo miner, unfortunately this error pops up:Code:[31-7-11 3:05:52] StartedException in thread "main" java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException: 0        at com.diablominer.DiabloMiner.DiabloMiner.execute(DiabloMiner.java:427)        at com.diablominer.DiabloMiner.DiabloMiner.main(DiabloMiner.java:133) At some point it gets more profitable to just run away with the money people trust you with then running a business.Not saying this is the case here but it wouldn't surprise me one bit. I sent them an email, their reply:"At this time we are dependent on PayPal for our processing and, therefore, can only provide the services they offer." That is some exclusive expensive shit right there XDI guess this is only for the very early adopters or big investors in bitcoin  No thanks, Gox fucked up a long time ago. There's  another one with 12143559.2325 + 9499 BTC xD I just noticed another drop in Euro value on TradeHill, looked at the market data, noticed only 2 buy orders and a shitload of sell orders. Seems everybody is trying to get rid of bitcoin in Europe... xDOr is there something else that explains this?  Seems some kind of botnet... I think you lost a bit of yourself when you're scared of 'weird looks'...
I save some, i buy some, i spend some.Why do i save some? Because i can see bitcoin skyrocket and become a big boy eventually, just as an investment, same with the silver i bought.Why do i buy and spend them? Because i want to stimulate the economy, after all that is key to the success of bitcoin pure hoarders are killers of their own investment. (or at least, by doing so they increase the risk of their investment turning around on them) I Think you did a wonderfull job bitrebel!I emailed them guy somewhere end 2010/early 2011 but i never got a reply. OMG SOMEBODY HAS A LOT OF MONEY!!so what... if people were to post a panic topic every time people moved lots of dollars we would have a few topics every second. As with most electronics.They don't 'wear out' noticeably faster with normal use, unless you over-volt or -heat them they will live a long life. Both apps still have serious bugs, transactions getting stuck in "sending", blockchain not updating, crashes. As soon as these  basic things work ill consider a donation.  I wanted to reply to the "i loled @ mtgox" topic, but i thought i would share with you all the experience with MtGox i had over the past months.As some of you may know my account was compromised at the time of the 2 exploits, right before the database got leaked. 23 Btc were transfered out of my account by a tor-ip to an account that is known to be a hacker account (same bitcoin address as in the allinvain hack), you can read up more on the specifics in that topic.After much discussion they asked me what i found a reasonable solution. Since there is no hard proof on either side where the security issue went wrong.After i proposed a 50/50 solution, i take 50% of the loss, they cover 50% of the stolen coins (11 btc!!!), it took again a few weeks to get a reply back where they told me they couldn't do that because i could be the hacker himself... WTF..!? are they totally insane? i would make a drama over 11 btc if my 'secret hacker account' holds over 25000 btc?!After this idiotic claim they told me they could offer free trading for a month and a free yubi-key, under the following conditions:- File a police report.- Submit my pc's for digital investigation by police.- Send both the report and a copy of my passport to Japan.Soo... here's how you handle this and get away with it... 1. Offer your client to come up with a reasonable solution.2. Dismiss the solution with unfunded arguments.3. Propose your own worthless solution under impossible conditions.4. ?5. Profit.I just think MtGox is a really bad business solely out to make quick money and doesn't give a damn about it's users or bitcoin as a system.So i'm very happy that TradeHill is now accepting SEPA transfers. Niiiice!Bye MtGox! also a negative, about -10% i guess... students loan.... We certainly seem to deserve that spot  Just wondering, why is the bitcoin/dollar ratio for  these things so way off to the current exchange rates? Well, that didn't take too long...After sending a few btc the application crashed, when i start it now i get a white screen for a few seconds, then black, then the force close message.I tried rebooting and cleaning cache, nothing helped.Strange thing is, i have the same issue with bitcoin-android after i sent some coins. At first i thought it was caused by my barcode scanner, but i replaced it without result.Here is the bug-report info:https://i.imgur.com/VHc1G.jpghttps://i.imgur.com/vA7lc.jpg Looking really good. Althoug i'm not too happy with the bottom warning "You *will* lose your bitcoins associated with this wallet".That makes it pretty useless imho...Why would anyone use a wallet when i know it's gonna be lost soon...?I think it's one of the first things you should consider when developing this, make sure the basics work and are safe. Just wondering, which client are you using? I'm unaware of one that shows connections.[edit]Nevermind, just found it Tried 0.01 myself with 0.0005 fee, worked perfectly. It's on, don't worry about that.  I have a feeling this is intended to do exactly what is happening, bitcoiners flagging the videos as spam...What is the single thing that relates all these videos and can be 'scanned' on by youtube...?Exactly, the term "bitcoin" ...So, they are trying to get anything that involves "bitcoin" in the title or description banned... just my theory... Just restore a backup of your wallet and rescan, it will put your unbroadcasted coins right back to where they belong, in your balance display. What a good idea, i'll just buy a bunch of bitcoins and give them away for free! That is a very nice website Sir! Impressive! omg... i seriously hope he quits before it's too late...If he doesn't he will wish he had stuck his penis in a hornet's nest instead of trying this... Thanks Warpi I reinstalled the barcode scanner but it still makes bitpay crash... 
No porn and gambling? wtf do i have my bitcoins for anyway then, or the internet for that matter...? New scam software found on youtube, please flag as suchhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l9UvUyT5i5sDO NOT USE THIS PROGRAM! Guess what he's working on in his basement Maybe a fully controlled virtual currency? Nahhh he wouldn't...  I think google maps can only display a max of 4000 'blobs' anyway, we've long passed that count. crashes when i try to send btcafter i scanned code with the barcode scanner it gives Force Closeso i can receive money but not get it out :/ Today $330 is $330, tomorrow the same $330 is $329, in a year... Looking really good. We can just get a function in the main client: Settings -> Enable advanced features [ ] I'm with evoorhees Well shit happensFooDSt4mP if you still have some coins, you can donate here: 182BwDK1BW5N9mzW4c7JFUFbddf1BvzfdW I DO hope he gets his shit together so i can have my money back! ffs... Check his previous video's, he's an ICT guy, he knows stuff xD Bitcoin value isn't rising fast enough for you so now you start bashing it as a usefull payment system and make your own?Adios Atlas... Bye lardy.. and thanks for your cheap bitcoins  Yea.. you're screwed, but you're lucky! I'll give you 10 bucks!! 10!! for each bitcoin! so your losses are minimal, please PM me. "The initial hype has sailed." Are you kidding me? Everywhere i go (outside of the internet...) i try to talk about bitcoin, introduce it to people, so far i've not met a single person that has even heard about it. I don't know what kinda people you all deal with, but anyone who finds bitcoin 'hard' to use is completely retarded and shouldn't be allowed to handle any kind of money in the first place imho...I can only see a virtual currency backed by another virtual currency go wrong in so many ways, at some point it won't depend on bitcoin anymore but will lead it's own life as people 'trust' in it, and then we can do all kinds of fun and bad stuff with it. Niiiice  Welcome to MtGox Both me and my friend are still waiting for a reply too. 
Why is it that every day MtGox's words sound less and less trustworthy to me...?Strange... Could you add a version number or date in the file? How hard is it to send somebody to instawallet and send them some btc there? No international shipping?  oh gosh... here we go again with the worthless topics.... You can't peg it to anything, there's no authority that can decide this, people will just trade as the market flows.Bitcoins have their own 'intrinsic' value thru their properties as a currency. I just got an email advertising this wonderfull scamI thought there already was a topic on it but couldn't find it so i thought i'd put this up as a warning.It's funny how hard they try to make this look legit, the awards are epic!DO NOT USE THIS SOFTWARE!www.bitcoin-mining-accelerator.com too, as have 2 of my friends. other => both windows and linux equally. A friend of mine has the same issue, sent a few BTC to MtGox during the 'crash', it's processed in a block nicely, but not in his MtGox account....No reply yet to email. Man, back to the furture was a great movie! Loved it! They DO pay for live shows, on tv or webcam girls... That's big business. Lost as in, somebody logged in to my account, transfered BTC to his some account (known to have been used in other hacks, including the allinvain 'hack'), never came back.My password was  pretty decent i think, but there were other ways to get access to accounts. MtGox keeps telling me it's my own fault. But i'm not done yet, although i'm not sure if there's much more i can do. just over 7, i had 30, lost 23 with the MtGox hack. lol i seriously hope you're joking since MtGox is giving me a headache just to get my 20 btc back that were stolen as a result of their security leaks... That solely depends on how he handles my ticket on the hack...If he handles it well i'll just use Gox as i did before, he has all the more reason to get his security decent. Lol OP ur funny, ill just smile at you and leave this topic... Lol gox would be the last one to even consider that... I think i updated with every new beta, never lost anything...FUD?? It will be easier for grandma if the key import/export feature would finally be pushed to the main client Then everybody can do this in a second.
Odd, i just provided old password, new password and my email address.Got a link in my email to verify, done. Send BC and nothing arrives? That would mean either a severe bug in the code, or your pc has been infected with some malware that changes the destination to the hackers address.Anyway, you can see where your money went with blockexplorer. I think the only reason they started taking action is,because the effect of the last hack had a huge effect on the market, if it were just another 20 accounts with a few hundred or thousand bucks that got hacked he wouldnt have done this. He would have ignored you initially, then tell you too bad it's your own fault, our site is secure. Mine got approved, but guess what, it's empty, since it got hacked a few days before the big hack as you can read in other topics...  If there aren't enough buyers that simply means that the world doesn't want bitcoin (or is unaware of it...) I don't care, once it's up i'm withdrawing all funds left and moving on.No, not because of the hack or flashcrash whatever, but because he refuses to take responsibility like a professional business and keeps telling my my pc was hacked and not his site. I think last week should have showed him there was really something wrong on his end, but noooo... -.- I've always discarded the wealthy early adopter issue as irrelevant as they would have used most of the bitcoins to trade around already and would have spread out to some extend for a cheap price back  in the days.However, as it seems now, there are a few hands holding incredible amounts of bitcoins.Satoshi is believed to have 1~2mlnknight has a small 0.4mln2 other users here have round 0.5mlnThats almost half of all the wealth in this market in the hands of 4 people... Now, i don't mind early adopters of a revolutionary currency getting rich over it, after all, they brought us this revolution. But this seems a bit overkill to me and money=power, too much money=too much power.Do you guys still think this is a non-issue? Duh... If those men would be with pretty girls they wouldn't be rich for long.Ugly girls don't care about their looks, clothes, jewelry, cars , so the men stay rich. Yep, he's probably taking a nap right now, on some sweet beach with hot chicks and all the luxury he could wish for, with our funds. mtgox is down right now, my conspiracy theory; the domain was still compromised by the hackers, acting like Mark, phising passwords for more win. I sent an email months ago, never got a reply. I guess many people will chicken out of bitcoin and sell cheap for the first hours, then i'll be buying.After those few hours price will go up again and stabilize, then the sellers cry and i smile. You convinced us all. (All the caps in your first post helped!) I doubt the price will drop much, this isnt a bitcoin issue, it's an mtgox issue.One issue with an exchange shouldnt make people lose trust in bitcoin as a system, but maybe some will lose trust anyway.im guessing 17.50 USD @Ploum, I guess he wants to crash bitcoin...And he's succeeding, other markets are crashing too now Lets hope btc can recover from this... I sent a reply to my original ticket, requesting them to take responsibility for recent incidents. This was their response:Judge for yourself, i'm done using MtGox... Damn it...! I knew it wasn't any of my systems that got compromised..! I was about to yell "TRROOLL ALERTT!" But i think OP seriously doesn't get it... There indeed  has been a lot of bad attention to bitcoin, drugs, money laundering, the recent thefts. and a lot more FUD and lies too being spread.People, specially those with large stashes and thieves will cash out, it was never their goal to establish a stable future currency, all they want is quick money. Still waiting for the 1BTC from previous signup on bitcoin7.... 
i also get much less stale/reject then in previous pool  I never delete any wallet, not even empty/test wallets. looks very good, i'll be joining soon Lost funds: $500Sent to: 1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jgOS: Windows 7 Ultimate / Ubuntu 11.04Password length: 9 characters alphanumericRandom: contains dictionary words but mixedCharacters: lowercase, and numbers.Same username on forum: yesSoftware: native windows and linux client, diablo on ubuntu, phoenix on windows.Screenshot: these are the malicious transactions. Because i was one of the people that got robbed... We can 'easily' track stolen coins thru the blockchain, they have been trying hard to split up the money many times.MtGox could know which coins are stolen but i doubt they would block any exchange with them, after all they profit from the exchange.Many of the coins are still accounted for in large numbers (at least yesterday) Same here MtGox got hacked only...Phoenix:03----Guiminer:02----Poclbm:02----CpuMiner:01----Ufasoft:01----SseMiner:01----DiabloMiner:01----Other[please specify]:00 Just open the exe with your favorite archiver FreeNet could be utilized for the first (if im not mistaking the first beta of FreeTalk has been released already)As for the exchange, since it's more interactive I2P with multi-homing would be a solution. Let's  not panic over this, MtGox is informed and probably looking into it.Most likely just something stupid i got on my machines...  i traced the money thru the blockchain, the money is here, lets all keep an eye on it...http://blockexplorer.com/address/1G65mXC4HctMNHN6MTpHsWi1A5zRungssLhttp://blockexplorer.com/address/1Ftg4CAN9A5nS2MtwqNyrrbMykBeB1aVfwhttp://blockexplorer.com/address/1FuwW7WATgQbcGidQdrzmnNEU6TKndvXB7http://blockexplorer.com/address/14U42exffKGhtdjXfouCu29KejiYbDTgcY(traced from http://blockexplorer.com/address/1KPTdMb6p7H3YCwsyFqrEmKGmsHqe1Q3jg ) NO_SLAVEAs i stated before i don't know how this happened, i have the feeling one of my machines is compromised. Since i haven't seen any other people complain about their mtgox accounts getting hacked i assume it was something at my end.Then again i wonder why he got my MtGox account and not the wallet on my pc really...I talked shortly to MagicalTux and submitted an email, he had to leave and no reply to the email yet.I'll update whenever i know more.Both, mine and allinvain's bitcoins have been sent to that particular address, so im assuming it's the same person or group that's doing this...I'm working on backing up all my important data and reinstalling all pc's and flashing my phone... gonna be a shitload of work -.- allinvain, you're not the only one.Same hacker got to my mtgox account, he converted the USD i had to bitcoins and transfered them to the same address.I'm not sure how he got in, if my pc is compromised or how this happened, i've been scanning and analyzing my pc for the past hours but nothing indicates a virus or whatever... ebay = paypal so it's to be expected  I thought of securing my wallet for a while and came up with the following- Think of a strong password you can memorize. We call it PassA- Generate a long random password. I call it PassB- Create a small truecrypt container that holds the wallet(s) i want to backup/store. The password used on this volume would be made up of both PassA+PassB or PassB+PassA or just pick a place where to insert PassA into the string of PassB (do remember that position though!)Now split up PassB using Shamir's sharing scheme. Hold a few shares yourself so you don't need many to recover PassBGive some shares to your friends, family, colleagues, etc.I thought of using gpg for the wallet but the issue of having the wallet file on disk temporary bugged me, recovery is easy.I can just point a portable bitcoin version to the truecrypt volume to access the wallet file.That's the reason i picked TC over GPG. I do agree that GPG is in general the better one though.Anyone sees a better way to do this using GPG? And how much do you expect to get for that $5 amazon gift card? Just curious.. That rawdog guy topped it, man... that was epic... One that doesn't like bitcoin doesn't have to be a troll, he or she can discuss with us perfectly well.Those people should not be banned, we're all entitled to our opinion.(no, trolling is not an opinion or valuable discussion...) Maybe it's a good idea to assign some trusted people moderator status?This forum is becoming troll heaven... On youtube the anti-bitcoin community seems to be 'big' and consisting mostly of silver-enthusiasts indeed...
Thats okay, the more spread out these huge lumps of bitcoins are, the more stable the economy becomes. tor is a bad idea to built the bitcoin network upon, it's created to provide anonymous internet access and to some extent hidden centralized services.I2P on the other hand is created specifically for internal networking and P2P traffic actually helps the network. Don't you guys know the bitcoin ponzi scheme is collapsing right now??I sold my coins for 10 dollars before it was too late!no but seriously... i think 50 is on the high end, im guessing next difficulty will only push it to about silver 35-40 USD We can't just reinstate the 50 BTC per new block, the blocks would be refused by the network.I don't see the problem of coins getting lost, the others will just be worth more, i think 2,1*10¹⁵ unit's is enough for everybody.  I don't think bitcoin is ready to be accepted in normal stores.I mean, i don't think you're gonna wait an hour until the shop has confirmations on the transaction you paid with your phone? It would provide good anonymity (depending on how you treat it ofcourse) and protocol obfuscation.Bootstrapping into the network could be done better and more decentralized then.And ofcourse, just because I2P is cool by design somewhat, like bitcoin. Depends on the userbase, if your underground economy is huge the price will be high too, if it's 100 people, it will be very low. And how's that...?You get the same amount of purchasing power exchanged at the time of purchase.Greed is a bish aint it?  Now that most ISP's use DPI it's very easy to monitor/block bitcoin, or any protocol for that matter.If there's trouble in paradise we need full encryption and protocol obfuscation, either natively or by using I2P or alike. looking goodnice to have another exchange Hopefully exporting and importing specific keys will be an option soon. Obvious troll is obvious...We should really stop feeding them every time a post like this pops up... Yes, i know it can be done much better... just wanted to do a quick shop. Ah, so OP gained reasonable potential wealth by adopting an early experimental system, believing in it, investing in it, and so far it has 'paid off'...Nothing wrong there, if you feel so bad about it, please tip me.I really don't see why a certain group has so much problems with early adopters gaining wealth, they could have been there too if only they did more research or dared to invest or whatever.It's an argument out of pure jealousy i'd say. (in your case im just completely missing the point...)The features will come over time, remember bitcoin is still young and in development. ok ok... you're right, i was being selfish, i'll just send you all my bitcoins for free. Ever stopped to think what resources are consumed by 'normal' money? i loledbring it on  more video introductions are good, but be sure go get the facts right  -----------11,406.22      50.00+        0.09+    150.00+-------------11,606.31(top two are from the post above, my friend threw away his 150 btc, just cause he thought it was stupid and useless xD) I'm curious how the talks with the people went 
So what if bitcoins become expensive? it won't be at all like giving all your money to the early adopters, you give some early adopter 1000$ he gives you a bitcoin, you purchase goods or services worth 1000$ using that bitcoin or trade it back whenever you see fit... you don't lose anything by it and early adapters gain some wealth, a very few maybe a lot, so what, nothing compared to govt institutions... Eventually deflation will calm down and not double value overnight Why-o-why do i have the feeling that OP is just another troll...The amount of trolls/anti-bitcoin-fanatics seems to be growing equally exponential aswell...Just google for bitcoin scam and bitcoin ponzi and things like that, you get a LOT of websites telling how stupid and bad, complicated and illegal bitcoin is... Not sure what we can do to clear things up for those people... Where would i find this button? on the main screen it shows"Balance" with nothing under it, and two buttons, scan and receive. (scan gives a qr-scanner, and receive generates a qr code)(download link here: https://github.com/downloads/bitcoin-labs/bitcoin-mobile-android/bitcoin-mobile-android-0.0.2-SNAPSHOT.apk )So far it doesnt seem to work, i tried sending the money back, it told me it sent the btc, but they were never received on my pc... so i dont trust it, or maybe im missing something important... Im not sure if this is to be trusted?I sent a few coins to the app but they were never received... (or maybe the programmer received them?)Any other experiences? Does it matter why somebody buys or sells a lot of bitcoins at any given time? I don't see how this is anything like bitcoin.The 'official' currency/economic systems are broken at the core, just another way to transfer these funds in a broken system doesn't fix the system or compete with an actual good system. Problem is, you can't just make up bitcoins to give away to get people started, like paypal did... They just hand you a virtual made up credit that represents 10 USD, the actual 10 USD doesn't exist.We can't just make up bitcoins, it would have to be done by somebody with huge amounts of bitcoins who's willing to give them away for free. Also govt has frozen a lot of money of the people because of the protests, something that shouldnt be possible imho. Not sure if it's all true, just read it... Sounds like a case of trying to spread FUD.... I think the situation in Spain has potential for bitcoin, but, i think not many people will care about looking into it in the first place.Looking at the maps of bitcoin nodes it looks like its growing exponentially. Also... USA =/= the world Ah yea zooming works, but not as smooth and detailed as http://maps.google.com/maps?q=https://smsz.net/btcStats/bitcoin.kmldo both display the same data basically? I don't think she understands what terrorism means... oh well... we can't zoom in? I'm just a big noob here, running ubuntu natty but can't seem to install pyopenclwhenever i try to install package python-pyopencl it starts bitching about the package nvidia-current, which is unable to install, without this package installed it can't configure pyopencl somehow...This is what installer returns if it tries to install nvidia-currentCode:kwukduck@home2:~$ sudo apt-get install python-pyopenclReading package lists... DoneBuilding dependency tree       Reading state information... DoneThe following extra packages will be installed:  nvidia-currentSuggested packages:  python-imaging-tkRecommended packages:  nvidia-opencl-icdThe following NEW packages will be installed:  nvidia-current python-pyopencl0 upgraded, 2 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.Need to get 0 B/50.3 MB of archives.After this operation, 154 MB of additional disk space will be used.Do you want to continue [Y/n]? y(Reading database ... 143428 files and directories currently installed.)Unpacking nvidia-current (from .../nvidia-current_270.41.06-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/nvidia-current_270.41.06-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb (--unpack): trying to overwrite '/usr/lib/libOpenCL.so', which is also in package amd-app 2.4Selecting previously deselected package python-pyopencl.Unpacking python-pyopencl (from .../python-pyopencl_0.92-1ubuntu1_amd64.deb) ...Processing triggers for man-db ...Errors were encountered while processing: /var/cache/apt/archives/nvidia-current_270.41.06-0ubuntu1_amd64.debE: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1) Yea, because it's totally impossible to pay a criminal/scientist or anyone else for that matter with anything else then bitcoins. Did you seriously read the link provided before?the wallet.dat file contains your private keys (used to verify which bitcoins are yours), the actual bitcoin blocks are all over the network, the wallet.dat file just points out which ones you own...Quote from the site above: also... http://i2pbote.net/ yea it did work for a week or so, but since i restarted a few days back it stopped showing values.i hope you can make it work again and provide free update?
epic boobs are... well very epic!   niiiice Yep, looking good, would be a nice feature for scaling prices. hm, doesn't work, just sits there on my desktop displaying no values at all  assuming an average rate of 57 GHash/swhich gives an average of 31 minutes per blockdaily thats24*0.5*50*0.02=12 BTC First of he was very responsive indeed, but it all stopped all of a sudden.Also, as the topic title indicates, im not out to say he's not trustworthy, im just wondering whats going on.Hopefully i'll know more soon. In US, yes. No limit in EU (which is the case here).Any way, he could at least reply... Little under 2 weeks ago i decided to withdraw some money from my MtGox account, i was suprised to find i couldnt send it to my paypal account. So i requested a direct deposit transaction.The owner requested the needed information like IBAN , name and address, since that it's been dead silent.I sent two emails after that asking about the transaction, one over a week ago, one two days ago. No reply.My account still tells me the cash is there, but i would realy like to get it transfered, so im wondering whats going on and if anyone else is experiencing similar issues. We'll build our own mesh internet...http://www.open-mesh.org/ There i was, trying to get more people to DEconstruct their web-identity for privacy sake XD I like the idea, i can't stamp it? isn't it MY money? i should be able to eat it if i wish... Users are identifyable by IP (or not? proxy..), transactions don't have to be that. QC doesn't just magically break all crypto, it makes it a lot easier possibly by several magnitudes,but many things could still be considered 'safe' for daily use. Can't you just count all the IP's displayed there? Is that a bad representation? voted  upped  alright... since i didnt get any replies and i was out of ideas, i decided to reinstall windows...guess what... still crashes with my wallet... how can that be? is my wallet corrupted somehow? i don't think so, because my backup from this wallet over a month ago crashes aswell.i didn't install anything special, and nothing new that i didnt have installed or used before it started crashing...i hope somebody comes up with an idea... im lost here... Great to see your uncle has full blind trust in the government, do tell him his email wasnt one-to-one in the first place. It was one-to-echelon-to-you.Markets always start out small, bitcoin market is already growing rapidly.Lack of volume? 21*10^14 is a lack of volume???I dont see what liquidity has to do with this anyway, only is your company fails as an ongoing business anyway, then again, im no expert.. Today i was unable to start the bitcoin client (win7-32) im using latest 0.3.19,whenever i use a different wallet then my main, it works fine, so other wallets or newly generated ones don't give problems, but when i put back my main wallet it crashes instantly at startup.I already removed all bitcoin data and reinstalled, it doesnt help.Also i tried this wallet on ubuntu and it works just fine there.this is the message i get:  Thats prety much double the price of a normal domain name for a mere 8 USD The idea could be very usefull.Tor hidden services are horribly slow, also it seems to completely lose connectivity overall every once in a while??Try I2P, that was actualy designed for hidden services and offers a much better solution regarding speed, availability and security.If you're unfamiliar with it you can get quick-started on http://portable-i2p.blogspot.com  (windows)
It's a realy cool overview, but these huge blobs make it look like everybody in the world is using it. Don't think thats the case yet. It's no different then people currently storing text documents with their paypal passwords or bank info or prety much anything else. So far, i haven't got bitcoin to work on I2P.It worked on one  machine but couldn't reproduce a functional setup on other machines. I'll keep working on that over time. I wanted to send the people from the movie some bitcoins, they only accept paypal.They had never heard of bitcoin...  Did people talk to you? xD How to get connected to bitcoin main blockchain using I2P:1. Make sure you're running I2P.... 2. Create a new client tunnel in your I2P-tunnel config,set the destination to: kjrqzx73thxebwud4qdznwjy7rd4dcuknfaewjbigb7ooccv2pdq.b32.i2p pick a nice port you want to use, for example 8383.3. Start your bitcoin client with argument '-connect=127.0.0.1:8383' (8383 is example, use whatever you picked in your client tunnel)4. Enjoy your anonymity.[edit]it seems i can only get this to work with one pc... i don´t have a clue why others can´t connect... i´ll try to figure it out... You can just transfer a few bitcoins (as you see fit) to your phone wallet.If your phone is stolen with saved credentials (which probably many will use) you're screwed even more I realy don't see how this question is so relevant to bitcoin realy taking off;it doesn't require some insane highspeed connection, nor a lot of diskspace, nor computing power (generating is just optional).I don't see how anyone can use one of these as an argument not to use bitcoin. ok, one legit it is  registered with:touiwrio@..bitcoin address:13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWosCan we do multi-accounts? or do we have to keep it real? Maybe we can get HotForWords to explain to the people what a bitcoin is (http://www.youtube.com/hotforwords)I'm prety sure that will boost our audience massively.[edit]I sent a request, we'll see if it gets a reply...[/edit] Selling these new glass christmass figures for your christmass tree since we dont have a tree... xDI know it's a bit late since we just started a new year but we're not getting a tree anyway so it's up for sale.http://www.biddingpond.com/item.php?id=199&mode=1Ships international, shipping expenses will be calculated depending on the destination and can be paid in BTC. Maybe it's better to set up your own site there instead of depending on the devs, the original site is very simple in the first place and very technical in the second.A nice site that explains bitcoin in detail but laymans terms would be best for the general public. (both on i2p and public web) @v-timI2P is more of a darknet of it's own, it's not realy meant to go outside on the public web, but ofcourse you can set up proxies (and there are) to do that.If you set up a new chain inside I2P it will be useless in the outside world unless there's some kind of exchange for it.If you're going to proxy out you can be just fine, use multiple accounts, transfer from anonymous to non-anonymous and then spend it . Yes you can see where the money came from, but nobody knows that anonymous was you being anonymous, could have just as well been any other anonymous sending you the bitcoins. if you select other then US you dont need phone number XIP ID: keakoufr01XIP ID: phuwraen01XIP ID: chechiot01XIP ID: rotriocl01XIP ID: tafriast01XIP ID: pistujea01XIP ID: moucriou01XIP ID: preahouc01XIP ID: joufrode01XIP ID: craipaew01XIP ID: pekobouc01XIP ID: trohouna01XIP ID: jeaphaic01XIP ID: miacaitr01XIP ID: wraebead01XIP ID: kebaigio01XIP ID: baegeatr01XIP ID: wreheclo01XIP ID: minouwio01XIP ID: priogost01XIP ID: slaetedr01XIP ID: luphaewr01XIP ID: roudriat01XIP ID: wriatrio01XIP ID: biasaith01XIP ID: stuphiaf01XIP ID: tolislae01XIP ID: clathoud01XIP ID: jiafraga01XIP ID: moudiadr01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos XIP ID: chiauapu01XIP ID: croucrio01XIP ID: kaerouio01XIP ID: tiopeaci01XIP ID: draiwrai01XIP ID: niasiadr01XIP ID: theamisl01XIP ID: diophiam01XIP ID: hiosacis01XIP ID: thipiawr01still to receive from accounts, apart from any bonusses53030---+65Bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos I rather see bitcoin as the future instead of xipwire  @SmartzKidyour 45 is correct, you sent 40  thats where the 5 comes from that i mentionedand another 30 for the new ones.i wanted to go for the challenge but i had to go grats danknug  XIP ID: traemoun01XIP ID: moudrial01XIP ID: jofrioki01XIP ID: chiopoum01XIP ID: chaigola01XIP ID: drephawo01XIP ID: bapribae01XIP ID: rosiotro01XIP ID: frirudim01XIP ID: frimotic01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWosi think you missed 5btc from the last 15
XIP ID: triowepo01XIP ID: vaniapri01XIP ID: trufraep01XIP ID: stoweaci01XIP ID: priaslia01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos XIP ID: criwrave01XIP ID: stouluji01XIP ID: deathout01XIP ID: paepicra01XIP ID: bailapho01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos XIP ID: stoustea01XIP ID: wremowea01XIP ID: trecliah01XIP ID: freasaet01XIP ID: cloubiti01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos XIP ID: stauaest01XIP ID: praephio01XIP ID: uiouulou01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWosMore to come later. XIP ID: voucrait01XIP ID: bedutouw01XIP ID: thiomiou01bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos and another oneXIP ID: chouhost01Bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos Good thing im bored..XIP ID: souliaph01 Member Since: Dec 23, 2010Bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos Seems they don't mind same IP's signing up, or set cookies or whatever...XIP ID: stouclae01 Member Since: Dec 23, 2010 Bitcoin address: 13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos Well then, one for my gfXIP ID: aniway01 Member Since:Dec 23, 2010 bitcoin address: 1GwbrYBN149MbVYNcgaHkMBhmqaPr9xuM9 XIP ID:kwukduck01 Member Since:Dec 22, 2010bitcoin address:13UXDrKaSe3khcR7S7avBPNfbeTithpWos Anyone still playing poker on betco.in?I just discovered the site today.I tried to play today but all tables were empty. afaik bitcoin gets more ip's from other bitcoin nodes, we have to prevent the client from fetching those IP's somehow and maybe even prevent the server-node from sending them aswell. It would be very nice if bitcoin would show the addresses a transaction came from, maybe not by default in the mainwindow, but by doubleclicking a transaction to see it's properties for example. Thanks for the GPU list, very helpfull!I hope ArtForz won't go thru with this, a lot of people get interrested in the first place because of the mining, ofcourse, thats silly and not the point of bitcoin, but it gets the attention for people to look into it and learn more about it.And ofcourse to keep the network balanced this wouldn't help. The pool has been running for over 90 hours now, found 5 blocks in that time with a speed of well over 2000 Mhash, sometimes getting close to 3000! At this rate the average time to find a block is 4-5 hours. With this in mind i was suprised to see the pool so far has an average time of over 18 hours to find a block.Maybe it's too early to determine a true average on this 'short' runtime, but the difference is prety big. Is there a reason for this? (except for randomness) Thanks for the answer slush, indeed i received them now  I started my old pc a lot later then the fast one, but the slow one already has the full reward, so it seems a block was found in the meantime... How are the rewards calculated?It shows my reward is 0.00237 BTCBut if i calculate my share it should be about 1.8 BTC, thats quite a difference...I'm calculating this with (myshare/totalshare)*50 (as according to the website)This is on my fast pc 60.000khash that has been running double the time compared to my slow pc.My slow pc with 20.000khash has a 0.63 BTC reward, which is correct according to the same calculations...Am i missing something? Works fine Slush i used double suffix, my bad  Soo... How do i actualy connect the miner?I'm using DiabloMiner on windows i tried using --host=mining.bitcoin.cz and --port=8332 arguments to connect to the server but it gives me a NullPointerException
The idea of bitcoin is not to generate money and get rich... if you want to use bitcoins you can just buy them, like you buy currency on paypal or any other online system I added the line to the remotebitcoinmineropencl.cl fileCode:build LOG:C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLD5E9.tmp.cl(20): error: can'tenable          all OpenCL extensions or unrecognized OpenCL extension  #pragma OPENCL EXTENSION cl_khr_byte_addressable_store : enable                                                           ^the rest of the log is the same, still resulting in 0 khash/s The OpenCL client seems to run but it reports back 0 khash/si tried changing -gpu- value, didn't change anythingthis is what it tells me:Code:Client will start 1 miner threadsAttempting to connect to 173.255.205.10:8335Connected to 173.255.205.10:83351 OpenCL platforms foundOpenCL finding best kernel configuration1 OpenCL GPU devices found on platform 0Setting OpenCL device to first device foundCreate context rval=0Create command queue rval=0Creating program with sourceBuilding programGot message 2 from server.Server version 1.2.1Build program rval=-11build STATUS:■   build LOG:C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(19): warning: type          qualifier specified more than once  __constant const uint f1=0xFF000000;             ^C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(20): warning: type          qualifier specified more than once  __constant const uint f2=0x00FF0000;             ^C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(21): warning: type          qualifier specified more than once  __constant const uint f3=0x0000FF00;             ^C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(22): warning: type          qualifier specified more than once  __constant const uint f4=0x000000FF;             ^C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(23): warning: type          qualifier specified more than once  __constant const uint f5=0xFFFFFFFF;             ^C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(74): warning: unrecognized          #pragma      #pragma unroll 1              ^C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl(269): error: write to < 32          bits via pointer not allowed unless cl_khr_byte_addressable_store is          enabled                metahash[(myid*loops)+it]=((uchar *)&A)[0];                ^1 error detected in the compilation of "C:\Users\Administrator\AppData\Local\Temp\OCLCADE.tmp.cl".Dcl_khr_icd=1 -Dcl_amd_fp64=1 -Dcl_khCreate kernel rval=-46Done allocating OpenCL resources for (16,16)Finding best configuration step end (16,16) 5ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (16,32)Finding best configuration step end (16,32) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (16,64)Finding best configuration step end (16,64) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Got message 4 from server.Done allocating OpenCL resources for (16,128)Finding best configuration step end (Address 1MVUHYbcuuR5Dx6D9A6BzxsE9wtHqJRChxnot found in block being solved16,128) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (16,256)Finding best configuration step end (16,256) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (32,16)Finding best configuration step end (32,16) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (32,32)Finding best configuration step end (32,32) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (32,64)Finding best configuration step end (32,64) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (32,128)Finding best configuration step end (32,128) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (32,256)Finding best configuration step end (32,256) 3ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (64,16)Finding best configuration step end (64,16) 1ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (64,32)Finding best configuration step end (64,32) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (64,64)Finding best configuration step end (64,64) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (64,128)Finding best configuration step end (64,128) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (64,256)Finding best configuration step end (64,256) 3ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (128,16)Finding best configuration step end (128,16) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (128,32)Finding best configuration step end (128,32) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (128,64)Finding best configuration step end (128,64) 2ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (128,128)Finding best configuration step end (128,128) 3ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (128,256)Finding best configuration step end (128,256) 4ms  prev best=9223372036854775807Done allocating OpenCL resources for (16,16)Got message 10 from server.Server Status : 113 clients, 208372 khash/s1 blocks generated since 2010-12-09 23:03:20 UTCServer reports my khash/s as 0 I'm trying gpu mining with my new gtx 470 on win7-64but i get only 77 khash/si tried changing -w and -v, doesn't  change much on -w, changing -v crashes the process.i'd estimate this card would generate about 300000khashany idea what could be wrong?[EDIT]Issue resolved, seems nVidia just has realy bad OpenCL performance[/EDIT] seems to work nicely although it's somewhat slower indeed, but i wasnt getting any blocks anyway so maybe this gives a a few bitcoins  Very nice! bigger companies supporting bitcoin realy helps the system grow and gain users and trust. tnx, working fine now, forgot the username.On my other pc i get this error "ImportError: DLL load failed: The specified module could not be found."I already updated to latest graphics drivers and nvidia cuda toolkit..Geforce 9800 GX2 @ win7 32 bit i also noticed that the old puddingpop cuda client only puts out 2000khash/s on that gpu... i should get at least ten times as much...any ideas? I'm not sure if and whats going wrong, i started bitcoin in server mode. start poclbm with user and pass, then it shows khash/s for about 5 seconds then pops back to asking username and pass. i can keep doing that over and over. Well a full client that can generate coins is not realy a must i think since the devices are so slow, it will probably lockup functionality and eat battery within mere hours. But, i do think a full client would be very nice, with it's  own wallet and being abled to send and receive, see balance, history etc. It's something im missing too, it would be nice to have seperate 'accounts' with each it's own balance and transactions. One for personal use, one for business, etc. Hmm, thats only for MacOS clients right? or how do i patch my windows client with a txt file...? great idea, take an open source project, make a closed source mod that sends you cash, profit.no thanks i'll wait for an open version, who knows what happens to my wallet using this thing.. I tried to work with biddingpond but it doesn't seem to process biddings or losing, oudbidding or wins correctly...placed a 2,00BTC bet, it told me i was the highest bidder for 0,99BTC,  then the auction expired and i didn't get any notification wheter i won, or was outbid. Netherlands, missing from list. That would be realy nice to see! It will clear a lot of misunderstandings.Still have to generate my first 50 so ... guess i'm unlucky, i'll drop some if i made it and the video is correct and clear. Yes, it brings more power to the desktop user instead of the server people that are just farming coins in big numbers, servers don't have strong GPU's so it just pulls the desktop machines up to level.Win 7 32bit + Ubuntu 10.04LTSnVidia 8800GT Totaly rediculous that this gets removed... almost makes me feel there's pressure from third parties... ok, so with more or less hassle i can keep track of it...and what is the argument against creating an option to show the sender? (which i tought initialy was included in the program but is now greyed out?) I shouldn't have to change system environment variables in order to get this flexibility imho...I know i can use a different BC address for each transaction, but i would have to make some script that changes the address after each transaction and parse it to the website, then i have to ask the donator to what address he sent it, in short, any practical solution i can think of is just a hassle. I understand the need for 'anonimity' but the option to see where it came from is realy usefull i think. I'm fairly new to BitCoin, i realy like it's philosophy so i'll try to keep supporting it for a while.I quickly ran into some things that i noticed.There's no option to select a default priority for the process, it would be nice to have it run default on 'below normal' priority, currently, by default it kills my gaming experience or even youtube. And it's quite annoying to set the priority lower with taskmanager every time.The Wallet shouldn't have a hardcoded location in %appdata%, it would be nice if i could store the wallet on my TrueCrypt volume and just have a settingsfile in the BitCoin program folder point to it.It should be optional to select a 'sender', currently i can only send anonymous transactions, thats's quite annoying when accepting donations where the donator is to receive something in return, or even just to know who paid for the product or service you 're providing.Thats it for now i'll update when i bump into more.
