rs2udbAnryXqyQctY14n81oeWfpNP1Z1o4 First off, I wanted to say i am truly sorry for making you both wait so long, I know i was away for a few months, and i am sorry for that.For BitLex,I will pay you the bitcoins i owe you really soon, and tomorrow i will give you the L$, I will try to come up with a bonus payment as well for having you wait so long.for noagendamarket,I owe you a heck of alot, and if you still want those sites let me know, i will do them without a problem, just let me know what you want to do.I am no scammer, i just been having a tough life and im so sorry i appeared as a scammer, please forgive me for that.I am going to try my best to make it up, i promise. sent you a private message :-D the account is from gigenetcloud.comIt has $16 on it, you can create as many virtual machines as you want as long as you have the credits - they charge by the hour.Let me know if someone wants this for 275 bitcoins? but i thought bitcoins had no "real world value" other then the fact that its backed by its users only? so i would think that its o.k to use superrewards - yea i change to superrewards since gwallet is too much of a pain to sign up yea 31 users online is incorrect LOL - it doesnt delete the users online after 15 minutes - i gotta fix that!and the site has been sold! I would be more then glad to do it for you :-D - let me know if i can work for you... i dont have many examples but i'll come up with something nice if you give me this job. thanks! well you get paid alot of money - lets say you have 10 people and they do a $20 offer (the $20 is yours for each person) you will have $200 and lets say you only had to give 1,000 bitcoins for it - thats like $140 profit just for 10 people doing a $20 offer... the $20 offer may be a trial that costs only $1..They do have some free ones where you put just a email address or sign up for a free site - they pay like $.50-$2 each - not bad though because they add up.and yes the company will pay you as much money as you make - if you make $5000 in a month you get paid $5000 :-) yea i would get paid from the offers, about twice a month i think the company pays, but i dont have the bitcoins to pay the users right now - so thats why i dont start it since i have no funds right now. im selling it since i dont have the bit coins to pay the users..yea i will fix the chat box.i just hope i can get some offers for the site. Site added for the demo - please dont complete any offers as you wont get paid. Well i love those get paid to complete offers website so i thought "why not make one for just bitcoins"in case you dont know what get paid to complete offers is - check out http://www.prizelive.com for a example - im not the owner or designer of it - its just for reference.So basically this is how it works:A user completes a Gwallet offer (you need a gwallet account) then you get paid real cash - then you give a percent of those earnings to the member who completed the offer.It will be automated that it will give the bitcoins after a offer is "completed"Now im still making the site  - im selling only one copy of the script along with a domain name and hosting (one month).Highest bidder gets it.  Starting price is 1,000 Bit Coins - I will end the "auction" when i get a high enough offer for it.The site im working on is located at http://v-co.in/bitcoin/DO NOT COMPLETE ANY OFFERS YOU WILL NOT GET PAID - THIS IS FOR DEMO ONLY!!!!!! o.k i updated the auction so its for 24 hours now - thanks for the suggestion! go to t-mobile or virginmobile.com - im not sure on the rates as they have different rates  Hello,I am auctioning off $10 of ether t-mobile minutes or virgin mobile minutes - the bidder gets to choose which carrier.Auctions starts at 100 Bitcoins. no buyout.Auction should end within 24 hours or sooner. this has been sold! Just did a trade with imnichol - very! fast exchange - thanks imnichol Thats a french name :-P (just kidding) Yea since none of my other stuff is selling, might as well do this...I will make you a site scripted in php in exchange for bitcoins - i really need bitcoins so i can start my bitcoin casino... Well both auctually :-) - im looking to make a casino in bitcoins but i need to coins heh
