Ordered an invite, didn't use escrow and all went fine. Fast delivery and invite works.   oei babyfoto's, ja dan is het hopeloos, geef het maar op jongens.jk heb voor jullie gestemd en jullie hebben zo te zien al een mooie voorsprong op de babies.  These are both sold. Deze zijn verkocht. Heb hier in het verleden wel wat mailtjes voor gekregen maar nooit verkocht, aangezien ze hier maar wat staan te roesten en dat voorlopig niet gaat veranderen denk ik dat ik er maar afscheid van ga nemen als ik een goed bod krijg, dus ik sta open voor biedingen.Heeft nooit echt een site opgestaan, op de nl heel even in 2010 een webshopje maar dat is het. Zie hier het verkoop topic:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1328230.0 I may sell bitcoin.nl and bitcoin.ml for the right price.NL is the TLD for The Netherlands and this country scores high when it comes to adoption rates of bitcoin so if you have a bitcoin related business or want to start one that also deals in this country and/or Flanders in Belgium this definetly is a domainname you want. ML is the TLD for Mali, I registered it to prevent typosquating but obviously it's a great domainname on it's own.I prefer to sell them both at once, if you want the .nl you probably also want the .ml to prevent typosquating/scams anyway. But it's obviously not a strict requirement to buy them both.So whoever is interested in these bitcoin domains can make a realistic offer since I don't have the time at the moment to do anything with them.Offers can be made in this thread, by pm or by mail.I accept Bitcoin and Litecoin as payment.similar domainname sales:Bitcoin.ly    $5,250    December 2015Bitcoin.com.au    $31,200    November 2014Bitkoin.com    $X,XXX    July 2014Bitcoin.ceo    $X,XXX    May 2014Bitcoin.com.au    $23,000    April 2014Bitcoin.me    $10,000    December 2013Bitcoin.biz    $2,800    March 2013Bitcoin.us    $17,500    December 2012Bitcoin.de    $20,312    June 2011Bitcoins.de    $20,312    June 2011Blockchain.nl    $2,253    August 2015 My watch is collecting dust in a drawer, always use my phone to see the time. You probably can buy them back cheaper when CT is back online, I don't think they will be worth more at the beginning.   I use AirVPN 99% of the time for 2 years now, think they where 1 of the first who also accepted Bitcoin.I wouldn't use them for so long as my main VPN and almost route all my internet traffic through it if I wasn't happy with their service and trusted them, they take privacy really serious and also promote the use of Bitcoin for their service. They give great support on their forum and have good guides there, just check the forum and you'll see.The only problem I have and it's one which is actually not their fault but because of the fact they take privacy so serious also attracts people who do less noble things with their connection which makes the IPs blacklisted a lot and be prepared to fill in a lot of cloudflare captchas. Something I don't have or at least less with other VPNs, but it's a price I happily pay to be safe. Geniaal dit  Koop je ook stront in? Anders heb ik dagelijks wel een hoopje verse husky stront voor je lol Dat werkt goed voor een site over een bepaald onderwerp of een artikel op een site over een bepaald onderwerp, mensen die deze sites gebruiken willen gewoon zo snel mogelijk hun gratis bitcoins. Not really lost, I think the new system has trouble with the length and/or certain symbols in it. Not the first time I have this problem, some sites let me register a pass but when inputting it in the loginform it gives a wrong pass error and I need to reset the pass and generate a new pass without certain symbols. So I think something gets stripped in my pass when login in which makes it a password mismatch....I lost my security question answer though, lesson learned for the future to enter those more carefull.   Same problem here. Did the same as Carnth, sending a support ticket. Same question, anything else I can do? Didn't expect that Jebus dude on the first place here.  I voted for Einstein, but to be honest there is no most important person ever. Got my game today.   I don't think he's a scammer, it's not the first time this happens and till now he sent every game. Just a case of really bad customer service, eventually we will get our order or a refund.I'm waiting 12 days now, so I can't really recommend it though. If they would speed up a little bit, it would be great yes.I'm already waiting almost 9 days for the game I've ordered. Which is way to long in my opinion. Libertarianism, Anarcho-capitalism or Voluntaryism are different names for basically the same ideology and fall under Anarchism, most of the Libertarians here probably are Crypto-anarchists (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crypto-anarchism). People who call themselves Anarchist, mostly are Social anarchists (other names are Libertarian socialist or left-libertarianism).Both want a government free society, Libertarians or Social Anarchists who want a minimal state are Minarchists.If you want to put me in the best fitting box, it probably would be Libertarian/Anarcho-capitalist/Crypto-anarchist/Voluntaryist (pick a name you like). Yes, as long as it doesn't exceed 1BTC, but you can send 0.01BTC as a test and 0.99BTC afterwards. Are there any other restrictions to asset names? I ran into: raise exceptions.AssetError('Bad asset name.')Besides the uppercase is there a minimum amount/limit on characters or certain asset names that are not valid like BTC, EUR, XAU,... 
Tijd dan maar om een perscommuniqué te gaan schrijven.   Just as small as they've always been. Don't think they can shrink them more here. I prefer Burger King, bigger burgers and better taste. That's exactly what we need, millions of exchanges that do the same thing!The reason is simple, taking down one exchange is easy, taking down millions is not.But we need a way those exchanges are linked together, because millions of exchanges without liquidity are useless.  Daar zwijgt men inderdaad over, terwijl een snelle zoektocht gelijk de volgende resultaten geeft:http://www.telegraaf.nl/digitaal/article20955852.ecehttp://www.bnr.nl/radio/bnr-digitaal/256984-1206/update-wereldwijd-60-banken-gehackthttps://tweakers.net/nieuws/82771/nederlandse-bankklanten-slachtoffer-van-miljoenenhack.htmlhttp://www.zdnet.nl/news/140639/hacker-ik-heb-79-banken-gehackt-/Wanneer komt er een waarschuwing voor banken en euro's? Waarbij de waarde sowieso van je gestolen word zonder dat er ook maar een hacker op het toneel verschijnt. Almost 8 days now   We should all thank you, better to break things now when there is still a disclaimer and everybody knows it is still alpha software and these things are expected. Thanks  I burn 1BTC which is included in block 280513, next block the whole thing is down. I can't show up anywhere.  But probably everyone has it, yes.There are no transactions after block 280514: http://www.blockscan.com/ I'm disappointed in you guys, expected this as the first reply, not the 3th.Bitcointalk isn't what it used to be. I agree with OP though Same problem here: lol You can send it to the first one quoting this message with his paypalcoin address. Installing this wasn't on my todo list.   See some posts above, I ordered the same game on jan 8th, still nothing.Delivery time at the moment seems 5+ days and counting.   No thanks, I'll just use the QR code if you don't mind.Sending my biometric data to a database.   Almost 4 days now and didn't receive my code yet, seems like he didn't became faster, something I really hoped for.Like Gweedo mentioned, make it clearly visible how long someone should expect to wait, something like:in stock (delivery <24h) -> sending the code could be done automaticallynot in stock (delivery 1-3 days)If it's not in stock, it's pretty easy to buy these codes instantly for less, so 3 days seems enough to get them. But I guess if it's clearly mentioned it could take up to 5 days, people won't complain either.But get rid of this:If I didn't read this topic first, I would have assumed to get my game within an hour, or if I have really bad luck it could take 24h max.Not 4 days waiting and still nothing.And get rid of this in your mail:Or even better, keep it there and actually answer those questions. I don't want to be that irritating complaining customer, but I really think that you should do something about this. Most people will just use their creditcard, buy the game (cheaper if they look around) and get the game instantly. Instead of buying it from steambits, where it takes days and you don't get any customer support.  And how should we review that what you are saying is true? Where do we see those algo's? Ow ok, now it seems safe, where can I preorder those eMunies? Superresistant thinks Fuseleer wouldn't do something like that. Who needs proof when someone on the internet thinks something? right?   Looking at that link. Yes, eMunie fits the bill. Thanks.I use opensource were possible, never said I never used anything closed source.I may hope you aren't that stupid not to see why a decentralized cryptocurrency needs to be opensource? No, it wouldn't matter me a tiny bit. You think Satoshi created Bitcoin in a day? You think the folks spending years working on Debian are mad at Canonical for making Ubuntu or Canonical at the Mint devs?Have you seen how SunnyKing takes it when his coins are used to build a new one? I'm sure he also spends some time creating his coins.  Because people will not choose a mere copy over the original, why choose the copy with a crappy dev if you can use the original with a good dev team behind it? When Litecoin came out, we already had many alts like ixcoin, i0coin, Tenebrix, Solidcoin, Geist Geld and many followed. And even with 50 new copy-paste coinreleases a day like we are seeing now, an innovating coin with a good developer behind it will stand out an will be used. It's a crappy excuse not to release the sources from the beginning imo, the result is people can't review it and it won't attract devs to help improve it. How do you expect people to trust the software if nobody can review it? People pay for these coins, it holds value, and we got to trust one person? One guy that controls it? What happens if Fuseleer gets hit by a bus? Who will continue his work? Nobody, because nobody has the source.Every other successful coin did this without a presale, and cushion the price-drops? At least they're honest about price manipulation. But you're right when you say a dev can be paid, not every dev needs to be like Sunny who even rejects donations. But it would have been a better practice to just ask for donations, because that presale essentially needs a premine. And every premine is used as an excuse for all the things you've mentioned, if that would be something smart to do, we would now use Tenebrix instead of Litecoin. And how much does Fuseleer get? Actually we can't know, he can give himself as much coins as he wants, nobody can check it.I'm not only reading on Bitcointalk, like I already mentioned.And it's weird to see them only talking about eMunie on a Bitcoin forum, they don't seems very interested in Bitcoin or another alt except when emunie pops up in a topic.   Does that matter?Bitcoin is cloned, Litecoin is cloned, Ripple is clonedWhat does coinmarketcap say:1 Bitcoin2 Ripples3 LitecoinI think a clone would be less damaging for eMunie than keeping it closed source.  I did, that's why I came to the conclusion it is scamcoin2.0.A presale is a presale no matter what kind of nice story the dev made up and all the talk doesn't chance the fact it is closed source. PPC = Peercoin  But at least now we can buy BTC with paypal lol It's a scam, closed source and coins are sold before the client is released.
eDxSAsmaL86b4yR2RuEa8WzRJJXBqZEN7WThanks   I WANT eTOKEN ON AN EXCHANGEeDxSAsmaL86b4yR2RuEa8WzRJJXBqZEN7W I like this site, looks good, many games and ordering was hassle free.I really hope that the owner became a little bit faster with processing the orders. Ordered SCII:WoL, if the delivery time is acceptable I'll probably buy more from this site. Steambits, you have a great concept here, don't break it with letting your customers wait too long.  I think somewhere in the next 40 years it will become possible to backup the data in our brains and in case of death someone can just upload it to a robotic body. So in the future when you die and you daily backup your brain, you lose 1 day of memory at most. So I will be happily celebrating the last mined block, I just hope my tastesensors aren't broken that day and the champagne tastes like water.   Anarchists and libertarians on a Bitcoin Expo, really? Who would have thought  I also don't really get this:You know a libertarian is an anarcho-capitalist right?The words should be pretty self explaining.Everyone? So, you know how 7+ billion people think? That's a pretty great gift.I think you would be pretty surprised how many of the suit wearing guys were actually the drug addicts. I'm one of the people that wants 1000 Silkroads and I hardly use drugs. I smoke +-4 joints a year, from time to time a dram whiskey or glass whine and I vape low nicotine liquids. But imo nobody has the right to say others what they can or can't use as long as they harm nobody else.How I look is probably in between and I take a bath or shower daily. But I'm not embarrassed if someone with different opinions and looks, uses the same money as I'm using.   In my honest opinion, Quark sounds and looks better than Quarkcoin. You probably will also say for example 5 Quarks and not 5 Quarkcoins, so it would be the best choice to use Quark in the logo and leave the coin.But the official name on the other hand is Quarkcoin.    edit: official name seems Quark. Unfortunately this is not how a lot of people think. I don't think they will threaten me with this kind of information, but I probably would say "Go ahead, maybe I can add some things you clearly missed?". I think a presidential candidate would say something different and a whistleblower can be hugely discredited by such things. oops, I changed it   Maybe because it will be a closed source premined scam coin?  Go promote that scam somewhere else, it's crap, it will always be crap and it's not crypto currency 2.0. If you really believe that yourself, you should spend some more time learning what a crypto currency is and the philosophy behind it. A crypto can't be closed source! And that presale is sickening, premine the shit out of it and sell the coins before it even is released? ...yep, looks wrong. I think it would be less correct if Flippro now says "You now what guys, the price is rising so I think I'll lower the bounty and buy myself a new car."It's crypto, so these things happen, and still a month to go if I'm correct so many logo's will follow in the next few weeks. I'll definitely will come up with something too.   I just looked at the price for Quark, and this bounty is now worth 27.65BTCI think this will be the cryptocurrency with the most expensive logo ever.  lol  We don't have black friday here (luckily) but I ordered some Lealana Bitcoins and Litecoins. Sales period is for me the time I avoid most shops anyway, too crowded, shopping takes longer and you'll get it cheaper online anyway.Hilarious are the people shopping in the sales period and buy all kinds of useless stuff they will never use because it is cheap.  +1 The more news, the better, and this sounds like a good title "bitcoin surpassed the price of 1 oz gold"   To the people that start about Satoshi's so called premining, he didn't premine anything! He released it in the open en started, that only a few mined with him is not his fault. If someone releases a coin now and nobody wants to mine it, nobody will complain that the dev is mining alone.  And for your information, he didn't sold any of his coins and really didn't look like the person who started Bitcoin to get as fast as possible, as rich as possible.I hope you get therapy for your mental condition? NVC is in no way competition for Litecoin.You understand, Litecoin wouldn't exist anymore if Coblee had premined 210k coins? Those people invested in it because it was an honest coin, else it would have got the same complaints as we have about the scamcoin you clearly hold. And Litecoin doesn't gets it value by artificial pumps, but through development and adoption! Tell me what plans does the NVC community has? I'm sure lot's of discussion going on in the non-existent novacoin forums. I'm sure lot's of exchanges are eager to implement NVC, payment processors are on their way and I probably missed all the media attention.And if I would think Novacoin was such a great coin that could destroy LTC in the future and money was my only motivation, why the hell wouldn't I just buy them?   NVC a scam? What made you think that, the premine? Or was it the 110.000 NVC bribe to btc-e for adding them? Or was it the unrealistically high prices? Or the fact it got from 7.3USD suddenly to 28.5USD and now it magically is 14USD. No, it isn't a scam, natural growth  I looked up the company behind CT, lot's of info can be found about them, they are a legit business for several years now. Couldn't find anything about "The Panama Fund" though.   You could also just make a poll, like the rest of us I agree though, and nice experiment but don't think many will follow me by actually sending something. Buy bitcoins low, buy sandwiches high. And they said, there's no such thing as a free meal.  I don't think Satoshi was someone who had something against a market like SR, don't believe he funded it though.
Ow they're going to create another DOA crap altcoin, well I guess they can post it in the alt forum when they release it, lol.   If everyone was as stupid like you are, they would now still be 0.03$So, thanks for laughing at me, but you're the one looking stupid. Ik snap je, dus die taalfouten maken mij niet zoveel uit, al hoop ik wel dat je iemand in dienst neemt om de teksten voor je onderneming op te stellen. Zo als iemand echter al meldde, een Bitcoin gerelateerde onderneming opzetten is leuk en aardig. Maar welke richting wil je uit? Feathercoin: Als je denkt dat een 1:1 kopie zonder enige goede dev ooit iets gaat opbrengen. Denk het niet eerlijk gezegt.  Litecoin: Goed dev team, steeds meer media aandacht en adoptie, volgt historisch gezien hetzelfde pad als Bitcoin. Meest veilige alt om op dit moment in te investeren. Ken jij dan 1 belasting die niet onder de noemer diefstal valt?  Al is roof een beter woord, diefstal is namelijk iets heimelijk wegnemen. Bij belastingen bedreigt men je gewoon heel open om wat jij eerlijk verkregen hebt af te geven. Doe je dit niet komt men gewapend je huis binnenvallen om je bezittingen weg te halen, roof is dus correcter. Om op de vraag van OP te antwoorden, niet uitcashen en vind je je wallet dik genoeg geworden en er kan wel wat uitgecashed worden voor onroerend goed. Dan raad ik aan om naar een ander land te verhuizen en dan je "inkomen" uit te laten betalen.  This looks great.Good question and something I also want to know. Was idd niet meer goed wakker schijnbaar, btc-e is meestal de laagste dus logisch dat ik op een redelijk verschil uitkom.Klinkt inderdaad bijna gratis, de prijs van pizza is iig flink gedaalt in de loop van een paar jaar  Ik vermoed dat je jezelf wel kunt vertrouwen hoor.  Bitcoin isn't meant to be only used by the Crypto nerds either. But to burst your bubble, you're probably stuck with us in the beginning. I'll show faith in the software when it can be thoroughly inspected , not in the person who made it and can tell us anything. Avoiding dark ages through blind faith isn't the best option if you look up some history books. Giving respect for someone trying to get rich on the back of others by giving them wrong information? If you wouldn't care if it succeeds or not, if you wouldn't do this just for the money, you would release the source code. Sunny also tries new things, spends a lot of his time on his coins, but he releases the source code from the beginning. The guy even refuses to accept donations, contrary to you who sells coins before the whole thing is even running.If you would just try to make something different, you would have my respect just like I have respect for the devs that made the few legit alts out there.I ordered some food today and paid with BTC through bitpay, luckily it didn't take 30 hours, after 30min I had my food delivered at home.1 confirmation takes +-10min   He decided that after buying lots of them: http://forum.emunie.com/index.php/topic/420-ann-emunie-pre-launch-sale-details-information-draft/And probably got a beta invite to premine some too.   closed source (for all we know it could be a fancy wallet stealer or full of security holes), selling coins upfront & trying to create a big buzz -> smells like a scam The first one with a beta invite that probably even bought a lot of crapcoins just walked into the topic. Tell me how much did you buy? And I guess the dev is sure that this little scam will earn him enough, and else he can always put a wallet stealer in the client. Nobody can look it up anyway, because it's closed source software. When they premined enough to sell them on suckers who payed for coins before emunie was even released:http://forum.emunie.com/index.php/topic/420-ann-emunie-pre-launch-sale-details-information-draft/This is a new one. But hey, why try to pump and dump if you can save yourself some trouble by sell them before you release your closed source junk @ 0.10$ each. And by giving some people early access so they also can premine a bit, you get some people on your side who can convince others this isn't a scam. Net geprobeerd, betaling loopt via Bitpay en 29,50 euro kostte mij 0,0806BTC (36.83 euro dus met de huidige koers op btc-e).Werkt goed en snel dus, al vond ik +7 euro extra wel redelijk veel en dan gebruik ik nog de koers op btc-e. lol  How is it to live in your universe?  Got the following PM:The url went to a page that looked exactly like the login form of the forum.Check the url if you get a PM with a link in that supposedly directs you to a forumtopic! They try to trick you into believing you are logged out!This url was sent to more people from what I could see, so don't give away your password, if you did, change it ASAP! I read this nonsense of yours without any aid, so my vision seems good and I just debunked your whole Bible.Thank me later after you have read some real books.  Bij mij staat het bij jou gewoon in het groen. Nu weet ik niet of dit ook verschillend kan zijn van persoon tot persoon? Good question, if a reputable member wants to buy your LTC, will you send the coins first?Else escrow? Because whois says Tibanne Privacy?That is probably because it is registered through https://www.kalyhost.com/ which is from Tibanne. Everyone who registers a private domainname with kalyhost gets Tibanne Privacy as registrant in their whois. It's a shame the project is for sale now, but it won't do much to the price, like someone already mentioned, it's a non existent site at the moment. If it was fully functioning and merchants couldn't accept orders for LTC anymore it was a different story.
Not Nuggets? Tell me what happened with that great idea of yours?  One thing you don't understand is that it's complete bullshit to compare Bitcoins growth to Litecoins growth on a very short timespan, it's a 2 years younger currency and it is going absolutely how it should be going. You can't expect that they both will rise and go down at the exact same time at the exact same rate. By the way if I would sell my LTC for BTC, I end up with 1/3th more BTC than if I would have hold that amount in BTC. Your math doesn't really work for you on a longer timescale mate.  Also pretty funny you say Bitcoin went 300% up, and Litecoin only 33% because it only regained value. Yeah Bitcoin never went down of course, no regaining there, nope in those 3+ years I'm here I indeed never seen a Bitcoin crash. :')    LTC is pretty stable @ 4USD, if that is the value of a dead coin, I think all altcoins want to be dead.  Waisting time shouldn't really be a problem for you because you seems to have enough time to bitch the whole time in this thread. And what you can have against those freebies is really something my mind can't grasp.You really look like the little child that didn't go to a friend's birthday party and is now whining his friends who went all got candy there. No, you have a chance of getting something....before the next post is "I'm registered 3 minutes and still nothing" Een drankje dat sinds 1910 bestaat maar ondertussen nog altijd de grens van Peru niet heeft overschreden. En in vergelijking met Coca-Cola dus redelijk waardeloos is ook al is het tegenwoordig van hetzelfde bedrijf.Koop dus deze munt maar je moet wel langer als 100 jaar wachten voor ze enige waarde heeft is dus de boodschap? lol Admin is generous again, for those not on the shoutbox yet, now is a pretty good time to come  Ik zie er werkelijk het nut niet van in, zal waarschijnlijk eindigen als de zoveelste copy-paste.Als je dat wilt, heb je een kwartiertje? Is zelf een tutorial van te vinden hier op BT  Cryptocurrencies zijn niet gebonden aan landsgrenzen, is net het mooie ervan. crypto-trade is nog een exchange die aandelen uitgeeft, ook de enige waar ik aandelen in heb.Verdelen 50000 shares in totaal (40000 voor BTC en 10000 voor Litecoin)50% van alle fees worden onder deze aandelen maandelijks als dividend uitgekeerd, vanaf maandag zou ook het IPO gedeelte in orde moeten zijn en gaat ook het traden van andere securities buiten hun eigen securities mogelijk moeten zijn.Vandaag uitbetaling gehad voor de maand oktober (CTB 0.00263281 BTC per share en CTL 0.21940193 LTC per share).Als iemand zich daar trouwens gaat registreren, ik heb er geen problemen mee als je mijn referral url gebruikt: https://crypto-trade.com/ref/Skull88  In 2011 it was 56.9% for Linux ( https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2891 )Now in 2013 it seems to be 37.6% so far.Definitely still more geeky than an average community, but you can see a trend. I use Ubuntu as my main os.  Next time you prepare your dinner, what you need are Champignon Mushrooms, not Psilocybe Cubensis.  Yeah that's what people told me many times about Bitcoin too, glad I never listened.  Difficulty has nothing to do with the price of a coin, not for Bitcoin and not for Litecoin. Difficulty however will catch on with the price because a lot of the Litecoin miners where actually mining with a loss so a lot of them quit, the second group will come back and in the meantime the first one deserve the extra value. Less and less useful? Compared to which alt coin exactly? Bitcoin and Litecoin are actually the only coins I ever used to pay things with. Never had the option to pay with any other coin. You expect to see Primecoin next month on all major exchanges, payment processors build for it and merchants accepting it? Litecoin is on it's way for all that but you think that magically out of the blue people will think "nah, old tech lets switch to another coin". I guess I better also sell all my Bitcoins before the others realize it is old tech.   Today the admin started to post free codes in the shoutbox, when you are fast enough to copy paste it on the redeem code page before anyone else you get it. Or like in my case for being on the shoutbox (and actually being to slow copy-pasting the codes ). That's pretty much how you can get a code, happens more but you got to be online on CT on the right moment. Yeah, doesn't hurt to check the shoutbox on CT.I got a 5 LTC code pm'ed to me by the admin for participating.  Dat snap ik, alleen dan word het geld overgemaakt naar een moneymule die dan het geld gaat afhalen en een gedeelte mag houden, vraag mij dus af waar ze die idioten blijven vinden.  Als ze sofort accepteren moet het werken, enige die ik zo eventjes ken is: https://blockchain.info/nl/wallet/deposit-sofort-bankingWel zelf nooit gebruikt. Denk dat gewoon bitcoin donaties accepteren een beter idee is dan het onnodig gecompliceerd te gaan maken met het risico dat het goede doel er geld op moet toeleggen.Mooi voorbeeld is Satoshi Forest: http://bitcoinmagazine.com/6939/seans-outpost-announces-satoshi-forest/  Ligt er aan, er kan veel gebeuren tegen 2140, met wat geluk kunnen we binnen een 30 jaar onze herseninhoud gewoon uploaden naar een robot en gewoon verder leven. ontopic: Ondertussen gezakt naar 160$  lol Maar:Men heeft dus volgens mij gelukkig niet teveel BTC hiervoor misbruikt, anders hadden ze weer een extra stok om mee te slaan.Vraag mij wel nog altijd af waar ze die idioten die hun rekening hiervoor openstellen blijven vinden.   I have used this exchange and everything went fine, I didn't stumble on any problems and there seems to be always an admin in the shoutbox. But like I said I didn't stumble on any problems so there was no need for me to contact their customer service and I can't confirm if they really reply within 24h.Only problem this exchange really has is the low volume. Besides that, it looks like a promising exchange. 
You can talk all you want about Litecoin isn't different enough, for some it clearly is. Your opinion doesn't make it a fact, my opinion is completely the opposite and for me Litecoin has enough differences to support it. And as the number 2 cryptocurrency with a marketcap of $ 43,062,060, I'm clearly not the only one.Your argument is also pretty flawed, lots of people use Chromium and Iceweasel.    +1Still remember all the "Bitcoin is dead" threads, Litecoin follows pretty much the same path as Bitcoin with a 2 year delay.   If they print more euro's the amount of dollars isn't increasing. So more cryptocurrencies doesn't mean more bitcoins, I can't send my Litecoins to my Bitcoin wallet.    A guy behind a computer scripting and messaging, yeah that will keep you on the edge of your seat. nice job... your government will be very pleased with a citizen like you   Another great song, you're awesome man.   Thanks   - Ubuntu- Windows 7 and Mac OSX thanks to Adobe - AndroidAnd tried out a lot of Linux distro's but Ubuntu stays my favorite.I'll even confess, I like Unity Worst OS I ever used: Windows 8Wtf were they thinking?  I did some research after my government decided that the providers have one year the time to change their infrastructure so they can log following things:- which websites you visit- when you visit them- who you mailed- when you mailed- from who you got a mail- which hardware you used- where you used it (when you get a call on your mobile phone, they will log the location)- who you called- who called you- length of the conversation- they log calls from landlines, mobile phones and services like skypeAll these logs can be viewed by the government, police, even the institute for post and telecommunication,...  And they work together with the NSA, so I guess they will happily share everything with them too.So in my search for a good mail provider I ended up with these 2:www.countermail.comriseup.netThe first one you can pay with bitcoins, and the second one accepts Bitcoin donations.But like some pointed out, you can't be 100% sure that your privacy is safe.  But imo better try than just give it to them. 40,6% of the people in Flanders voted on a political party that wants to split the country, be it NV-A or VB. And I fear that the NV-A will get a lot more votes in 2014, besides "byebye more freedom" that also means a step closer to "byebye Belgium".   Why did people use Facebook when they had Myspace? Not that I think Bitcoin will get thrown of the throne soon, I can't see any alt coin doing that at the moment (but never say never). But I wont say, there won't come an altcoin in the future that will.Imagine an altcoin with the same features as Bitcoin, but with instant transactions and no need to waist electricity on mining them (or uses the electricity for something really useful). Still sure people would prefer Bitcoin? That's the genius about the whole thing, they sell it high, to discover they can't get their funds out, which means buy back even higher. It's gonna be a rocket, I tell you.  All joking aside, I'm happy if it gets on Gox because it will get some extra attention and hopefully a few extra merchants pick it up. It's nice advertising, wouldn't use Gox to buy or sell ltc anyway at the moment. I hope you are right, nice birthday gift for Litecoins 2 years anniversary.  ...but I stay skeptic, we're still talking about mtgox.   Natuurlijk kan BTC zonder SR, andere blackmarkets hebben het sowieso al overgenomen. They've deleted the message on their facebookpage. And I can't see messages from others anymore.  Something in me screams "YEAH, take them!"...but it wouldn't be a smart move. Wouldn't hurt the US government, but it would hurt Bitcoin. Absurdly Lucky  I expected something like "I found a wallet on my HDD from a few years ago with 5000BTC on it"But have fun with your 1BTC and throwing away your next paycheck   ok, you got a point.  negativeClosing silk road won't stop black markets selling drugs for bitcoins, so if someone wants to link it with drugs, they will always find an example, a non-argument imo to think this is positive.Furthermore I think all drugs should be legal, it's nobody's right to tell another person what he can use or can't use. And I actually don't sell drugs or use any besides from time to time the legal ones (alcohol, tobacco and weed). So even if it isn't useful for me, it is for others and thanks to silk road's rating system, people knew that they had something good. And not some garbage that could kill them from a shady dealer on the street.  Of course they want their stats back and their old username, it shows you are trustworthy to new customers and you don't loose your old customers because they know you.  
30 years  You got to molest and kill a few children to get this here, and then you'll probably free after +-20 years.Something like this would probably get you a few years, imo if you setup a marketplace like SR, at least live in a country that has pretty low sentences for drugs related crimes and some comfy jails. I actually think it's pretty sick to ruin someones life completely because he made it possible people could sell something to others who wanted this product, and this product only harms the person who bought it. And the harm is even questionable in some cases, but knowable by the person who bought it. Really, he seemed like a smart guy, in no way a real criminal, someone who could get a real future. What is the point in ruining this person his whole life, I mean almost 60 when he gets out? He didn't really harm anybody, he didn't forced anyone to buy and use drugs.    That said, I wouldn't kill myself, I would spend every minute I had in finding a way to escape, I prefer living than being a dead hero.  It says they both have another agenda, for the US a war in Syria is more profitable in the future and for Russia it's not.They both really don't give a crap about the Syrian people. You will earn more by selling them on Gox, but there is a reason for that.You have a pretty big chance you have to wait months before you get your money. For a couple of 100$, I would take that risk, but in no way I would sell 500btc there.   Besides that this is probably just the standard not changed text from the forum software. What do you think will happen if they approve violating laws, copyrights etc?Most libertarians are also against taxes, most still pay them, because... well if you don't they'll just take it with force. Your site doesn't comply with the law? Well they'll just shut down your server and rob you from possessions and/or freedom. Killing you slowly? Marijuana is actually good and healthy for you, who told you this?  Smoking it isn't really healthy, but I really can't imagine smoking anything is healthy.If you use a vaporizer or eat it in a delicious cake, it's good. Consuming marijuana isn't limited to smoking it, it's actually a shame this is the most popular way of consuming it.  Seems like a rock solid investment plan  I thought the same for a long time, I live in a country where guns are illegal, and most people think it is a good thing they are, because else we would turn into the US where people shoot each other constantly....but are they? Or is that just an opinion they want us to believe?If they give you a gun, would you start to shoot at people? Or would you only use it if your live depends on it, if you got to defend yourself? For me it would be the second, if I really would want guns to shoot someone for the most stupid reasons, I would have guns. Criminals have guns in countries with tight gun control, nutjobs have guns, the only people who don't have guns, are people like you and me, the ones that would never misuse them anyway.The US is big and it's pretty normal we hear a lot about firearm incidents, but looking at my own little country, I can recall instantly 3 mass shooting accidents in which one guy was shooting and throwing grenades, another guy ran into a daycare center and started stabbing toddlers with a knife (no gun needed to harm a lot of people), one guy started shooting in a shopping street. If I look at the Netherlands one guy started shooting in a mall, Norway also had a shooting accident,etc...Making guns legal wouldn't change much imo, we wouldn't turn into maniacal killers and the homicide rates would just stay the same, I don't have guns but I have so many objects in my house that I use daily that could be used as a weapon anytime. Why would a gun make so much difference?  Nobody ever tried this in the US?  I never pay a traffic ticket right away, a lot of these just go in the bin unpunished. For some you'll get a trial, which mostly ends in a higher fine. If you don't pay that one, they will take your license for 2 weeks or send a bailiff.They have too much fines that don't get paid, so they can't process them all, unfortunately they probably found a solution. 1 out of 3 fines never gets paid in Belgium, while a few years ago it was 1/2. And from this year on they will deduct unpaid fines from your tax refund or in case of no refund you will just get this amount on top of it.  165You can still play it here: http://www.google.com/doodles/googles-15th-birthday   We allready have a coin that does this, it's called Litecoin.  If the creator has such noble intentions, he would have supported Litecoin. This scrypt bitcoin only has one purpose, make the creator money. Nothing more, nothing less. Devcoin past ook wel in dit rijtje volgens mij.Maar dat zal het dan ook wel zowat zijn inderdaad. Voor een lage difficulty alt te vinden zijn er 3 opties:- Het alt-forum hier in de gaten houden aangezien ze volgens mij allemaal eerst hier gereleased worden. - Zoek er eentje die zo goed als dood is om te minen- Maak zelf 1 en mine vanaf het begin uw crapcoin, eventueel preminen. They probably match well with your current cards like: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palladium_Card  Like I said, I ordered one of them.Got the card a few days later by mail and it worked like advertised.   You took the wrong distro if that is your opinion. Never met anyone who couldn't find his way around in Ubuntu for example. Sure you can buy land from countries, that's what most people do to build a house. I own land, but if I call it a country and decide to have my own laws on it, don't pay taxes for it anymore and build something on it that isn't approved by the municipality. Than I will pretty soon just lose it, and I don't think any country will sell you land and say "yeah, do what you want with it".Making an artificial island in international waters would be a better solution. And the South Pole still has unclaimed territory, so that would also be a solution.Both require an insane amount of money though.  Ordered one of these (EUR) and got it a few days later, he sends the envelopes unopened like you would get them from the bank so everything is secure and anonymous. They work like he says in the OP, I didn't had any trouble with them so far.   Die 1% is inderdaad eigenlijk maar vanaf 10.000. Als je voor het minimuum bedrag van 500 SEPA gebruikt is het wel zuur dat ze er 100 van afromen.    LTC omzetten naar BTC, BTC naar Bitstamp sturen, op Bitstamp verkopen en SEPA uitbetaling aanvragen. Transactiekosten zijn 0,90euro voor SEPA.
Someone in Germany sending encrypted messages to go walking near a secret US military facility and try taking photos of NSA spies in their natural habitat should do the trick. It's not enough to lock you up but enough to lift you out of your bed to ask you some questions.http://www.spiegel.de/international/germany/us-military-and-german-police-respond-to-facebook-post-about-nsa-walk-a-911451.html  It seemed to me no land could claim it because it exceeds the <12 mile from any shore. The water is not to deep, so at first this seemed actually a pretty good idea to me. Till I found this when reading the info on Wikipedia:Doesn't this mean they already claimed it?  I believe, if invisible friends dictate you laws, you really should seek mental help. This one made me smile +1 And which side did you choose? Which side seems to have the most western values?1.or2.The winner is... nr2.Seems legit, I'm sure these rebels will make Syria a free and democratic country.  I'm also very skeptical about things, and to me the reasons the US uses to attack other countries seems way dumber than any of the information in this video. I already knew everything they told and if you check the facts from other sites and mainstream media than you can only conclude this is real or at least the most accurate of what is going on. I actually don't get why the US gets away with these things that just scream out loud "LIE".If you see the reasons the US gives us why they should attack some countries it's actually laughable:- Afghanistan: they fight Al Qaida because of terrorist attacks- Iraq: Weapons of mass destruction ...oops mistake, no weapons of mass destruction here.- Libya: bad dictator (How bad? http://globalgrind.com/2011/10/22/good-gadhafi-yes-good/ ) ...North Korea seems worser, why not help those people? (this starts to smell fishy)- Syria: bad dictator, uses chemical weapons, the US seems to have the same amount of proof like they had in Iraq. The guy actually seems to be the best leader they had in ages, and the reasons he fights is because of the same enemy the US fought in Afghanistan wants to take over Syria and throw it back to the Middle Ages.  population of Russia: 143,400,000TOR users before spike: 600,000After spike: 1,250,000 Would be possible but if we look at the top 10 countries for the last week:United States    141816 (12,70 %)Brazil    76416 (6,84 %)Germany    75843 (6,79 %)France    68813 (6,16 %)Italy    55750 (4,99 %)Spain    51805 (4,64 %)United Kingdom    33899 (3,04 %)Argentina    33136 (2,97 %)Poland    30838 (2,76 %)Russia    29816 (2,67 %)Russia only has 29816 instead of 650,000+ users   Yeah, he tortured people with free education, gave woman the same rights as man, pulled back a lot of armies, tried peace conversations with enemy countries, prohibited political Islam and wanted to make the country a democracy.And the people he studied with in London say he was a good and well mannered guy.Seems such a bastard, trying to make right what his father did wrong. No, those rebels really seem a much better alternative...Assad is actually the best guy they ever had in Syrie and where is the proof exactly he used chemical weapons? You really think a bunch of extremists wouldn't dare to use those? That's right, for years they fight all those fundamentalists and than help them to overtake the most moderate Muslim they ever had there. Because we all know, the people there will be much better of with these rebels. Seems a bunch of really rational and loving people ready to build a free democratic country. These womens that enjoy free educations thanks to Assad will be so happy they finally can stay at home now. I'm sure there is no hidden agenda, it is for the good of the people there.  Hier ook btc-e Euro's zou ik al uit het lijstje halen tenzij je papier nodig hebt om binnen 30 jaar de kachel aan te steken.Goud heb je over 30 jaar waarschijnlijk niets ingeleverd wat koopkracht betreft en is dus een veilige investering, ga er echter niet teveel van uit dat je extreem veel aan koopkracht gaat winnen.BTC over 30 jaar, ofwel kun je je eigen land kopen ofwel heeft het nog 0,0 waarde.Als je niet wilt speculeren is goud eigenlijk de beste keuze. Voor de Nederlandse markt niets, met een Belgische bank heb je alleen niets aan iDeal. Hun boden ook Bancontact/Mister Cash en Sofort aan welke met Belgische kaarten werken, Sofort werkt overigens ook voor Duitsland en Nederland.jammer om nu idd dit bericht al te moeten lezen:Misschien wel een idee dat Bitonic ook Sofort gaat accepteren? The NSA is doing a test to see how willingly everybody is to share their address, next step is a topic "Post ALL your Bitcoin addresses here".  My one and only public address is in my sig, and because almost everybody has one in his sig or in his profile info this is a pretty useless topic   Nergens iets over belastingen gezegt, er zijn 1000'den redenen te bedenken waarom iemand 2500euro anoniem wil ontvangen om met visa te gebruiken.Ik heb iig mij zo'n arm plebs kaartje besteld.    90% of dollar bills have traces of cocaine on them, and most transactions are done with fiat. If I would want to buy drugs, it is actually way more easier for me to buy it with fiat than with bitcoins. The drug thing is only a poor excuse. Can you guys also take the Euro to Washington?It has been used for money laundering, consumer fraud and terrorism. Maybe not a bad idea to make it illegal, we would thank you a lot!   How do they calculate the value of sex?Is it a flat rate or does it depend on the quality? Everytime Litecoin goes down hard you see this one popping up to lower the prices some more.
Wat ik vertelde over closed source was dus om eventueel te kunnen verkrijgen wat chemehuevi voor ogen had, je laatste zinnetje is net wat chemehuevi wou tegengaan.Maar ben het zeker met jou eens, het is iets wat we net niet moeten willen tegengaan. Kzou er nu ook niet in grote letters mee gaan adverteren, maar een cafebaas die je goed kent het tussendoor even vermelden, no problem. Ik zie dat ik inderdaad gewoon iets volledig gemist heb, zelf je topic op het Litecoin forum.  Zie wel constant mensen die zeggen dat we dringend een Litecoin payment processor nodig hebben, zal ze zeker naar jullie doorverwijzen in de toekomst.   https://www.mtgox.com/press_release_20130805.htmlLijkt BFL wel, nog even geduld dus   Zeker een voorstander van.Wat maakt niet uit, hoe meer hoe beter.Maar online koop ik voornamelijk computeronderdelen en kleren. Je hebt volgens mij wel de eerste en enige Litecoin payment processor of heb ik ergens iets gemist? Dat komt voor een groot deel door de belastingen, in de horeca in België overleef je gewoon niet als je alles 100% wit wilt doen. Opensource software om tegen te gaan dat er geen functie inkomt om staatsdiefstal tegen te gaan is ook niet echt een oplossing, als ik een café had huurde ik wel even een programmeur in om dat er in te stoppen, opensource maakt dit net een piece of cake. Eens het compiled draait kan de belastingsdienst de source ook niet meer zien hé.Als je wilt bewerkstelligen wat jij wilt dan moet je met closed source werken en het betaaladres er hardcoded inzetten dat de eigenaar maar 1 address heeft om betalingen te ontvangen, de rover fiscus kan dan nakijken via de blockchain hoeveel daar op binnen gekomen is. Maar zelf ben ik geen voorstander van de mogelijkheden van iemand te beperken met closed source software die je dan ook nog maar eens toelaat naar 1 adres over te maken. En dan nog is er op die kassa andere software te flashen of ze gewoon niet te gebruiken. Met een kassa belastingontduiking tegen gaan is volgens mij compleet onmogelijk, net zoals nu een cafebaas ook geld kan aannemen en ze niet aantikken in de kassa en wegsteken om de bediening te betalen die 4u ingeschreven staat en er 40u werkt.Mocht het je wel op 1 of andere reden lukken om een systeem te bedenken dat 100% waterdicht is dan wens ik je heel veel succes met dat ook maar aan 1 horeca zaak verkocht te krijgen. Die zullen niet zo blij zijn als opeens alle bezoekers met Bitcoin gaan betalen en er is geen mogelijkheid om een gedeelte daarvan in het zwart te doen. Denk je dat die kassamakers die functie erin hadden gestopt omdat er ooit eens een keertje een stuk of 3 klanten daarom hadden gevraagt?   And where do we buy these coins produced by that other company?Right, nowhere... Coinhoarder didn't make his coins. So it still stands that this are the first physical Litecoins ever produced.And that Smoothie earns a lot on these coins, what exactly is the problem with that? Do you see yourself as such a failure that you get angry when someone else is doing something successful? And even angrier that other successful people can buy these, while you got to wait for the cheap ones. Poor guy  Also in Belgium on the news, saddening how bad the news media verify their sources. I will be very happy trading the ones with an error for the ones without an error ones they are released  Everybody can take my offer, I'm also prepared to offer this service for casascius coins, lol :pseriously, I thought Smoothie was pretty clear about the fact they had an error? Nobody ever heard of the Litecoin Foundation, I really don't see what makes this less of a third party than Smoothie. And which tied connection to the coin are you talking about?I'll watch this and if they can provide the quality Smoothie provides, I'll definitely buy some. But your reasoning really doesn't make sense. Why do I have the feeling btc-e owners have a lot of Novacoins I also vote for XPM, but i have the feeling it is useless, because they probably don't own enough of them... Dan begint hij opnieuw van in het begin de blockchain te syncen ja, je kan ook hier een groot deel van de blockchain sneller downloaden: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=145386.0Ik dacht dat je de coins nog niet binnen had en de client dus nog 0 aangaf, sorry. Vreemd dat je dan niets kan versturen.  Maar om op je vraag te beantwoorden van webwallets, als het toch maar om kleine bedragen gaat:http://blockchain.info/wallet/https://coinbase.com/ Nee je hebt niet liever een webbased client, als het bedrijf erachter beslist om met je munten te gaan lopen sta je met lege handen.Om je bitcoins veilig te stellen dien je het bestandje wallet.dat te backuppen (niet vergeten te encrypten!). Gebruik je Windows, Linux of MacOSX?Dan kan je, mocht er ooit een probleem zijn gewoon de wallet.dat terugplaatsen en heb je je bitcoins terug.Je kan niet versturen omdat je saldo nog op 0 staat, normaal is versturen tijdens het syncen geen probleem als het aangegeven saldo hoger is als wat je verstuurd. lol@ XPM is a hoax but a PPC clone is not  This poll is pretty useless, people just vote for their scamcoins because they hold a nice amount of them, not because they believe they actually have a future. Why stick to Litecoin than? Don't get me wrong, I'm a big supporter of Litecoin but I don't get why changing the algo to scrypt is innovative and changing it to an algo that creates prime numbers is not?   I can't, but count yourself lucky, I have a great deal for you. Keep it quiet but I have Bitcoins from the future.You can buy them for $10,291 each, that's what these beauties are worth than. Because I think you are a nice guy, you can have them at market value without any extra costs.  whahahaha, thanks for this one mate, hilarious   Wij hebben ook zo eentje van de post, maar daar moet je je naam en adres bij geven als je het aanvraagt. Voor anderen is niet af te leiden dat het van jou komt want de naam is Bpost. Maar bij de post weet men wel alles natuurlijk.Als ik het goed begrijp kan je bij deze dus de IBAN nr aan iemand geven als je een betaling wilt ontvangen en komt die op die rekening en niemand weet dus dat je deze ontvangen hebt, als dat klopt vind ik het wel interessant. En 2500euro aan friet voor een verjaardagsfeestje? Mijn moeder kocht vroeger een zak aardappelen... Belastingtechnisch is volgens mij nog niemand er echt over uit, er is hier een topic over te vinden in dit forum.Komt er op neer:Zet je gelijk om naar geld dan betaal je op dat geld belasting.Zet je niet om, dan betaal je belasting over wat ze waard zijn op 1 Januari.Maar hoe het zit als je Bitcoins minder waard zijn op het moment dat jij je belastingen invult als op 1 Januari, heb ik nog niet zien voorbij komen.Het blijft natuurlijk een anonieme munt als je genoeg van adres verwisselt. Interesse op zich wel, al zal je aan mij niet zo'n supergoede klant hebben, ik drink maar héél sporadisch eens een biertje. Maar ondanks dat ik meer een whiskyliefhebber ben blijf ik natuurlijk een Belg, dus af en toe eens iets speciaal gaat er wel in. En ken genoeg mensen die met alle plezier wel eens zullen proeven.  Westvleteren 12 is 40,00 euro per bak van 24, dus die is goedkoper.  Al vermoed ik dat je bij hun niet constant moet lopen bellen naar een nummer wat of bezet is of er niet opgenomen word. Wel blij dat we bier met bitcoins kunnen kopen, en een schappelijke prijs, 0.3btc idd zoals psychotic zegt.
Nog nooit van gehoord, je kan eventueel wel een overschrijving naar btc-e doen, tenzij je ze snel wilt.Of hier: http://www.litecoins.nl/Zie wel dat bij die laatste niet veel in voorraad isOf koop bitcoins, stuur die naar btc-e en koop ze daar met bitcoins. hotcoldcoin bought the giveaway coins, he has a little less than 1,000,000  edit: lol, know I see that is you, I think you can give yourself a bounty    For the average person:- It's easier and faster to pay someone on the other side of the globe than a bank wire transfer. So if you need to pay someone and you can't wait days till he has it, you need Bitcoin- No chargebacks possible like with Paypal, so if you need to get paid and want to be completely sure the payment can never be reversed, by anybody, you need Bitcoin- If you don't convert to fiat, no tax got to be paid on the money you earn. So if you would prefer not to give 60% of your wage away, you need Bitcoin.- No inflation, I constantly hear people about how expensive everything has become. If you want a currency with no inflation, you need Bitcoin.- Everybody knows, you can wake up one day and suddenly you don't have access to your own money anymore! So if you need to be sure to have always access to some digital money, you need Bitcoin.- Most people here hate banks, billions of tax money have been pumped in the banks to safe them. Tens of billions is a lot for a country that has 11 million residents. If you don't want to use banks, you need Bitcoin.20 years ago, if you would ask the average person if he needed a cellphone, he would probably say "no". Ask the same question now and you will get a "yes". It's not because they don't know they need it, that they don't need it. Just make clear to them, they really need it.   If it has a trademark or not doesn't matter, you can't just steal someones design and name and than sell it. Just like you can't duplicate a Picasso and sell it as an original! You can create your own coin, with own design and name and sell those.If you want to duplicate a Lealana Coin, how will you get the hologram stickers exactly? done,Skull88   According to Vlad there is something very special with these coins, something with Godstuff.My guess is you'll become the new Jesus, could you maybe go outside and see if you start to develop some ability to walk on water? Made it myself a long time ago.http://bitcoin.nl/graphics If you didn't played it, you could contact customer support and ask a refund. If he wanted something for his work, he would accept donations, I and others would gladly give him some for his effort. So what is your point exactly? Sunny got everybody's respect as a human and developer, and maybe one day he hits the books as one of the most important people in the history of cryptocurrency's. Maybe that's much more worth to him than some fast money?And exchanges and pools earning money by providing a service? No way, how do they dare to do that!  To be honest, if I would have the capabilities and the funds to produce ASIC's, I probably wouldn't bother with designing and producing a fancy case.It would only drive up the costs and people would buy it anyhow, I would just look for a case that fits and that's it. Don't think any miner would say "Cool a Scrypt ASIC, but I'm not buying it without an exclusive case!"    No need for Google if the logo on the case says Cooler Master.But why would that imply a scam?Don't get me wrong, this is a scam, but I don't see what that has to do with using Cooler Master cases?edit: ok the weight/dimensions Always wondered who buys these things.Posting my address in a topic was the easiest 3BTC I have ever earned.The only way I thought of to earn easier money and a lot more, is by creating a currency. Keep 90% for myself, give away 10% and sell little parts of the 90% I have gradually, but who would be that stupid falling for such a scheme ...    http://www.ppcoin.org/faucet me too  I'll just walk silently and unnoticed out of the topic.   Would be pretty great if there was a place you could download high quality opensource imagefiles and send a donation to the artist.There are sites that offer for example vectorfiles and psd files but you don't always know if you can use them or there is no way to tip the creator.I would love such a site.    Wonders me however who would buy a physical Litecoin if they don't own LTC   Theoretically speaking, it should be higher solomining because you don't have the pool's fee.This is theoretical because of the luck factor, because it is only true based on a long term. Because of the long term, at one point you just won't find any block anymore.So you got to look short term and than it just depends on how much luck you have, solomining is taking a gamble to have more profits. Poolmining a known profit.edit: didn't factor in the pool's mining software, if it gives you way less pps, go solo till they update so you get the same pps
You can only get 2, so I probably would order one with a slight premium if it was possible   6000pps here, no block since 17-07, started mining 16-07 and found 5 blocks the first 2 days, from than on nothing. So it's normal unfortunatly. They are safe, Cryptsy went down for me the moment I was withdrawing. When it came back on, everything was fine and I successfully got my coins out. 2,5 houres ago it started working again for meWas down a while I think this community is probably the easiest one to adopt a new crypto currency, if even we don't adopt it, I really think it will be nearly impossible to get enough others on the ship of emunie.But I don't know everything, I see alt-coins as a great thing for new ideas. I guess totally different marketing is also an idea, you guys have the luck average Joe doesn't care about open or closed source, sha-256, scrypt, primes, etc. If I remember it correct Coblee did the same with releasing Litecoin.Comparing it to Satoshi isn't fair because Satoshi just couldn't do anything else, Bitcoin would be dead if he didn't mine it by himself.But I got to say, start to become more and more positive about this coin, so I don't mean anything bad with it, it was a release like a release got to be. The fairest possible. http://coinmarketcap.com/Look at the marketcap of PPcoin, where are the copycats standing? Behind it. That PPcoin isn't a big succes at the moment has nothing to do with copycats. If Sunny released it closed source, we wouldn't even mention it anymore.Litecoin who has such a huge number of copycats that it isn't even countable, where is Litecoin standing? 2nd, the copycats doesn't seem to hurt it.I think the closed source will hurt it much more, it just isn't wise to run a closed source currency. If you put a lot of money in the currency en the developer choose to stop the support or gets hit by a bus, no other developer can pick it up. It isn't decentralized, 1 or a few people control the code. Nobody knows if it is secure to run, could be a walletstealer for all we know...If I where you guys, I would really rethink this idea. This seemed interesting.But when I hear closed source, sorry deal breaker. Niet, waarom denk je dat ik niet meer mine. Tenzij je ze bijhoud in de hoop dat ze in waarde stijgen verdien je er niets of bijna niets aan. Maar in het laatste geval kan je ze beter kopen.Ik mine nu Primecoin maar daar lijkt de winstgevendheid ook al weer uit. Maar solominen met cpu en blocken binnenhalen was toch weer nostalgisch.   in the Op:So you want a little bit your way for a miner we already knew and didn't contribute anything too?   I really don't hope they sent me a letter to ask me what it is, how much it costs and a proof of payment.  Never yup: http://satoshiroulette.com/?mode=XPM    Because difficulty is that high, I have 6000PPS and yesterday generated 3 blocks, today nothing, don't think it will get better. People who rent VPS's, botnets and probably some gpu miners. That's the way to go if you want some decent profit, else you should see it as just for the fun of it. lol, this is funny  ...ow  That's Krueger   It works for me (to Belgium), they went from Honolulu to New York according to the tracker.So it's not due to it being an international shipment, just a not so well functioning tracker. Seems to happen more so you don't have to worry about it. So you would buy one of these after a report of a stolen coin without looking up if the one offered is funded?  Casascius did (don't know now) this with the international shipped coins also, I needed to confirm if I received mine and than they got funded.Am I the only one who actually prefers this? In case of my coins getting lost I can still recover the LTC's. If they get stolen funded, I lose the coins and the LTC's. What I know about my own religion? You know I'm an Atheist right? And brainwashed by my government? I live in a pretty pro Islam country. My tax money is even used to support it.  ow OK, than it's totally fine of course, you wouldn't kill them. Just rob them from their freedom till... when? They are cured or something? xDSo locking up people that didn't harm anyone is OK because your imaginary friend says so. Glad the true Islam is such a loving religion. Ahmed_bodi, welcome in 2013, we already have some new books, I think you have some catching up to do. 
I think changing the algo would hurt it worser than the ASICs will (which won't hurt it imo). Like someone mentioned already, if you want scrypt because you think Bitcoin will die due the ASIC's, get Litecoins. Het grootste probleem is hierbij de post zelf vrees ik, kan mij niet voorstellen dat ik de enige ben bij wie de post regelmatig bij de buren terechtkomt, of gewoon niet aankomt. Of helemaal kapotgescheurd in een plastic zakje van de post toekomt. Misschien dat de Nederlandse post wel iets beter is als de Belgische maar toch. Resembles roulette when playing Black-Red, Even-Odd and 1 to 18 - 19 to 36. Only difference here, they don't take one turn but 10.For your coin, what makes you think you can't pick the wrong side 8 times in a row? http://www.wemineftc.com/Dus je baseert je slechte ervaringen met Litecoin op Feathercoin? Stap jij ook af en toe een fietsenwinkel binnen om te klagen dat de motor die je er gekocht hebt het niet goed doet? Scam2 Ever played roulette in a casino? Het maakt wel uit, ik heb Litecoins gekocht aan 0.0032BTC - 0.0038BTC, ze staan nu op 0.027. Ondanks dat BTC's heel erg gestegen zijn sinds toen, zijn de BTC's die ik voor LTC's heb ingeruild nog heel wat meer gestegen. Zeker op korte termijn zie ik Litecoin wel stijgen als ze op MtGox komen, al zal het minder zijn als ik in eerste instantie dacht om de punten die Stark-Fujikawa al aanhaalde. Ik ga voor THC  VLC zou ik dan wel VLM noemen, Munt is iets Vlaamser als Coin  Maar testcoin is misschien beter om het niet op een altcoin te laten lijken   Where do you live? I got to move I have about 2 speeding tickets a month, and lost my driving license twice for 2 weeks because of speeding, speed limits here are pretty low, so I don't know anybody that never had a few. +1It are 2 different coins, different style and materials, I'd buy them both. Ik wil hier ook wel mee helpen, lijkt mij wel leuk   Same for me, I think Zinodaur really nailed it with the symbols in the middle, and it is a really beautiful design, but it also looks playful due to the roundness of the used font and symbols. I know the minted version wont have the roundness on the outside like this design, so I took that in consideration, minted it will be less playful but still a lot more than what I would expect from a coin. Can't really decide if you can get away with it for something like a currency. On the other hand, I always thought of Litecoin as the cute little sister of Bitcoin, lol, maybe it is refreshing and new to use this one.LikeHero his design is more of a traditional coin, the symbolics are also well thought through, maybe a little bit less as Zinodaurs coin in the middle but nevertheless very good. This is a pretty safe bet, will look amazing... but something attracts me in Zinodaur his design.    How many will you make in the first batch? Really don't want to miss out on these    Damned, those temperatures.Here is the minimum temp 8c and maximum temp 11c outside  Zolang je de wallet.dat niet in je dropboxfolder steekt is er geen gevaar. wallet.dat kan je trouwens gelijk welke naam geven, als je hem daarna maar terug naar wallet.dat veranderd. I really try to wrap my head around how you could upload it to facebook, but can't upload it to imgur   Ø means Null in math, the D with a line through like I've drawn it is a non existing symbol. just upload it here and place it like I did: http://www.imgur.com   My entry:vector (EPS):http://www.bitcoin.nl/devcoin/devcoin_logo_skull88.eps Something like this?I myself liked the first one better for a logo, computer chip tectures make it very heavy for something like a logo. But tastes may differ.  My English isn't good enough to write articles, but how do you earn devcoins for making graphics?Really interested in that one.  
The original is a free clipart that can be found here: http://www.wpclipart.com/money/gold/gold_brick.png.htmlMy entry:Made in Illustrator so vector format available, can be used as very small logo and as a big one. Not a programmer, nor a security specialist but isn't it possible to build in the client something that allows you to besides encrypting the wallet with a password you can also encrypt it with something like a yubikey, so that you actually need something physical to decrypt it? So if a computer is infected they still can't send any coins because you also need the usb device.OP has a point, I have the knowledge to keep my coins secure. But no way my mother could do this, sticking something like a usb key in the computer is even for her a nobrainer. Really interested in this too.And if someone has an idea to accomplish the same for BTC/EUR and BTC/LTC, it would be a great help to me if you wanted to share.   The smartest thing to do imho is, spend some and save some. You can for example, keep a certain amount in a savings wallet (secure offline) and also have a spending wallet. looks great, looking forward to it. Kan je nu wel de jongste zeggen maar binnen een uurtje is er weer een andere  Beetje gestoord aan het worden in het alts gedeelte. Oud artikel maar wel relevant aangezien er in dat opzicht nog niet zoveel veranderd is.Er staat niet echt iets verkeerd in, valt wel op dat er vaak vermeld moet worden dat Bitcoin gebruikt word voor illegale dingen te kopen. Meeste illegale transacties gebeuren echter nog altijd met eurobiljetten en als ze dan bv dit nieuwsartikel hebben:http://www.nu.nl/geldzaken/3421063/nieuw-5-eurobiljet-veroorzaakt-problemen.htmlZou hier toch ergens vermeld moeten worden "Eurobiljetten worden vaak gebruikt voor illegale aankopen", kwestie van een beetje 1 lijn te trekken in de berichtgeving.   Mooi stukje, alleen:Stel je hebt 10.000BTC en op 1 januari staan ze aan 100euro , als ze dalen naar 1 euro per btc dan betaal je dus belasting voor 1.000.000 euro. Kans bestaat dat je niet eens je belastingen kan betalen als je ze allemaal verkoopt.    Lijkt mij logisch, van diegene die verliezen   Kans op winst is zo'n 50%, hij betaald slechts inleg + 85%, dus 15% is voor het huis.Enkel vervelend als nu dat nog niet veel mensen spelen er iemand een hoge gok doet en wint  Volgens mij is dit nummer van mollie en word de Ideal betaling door hun afgehandeld, kan zijn dat hun die eis stellen, maar kan mis zijn. That were my thoughts too, till they taxed my wife 9000 euro's while she had earned that year 1600/month. If you work in Belgium than they automatically deduct the taxes from your wage, my wife worked in The Netherlands where they taxed her on her wage and a year later the Belgium state was sending us a nice bill, seems they can tax you a second time. She worked 2 years in the Netherlands so you got to multiply that by 2, 18000euro on taxes.  Welcome in Belgium  http://www.businesspundit.com/12-countries-with-the-highest-lowest-tax-rates/I think my country scammed us enough to scam them back now.  Put in the contract the amount and address to where the Bitcoins should be send. In case of a dispute, it can be easily verified if the coins where send to the specific address. I think they will call them millies.imo we can just keep the metric system, the names used eventually by most people will grow naturally, probably they even differ from country to country.  It's not a real quantum computer, if it was a real one, we (and all the banks) would probably have a big problem. Mining would be pretty useless because Bitcoin would be death, too less time to make it quantum proof.  lol @ this topic   I don't think a few people listening to him will do anything to the price, and I don't think he has enough money to change the price. So basically, he's just telling everybody he pumped the price when a coin went up and telling he dumped a coin when it goes down, everybody actually can do this, I don't think enough people take this serious enough to matter anything. So if I make a coin that has 1 billion coins and sell one for 1000$, I created a coin that is bigger than both of them? Shouldn't be that hard   Install all clients and put the wallet in each of them, start the clients and look which one shows the coins. +1That's why I voted to find another way, just make a child board in Trading Discussion. lol, coolest dollhouse asic ever  
Neatherlands should be Netherlands in the poll  I'm from Belgium, voted: Other European Countries Goed om te zien dat er Bancontact / Mister Cash en Sofort aangeboden word als betalingsmogelijkheden, ik denk dat je hiermee de eerste en dus enige bent die instant aankopen van Bitcoins mogelijk maakt voor België   Didn't read everything but calling OP a scammer is pretty stupid, how the hell will he scam you?It's a house, you don't pay upfront, you first do the paperwork, than you pay. Their is no need for an escrow or anything.   No it's not, it is done by some greedy persons that want to make a quick buck on the back of some people, that's it. Litecoin never was meant to overtake Bitcoin else it wouldn't been promoted as the silver to Bitcoins gold, this knows every person involved with Bitcoin, and nobody fears it.The only thing I can agree with, It's better to focus your energy on Litecoin than on any of those crapcoins. serverfarm or botnet probably  Yours probably more realistic too, think mine will be still a little bit to expensive     CHC is at 0,00095 @ the moment   You scammed people the legit way?   looool *speechless*  This part of the forum became so funny   Ah, I see you're going to switch to one of your other 25 accounts, so from now on we need to call you Legend21.   Dude, you can become so rich, you are the only one thinking those worthless coins will ever be worth anything, take a loan and buy them all cheap. Why are you complaining?If I had so much confidence in a coin, I would be so happy they are so undervalued. Can you imagine BTC @ 0,50$ now, man would I buy, probably didn't had time to complain on the forum because I was to hard trying to get money to buy more btc's  And you are a marketing guru, should be a piece of cake to buy them now cheap and use your fortune 500 companies skills to get them at 100BTC each, not? lol   https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=193025.0Volg die stappen en je komt al een heel eind.Zelf eens naar gekeken na een grap over skullcoin, zal nooit gereleased worden maar wel leerzaam en leuk om eens te bekijken.Een simpele coin is eigenlijk heel makkelijk om te maken, ik kan niet programmeren maar een alt coin copy met minimale aanpassingen is niet zo moeilijk te maken.Kijk vooral naar wat andere alts hebben veranderd aan de code en pas dat wat aan.Wil je een serieuze coin maken in 5 stappen:1. Leer programmeren.2. Leer er heel goed in te worden.3. Word nog iets beter.4. Bedenk wat er kan verbeteren aan bitcoin.5. Maak het. I tried these and they look clean:yacoin-qt-2013-05-09.ziphttps://mega.co.nz/#!5wgDnKyZ!QLfWTXNRMRTwmb60rfpuFgzH48BCl4fpwb8paeAaqRsminerd_scrypt_jane.ZIPhttps://mega.co.nz/#!pUMBkbbY!cMJYcFqPCMr1idZBr30VsFw0tLY7y63J0N4RVNYMUBcInstalled yesterday on a windows pc to test, had an unencrypted old bitcoin wallet on it with a small amount of bitcoins, no suspicious activity. 2374 bitcoins in an unencrypted hot wallet...nobody can be that stupid, right?  edit: just realised the OP can be from the US and uses a . instead of the , I'm used to  Yes, It's going to Gox, just no ETA I installed the client and miner for YACoin on a windowscomputer to test it yesterday, the computer has several altcoin clients on it, there was still an old bitcoinwallet on that computer (unencrypted!) that had a very small amount of btc's in it. Not really enough to get worried about so I actually didn't bother much and didn't transfer them. Also a wallet with an even smaller amount of Litecoins in it is on that computer (also unencrypted), just checked and everything is still there and no suspicious activity is going on. I downloaded them from the mega link. 10.000 euro, succes aan diegene die het koopt om dat ooit terug te verdienen   Check het altforum, het begon bij Feathercoin al wat op te vallen en met Bitbar is het overduidelijk, heel veel relatief jonge accounts (meerdere in het bezit van 1 persoon) die de coin ophemelen, altijd dezelfde personen maar waardoor het lijkt alsof de coin heel veel interesse heeft. Dit om te proberen om de coin waar ze er zelf veel van hebben in waarde te laten stijgen.Dit is eigenlijk gewoon pure oplichting naar mijn mening, en het begint bij de alts een beetje de spuigaten uit te lopen.Hier zegt 1 van de BTB promotors zelf dat 1 persoon 5-20 accounts heeft:https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=200475.msg2100092#msg2100092   No, I always have 1, on this forum and on any other forum. I'll correct you: 
So, you did the marketing for fortune five hundreds company's, and supposedly don't have a designer and copywriter in your team.    http://btb.cryptocoinexplorer.com/address/BKvC5MojhFX9UVDbMhEcpS2T1WYDxHRkCP http://btb.cryptocoinexplorer.com/address/BCJ49q7DHd4sCzwiQ1FDmTx7saxV7fDqX8 Hoe het ging na de bekendmaking uit het niets:Announcement: 17:30:04First Block mined: 17:32:10 (Difficulty 0.00) (Reward 1 Bitbar per block)First Hundred blocks: 17:33:24First 200 blocks: 17:36:16First 300 blocks: 17:39:42First Thousand blocks: 18:01:22First 2000 blocks: 18:40:45 (Difficulty 0.012) (Reward 0.528202 per block)....Current Block 6000 (Difficulty 15.291) (Reward 0.164687 per block)500bitbars zijn door de maker en enkele mensen die het moesten hypen gemaakt de eerste 15min, de tijd die al de rest die gelijk de aankondiging had gezien nodig heeft om alles te downloaden en te configureren. Nu kan je zeggen, ow maar 500? Yep, want dat is voldoende, het is zo gemaakt dat je daarna amper nog iets bij elkaar krijgt omdat de moeilijkheid zo hard omhoog schiet en de rewards heel snel omlaag.Aangezien er dan ook nog mensen zijn die meer als 1btc betalen voor 1 waardeloze door sockpuppets gehypte btb is dat mooi verdient. En waar is exact de onderliggende economie die deze waarde rechtvaardigt, wat kan je met Bitbars kopen en waar? Niets en nergens, deze bitbar is uit pure hebzucht gemaakt.Het enige positieve wat ik er nog over kan zeggen is dat het idd geen 1:1 kopie van Litecoin is zoals bv Feathercoin, maar dat de developer er nog enkele uurtjes extra werk in gestopt heeft om het POW van PPcoin erin te implementeren.Dit, je kondigt het niet aan om dan het grootste deel van de coins te minen op de tijd dat een gemiddelde persoon op de wc zit.Nu is het hopeloos:Difficulty: 37.9751 Total block: 7198 Total money supply: 2853.627082 Last block reward: 0.141484 Network hash rate (Gh/s): 1.133Na een maand 7198 blokken en 2853 coins terwijl de eerste 1000blokken aan 1btb per block in het eerste half uurtje gemined zijn. :') Right, I see it, there it is: Bitbar...right behind a few death coins and a coin that is still in concept stage.  That's a lot of text for something that basically says "I'm a greedy bastard with a lot of worthless coins, pump them so I can retire with your money" Vertel er ook gelijk eventjes bij dat ze bij release voor je neus gepremined werden. Dificulty stond extreem laag zodat de developers en enkele héél erg vroege early adopters er enkele duizenden konden binnengraaien om daarna binnen het halfuur een absurd hoge moeilijkheidsgraad te krijgen zodat er amper nog iets valt te minen. En omdat er bar ipv coin in de naam zit, maakt ze dat nog niet meteen meer waard als een bitcoin.We hebben al een scrypt coin die dus even ASIC proof is als deze, nl Litecoin. Wat heeft deze coin meer als LTC op de verdoken premine na dan?  YHJNnZFWEDtBmxHMhuVC6TWSiyj1VaY6RN Thanks in advance   wait some more lol, this is novacoin, only the name is changed  We are still waiting for the real one   I think I'm almost as far as OP: https://github.com/Skull88/skullcoinNow I'll just wait 24h and than I change the names from Litecoin to SkullCoin...and than I'll disappear again for 3 hours   No, the mining will start at exactly 24 hours from now on....still deciding on when I will announce it   I'll release it in 24 hours. Would give some nice topictitles:[WTS] 1000 YAC for 1 YAC(last one would be my coin  ) Fuck this, I'm gonna make yacoin myself...now where was that Litecoin source thingy and that guide to make an alt. The funny part is, when I came home I thought I was already an hour to late   Yep, for 2 hours and 20 minutes straight   valid point! correction, seems like there is more changed in the code    only changed some names, the paths and .ico files to yacoin   yep, 7min ago, he's still alive   Did I allready thank you for sharing this with us?Tnx  
Great, thanks for telling us. OP is mining them right now   I actually never laughed harder with a thread than this one, so this coin is already priceless   In 10 minutes this was 2 hours ago. I think everybody was looking if they missed an alt release   How many alt-coins would have been released while we're waiting for this one and only looking at this thread? crap, I posted jpg's   A few, don't know which coin you want to mine? We just created a 2nd Feathercoin and Bytecoin  lol, would be actually pretty funny if we all just start to mine a coin that wasn't supposed to be mined   It's old code, it would be only a waste of time to compile this       stop it guys, my jaw hurts from all the laughter    looool, most funny thread ever   :') of course, you can count on it  I really crap my pants if the next coin is bitbar2.0 and you didn't manage to get in the premine team   Good you told us, good night peeps.   I sell 100.000 at 0,25/btc, anyone want too preorder?   I guess you forgot a μ   I'll increase  0.00000002BTC
I sold 25k today for 3btc through bitstamp. Not bad for something I got for free and only required me to post in a topic. Still have 5000xrp which should be more than enough to cover the transactions I'll do through ripple, I start to get the feeling, people throw there money at anything these days.   After reading what it is, seems to me something that most smartshops here also sell. But many products smartshops can sell here legally, are illegal in lots of countries (for example the US). I think that is why someone associated it with illegal drugs.   You really think because you put China in the name of a coin a whole nation will jump on it. Than better start creating UsCoin, EuroCoin, AfricaCoin and WorldCoin And we still laugh at feathercoin, the only thing it did is going down in value after the pump.  Tenebrix was premined with 7.7milion coins, Fairbrix solved this problem but the dev moved on to Litecoin, nobody picked it up so it died.  +1Anyone saw the proof of folding topic where we discussed if this could be done and the poll where Stanford wanted or opinion?I guess not many, because the topics are buried under all the news about the 395 scamcoins that suddenly popped up that improved on nothing except the wallets of the creators. lol        It doesn't matter to me if you mine them and sell them as long as you don't make 100's of posts where you just pump the coin. Yeah because we have pretty strong evidence he got them from Satoshi...   +1Almost pissed my pants laughing    You already see the looks on the face of the judge when they start about Bitbars, premine and the insider info. I guess that would be worth gold one big Bitbar     *grabs the popcorn*Comedy on the bitcointalk channel   He showed prove of the transaction, mr_random didn't show any prove that he bought the coins, he doesn't even want to name the person he bought from...sounds pretty funny   +1 Because that was what it was really worth then, it takes time for a coin to grow, that means months and not days.  $0.01 - $0.02 would probably be a reasonable and healthy value for ftc at this point from which it could slowly grow.   Every user thinks this and are mining these for the money, the ones telling different are just lying to pump the price.Actually, this guy is honest, so if you want to buy, at least buy from someone who is honest about the coin. So you don't have to complain afterwards. The 10 days bitcoin chart:http://www.cryptocoincharts.info/period-charts.php?period=10-days&resolution=hour&pair=btc-usd&market=btc-e10 days ago btc was higher in value than today, still ftc is less btc's worth now than then. This chart is actually more drastic than it would have you believe...And it is still way overvalued, LTC traded at 0,001btc in the beginning, and LTC wasn't a 1:1 copy and actually brought something new. So thinking this graph will change is actually pretty silly. http://www.cryptocoincharts.info/period-charts.php?period=10-days&resolution=hour&pair=ftc-btc&market=btc-eyeah, looks healthy to me   Last time I heard something like this was in the BFL topic, I guess a few years.  People have really short memory here, never seen a coin with so much debate?There was more debate about Feathercoin 2 weeks ago which sold at 0,1 btc when it hit btc-e and is now 0,0031  Not to talk about SolidCoin, who can ever forget those   best reply ever   And people selling them for 2btc, that's pretty easy money.  I'm really start to think of also releasing an alt, just to get money out of the pockets of fools that don't deserve better. They almost ask for being scammed, the only thing I got so far for warning people for these scamcoins are insults. 
Weird, I tell the same with every crapcoin released, even post it right after the announcement when I could still mine the shit out of them.   You understand that coins and bars is only a name, if you call your newly created coin a bar, it are still just numbers. The difference why a goldbar costs more than a goldcoin is because it has more gold. We don't need to melt bitcoins to create a bitbar, so that's a pretty lame excuse why these bars would be worth anything, just because they are named bars instead of coins. Whats next, bitdiamonds? Aaaah I see the new accounts praising the new alt coin are already arrived   And where do you spend your Bitbars, where is the actual economy that is backing these Bitbars, where can I donate them,...? right...And they where premining in front of your nose when they got released   You want to place PPcoin in the same group as Feathercoin? lol  you looked at the description? -> very innovative   I wouldn't pack BBQ sauce with it and label it BBQCoin lube, or if you do that, at least don't take one with chili peppers in it, just in case someone mistakenly thinks it's real lube and things get a little bit too hot in the bedroom    And why the hell would I be jealous?  If I would want to mine an alt-coin out of pure greed, everyday theres a new one and I know it will be hyped and idiots will buy it the first days so it's guaranteed profit. I solo mined bitcoins with a cpu, the only reason all those worthless alts popping up is because you guys are jealous of people like me. Only difference, we didn't and still don't do it for the money... you pay 1.5 BTC for a newly created alt coin, this gets funnier each day   lol@some replies    Hoe verloopt het eigenlijk met de verkoop en de interviews?  En hoe was de meeting?   Yeah, because we use a shitload of electricity to mine them, very environmental friendly  Yeah and you should also drink vodka if it goes up, to celebrate    ok, time to take a break dude  For small transactions, you actually don't need to wait for confirmations because chances someone will do a double spend for a chocolate bar are pretty small and if they would succeed it isn't a huge loss. This, and everybody should do this, it isn't much work and if everybody does this it could make a huge difference. voted +6 and we are on the first page   They accept btc's for donation: http://shop.wikileaks.org/donate#dbitcoinSo I guess it should be possible to convince them for accepting them in their shop too....also didn't know they had a shop   lol   At the rate new coins are made, soon xorxor will have a fulltime job updating this topic Maybe better also start to look for volunteers to help with it, if you find 2 people you can start working in shifts  
 +1PPcoin is also worth looking at imo.Things you should avoid like it's the pest: feathercoin, chinacoin, bytecoin, any other coin that is a 1:1 copy. I'm not a programmer, but even I can make a coin like that, everybody who can follow a guide, can do it. At first it was amusing, now I start to get the feeling they could potentially damage the alt coins that actually bring something different. Not everybody here wants dollars   This, it will just take some longer. Yeah, this way it doesn't look fishy at all  The way they launch a new coin gets weirder each day   It's really sad that this Feathercoin actually pushes people away that do real projects for Litecoin!This guy does more for Litecoin than any of you Feathercoin guys does for Feathercoin, and he didn't do it for getting rich quick. Great that your greed affects the whole community, hope you guys are really proud of yourself!  Why in a pm, please explain it to us all...I really want to see the big picture here, because now I only see the biggest fraud ever on this forum gets committed. Till now that crown was held by Solidcoin.  I'm an old Bitcoiner, not all of us think all ALT coins are pump and dumps. Litecoin has changes, PPC is totally different and I'm really looking forward to proof of folding (if it can be accomplished). Alts are a great test environment for new ideas that you can't just put in Bitcoin to see if it is something. If it can bring something extra to the cryptocurrencie world it will survive and will have a slow but steady growth, just like BTC had. LTC follows the same path as BTC, never was ltc after a few days worth this amount of money, never was it spammed everywhere and I don't think many people thought it would get this value. There aren't many big wallets around, there are more big btc than ltc wallets.So I really don't know how your feeling for Litecoin can change because of Feathercoin, but I got to say, in the beginning I thought Feathercoin was pretty funny and saw it like bytecoin, as a funny jokecoin. Now that it's starts to look like a well put up scam, with a lot of new users burning real money, it starts to taste a little bit bitter. People who want to throw 46BTC at it while they have almost no experience with cryptocurrencies make me shiver too. And I still suspect a lot of accounts are made to praise ftc too, less than one month old and only posting praises about ftc and making one topic after another makes me suspicious. This never happened with LTC, else I wouldn't be posting this because Litecoin would be death.     +1This is a joke, this means next week we have chinacoin on btc-e and the week after that the new "flavor of the week" coin. +1 I didn't post I agreed with you, but I definitely do, it's the most stupid idea someone could have to spend that much btc's on a 2 weeks old coin that has all characteristics of a pump and dump coin. On the other hand, I don't know how much money KCK402's father has. Maybe he's a millionaire and this is only a little bit of playmoney. But I really hope it is an amount he expects to loose.   And I thought, I was an optimist   I think 0.15, than it will fall to 0.7 where it will be stable for a while.So voted >0.1Don't know if this will be within the first 24h tho You would have been an idiot not to buy 100.000LTC for 46BTC, because 1/2 year ago they where at 0,007 and 100.000LTC would have cost you 700BTC at btc-e. Would be pretty stupid if you didn't take them for 46BTC   No, but average Joe will bother to buy 2,34mBTC   valid point If we would delete al the spam topics from users with accounts less than a month old we would probably end up with 3 users, you call that a big community?Were do all these guys come from? Check all the people promoting Feathercoin and see that most accounts are made in April.If Chinacoin does the same it probably will look like it also has a big community.  My wifes uncle has a few months to live, is around 50 years old, terminal liver cancer, want to trade places with him to see if you still have the same opinion then?Diseases are a natural way of control the human population, but it fails miserably, so curing people and informing people that taking kids is a stupid idea would probably be better than let nature solve it on her own. I guess it's crystal meth, wouldn't touch it if I were you They even made a sticky on there forum to not stop spamming here The rest of the forum is also very interesting, the "projects" for example:How to promote pyramidcoin feathercoin: http://forum.feathercoin.com/index.php?topic=86.0 I voted 100%, actually I have quit mining a while ago, but for this one I would be back in the game and immediately start building again.Can't wait to finally see this happening.  
If the things discussed in this topic lead to something I think we have that coin: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=190401.0 You can wait a little while? Still premining my Skullcoins, they will be awesome tho. Exactly like Litecoin but it has a block reward of 250 coins which is 50 more than Feathercoin, which makes it much better. Allready talking with big businesses who will accept them, everybody is like "wow" and ""no way" and "250 coins blockreward and it's like litecoin, wow definitely going to be the platinum to bitcoins gold"   Yep, and if I would believe I would say I'm an atheist, who wants to spend eternity in the cold on a cloud up there when you can partying with the cool people in a nice warm place.   Don't forget to build in that once in a month the difficulty swings unexpectedly from high to low and back to high and we don't understand how the hell this is possible. The client also should crash in that time of the month if you pay for porn with your coins. In every community you will find scumbags and if you meet 10 nice people and 1 scumbag, you'll remember the scumbag the most. It's only perception and also outside the bitcoin community you will find scumbags. Once ordered a Dell laptop and they lost my payment, they didn't answer my mails and when I complained on their Facebookpage about it, one of the employees replied with "sucker".   Nooit gedacht toen ik die munt maakte dat die in een uitzending constant op tv zou komen.Zal ik mijn bitcoin adres naar hun mailen dat een donatie wel netjes zou zijn. Voor de rest vond ik het goed uitgelegd, denk dat leken ook niet echt gaan verder doordenken dat je een mail kan kopiëren en hoe dit dan met bitcoins zit. You keep track of what you sell to who? I think I lost a 1btc series 1 coin from the first batch but I could be wrong and just bought one less than I thought  Still deciding what would let me feel more stupid, order one less or losing one    It's more stable than bitcoin at the moment  For a quick pump and dump scheme it also seems to go pretty slow in cryptocurrency measurements.Luke-Jr is a christian fundamentalist, people with imaginary friends tend to hate things for no reasons at all, I'm not even try to guess why he has something against ltc. Maybe it was written  He did and it was to protect bitcoin from people with less good intentions.Furthermore it is only protecting the name, not the client, the client is opensource and has this license: http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.phpy lol, I almost felt from my chair But I think it isn't the best example, never heard of it I myself think you underestimate the importance of good branding, Eco-Coin with a nice matching logo and good informative website probably will gain a lot more users than it would cost. Eco is hot, and could get it adopted by people outside the btc community.  PPcoin isn't a name that bothers me, but it surely doesn't represent the coins most important future. I quit mining a while ago, probably pick it back up again and invest in some new mining hardware for this one. Great to see this idea going somewhere.  Code:Name: RadacoinDate Registered: January 23, 2013This topic starts to get funny *grabs popcorn*   Doesn't mean it isn't true   The sad part is, your right. The sadder part is, you seem to find that a good thing? I hope that Joe Sixpack after burning his fingers with buying at >$200 and selling at 100$, sees that it's not a get rich fast scheme but maybe learns more about it and stays for the good things it may bring. And probably earns more that way instead of jumping on the next coin and only make people who profit from these fools richer.I would be a hypocrite if I would say I wouldn't like it to see btc at 1000$ and ltc at 250$ so I can retire on my own Island without actually doing that much for those coins. Still, I don't think it should be the main goal, if they drop to 1$ and 0,01$, I will still use them for what they are meant to be Ik kan er ook nergens iets van vinden, niet hier, niet via Twitter, nergensLijkt mij als hij dit echt gezegt had dat het toch wel iets was waar meer over gesproken zou worden.Nog een positief puntje:http://thepiratebay.is/Helemaal naar onder scrollen, Pirate Bay accepteerd nu naast btc ook ltc donaties   Gold, only saw the first 3 episodes yet, but I didn't see a computer to run Bitcoin or Litecoin on   Een paar maand   Why is this the general impression I get from the people surrounding Feathercoin, they only care about the fiat money that could be earned. While people supporting BTC and LTC do it because they believe in it as a currency and not a get rich scheme. You call people who buy a cryptocurrencie fools?  It is indeed on the frontpage of The Pirate Bay, at the bottom under the btc address   Still it is less, so if you would make a coin where the mining and folding just is divided from each other, some will just strip the folding out of it to mine the coins. Would defeat the purpose unless it is possible to make it waterproof the 2 can't be stripped from each other in order to mine coins. Folding - mining: 90% - 10% and if this isn't accurate no new coins will be generated by you. 
Than we still have SETI@home, and actually there will always be scientific projects that need huge computer resources, even without diseases.yeah, soon, only need to find a second Satoshi to make it happen   I don´t like the premine, this way you create a central authority who distributes the coins and this is really against the idea of cryptocurrencies. It really should have some "proof of folding" imoBecause it isn´t easy to do, if at all Some other points to really make it king:- no premine- announcing it weeks in front when it will be released so nobody can complain about early adopter/mining advantage If this could be done, I think CureCoin would have a pretty good chance to become Bitcoin2.0 Great idea for an alt coin imo, if it's possible I don't know, I'm not a programmer but it would be great if someone could get it done that when you mine you actually do protein folding and while doing this you secure the network and mine coins . The coin that would do this, surely gets my support. Orijen is one of the better dry foods, but the best way to get rid of the allergies and itching is give them fresh raw meat, you can buy those premade and frozen or do it yourself. I always go for the frozen ones (smuldier) and they do great on it and they really love it. From time to time they also get raw fish and eggs as an extra. Giving dogs dry food how good the quality may seems is like if you would ate every day mac donalds for the rest of your life, day in day out without anything else, you'll survive but it's not healthy. A dog needs fresh raw meat and not grain with a percentage of dried meat waist. But to get more on topic on the bitcoin part  I like the idea that I can pay everywhere with bitcoin, but preferred if I didn't need a middle man but I think these services are great to deal with the "only few people use them as currency because nobody accepts them and nobody accepts them because only few use them as a currency" problem. , First one is better, the reason is, when you fade the coin, the colors change, that way they don't match the colors of the text anymore. How do you do this, get 3 incorrect answers and you seem to hold 3 crypto currencies, did you even invest 30min in the concept?1) blockchain goes on and on, or will we just stop when the last coin is mined and start again with a new one?2) you can change the fee yourself, it's only a preset in the client, so it is whatever you want, higher fee means faster transaction. Litecoin will have a lower standard transaction fee in the next client, but that's actually only for those who didn't spend the 2 minutes it takes to view the preferences menu.3) feather  = light, lighter as litecoin ThisBut he didn't do too bad, I'm not a native English speaker too, and while I understand it perfectly and can perfectly have a conversation in English, doing a tv interview probably would end up the same like this, probably even worser. He is nervous and putting myself in his place, I would be nervous too and if you got to speak in another language than your native language when your nervous is probably not the easiest thing to do. So respect for doing this, but everybody is good in something different, an official spokesman would probably be a good idea. And this is why it has a future, enough Litecoin users don't have them to become rich overnight.Somewhere there is a topic with the richest litecoin wallets, and there aren't lots of really big wallets.Most will actually see it as a currency and want to use it that way.  You have a feathercoin as avatar and you post something that proves feathercoin is way overvalued?When you could still mine like 200 bitcoins/day with a cpu (there was no gpu mining than) a pizza was worth 10,000btc. Nobody than mined 10000 bitcoins in 2 days, if someone could have pulled it off he would only get 2 pizza's. Bitcoin excisted allready much longer than feathercoin now. Bitcoin allready gained extremely fast, lots of value. You really think you can even fastforward this growth times 1000000000000. Good luck with that. The 10,000 bitcoins for the pizza were not suddenly the next day worth 120$/1000btc.I also see one main difference, when you bought 2 pizza's for 10,000btc, most people were talking about how btc would change the world, how one day we would pay everything with bitcoins, how people would have more freedom,... btc was seen as a currency not a get rich quick scheme. I only see people in this topic who actually don't want feathercoins, I only see people who want dollars... So how is the taxation working if you don't sell your bitcoins because what I can understand from this text even than it is taxable? Which exchange rate they are going to use? The most logical would be they let you pay taxes in bitcoins for the bitcoins you earned, but I guess they don't have plans in that direction. lol, ik dacht het al toen ik het volgende topic inging   That is true, but one of the reasons I saw usefulness in Litecoin and why Litecoin would be a good 2nd crypto was the faster confirmation. 1 confirmation for Litecoin isn't as secure as 1 from Bitcoin, for large amounts it doesn't matter, you need to wait just as long. But if you buy a bottle of water, the security isn't that important, you easily can take the risk to just wait for 1 confirmation, so waiting 10min or 2,5min waiting is for small purchases a big deal.For me Bitcoin = larger purchases and Litecoin = small purchases were the security of 1 confirmation is enough. It will never be bitcoin 2.0, it never was supposed to be, for me the differences were big enough to adopt it. Besides ppcoin (which imo could be bitcoin2.0 but we'll see how this experiment turns out) there isn't really another alt I adopted.You seem to forget that silkroad was pretty good for the marketing of Bitcoin, some users also thought that Bitcoin would be seen as bad because of this.The reality is, any currency is used to buy drugs and porn, everybody knows this, if we would deny any currency that is used for buying these things, we wouldn't have a currency at all. heh   Neen is enkel voor bitcoin, had er ook al naar zitten kijken, uiteindelijk maar zo gelaten.Zelf heb ik gewoon een oude laptop genomen, de HDD volledig geformatteerd en een cleane Ubuntu installatie erop gezet.Hierop de Bitcoin en Litecoin client geïnstalleerd, wallet geëncrypteerd en laten syncen, mijn "spaarcoins" ernaartoe gestuurd en losgekoppeld, dan een backup gemaakt van de wallets op encrypted usb sticks en deze veilig opgeborgen.De laptop blijft gewoon offline (doe er eigenlijk niets mee dus ook veilig opgeborgen), als ik om de 1 of andere reden de coins moet hebben moet ik wel connectie maken maar dat is nog niet het geval geweest. Het is niet de 100% veiligheid van Armory maar eerlijk gezegd denk ik dat de kans dat het op deze manier misloopt toch wel relatief klein is. Zolang je een cleane installatie gebruikt en het op een pc zet waar je niet mee surft, niets anders op geïnstalleerd hebt en hij 1x connectie gemaakt heeft met internet zit je wel redelijk veilig. Op die manier word het enkel wel meer een spaarrekening dan een bank, je kan bedragen in je hotwallet ontvangen en houden, word die wat te gevuld stuur je ze naar je "spaarrekening". Als je van daaruit wilt versturen moet je wel nog eens verbinding maken met internet. Maar dit houd normaal ook niet echt grote risico's in, tenslotte is het lastig een pc die niet (online) gebruikt word geïnfecteerd te laten raken. Hij staat nu op 4,2, lijkt mij sterk dat hij maar ietsje meer als 0,8 gaat stijgen, kans zit er in dat hij de 5 al haalt nog voor het op Gox komt, op dit moment daalt btc en ltc is aan het stijgen.   Er komt echt zo'n grote hoeveelheid mensen bij die nu litecoin kunnen gaan kopen en velen die er zelf nog nooit van gehoord hebben. This, great video   I'll mine my commies with a bunch of old smartphones, tell me when this coin gets released, now the used phones are still cheap.    30 ltc for 1000fc that where a day earlier mined at ten thousands at a time.  You don't have to impress me, but if you don't want to see the following scenario: pump - dump -deathThan you better convince some people, and that won't be with the arguments I see here. I don't hate your favorite coin, I'm not against alt coins, else I wouldn't have bought Litecoins and PPcoins right away. The others I don't have, and that has a reason. But I accept anything, if you need something and I can offer it I'll accept your Feathercoins, I just won't hold them for long because I don't have confidence in it at this moment. The only people I see that have confidence in the coin are people that heard a month ago from cryptocurrencies and now adopt the first one that has some hype around it in the hope it goes up. This hasn't worked in the past and I can't believe it will work in the future, some will have earned from it, most will have waisted time and money.I'm not important and I'm not starting a war against Feathercoin, I just give my opinion like the people that are pro-feathercoin give theirs, and sorry but the arguments I listed are arguments really used by them, and they will have the total opposite effect their trying to accomplish with them. Was geen 1 April grap, want is op 2 April nogmaals bevestigt via Twitter, hadden alleen nog geen datum wanneer.Denk dat zo'n grap hun ook niet direct in dank afgenomen was, 1 April of niet.
If it's ok by you that I do whatever it takes to put some extra cash in my pockets, could you pm me your address and when it is most likely nobody is home? And to buy some of your stuff back I have a sweat business deal for you, you pay me 100btc and I'll give you 1000 back, you only need to find 10 other people who do the same.  Go to preferences - display and set "Unit to display:" in µYour instant rich.  Really guys, your not even trying to come up with good arguments, things like:- It's more fun to see big numbers- It has four time more coins than Litecoin, that should make us the copper to btc, right? - It's easier to mine- As long as I make some money who cares- There is a gap under Litecoin, maybe you don't see it, but I see it- ...Are all not arguments for a sane person to adopt this currency, I hope there still comes someone with a better argument, else you better start thinking of making a comedy show, you only need to put in all the arguments why Feathercoin is great and you got an instant "comedy show of the year".  Op 1 April hadden ze dit al laten vallen, normaal had het idd 2 weken terug al moeten gebeuren maar door de problemen is het uitgesteld geworden.Silkroad? Heb ik iets gemist of bedoel je Atlantis? Wel 1 tip, als je 7 posts maakt en 4 ervan link je erin naar je website kan dit wel eens spammerig opgevat worden en geeft niet meteen een positieve indruk. Voor de rest ziet de site er goed uit  Zie trouwens dat we niet ver van elkaar verwijderd zijn, Sittard is hier steenworp vandaan en als ik mij niet vergis heb je ook al met mijn vrouw gemaild ivm een domeinnaam  $5000 haal je bij btc-e wel weg per dag zonder veel effect op de koers te hebben als je wat spreid, 5000 x 30 = $150000 per maandSerieuze miner die dat bij elkaar krijgt en toffe kerel die de electriciteit betaald. En als btc-e problemen zou geven met dat uit te betalen wacht je wel eventjes tot ze op Mt Gox komen lijkt mij.   Ik ga eigenlijk met topicstarter mee, bubble tot $20 en daarna terug naar +-$8 waar het stabiel zal blijven.Niet dat ik hiervoor mijn hand in het vuur durf te steken, er is een reden dat ik niet speculeer, om de 1 of andere reden gebeurt toch iedere keer net het omgekeerde als wat ik denk.  It's not the same, Litecoin was different maybe some didn't see the differences as big enough but it was different. Back than you could only mine it with a cpu, and we thought it was gpu proof, now it seems that it is asics proof. What the future may bring we can only guess. Feathercoin is a copy of Litecoin, no differences at all, whatever scenario you think of, nowhere in the future will Feathercoin have anything that differentiate it from Litecoin. So you can't compare the 2 situations.*wonders if 2 years from now there will be a topic named "Aircoin - FC was judged the same way" and my post under it*   Ziet er idd goed uit, tijd om de zolder te gaan opruimen   You can contact him: http://www.duncanelms.com...but I think $200 is a little bit low for this kind of quality Actually we already have something like this, it's called Gold   lol, that's an advantage When the difficulty for bitcoin was as high as FC is now, 10000 was worth a pizza, now I see 26ltc for 1000FC, that's 78$, 10000fc would be 780$. Bitcoin had allready much more accomplished when you could still mine them with a laptop. Still a pizza was 10000btc. You guys pay 780$, and call this a good thing? It's the most unhealthy start you could imagine, it gets pumped like no alt has ever been pumped before.  I don't want to look like someone who hates it, I even gave it a try to come up with a coinlogo for it and I would accept them if someone wants to pay me with them, but in no way I would buy or hold them. Too many people with feathercoins look to them with their pink sunglasses on and have really unrealistic expectations from it. This poll says enough, how on earth can a babycoin with no real differences than the coin it is forked from have so much votes. Leuke setup, een airco rechtstreeks erop laten blazen, geeft dit geen problemen met vocht van de koude lucht die op de warme componenten neerslaat? Mij is toch altijd gezegt om er nooit rechtstreeks op uit te laten blazen.   You were really waiting for an almost exact copy of litecoin?  ...or you thought, if I take litecoin, change a little bit the numbers and get enough suckers behind it, we gonna be rich   If one of mine is taken I promise to stop making fun of this coin and even take a wallet All are made with Illustrator, so vector is available Ik heb de originele client voor BTC en LTC, gewoon beide op je pc installeren en je kan beginnen. Zelf geef ik ook meer de voorkeur om mijn eigen wallets te beheren ipv een online dienst te gebruiken. Glad you continued this project. I voted for 50. +10% is a reasonable amount for a physical coin. And pyramid scheme coin was born, don't forget to tell them they will become millionaires   Het zou niet de eerste keer zijn dat scammers eerst leveren tot het grote geld binnen komt en ze met de noorderzon vertrekken, vind ik dus geen reden.Al denk ik niet dat het echt een scam is, of ik geloof dat ze ooit gaan leveren in de nabije toekomst is een tweede. I was wondering the same, if he was president and in which universe.  And the EU doesn't have much to say in Norway indeed, they can ask things nicely but that's about it. Ik vermoed dat het op ebay ook wel om producten gaat waarvan men zeker weet dat ze gaan leveren, als BFL nu de eerste 1000 verstuurd maak je dikke kans om hier idd veel meer voor te vangen dan je betaald hebt. Nu denk ik dat velen preorderen bij BFL een beetje als gokken zien.  Bij Visa en Mastercard heb je alleen geen keuze, bij bitcoin kan je kiezen, zelf de server opzetten of iemand anders dit laten regelen. Logisch als je iemand anders het laat regelen dat je hier voor moet betalen. In topicstarter zijn geval is het misschien voor zowel hem als zijn klanten een beter idee om van een dienst als Bitpay gebruik te maken.
No, I think because litecoin gets the support of many community members and those gpu miners need to mine something which litecoin makes possible thanks to its scrypt hashing. It's a pretty safe bet to say that litecoin will stay. Most people see it as the silver cryptocurrency, I don't really see it going away in the future either. PPC also makes a good chance to survive with its proof of stake, they only should change the name tho, PPC may have a good developer behind it, he surely isn't a marketing guru.  All others seem to me like gamble coins, people know they will become worthless because they actually don't have many differences with btc, ltc or ppc, they only buy them in the hopes they go up and can sell them before they collapse again. And this greed is also the reason they get made, it doesn't really bother me. Maybe one of those actually gives someone a great idea that could become Bitcoin 2.0.I only would appreciate if bitcointalk divides the alt section a little bit more and gives the major ones a separate section, I like to follow the ltc and ppc topics but I really don't care much about the other ones besides the initial topic to see if it actually brings something new. lol @ bitcoindomsI think the idea is really great  Not sure if my wife would start questioning why the hell I order condoms tho   I have no problem with them either, I don't think this forum has lots of big flashy avatars or signatures. If it stays like this, I think they should stay, you can always dissable them by yourself.Else we wouldn't have SgtMoth's avatar, and you can't be against his avatar   Kort gezegt Litecoin maakt gebruik van scrypt ipv SHA2, hierdoor is het tot nu toe enkel te minen met cpu's en gpu's, wanneer asics meer gebruikt worden zullen de meeste gpu miners wel overstappen. Tot nu toe word het beschouwd als asics proof, zelf sta ik niet volledig achter die uitspraak want in begin werd het nog beschouwd als gpu proof en dat bleek ook niet zo te zijn. Waarschijnlijk zullen er als meeste gpu miners overgestapt zijn ook wel asics opduiken voor Litecoin, al zal bij Litecoin nooit zo'n prestatieverschil komen dat gpu minen niet meer te doen is. Maar dat zal de toekomst uitwijzen.Verder gaan er uiteindelijk 4x meer Litecoins als Bitcoins in omloop zijn en kan je het zien als het zilver in de cryptocurency wereld. De community lijkt er ook redelijk achter te staan ivg met de vele pump and dump alt coins die als paddestoelen uit de grond lijken te schieten. Dus het is een redelijk veilige alt-coin om achter te staan (let wel op dat veilig hier altijd met een goeie schep zout genomen moet worden en dit nog altijd een persoonlijke mening is). Wat de vraag naar Litecoin betreft, dit kan je makkelijk afleiden aan de prijs, als er meer vraag was naar litecoin was de prijs niet 0,0224 ltc per btc maar zou de waarde van ltc hoger zijn dan btc. Dit zie ik eigenlijk ook nooit veranderen, litecoin zal altijd wel onder de prijs van btc blijven. Ook word litecoin op veel minder plaatsen geaccepteerd als bitcoin wat natuurlijk ook de vraag beduidend minder maakt.De waarde wordt bepaald door wat men er voor over heeft en niet door het aantal miners, de waarde heeft meer invloed op het aantal miners dan andersom.Het verbruik meten softwarematig is niet betrouwbaar mogelijk, hiervoor moet je een vermogensmeter plaatsen tussen je systeem en het stopcontact.bitcoins verkopen kan eventueel hier: https://bitonic.nl/sell Je hebt miningapparatuur gekocht dus een investering en die heb je toch met fiat betaald. Verder heb je werk verricht door de apparatuur en software te installeren.Fluctuerende inkomsten zijn ook niet echt een reden om niet aan te geven anders is elke zelfstandige vrij van belastingen, die inkomsten willen nl ook nog wel eens verschillen per maand. Enige verschil is als je ze niet verkoopt dat je dan geen inkomsten hebt, maar dan valt het dus onder vermogen. Uit het topic wat hier iets onder staat:Als je dat doortrekt zou je de koers moeten nemen wanneer je de bitcoins ontvangen hebt.Voor miners die iedere dag bitcoins bijkrijgen word dit een leuke boekhouding. Volgens mij kan je beter gewoon je mond houden, uiteindelijk kunnen ze zo hard in waarde dalen dat je meer belastingen komt te betalen dan de waarde van je bitcoins. Zolang je ze niet verkoopt gewoon zo laten, de belastingsdienst gaat echt geen controleur sturen om te kijken of je nergens in huis een hdd, usb stick of iets anders hebt liggen met een wallet.dat bestandje op.   Eerlijk gezegd zou ik er niet eens tijd aan verspillen om te minen met jouw pc en laptops, Nvidia kaarten zijn helaas niet echt bruikbaar om te minen en cpu is zowiezo al nutteloos.Als je echt wilt gaan minen word het dus investeren, of als dat er niet inzit en je vind het gewoon leuk om er mee bezig  te zijn. Ga dan voor litecoin, met jouw cpu's en gpu's gaat dat toch winstgevender zijn dan btc. Ben het net als morningtime eventjes kwijt, ben je locaal aan het testen mbv wamp of je gebruikt Windows7 om connectie met je server te maken? Windows 7 als serveros lijkt mij sterk.  De site draaien lukt zeg je, waar draait hij dan nu, op je pc of is hij online bereikbaar? You tried to get the BTC straight by tilting your head left?  I like the idea, but it should be individuals, like we are all totally different people with different ideas and opinions but with one goal we share, and not some brainwashed cult like the feeling this pic gives me. Sorry, I was talking about Bootlace and LuxBitcoin, stopped checking account dates after those 2.You should get yours indeed.   Your account is too young. They do what they've promised, I got mine. You can't complain about them not sending XRP if you don't meet the requirements, it's not their fault you can't read.    I think ppcoin is too young yet for mtgox, they'll probably will add it in the future but not now...of course I can be completely wrong Deze keer is het iig iets wat kan, hij begint te leren.   Is this the bronze to bitcoin?   You better don't use google translate, for most of us it is harder to understand than English, lol  But unfortunately, Mike is right, you probably end up buying a stolen one. I bought one here: http://www.matrabike.nlA full suspension mtb for 229euro  According to real mountainbikers it is crap, but I actually can't complain, I always drive through woods while pulled by a Husky and besides 2 flat tires it still runs great. So for driving in town these bikes should be enough. And they even have one for 169euro. Zie nu wat jullie gedaan hebben Als lid van de btc community wil ik voor deze reacties mijn excuses aanbieden en om het goed te maken laat ik je de erfenis van mij oom John na, gaat om enkele miljoenen en deze staan op een bankaccount in Nigeria, je moet gewoon even 5btc overmaken naar het adres in mijn onderschrift ivm bankkosten en dan stort ik het eventjes naar je rekening.   Ach ja zo, nee dan klopt het, waren vorige week nog in de promotie in de Wallmart , je kreeg ze gratis bij een droogkast. Je lijkt mij een eerlijke jongen, stuur maar op dan betaal ik als ik hem ontvangen heb.   Wat ik zo zie moet je een factuur laten zien dus als je zorgt dat op de factuur het bedrag zowel in Bitcoin als Euro staat zou het geen problemen mogen geven.In een overgangsperiode zoals nu is dat het makkelijkst om de munt die verdwijnt er ook nog bij te zetten. Niet dat je hier nu nog iets aan hebt natuurlijk, hoop dat de schade nog meevalt. Spreek uit ondervinding, zo heb ik nog een 150+euro vastzitten in een account bij Paypal.Ik krijg telkens een foutmelding als ik inlog, een technisch probleem, maar zelf als het om een technisch probleem bij hun gaat moet je van alles bewijzen. Succes met het geld terug te krijgen, ik heb het ondertussen al in het lang en het breed opgegeven.Het staat nu een jaar vast en zal het binnen 20 jaar nog wel staan, Paypal maakt het je gewoon zo moeilijk dat je uiteindelijk wel opgeeft en het geld er op laat staan. Voor 150euro begin je nl ook geen rechtzaak of wat dan ook, dus meeste mensen laten het maar zo, net zoals ik.
Staat in hun faq dat ze in de EU gevestigd zijn:Denk dat het is omdat ze zich niet specifiek op Europa richten maar wereldwijd, en dan is dollar wel een betere keuze. They were Gauls   Whoever made it is a great artist and this is a beautiful piece of art. I don't see any problem with it, it's a view of the artist and would be a shame to destroy it. I actually don't think it's anti-semitic. It's not saying all Jews are bad, only that a few big nosed fat bastards are.    This is not right.Julius Ceasar was the first to call the region east of the Rhine Germania, this was before 44BC. The first Jews came to Germania at the end of 1AD. Back than the Netherlands and the Flemish and German part of Belgium also belonged to it but besides that it was the Germany we know today. The first Jews probably hadn't much trouble here because the Germanic Tribes (and Nordic ones) where not really barbarians like people assume they were. If you learn more from the Germanic and Nordic Mythology you'll realize it is a beautiful and useful faith  (and I say this as an atheist). Maybe faith is a wrong name it was more some kind of wisdom that they told to each other from generation to generation. One of the things it said was to be good for strangers, and that those strangers had another god wasn't really a problem, because you had the freedom to choose your own favorite gods, and people back than didn't hate each other because you worshiped Wodan and your neighbor Freya. This eventually let to the destruction of a big part of our culture when Christianity came in like the Trojan horse.But when the name already existed (and the people and culture actually already existed way back before that) Judaism was still something from the desert.  Not that this all doesn't make your reasoning correct, the Jewish restaurant owner has the freedom to choose who he serves and who not. And the people against it who seem to be very pro the German people, should actually maybe learn their (own?) culture. Because freedom is in our genes but knocked down by faith and governments who want to control us, our ancestors would disapprove to force someone to do something he doesn't want, even if he worships a god we have no connection to. We should fight for our freedom, and freedom isn't something you can throw in the ring when it's beneficial for yourself. It is something that always should be applied, even for the people you don't like. As long as you don't harm anyone, you should do what you want, the Jewish person doesn't harm anyone if he doesn't serve the skinhead, the skinhead can eat somewhere else. Ik zou hier mee opletten, waarom zou iemand in godsnaam onder de marktprijs gaan verkopen, ik kan mij nu werkelijk geen enkele geldige reden bedenken behalve vertrouwen winnen om dan bij een grote betaling niets te leveren $5000 verkoopt hij voor 65% van de marktwaarde?Dus hij kan 5000$ krijgen maar is tevreden met 3250$, niemand is zo sympathiek.   For April it's 31/100 btc/paypalActually that's a lot compared to previous months, the interest in bitcoins is almost 1/3th of the interest for paypal.   I don't think you can ever make a coin that will see the difference between a product and another currency. Good idea, but not possible to make. Sorry, maar dit lijkt mij een vrij eerlijke prijs.Zij moeten de coins aankopen, ze nemen risico's (laatste dagen zijn een mooi voorbeeld), ideal dus kvk nodig dus belasting op winsten en dan de idealkosten erbij. 6euro vind ik dus niet schandalig eerlijk gezegt, je hebt je bitcoins wel gelijk, op de tijd dat jij geld overgemaakt hebt ergens anders naartoe kan de waarde al meer als 6euro gestegen zijn in de tussentijd. edit: net even gekeken en zie ook dat je stukken minder betaald als je er meer koopt. Hoop voor jou dat het niet snel gelukt is, je kan beter nu voor 300euro kopen  Maar het is al heel lang geleden dat ik nog btc's gekocht heb, maar ik heb enkel MTGox gebruikt, je kan gewoon naar hun overschrijven, gaat niet supersnel dus als je denkt nu moet ik meteen kopen zit er niet in nee. Als je op lange termijn koopt is dat normaal niet zo'n probleem.Wil je gelijk snel btc zou ik bitonic gebruiken, betaal je met ideal en heb je gelijk je bitcoins. Ik heb de mijne toen gekocht op btc-e, heb ze toen wel gewoon met bitcoins gekocht maar zie daar bij deposit ook EUR staan. Als je het via ideal wilt is het denk ik wel het makkelijkste om bitcoins te kopen en daar ltc mee te kopen. lol, I needed to google the National Grilled Cheese day, than needed to google Grilled Cheese, but seems like it is something we call a croque monsieur/toastie, but without the ham. Funny I just ate that because I wanted a Croque but we are out of ham. So I guess I celebrated it in some way? Will try it with tomato soup next time   First of all, we are now 2013, totally different time.Second, if you act like the ones you hate, doesn't that make you the same?And it's nice you want to complain about the holocaust industry, which I'm not going to deny it exists. But at least get your facts straight and realise every human is different, you can't say all jews are the same and they are all bad. If one acts normal and doesn't do bad things, I'll act normal to him. If someones does things I think aren't right, I will threat him as the piece of shit he is.I also don't think you inform a lot of people or get them behind your cause, your pushing them away.  Well like how he says it, if bitcoin falls down to $2 and litecoin stays at $1 it is yes.But I don't see that happening actually so, no. If bitcoins crashes to $2, no way it will be between $0,50 -$1 Date Registered:    August 02, 2010, 12:54:17 PMStill here, but wasn't very active for a while  Sold 1000's of btc's at what I thought where stupid high prices.Yup stupid high like $2 - $20, actually I was happy they came back down, I had a inner piece, something inside me saying "told ya so"  Decided not to sell more coins however, only after paid work 50/50, 50% selling (till I can pay everything with btc)  and 50% saving.I'm not buying anymore, maybe if they would really went down to 2$ or something but I don't think that will happen, not mining anymore, going to pick up working for bitcoins again, imo also the best way to earn your coins. That's why they were made.  Strak plan, btc's lenen als ze net een goede duik genomen hebben.Ga beter ergens euro's lenen aan een bedrag dat je zeker weten kan afbetalen en koop daar de btc's mee. btc's zijn ideaal om goederen en diensten mee te betalen, maar niet om leningen mee af te sluiten, laat staan om mining apparatuur mee te kopen waarmee je vermoed ik hoopt om die lening mee af te betalen. Op die manier staan er nu al leningen open op dit forum die in de 1000'den euro's lopen. I think a restaurant owner should have the right to serve food to whoever he wants, and you call it utter bull and your argument is about something that actually has nothing to do with it. If it is a Jew or not doesn't actually matter in this case, or you want to force only Jewish restaurant owners to serve everybody?A guy working hard in his own restaurant, yeah that are the jews you gotta fight, this guy has nothing to do with the jews that had and have the most power in the whole world. Je hebt dus het geld om de bitcoins te kopen?En je vraagt om ze te lenen  Ik wist trouwens niet dat we tegenwoordig aan een admin toestemming moesten vragen om bitcoins te kopen.   *walks in**looks around* *scratches his balls**walks out* A foundation that sets a price and chooses who gets some free coins.Great idea, we take a central authority, let them make the price fixed and we send coins to random people on facebook (can I be in the foundation? I have a few nice people in my friendlist), let's call it Euro Coin or maybe Dollar Coin.  True, for some the following may be shocking, but even I have my flaws. I reach near perfection, but there are always those tiny little things.  That said, no one should be forced to do anything, it's the Jewish guy his restaurant, he choses who he's serving and who not. 
Something I made:If you want the ai files I can send them to you.You can use it, change it, mint it or do whatever you want with it. ok let's assume this story is real.You were +-20 when you went high to work? Got busted and they fired you.And now you are 21 and have 1oz gold and 6000$.If people want to donate money for that, can those people donate to me too, when I was 21 I had less than him and I was high all the time between my 16 and 21, even when I had a student job in vacation I smoked something before work and in my breaks (sometimes with co-workers). Never realized how horrible I had it a few years ago, I thought I had a pretty fun and normal youth but after reading this story it was actually hell. Lots of my friends had the same shocking experiences, guess I better tell them to also open a topic.Your turning 22, you'll find another job, it's not like you got to tell on a job interview you got fired because you came high at work, just give them another reason. And else go work freelance for bitcoins. Most people aren't millionaires at the age you are. So why the fuck is this worth a donation, you tell this story like your life ended, while it is something lot's of people went through besides the bitcoin part. My niece had a car accident at +-180km/h when she was just turned 18, survived it but couldn't walk anymore and her brains only functioned for 50% anymore, killed herself a few years later...and you whine because you lost your job in a country that has perfectly good solutions for that and you are not rich at least you still have a future, she probably would have gladly traded places with you.now assume this is a scam.This really is the saddest you could come up with?No baby with a terminal disease, no heroine, prostitute yourself to earn your bitcoins back,...weak Zelf heb ik hier geen interesse in nee, Engels of Nederlandstalig, ik zie er mij niet zo snel gebruik van maken.Zie wel het voordeel van deze diensten in, zie mijn ouders bv al niet met wallet bestanden in de weer, laat staan dat ze deze kunnen beveiligen.Voor mensen als hun is zo'n dienst dan weer ideaal en dan zou ik wel eerder een account voor hun maken bij een Nederlandse dienst waarvan de gegevens bekend zijn ja. Ideaal zou zijn als ze dan ook gelijk via die site hun bitcointegoed kunnen aanvullen met hun bankkaart, vermoed dat dit de opzet wel zal zijn van bitonic.nl.  The face value seems to me hard to choose.If its $7000+ for 1000 coins, you can't take the value too low, because if you make a 1ltc coin and people need to pay 4ltc for it they will be less inclined to buy them than if it's a 25ltc coin they pay 28ltc for. But too high and you get the trust issues.  I understand why you don't want to take someone else his design  Seems the only correct advice someone can give  I would be more offended if he would have said "sell everything you have, borrow as much as you can and put it all in Bitcoin  " +1If it's to hard to understand the gold-silver comparison, I don't think this person would understand btc and buy them. The part that more cryptocurrencies exist just like metals is probably the easiest part to understand.  Het zijn geen aandelen en zal net zo behandeld worden als elk ander iets wat je verkoopt.En dan is het:Wat ik daaruit kan opmaken is, maandelijks een 1000euro aan bitcoins verkopen en laten uitbetalen is een slecht idee. In 1x 12000euro laten uitbetalen stelt niemand zich vragen bij en moet je ook niet aangeven. True, but a country with a good economy makes the quality of your life much better. If you need to work 14 hours a day so you can have just enough food, I don't think you will love it. So yes I prefer a country with a healthy economy to live in. Even if I would have enough money, I would not want to live in a country knowing most of the other people have it bad there. Europe has lot's of differences between the country's so I think some places in the usa are better and some are better in Europe.But I don't think I will ever move to the USA, me and my wife probably move to Norway in the near future, we totally felt in love with this country, the people are really nice, low crime rate, good economy and it's so beautiful, good thing is that it's Europe but doesn't belong to the EU.We now live in Belgium, the only thing I can say that is good is the beer and food, taxes are 60% of your wage and we have taxes for things you can't imagine and you get absolutely nothing in return. Everything is grey, boring and dirty, since we have the Euro it actually was one big ride downwards. My parents had it good here, but I really can't see a future for myself here.Lived a while in The Netherlands too, but can't say it is better or worse, actually I didn't noticed much difference besides the roads that are way better, taxes are lower but housing and healthcare is way more, and I can't say the future looks bright for it either.   Definitely the ammo, but I guess it depends on where you live.  lol, seems like some of them never saw boobs  Why would they lie about having 1/10th of the total bitcoins in circulation, I can't imagine a Nigerian would scam you, go for it  While you are there, could you pick up a inheritance for me? They mailed me, some dude wants to give it to me. ok these are cool and visualize a cryptocurrency pretty good, but don't know if it will scale well to a normal coin size and can be made with that amount of detail.Maybe one thing that the coin also should have in my opinion, the year it was minted.They were all different from the beginning  But he started with only 2, the 1 and 25, I think this is the best way to go, one small and one bigger. And when you earned enough on those, you can start with more. Better 2  or even 1 really good coins than 5 meh coins.I like the name by the way   Zit ook gewoon op een 650mh/s, mss iets hoger omdat deze volgens mij ook wel hoger geklokt is, maar ga uit van 650-700. So the plan is to sell your coins right before you destroy ltc?great business plan, if a lot of people join you, you will get less than if you would just sold them without the 51% attack because everybody than sells them at the same moment. Afterwards you buy the then worthless coins back which will stay worthless, seems a way better plan than hold your coins and focus your energy on something that makes them more valuable.And why would a botnet owner cooperate with you if he can make more money with mining and selling the coins. Your plan still needs a little bit rethinking.  +1I still remember solo mining on my old laptop cpu, costed me +-1 day to generate 50btc.Botnets came pretty fast, btc survived pretty good. People seem to forget that litecoin actually travels the same path as bitcoin, first only cpu, than the gpu came (and now for btc ASICs). If you call it a flaw in litecoin it can't be mined on ASICs and botnets are profitable, than bitcoin was flawed too. Better with the numbers, only the 100, 500 and 1000 need more whitespace. Great, definitely going to buy them (I'm a sucker for these physical crypto coins  ) Your last design is the best, and I think it will be nice in real form, if possible also do the 1's and 0's on the side like in that 3D model.Only the typography could be a little bit better in my opinion . I don't like the proportions of the letters, seems like they are squeezed together and the alignment isn't perfect. But I suppose because it are only guidelines the designer working on the 3d will see this too.For the value, I think the safest is to start with a plated one with not to many coins loaded. I don't have a problem to trust you right away with a small amount. But immediately buy for example a 1oz silver one with 1000ltc loaded on it seems a little bit too much and I think most people will. So start small like casascius did, and start to think about silver ones afterwards when they are a strong and trusted brand....ow and don't forget to make a typo in the first batch, lol   If you wipe everything and reinstall with a new wallet does it run?Did you also tried to install it somewhere else than on this usb stick?seems like the same problem as here, only in this topic it is with bitcoin: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=89639.0I don't think your litecoins are lost, I just would try it on a different disc, other os, ... rNqMioY4HGtd3LBZ6igY5P4zW8xC294DXK Officiële legale content aan een goedkope prijs, met hetzelfde gemak als torrents, geen beperkingen en op releasedatum, jaAangezien het eerste redelijk lastig word om voor elkaar te krijgen vrees ik dat het nee word, zie niet direct een voordeel tov torrents voor mijzelf.
Geen motor, wel iets wat ik nog altijd een keer wil.Wel een fiets, ik doe namelijk aan bikejoring, meer om mijn hond (Siberische Husky) in beweging te houden dan mijzelf, ik heb vooral er plezier in dat hij er plezier in heeft. Zo gewoon pak ik voor alles de auto, al moet ik 500m verder in de straat zijn ondanks dat ik er dan weer geen probleem mee heb om 2u met de hond te wandelen of fietsen en dit dagelijks.  Gedeeltelijk eens dus met de stelling "fietsen blijft leuk". Akkoord maar je moet er wel een hond voorhangen    Eigenlijk beantwoord je dit al zelf met je laatste zin, Euro's en bitcoins staan los van elkaar, als de dollar instort veranderd dit ook niet direct iets aan jouw loon en hoeveel jij voor je brood in de winkel gaat betalen. De echte waarde is uiteindelijk wat je met jouw bitcoin kan kopen. Voor hoeveel is iemand bereid iets te verkopen omdat hij weet dat hij met zoveel BTC iets vergelijkbaars kan kopen. Als de euro 0,0 waarde heeft zal niemand nog bitcoins gaan ruilen naar euro's uiteraard maar gewoon zijn dingen gelijk in bitcoins kopen of ze ruilen tegen whatever dan gebruikt gaat worden om goederen en diensten te betalen. Nu koppel je de waarde van een btc aan euro's omdat we meeste dingen uitbetaald krijgen in euro's en meeste dingen kopen in euro's. Mocht je jouw loon uitbetaaald krijgen in bitcoins zou je nu zoiets hebben van "zo die euro is in waarde aan het zakken" I don't think anyone selling bitcoins for paypal will pay a premium, normally it is the other way around.I'm happy if someone takes my pp money at 85% btc rate, so I don't think you will have many customers  Thanks I'll give it a try   I know it is a risk for the person that will sell me bitcoins for paypal, but I sometimes have very small amounts on Paypal that I would prefer to transfer to bitcoins. I can only give you my word that I'm trustworthy and that I'm not going to jeopardize my account here for such small amounts of pp money.pp amount I have at the moment I want to transfer from pp to btc:19.99 euroDon't need to be transfered all in onces and I'll update this topic when I have new pp money needing to be exchanged for btc. Same problem here.  [17-Apr-2012 02:50:02] PHP Warning:  array_search() [<a href='function.array-search'>function.array-search</a>]: Wrong datatype for second argument in domains/majoni-bijoux.nl/public_html/includes/modules/payment/bitpay.php on line 137[17-Apr-2012 02:50:02] PHP Fatal error:  Call to undefined function  http_redirect() in /domains/majoni-bijoux.nl/public_html/includes/modules/payment/bitpay.php on line 146 And that's the reason javascript miners for btc are plain stupid, so hosting websites and put a javascript miner on them will never be enough to cover the costs.A javascriptminer for litecoin would probably be a whole different story. lol, I get something I made years ago   Should have read this first, tried to sell 20 btc to test this out, really had no clue how I could get a balance of -$2.49857 and still had 20btc, while I sold 20 btc. lol  Got the 1 $ credited to my account tho signed up.Username: Skull88 And I think your allowance will drop a little bit when they get their electricity bill   US Dollar to Euro currency (SEPA zone)Why don't use this option?   deal, you can have all my coins right away for $30 each  I made the shiny one, but the B from Edgeworth is far superior, he actually thought about it, I just recreated the B from a design from Satoshi: https://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=64.0 and spended more time on the overall coin and just made sure the B was looking good. I'll try to find some time to make the shiny coin with the B from Edgeworth, gives a better view, but thrust me, the B he made is perfect. Only problem with the B with double slashes, it looks splendid as a logo, but for typographic use it has one line to much, that's why you also see the dollar symbol with 2 lines when it is a big logo but with one line in fonts: $. And if you lose one line in the double lined B you'll get: ฿.  Not only pc's, my first cell phone could send sms and I could call someone, had storage space for 10 sms's and 20 numbers and costed as much as the Android phone I have now, which has a 1GHZ dual core processor, 512MB dual channel memory, 8GB internal memory and expandable with a microsd, 3D camera which shoots 720p 3d movies or 1080p 2d movies, I can plug it on my tv with a hdmi cable, have a shitload of apps I can download, check my mails, 3d screen,etc ...ow and I can still call and text someone. Price is still the same so I get a lot more for the same price, even if I would take deflation in the equation, I still get more phone for the same money these days. Same with cars, tv's, printers,...Lot's of things get cheaper or at least you get more for the same amount, so with or without bitcoin, we probably won't reminiscing how cheap everything was when we are old, at least not with electronics or things that are packed with electronics.  Mt Gox is 2% fee, dus voor 10 btc aan de huidige koers van 13$ is dat dus maar 2,6$. Ik weet niet hoe je aan die 40$ komt?   And they said it was stupid to just accept everybody  added you and shared the link with my 814 friends   Because we use a decimal to separate sequences of three digit to make them better readable.And we don't use a comma for that because the decimal was already in use for making roman numerals better readable, so when we switched to Arabic numerals the most logic thing to make them better readable was doing the same like with the roman numerals, put a decimal between them. And if the decimal is already in use to make your numbers better readable, than you use a comma. ontopic: ฿, because the B symbol with 2 vertical lines is already adopted by the biggest part of the community as the bitcoin symbol. For fonts 2 vertical lines makes it unreadable, so 1 line is the way to go. And yes it is already used for thai baht, just like the $ sign is also used for more than one currency. Most people here are programmers, not designers, just give it a shot. And if you are good it doesn't even matter how much designers allready are on the forum.  http://www.iwantfreebitcoins.com/54you can start filling in surveys, lol  
They look bigger than what I had in mind, color looks nicer on these photos Would be nice to have these also in silver and gold    Some people here really need to get laid soon or just come out of the closet and admit they are gay. wow, you're a real gentlemen  She doesn't really look like she should lose some weight, and if she did this comment is just stupid, enough anorexia patients in the world, you don't have to make 1 more. nice tattoo, but out of curiousuty, what whas the bounty for this one? //edit: never mind that last question, saw the post above me Ordered 2 of them, any ETA for international shippings (Europe)?   And how much do you think he needs to mine to pay off that solar panels  Thought about solar panels too (not particularly for mining, just for the house), but if I count everything, the panels and the maintenance. I actually get a lot of years electricity for that and when they are paid off I probably almost need to replace them.I wait a little longer before getting solar panels   I would put a bitcoin tattoo on my upper left arm too, but probably costs me more to get it than the 10btc I get   Someone protests against war, and the next day he sees they used his taxmoney to buy one big shiny tank.   Actually, no we don't have city council meetings or some equivalent over here  And the choice if your money goes to believe or not is actually something a lot of people want here and is only a matter of time before we will get that 1 choice on our taxform. I don't see why more options would form a problem, and I think you are smart enough to understand that waterparks don't need to be on the list of choices. But hey on the other hand, a country that looks like one big giant waterpark should drive lots of tourists bringing in lots of money don't you think   No, I still believe in choices and I think most people are smart enough to make the right decision if you give them the right choices or at least the majority of people. Most people in the world also think that a country without a government for 1 year and 1 month would fall into total anarchy, plundering, murdering, raping,a total financial crisis, etc *looks through the window* yep, my car is still there with the gps and radio still in it and it still has 4 rims to stand on. Everything just goes like it always did, economical it doesn't really hurt us, roads are as bad as they used to be and crimes are the same like they always where and everybody just does his job like he always did. Some foreign investors are a little bit worried but looks like they are not that worried to not invest or run away like hell. So yes I have enough faith in the people here that they also can make the right choices, could it work everywhere and immediately? No, Rome wasn't build in a day and a taxsystem like this needs to be worked out step by step. People got to get used to it, and one choice at a time.And yes I am a dreamer, and some things I think may seem totally irrational, but without dreamers a lot of good inventions/ideas wouldn't exist. ok I'm not totally behind Corner his idea to privately finance everything, would be a little bit a big hassle, if everybody needs to maintain his own little piece of road before his house and I think it would be nice to get it in concrete and my neigbour thinks dirt is much better and his neighbour would like to use bricks, nah nice roads we would have. Taxes are necessary, but I should have the choice where my money goes to, at this point my money goes to things like various beliefs I don't support, people who don't want to work (I don't care to give you like 3 months wage if you are unemployed but don't tell me you can't find a job within 15years), etc. and the things I find important like science and good roads, just don't get enough funds. So yeah at the moment I drive over the border Holland-Belgium and remember the roads I've driven and the thing my car bumps over at that moment I got a little bit the feeling I was robbed. I give away 50% of my wage for good roads and what do I get? An unemployed driving the same car as me flashing his lights because he got to be in time at the moskee, church,... whatever meetingplace comes into your mind to tell each other fairytales. No, at the moment I fill in my tax form I want to choose where the money will be used for. Everybody can just fill in where the money goes to and those funds should be used for what you filled in. If you want to give it to the firedepartment so it will be, if I want to give it to medical healthcare so it will be, that's in my opinion the only way you can get a fair taxsystem.You could even go further and let the people vote on witch company can do the job, witch building constructor to choose, witch hospitals, witch firedepartments, and so on But some people saying, here with your money and we will take care of it, is not the way to do it imho. Just sell some to pay the usual bills, buy whatever you can with bitcoins and save the rest.Actually I wouldn't think twice if my boss would give me the choice, euro's or bitcoins. Because they get something free and he makes clear it is worth some money.  I like the idea.  Change your passwords, backup your files, do a format and reinstall everything.You will think twice in the future before opening an attachment. I don't have a tradehill account and the spamming doesn't help convincing me to take one. Here you go: http://payb.tc/skull88nice service  What's the use of deleting all the links, at least people now know there is a database with there email and pass leaked.Deleting the link doesn't delete it from the internet and the HDD's of people who downloaded it.If you would find a way to do that, you'll be filthy rich, record company's would give you millions. Still convinced it will be around 17.50 after 2 hours.It will be no freefall and neither it will be skyrocketing after 2 hours. yes, a new small trail to find our epic god, we've got his mail address  ...if that is the real Satoshi, I would think he would be a much earlier user of mtgox. Seriously? People believe it is not spam if they say you can remove the ref code.50% of the spamposts on forums contain that sentence, the other 50% camouflages the ref url with url of the original siteThis is clearly spam not an info mail, the info mail I've allready got from MtGox themselves before I got 8 mails from our nice btc supporter.  17.50, you can send me those 10$ in bitcoins.  I'm pretty sure I'm right with this guess. It's a nice little test, and if it doesn't kill btc it will only make it stronger and maybe a good decentralized trading platform can emerge of it, who will tell. We knew the weakest spot in the whole system and think most people knew this could happen so it won't be that big of a deal for bitcoins in the longer run, maybe shorttime we will see a dip. 
There are people here registered far behind me with a much larger postcount, doesn't mean a thing just that some people don't post much in here.I'm number 118, thought I would be higher in number on the list (at least 4 digits), no clue however when I exactly registered at Mt Gox.A year ago I guess.Have fun with my pass, I only use it on MtGox which will be changed when it's back online I'ts on rapidshare  I got the email 5 times, this is stupid and I hope they just delete this guy his account.   I'm not that stupid to use something like "password" (really it is a few times in that file) and luckily the password I used on mtgox is a unique pass not to simple but easy enough for me to remember.I always use unique passes that are harder to crack for things that involve money or other important things and I have a few common passes for not so important things that wouldn't really bother me to much if they got hacked.I know it is far from waterproof my system and I'm interested in using a password manager, the only problem I have with a password manager, how can I than log in to my accounts on other computers? And if your computer is hacked they have all your passwords even the ones for the important sites, while nobody can crack into my head. Or am I missing something and is there a manager that gives me the ease of passwords I can remember so I can log in on different computers and the security that nobody can get my passwords from the manager.  Zoals eerder al gezegt is het een combinatie van dingen + dat het op deze moment nog een relatief kleine groep mensen is die bitcoins gebruikt. 1 persoon kan met een "klein" bedrag de bitcoins al enkele euro's hoger brengen.  Kprobeer mij nu wel een voorstelling te maken hoe een gepolijste bitcoin eruit ziet, lol  Speculeren in de zin van kopen als ze laag staan en verkopen als ze hoog staan en terug kopen als ze laag staan is heel winstvol in theorie en als je nu terug kijkt op de grafiek is het inderdaad "had ik maar verkocht aan 30$ en nu terug gekocht. Helaas kan je nooit met 100% zekerheid zeggen wat ze gaan doen en is het dus puur gokken, als je nu coins verkoopt aan 17$ omdat je er vol van overtuigt bent dat ze nog wel een stukje gaan zakken en je er dus meer aan een lagere prijs kan gaan kopen en opeens komt er het nieuws van 1 of ander groot bedrijf wat beslist bitcoins te accepteren waardoor ere een run op bitcoins komt waardoor de prijs in 1 stuk naar de 100$ gaat mag jij mij eens exact uitleggen hoe je daar een mooie winst mee gemaakt hebt. Had je ze dan maar mooi gepolijst in de kast laten staan. Nu heb ik zelf wel een paar coins op deze manier verdient maar om het nu echt aan te gaan raden, neen. Genoeg posts op het forum van mensen die zich hieraan verbrand hebben en uiteindelijk terug ingekocht hebben aan een hogere prijs dan ze verkocht hadden. Heb zelf ook aan 20$ verkocht omdat ik dacht dit is erover nu gaan ze omlaag, toen gingen ze naar 30$, gelukkig niet terug gekocht en nu aan 17 terug gekocht. Dit doe ik echter met een klein beetje geld/coins. Maar uiteindelijk blijf ik er bij, minen blijft het veiligst, de aparatuur kan je uiteindelijk voor perfect andere dingen gebruiken als het niet meer rendabel is om te minen.En we vergeten de meest veilige nog, verkoop dingen voor bitcoins, piza's zijn wel redelijk rendabel   Quit mining because it's not profitable enough but use the equipment for folding@home, wtf. And how is that less unprofitable, burning the electricity for bitcoins that are more worth than the elecrtricity (even with the dificulty jump) or burning the electricity for absolutly nothing.  But I'm not going to stop you guys, how more people stop mining the better it is for me, lol@op: A pretty lame way to screw every honest person who wants to return something. If lots of people do this for this kind of reasons they will verry quickly change there returning policy. Is maar hoe je het bekijkt, als je nu voor 2000euro bitcoins koopt en bitcoins worden volledig waardeloos, wat ik niet hoop maar daar moet je in deze beta fase wel rekening mee houden dan hou je op het einde van de rit niets over en ben je 2000euro kwijt. Koop je voor die 2000euro miningaparatuur dan hou je op het einde van de rit heel mooie hardware over als btc faalt.Minen is wat dat betreft dus een stuk veiliger, ik heb wel bitcoins gekocht toen ze nog geen bal waard waren maar hoe ze nu op en neer schommelen en met de hoge prijs per coin pas ik hiervoor. Met een gedeelte van mijn bitcoins heb ik dus een goede pc gekocht met minen in het achterhoofd en een gedeelte word gebruikt voor een project waar bitcoins als betalingseenheid gebruikt gaat worden maar daarnaast ook prima verder zou kunnen bestaan zonder bitcoins. Daarnaast heb ik nog een gedeelte bitcoins als spaarboekje/investering en een gedeelte is gewoon om effectief te gebruiken als betaalmiddel. Dat laatste gedeelte is overigen heel belangrijk, als we bitcoins enkel gebruiken als investering om er goed mee te verdienen word het zowiezo een flop dus gebruik aub ook een gedeelte om echte te spenderen.Doe het alleen beetje wijs, 600btc vergokken en mensen 50btc geven omdat ze wel een mooie post maken is een jaar later toch een beetje zuur.  These peonple probably want to scare as much people to sell now, so the price drops and they can buy in cheap. Can't think of any other reason why to do it else   Not if bitcoins keep increasing in value, earning 10 bitcoins a day that is worth 25$ is the same as if you earn 1 bitcoin at 250$/btc. I have the same, slept 2houres this night so will be another zombieday at work. And I know when I come home and when every normal person his eyes would fall down when it's evening I get more and more awake.Something that can help changing that is discipline, get every night at the same time to bed and out of your bed, try not to use your computer, console or tv 1 hour before you go to bed and read a good book or get outside, do something relaxing not behind a screen. Helps for me but I never have the discipline to do this for a long period   Yup nog andere Belgen hier.  Ik zit trouwens op 837.80 MH/s met een HD 5970, Memory op 305Mhz, geeft mij de meeste hashes en een mooie temperatuur van 63-65 graden.Als iemand nog extra tips heeft om aan te passen, zijn altijd welkom. Ben trouwens ook nog aan het uitkijken voor ergens een tweedehands HD 5970 extra op de kop te tikken, dus als iemand eentje in de aanbieding heeft ook altijd welkom.  This topic doesn't really belongs in the other languages forum, but now you mention it, it is actually pretty funny, lol   The funny thing is, when I started with bitcoin people already complained about early adopters I didn't complain and just bought them when they where between 0,07 and 0,4.And in the whole period people kept on complaining about early investors, guess what, bitcoins is still very young and in it's nerdy start-up if you buy now you take the same risk as the earliest investors. When I bought coins at 0,4 I never thought they would hit the 9$ this year, I calculated in that they could easily go back to the 0,01 they came from (hell don't you think I just would get a loan to buy a lot of bitcoins if I knew back than what I know now). So if you buy them now for under the 10$, chances your coins will be much more worth within the year are just as high as they where back than. And if bitcoins fails it doesn't matter if you have 1000 worthless coins or only 100 coins, if it doesn't fail you look at profit. Profit you spend back in the bitcoin community I hope.And for all the complainers, not all early adopters are millionaires now, most of us spended a lot of coins so we are at this point now, if nobody would spended a lot of our cheap buyed coins we wouldn't be were we are today. If you want bitcoins to succeed just save some, spend some. And stop complaining, we didn't start using bitcoins to get rich quick, but because we believed in bitcoins so stop the whole jealous you are all a bunch of ponzi like scammers. Yeah I still remember when I was new, I lost 500btc on a roulette game.Looking at it almost a year later, not my best bet.   tnx for the 2 people that used the first 2 codes and didn't mentioned it here.   You didn't allready buy half the coins in circulation and gave them away? pfff you racist pig.  Seriously, everybody has just as much opportunities to earn bitcoins with working for them or mining them as anyone else. It's a currency, what do you expect from it? Solving every problem in the whole wide world? It can be a start and solve many things but I don't think promoting ethnic diversity is on the list. 2-3 days   vague questions and not the best test imho I encrypt the backup with a very long password with the help of Truecript, 1 copy on Wuala, 1 on my hdd, 1 on an usb stick and one on an external hdd.Better save than sorry, and I would get an hart attack if I lose my wallet with the current rates.  Is there actually any proof he is really dead?I mean after almost 10years they finally found him, and what do they do, shoot him dead and than decide to throw him immediately in sea. And we get an old photoshopped picture of him and a nice story how they killed him. Yeah right...  I hope it is true, but at this moment I'm not that sure of it.
I voted yes, because what is illegal, wich laws to follow, we are an international community???If the server is in a place where it is legal, I say yes, but with a disclaimer that warns people it may not be legal in their country and they should look that up first before ordering from/visit those links. Maybe he hit the Jackpot?  @Steve: Just ignore them or take another account, actually it is pretty stupid to think that someone is a scammer just because his name has some resemblances with a previous scammer, while his actions show something totally different. Chances are much higher that the scammer comes back with a totally diferent name (unless he is really really really stupid). http://www.prestashop.comand here is a module (didn't test it yet): http://www.bposhaughnessy.com/electronics/?p=43 Yeah, great idea, than I can spend my days playing Playstation, travelling and pick up some nice free cars like an Audi R8 or Lamborghini Murcielago and have lots of fun with them.I totally support these guys, the only small little thingy, where to find suckers who make me my games, bring my ass to whatever place I want to go and build me those exotic sportcars.   wtf?!? $325,000  I'm moving   http://witcoin.com/witizens/297 Helaas geld mijn beltegoed wat ik krijg bij mijn abo enkel voor gewone gesprekken en smsén, shortcodes worden apart aangerekend  Krijg gelukkig wel 25% korting van mijn werkgever, maar dan zijn het helaas nog dure bitcoins.   Had hier schijnbaar overheen gekeken  Maar heb het even getest en werkt overigens perfect, sms verstuurd, kreeg gelijk sms terug dat de transactie gebeurt was en toen ik keek gaf bitcoin inderdaad al een transactie weer.   Met die code krijgt purplezky de bitcoins Ik vermoed dat hij gewoon de coins zelf handmatig doorstuurd.Is een leuk idee, alleen snap ik de get en donate code niet zo goed, uiteindelijk komt het op hetzelfde neer of je nu get of donate gebruikt. :/En hoe kan je naar jezelf sturen? Hiervoor zou nog een simpel registratieformulier moeten komen, je registreerd je met je naam en btc adres, daarna krijg je de keuze wat je naar waar dient te sturen om een x aantal bitcoins te krijgen. 842012 You are now waiting hmmm... 2 days?    2 bad this is at work @home: 1.4 million for feeding 6 Koala's?What do they give those poor animals to eat? They eat eucalyptus leaves, what plants do they give them?  But those koalas make more people go to the Osaka zoo, so more people coming to the zoo, more money they earn, more people they need to work there, less people without a job.And more people coming to the zoo of Osaka is also good for the local economy, and a better local economy means, more local jobs, means even more people with a job.And more people with a job, means less homeless people. Wasn't something like this planned to be in the official bitcoin client?I thought Satoshi already had it about something like this. At work Windows Vista  (not my choice, don't shoot me).At home, mostly Ubuntu, before I switched to ubuntu it was mainly Opensuse.And puppy linux for fun.Only for graphic work I switch to Windows 7, I would want a Mac for that, but they are to expensive imo.So voted for GNU/Linux  (Wished that all os market share stats looked like this poll) Maybe something like the Zynga games could do the trick, or other big online games accepting them to buy in-game currencies.  lol   At least he's promoting bitcoin on his blog, so if he has a lot of readers it's a win-win situation   Like I got most of my coins, buying them? You found the clue, congrats  If you ask me, they will never open the box.I was always suspicious about paybox, but I always logged in, just in case...Till the new paybox mail I got in my mailbox today, seriously, they mean this?They search 10.000 people to market paybox (ok I understand this), and for joining their army you got to follow a course (ok, I understand) and that course is tadadada... http://www.maverickmoneymakers.com/?hop=payboxme Sure, can be me, but my spidey sense tells me this is bullcrap.And I can't believe a serious company that wants to compete with paypal wants to be linked to the millioned pyramid-scheme page (only missing some photo's from people who followed the course and telling you how happy and rich they are now with 10 minutes work a day).So if someone wants some cheap pb$'s, make your move, I sell them cheap, can be the deal of your life, but don't complain I didn't warn you  
Davux, did you get some candidates to trade PB$ for bitcoins?I have 2000PB$ for sale.   Works flawless on Ubuntu 10.10 i386 here. I immediately got to think about this topic: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=256.0Than was something like this still SF, now it's possible   Would be nice a ps3 miner, fatty here is running most of the time while actually doing nothing. You don't have to apologize, I'm glad you're still busy with it and it's better to wait for a good secure mod than have an instant buggy mod. Take your time and let us know when it's done, I've put some coins aside for this one.   wow, this is amazing   ok, you can go wash your mouth now. But I guess in the future storing Bitcoins on your own computer will be more something for people like us, but not for the average user. Those people will just use a service like mybitcoin, who makes sure there bitcoins are save. They probably will never download the bitcoin program, or at leat not one that saves your wallet on the computer.   Depends on your defenition of normal, as long as you had fun, who cares At least you don't have a headache like me and blown away a lot of money in the sky Happy New Year people!!!!I wish you all a verry good health and lots of bitcoins. ok, tnx for the reply's.I'm always a little bit suspicious when it comes to handing over a copy of my id.But everything went fine.   I did some research and they seemed fine, so I ordered some LRUSD with them and paid the ordered amount.Now I've got an email from them with the following:"Barclays bank have informed us that your payment for the order has been received, however, as part of their KYC complaiance requirements, they have requested us to provide them with the following documentation from you.- A clear scan of your National ID document, Driver's License, Passport, or any other government issued Identification document."It can be perfectly fine, but still I'm a little bit suspicious to send my id, and the story of the bank holding a payment till they get the id of the person who paid it just sounds weird.    We have at the moment bitcoin exchanges based in the Us, in Europe and in Russia, and more will probably follow.How the hell they gonna make it illegal worldwide so all those exchanges can be banned? If I lost my password for this forum, guess how I get a new password.Yes, by mail. So if I want to screw a boardadmin, I just request 1000 times a day a new password.Or I ask an email for every post done in a topic, nice if 100 people do that and get 500 mails a day.See how long it takes before the board is bankrupt. So if I want to send a newsletter to 2000 members of my site it will cost me 20euro?Not to mention all the activation mails, thank mails for registration and users lost their password.  I'm totally against it, email is free and should stay that way.If people don't want spam, use a spamfilter. It's something like bitcoin indeed, just can't really find how the credits go into the systeem.Can't find anything about generating or something similar.Last changes are from 2004, so I guess this project is pretty dead.edit:From the manual, an example how it works:This Geek Credit was created by alice who paid to bobby few Geek Credits including this one. Later bobby paid to catty using this Geek Credit. If later catty will pay it to alice, this credit will be redeemed (destroyed).If I'm correct it is more a lets system.When I was reading the faq that comes with the source it was like I was reading a faq for Bitcoins.Allready was thinking, wtf this is from 2004? But seems like there are some things very different. If rumors are correct they are busy with a more mt gox/bitcoin-central style trading website.One thing is clear, it are not problems with bank regulations  Ziet er goed uit, netjes overzichtelijk en duidelijk Heb even een 50coins verstuurd naar mijn account om wat te testen, kzie duidelijk dat het aan het confirmen is.Als ik mijn LRUSD binnen heb kan ik mijn account wat meer spekken, op die manier was het nog een nuttige investering die LRUSD's.  Als ik trouwens naar trading - order book ga lijk ik wel telkens uit te loggen.Is wel niet zo, want als ik daarna gewoon in help iets aanklik ben ik nog steeds ingelogt.Klein opmaakdingetje dus, voor de rest nog niets tegengekomen op de nog niet werkende statistieken na. Heb ik gisteren uiteindelijk dan maar LRUSD besteld en betaald, staat er nu doodleuk op mtgox :If you have a European bank account you can send a direct deposit to our account.We are handling this manually now so the fee is 2%Send us an email for details.Kon dit nu geen dagje eerder. Toch maar mailtje gestuurd of dit ook naar een europese bank is, zoja bestel ik er denk ik nog maar wat, wat extra coins zijn nooit weg natuurlijk @davout: Ik wil gerust wat testen. edit: zie net dit topic, mtgox heeft dus een europese bankaccount: http://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2515.0 Selling Bitcoin is like selling any other product, and good selling doesn't mean you actually selling the product, no you fulfill a need. I get a commission on every sale a make, a lot of colleagues of me don't bother to try selling something. Because we or not a salesdepartment but customer care, so we don't need to sell to get a good paycheck. Still I discovered that selling a lot is pretty lucrative, so I sell the most of the whole department. I even sold digital tv to a blind person, did I do that by summing up ALL the positive aspects of digital tv like better image quality. No, off course not that would be plain stupid and would get me to argument things that I could not argument against. I just used one thing and that is the better sound quality and took that to sell the digital tv. Customer happy because she liked to listen to the tv, me happy because I got an extra sale.Now how to use this for selling bitcoins, easy.First of all, what may seem a positive aspect of bitcoin to you, may be a negative aspect for the person you are talking to, so why mention it in te first place. Maybe there is 1 negative thing with bitcoin for a person but 10 things that are so great for that person. If you start talking about bitcoin and summing al things up that look great for you, only the 1 negative thing will stick in the head of that person and while you summing up the 10 other things that would convince that person for using bitcoin. He is already thinking on argumentation for that 1 negative thing. And he simply won't hear those positive things.So don't start by talking about bitcoins, instead let the person talk about what he uses now to pay for stuff. And then ask him what he likes about what he uses now, he will sum up a few things and you keep those things in mind. And specifically the things that are also applicable to bitcoins. Than ask him what he doesn't like about what he uses now, you probably get some things. Keep those in mind and especially those where bitcoin solves that problem.Than you gonna talk about what you use, bitcoin. You than sum up why you use bitcoin. Offcourse you say al the positive things the person mentioned with the payment method he uses and on top of that you mention it also solves the problems the person has with his payment method he uses now.You will get some arguments maybe, but much lesser and much easier to counter.small example:You: I took a look at your webshop yesterday, nice shop. How do I pay when I order something?other: Ow you can pay with PaypallYou: Ow, you like Paypall?other: Yeah it's fast and easy. I implemented it in my shop, when someone pays me, I log in to Paypall and see the payment.You: Is there nothing you don't like with Paypall?other: Yeah, I hate it I got scammed a few times by people who payed and than did a charcheback after I've sended the items, and the fees are huge. You: I don't understand why you are not using bitcoin?other: how you mean?You: Yeah, from what I understand, you like it that you can implement paypall in your website and it is fast and easy. With mybitcoin you can do the same with bitcoins. And the most important thing, people can't take there money back after payment and they don't have to pay a fee. If I were you, I would take a look at it.Off course a very small example, in a real conversation it will be all a little bit longer but I hope you get the idea. Do you think this person wants to hear a story about the central banks and the goverment printing money and stuff? Probably not. And if you would have said it is anonymous and this would be a trigger for this person to think of money laundering, you could have ended with a unnecessary hard to tackle discussion. I would donate some coins for this module  lol, I work at an internet/software helpdesk, yes for some people it can be that hard  I mean a few examples:- My computer is broken, I hear sound when I put him on, but I only get a black screen* Do you see a button on your monitor with a circular symbol with a vertical line thru? - yes * Can you push on it?- Whoohoo you fixed my computerOr:- The internet is broken, It is not there anymore.* What you mean? Do you get an error message or something when you try to go on the Internet?- No, I can't even try to acces it anymore, the blue E icon is disappeared. I only see My documents, bin, My Computer, but no blue E. Can you send a technician?Or:- I got a login and password from the guy who installed our internet, but I can't login.* And where do you try to login? Your email or account page?- No the email and account page works to login but everywhere else it doesn't* How you mean, everywhere else?- Like I said it, everywhere else, for example: -whole bunch of sites-* Heh that login is only for your email and account, we don't own all the sites on the internet, you got to register on those sites first.Or I can login to customers there computer to clean up there mess, the only thing they got to do is surf to a site, fill in a code, click run program and click accept. Costs me sometimes 30minutes to get them throe these steps, some people open there browser, get google as startpage and fill in everything on google. Explaining to them where to fill in the url of a site is for them some kind of weird quantum theory.I can go on for hours and hours with this kind of story's, but believe me, for some people it is impossible to install a family filter  But off course even for those people it is there responsibility if they don't want their kids to see porn to get a family filter, if they can't do it, than go to someone who can do it. It's just a poor excuse to block certain traffic.Btw my parents didn't knew how computers and internet worked when I was a child and I was 11 or something when I first stumbled on porn. Didn't killed me, didn't traumatise me, I'm a pretty normal person, with a pretty normal sex life, and pretty normal thoughts. And I guess the children now are way more used to see certain things than I was back then.   Ik heb ook geen LREUR, de reden dat ik gewoon mijn btc's wil kopen via bankoverschrijving is omdat het makkelijk is en het mij geen bal kost aan transactiekosten.  Als je dus een website wilt beginnen voeg dan zeker de optie bankoverschrijving toe aangezien dit volgens mij in de meeste banken binnen de EU gratis of heel voordelig is. Weet alleen niet zo goed of je wettelijk gezien je bankrekening hiervoor zou mogen gebruiken aangezien je dan wel eens als moneymule zou kunnen doorgaan om geld wit te wassen.
All I can say is wtf? This cant be real.If you lived in Belgium I would help you out but it is pretty impossible for me to help you from here. Don't they have something like a ocmw in the usa? A place when you are in big financial shit they can help you out? The first months (or till you are back on your feet) your paycheck goes to them but they pay everything for you (electricity, water, phone,tv,internet etc), make sure you have a place to live, make sure you have enough for food and get to work. And is that landlord not bound to any rules so he can't raise the rent and surely can't throw your personall stuff away and steal the thing with high value I surely would sue him for this.   Verkopen niet, ik wil er net kopen, alleen bitcoinexchange ligt er nu al een tijdje uit en bij MTGox blijft het ook maar staan op dat ze hopelijk binnenkort euro bank transfers accepteren.  Als er iemand bitcoins wilt verkopen en BioMike koopt ze niet allemaal op mag men zich dus ook altijd bij mij aanbieden, wil er in eerste instantie voor ongeveer een 250euro. En je kan gewoon een goed bod doen wat je per btc wil, zie ik wel of het een goed bod is of niet.  True, when the site started 10BTC was pretty cheap.  But if you click on Bitwall you find another grid where the pixels only kost BTC0.001, so one block is 0.10btc.   We also don't expect you to run a piece of software: https://www.mybitcoin.combtw my girlfriend needs to run a program to view her bank account, it is an online only bank account and requires you to install a piece of software to log in. So yes, some banks require you to install a piece of software to view you account or make transactions. Not really, because you have the choice, if you don't want to pay for the download, you just have to seed long enough till you got your payment earned back. Some people will not want to seed and only spend money, some people will indeed only seed and earn some money with it. I like your thinking   Ik vrees alleen dat we met iets te weinig gaan zijn die hiervoor gaan doneren dat 3FM serieus gaat overwegen om bitcoins te accepteren. Tzou wel superreclame zijn als ze het wel zouden accepteren.   Got it running, but if you want to attract more people, the process to get it running could be simpler.Especially because this is a good incentive for new users so they get faster new coins, but imho these user will make less effort to get it running. ok, tnx for the update  Is there any news about bitcoinexchange.com?I always buy my coins from them but they are down for a little time now.Anyone knowing what is going on and how long before they will be up and running again?Other easy ways of buying bitcoins with euro bank transfer are also always welcome, because at the moment I can't buy any coins.   listening to the show at the moment, nice job  I'm now listening to your answer to the first question, I think the average joe's head is spinning around, linux? sourceforge? bittorent? etc. to much information, just keep it to bitcoin and keep it simple. But I don't know the targeted audience and I would do this a lot worser, your a good speaker  edit:- if I get to geeky...* yes you areloool  Damned, when I hear you, I realised, it is so hard to explain Bitcoins in "normal human beings" language  Registered and took a look at it, seems like it is a facebook, paypall, ebay all in one. excelent written   Hey witchspace, welkom  This is great, if this thing works it's the best invention after Bitcoin   Nobody can look into the future, spending them al for goods now can save you a lot of money or you can make big profits by keeping them al.If you buy for example a mp3 player now for 200BTC and bitcoins become worthless, you got a free mp3 player.If Bitcoin becomes bigger as paypal and you saved al your coins you are a milionair.Nobody can tell you what to do, but my opinion, spent some, save some. Just like you do with "normal" money. To give you amounts like how much to spent and how much to save, is impossible, I can't look into your wallet.  lol @ this topic  Welcome Bruce  The site works here, I can read everything in English  Btw I have a Euro bank account, can do payments in the euro zone without a fee and I don't have any knowledge of a law here that would prohibite this. So at first sight it would be something interesting to do.But it got a little bit confusing for me when you started with the PGP key and it must be signed by X.509 certificate of my bank or any Cert Authority. Nice to see more graphic designers here.It's not the best, but not that bad.  Nice graphics, I like the style  
Nice idea, I'm bookmarking this topic and hopefully something good comes out of it, looks promising and if shares are sold I'm interested in them. I'm with the guy above me. You'll never get away with this.And if you really want to sell drugs, I would suggest sticking to softdrugs, at least you'll stay out of jail and get away with a small fine or some community services. So redecorate your basement, nice white on the walls, make it cosy with some 600W hps lamps and make sure clean air is flowing in and out, and enjoy some gardening.   Ok maybe it earns less than heroin, you still earn enough with it. Only drawback, you got to live in the right country for growing and your customers got to live in the right country for buying it. Else the whole you won't go to jail story won't work.  I would buy bitcoins for paybox dollars, just not the other way around.   1 day on Mars is 24 hours 39 minutes, so you should have them by now   That's probably the reason, I thought it was 200, but that's for the whole table. Seems it is 50 per spot.Would be better imo that when you put more than 50 on one spot you get a warning like "limit for this spot reached" or something similar.   There is something wrong with the roulette, if you gamble with small amounts there is no problem, but with higher amounts it doesn't take the bet.I recorded what happens with higher amounts, I guess this starts with amounts >50BTCIn the video you see I put 74BTC on black, it gets black, so normally I should end with 148 and not 74BTC  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBvoxm-VRM0 Before the euro came, we paid here in Belgium with Belgium Francs, everybody wrote it down with fr or Bfr instead of BEF.Did anyone complain, nodid everybody know what it meant, yes.And the XBC is taken, so actually there is no much choice if you still want to have something not to weird like XBI.So I would say, just use the BTC, if that agency doesn't want to make an exeption if Bitcoin becomes a widespread currency becouse it would look sloppy, they still can make something fancy from it that stands nice between the iso codes.  Order placed by mail   I filled in the survey mentioned by noagendamarket with my view of the perfect payment processor, and offcourse mentioned bitcoins. If enough people do this, we make a good change they accept them and like noagendamarket said, the more competition for paypall the better and if we can get one to accept us the rest will follow eventually  I only use bitcoinexchange, no problems so far   (I only buyed from them but don't see why it would be different if you sold them coins)For me it is the easiest way of getting btc, I don't have a credit card (and really not in the urge of getting one), I don't use paypall and wire transfers are free within the EU.  yup, they're worthless   Received it, sended you a btc donation, so at least 1 person earned something with it  Made $62.07 and sended $1 as a test so at the moment I have $61.07.If they stick with the planning I can (hopefully) convert those to btc next year in December.   Indeed too little hash, but I like the idea, put me on the list for the next round   Same here, or even better would be if I don't need to sell them ever. If I can buy everything I need with btc, why sell them?  Can you sent me your 50$ then, just in case it isn't a scam  Username there is the same as the one I have here   It is actually just a way of advertising, if they want to compete with services like paypall, moneybookers,etc. they need active users, they get new users with the referral bonuses and by paying them a small amount to be active (that's why you got to login minimal 1 time every 2 days). They than can convince companys to accept paybox as an payment method with statistics of a large active usersbase.The surveys are usefull for the further development of paybox.So instead of paying an extern advertising and research bureau, they pay the users. It seems a lot that they pay, but if they would pay for traditional advertising and an extern firm to get those survey results they probably would pay more for an active user and the surveyresults.And it's not a bad idea of noagendamarket, convincing new company's like this one to accept bitcoin will be alot easier than something like paypall. And if in the worst case scenario it is a scam or they won't accept bitcoins, we didn't lose anything. If they do accept bitcoins we can only profit from it (and we even got some bucks to put in the bc economy if we change the $ for btc ) perfect   That explains, but it is a little bit confusing like it's written now  Changing it to actives only would make more sense but because it is nice to know how much are pending I prefer something like:3 (2 active)3 (1 still pending)or an extra line:downline:   1.lvl:2 | 2.lvl:0 | 3.lvl:0pending: 1.lvl:1 | 2.lvl:0 | 3.lvl:0 hmm weird, I've just checked my statistics and I have:downline:   1.lvl:3 | 2.lvl:0 | 3.lvl:0btc received: 0.5withdrawn: 0.50left to withdraw: 0It can be me, missing something.But shouldn't I have 0,75 instead of 0,5 with 3 referrals?
works great and I love roulette The site layout can use some casino-ish design, but it works like a charm. Just placed my first bets and didn't stumble on any problems. Can't wait for the other games.  I prefer the login/pass way, I don't really see how using a bitcoin address is more anonymous than a username.I made a new address and labeled it lotery so I can find it back in my address book, but I would prefer just to log in when I want, where I want. And because I can't memorize a btc address that's not possible at the moment. something else:Pick6   1643.00   81563Nice pot, I hope I have the right tickets   I bought most of my coins, generated 50 coins (2 months ago, since then nothing  ), earned some with donations for graphics I've made and I'm a lucky bastard with lottery's so taabl was pretty profitable to  Did a 16btc bet 184LRLu2QuEvNfi9NZPEGhh8RTQCse5HnnThis deal works, registered a time ago but never used the lotery, this one pulled me over to try it  Yeah, it doesn't take to long to store all your credit card info into a database so he can max it out the next day...do you still think it is something --wich might be good--?  Not that I want to accuse Joey, he's probably a good guy who won't abuse your credit card info, just thought your logic was too funny in a world full of credit card frauds.   Added another version of the coin, replaced the stars with 1 and 0's and I've used the B that's also in the standard logo. whoohooow I'm gonna be rich, sold my house, car and everything I've got except a little old laptop, buyed bitcoins with it and put it all for a year on bitconent. *sigh* finally all my dreams will come true, within a year I will never have to work again  ...ok I went for 2 weeks and it's a little bit less than the value of a house  I think this a totally different service The first one is to correct something you wrote, this one is to write about something you didn't read but you should have  lol, the first bitcoin hyip.They all say they invest in forex, in reality it's just a ponzi scheme.But I'll give it a go and will send some coins this evening  If you catch a virus? Best thing you can do is find a doctorCan't see how a computerprogram can help you get rid of a virus. ...ow wait, yeah right... windowsDelete that thing and install a *nix, if that is not possible I would suggest NOD32  Did you had that wallet on a hdd you use a lot?Maybe a tiny chance you can recover it? But damned, could you imagine how much you could have minted in the past year?I wished I had discovered bitcoin a year ago, but maybe I would have done the same thing and banged my head against the wall a year later.   ok, I think I did something wrong, I've done 3 donations and than put my name to the list, lol. I was a little bit to fast reading and to much brainwashed from all those paypall pyramid game adverts I guess. After reading it again, I understood. You post your address and than do 3 donations after you got one lol.For those who got the donation, your welcome lol.Free gift The updated list:Code:19tq9NYFsSCMRUkc12v363tHgAeUokoVam noagendamarket1Mz6PNnCJ1cwVK3qaH66QtCko5oNaHN4a  nelisky1Edvb7z8RARx7F3Y5oi9ZX8tQadq5RfjSD tcatm1QCNUyy3ViFnMEVTiuMvWgdnJnfYepMibg Macho1PnuAFsYqmUbMfgqMUh5cNJvT72RtGTBHk bitcoindonor16k9if6hVQUdA5XmYHqytrSYubdCDX5iXa BiddingPond.com1AxsH46YUyaxX1fvhixhHqhyjbC15wFfJN Smartzkid1D3UqLGyEZvFJGnHvPm1hRVC94cpnuEnQr mizerydearia1Ai3wNTYpmojwcS9pi31h4fRQhMqKuYLY9 lfm1JfPbs97uzrJPDaC7414XvmYwz6p9yKgKM kupan7871NkmwLA7FhdkWCk61VZhLviuhPcapeNmbj Skull88 Niet uit Nederland, wel een grensgeval, woon op 5 minuutjes van de Nederlandse grens in Maaseik (B)   Deleted the wrong folder on the server, my mistake, it's fixed now  I'll take a look at the topic   By the way, Macho is right about the site, I'm still working on it and should become a real webshop in the near future. So no, the lorem ipsums are not for sale.   url changed to: http://bitpixel.bitcoin.nlupdate your bookmarks  If I'm right you can download the blockchain so it doesn't need to download it fully throe the client.So in the future, a part of the chain could be packed within the installation of the client.  That's cool, probably doesn't use much electricity, but how much khash would this generate?  Good to know this, I thougt I was save with my backups, but it could have happened to me to.Stoneman didn't really do anything stupid.   Congrats for being the first recreational heroin user.I don't know where you live, but if they have testcenters there, I would let hem test your heroin. No, I have nothing against heroinaddicts, I have something against drugs that can't be used recreationally. The drug itself is not that unhealthy, but the addiction will kill you, unless you have a lot of cash.I can't understand why someone ever would want to use heroin but if you want to use it, go ahead. As long as it doesn't hurt others, do what you want to do . If you want to sell or buy heroin with bitcoins, go ahead. But like noagendamarket said, keep it for yourself and the people involved with it. You don't do bitcoin a favour by discuss it here. You are not convincing the mainstream to use bitcoin with topics like this one. Go to your friendly neighbourhood dealer and see if he accept bitcoins and if not, go have a good talk with him. At this rate, 1 block/day it will take 27 years to get the 100.000. Guess that's a little bit to long   I will wait a little, see how it evolves and see what the others think about the idea of doing it in parts of 1000BTC.I think changing the way the 100.000 will be given away and split it into 100x 1000 BTC should work on the trust part and get more people convinced to buy some pixels and it also will go a lot faster to get a first winner.Of course if I change it that way, you always have the choice of keeping the ad with the new rules or get rid of the ad and get a refund.
If you would sell weed, mushrooms, dmt, haya, xtc, even coce I could understand.But heroïn? you guys have to be joking right? I don't think someone who uses heroïn really will use something like bitcoin. How will he pay after sold his computer to pay for his addiction? shadow economy ok, heroïn, wouldn't associate bitcoin with it. But it would be nice if I could pay with bitcoins in the coffeeshop or smartshop, and it would be even more perfect to deal with transactions between the coffeeshop and the grower. Because no grower who delivers to a shop, really sticks to the legal growing limits, so get payed with a payment system that isn't traceable is of course always a positive asset.  It would be a great idea, so I definitely vote yes http://www.pokerth.net/could be a winning combination... If it would truly take too much time, I guess I would have to lessen the amount to what I have at that point.True, still it is not impossible.It would be some more work but can be done.There are scams out there that indeed involved less money than this amount.But if we want to use bitcoins as a currency for everything, this kind of things will happen in the future too. And the directory with ratings is a nice idea to prevent scams, people could than use some kind of verified logo on their site witch links to their profile, so people can see the trustworthiness of a site. But how you check something like my idea? The only thing I can proof the trustworthiness of BitPixel is by paying, but till I sold every pixel, I just can't proof that. If it is a scam, it's far to late by then. If it's not, people who would use it, didn't do it because the chance of it being a scam. At this point yes, till the time I sold every pixel probably it will be less %It could easily take a year to get them all, and that's fine, don't forget it is advertising space I sell, so it would be less effective if all pixels where sold within a week. There will be less interest in visiting the site and people get there ads viewed and clicked when everything is sold and the big jackpot is gone. And yes it is a big amount, but that is also the purpose. It should be the big jackpot, the euromilions,the lotto,de staatsloterij,... under the bitcoins. Millions would be pretty impossible, still I want it to be something you can dream a little bit of. The kind of amount you would think "damned, I wish I won that, could do some nice things with that money" But I guess it won't work if people indeed don't trust it, something how sad for me it is, I can understand.So any suggestions on the trust thing would be really great.I could off course also do a lottery every 1000BTC or 10.000BTC, would defeat a little bit my idea of giving a big jackpot, but that way people could see faster I just give the coins and if not I would only get away with 1000 or 10000 coins. In total it would be still 100.000, they're would be only a lot more winners. Would be only unfair to those who entered first, they would have a lot more chance of winning.  And last but not least, if you just want some good advertising space, it still is the deal of your life of course    What does you think nobody can run with your money in a normal lotery?I mean, how do you know a casino will pay you out if you hit the jackpot, what makes you think euromilions can't run away with your money?Casino's and lotery's mostly put up pictures in advertisments of winners with a verry big cheque, and online casino's buy a license in Cyprus. But that doesn't mean they can't run away with your money. If the only thing you have is a number of a swiss bankaccount, you're pretty screwed too  To answer your question, how could you know I don't just run away with the coins?You can't know for sure.Of course I wouldn't do something to people that I wouldn't like they do to me, and I never would do something that brings bitcoin in a bad daylight because I like this project to much....But that are things a scammer would say too.Think of it, if I would run away with the money, you at least have some advertising space, that is more than you would have if a normal lotery would run away with your money. And else you could always whois the domainname and find my address, and break my both legs. And running away with the money would be plain stupid, in the short run it would give me some coins and a bad reputation, a good reputation is much more valuable than those 100.000BTC. Don't forget, this is not the only site I have, the url I used before to host the bitcoin images will be home of a much bigger project. And I prefer 1000BTC from donations than 100.000BTC I stole from people who trusted me and even gived me some donations.  Ok, I was thinking of making a person the first Bitcoin miljonair, but because this would probably take to long and I first want it to be fully automated, I changed it to 100.000BTC.The idea of making a 1.000.000 bitcoin lotery isn't gone but I first will see how this runs.The concept is pretty easy, you can buy pixels on my site and use those for advertising.I ask 0,10BTC/px and I sell them in blocks of 10x10, so you can buy one block for 10BTC.If all blocks are sold, I got 100.000BTC, and those Bitcoins I will put in a lottery.Than I use a random generator to generate a number, if this number is the same as one of the id's of your blocks, you win 100.000BTC.The idea is far from new, the only difference is, I put all the money back into the lotery.And I'll be happy with some donations use this address for those bitpixel related donations, I prefer not to use your payment address you get when buying pixels. 1FwU182VEcLzFLCoFE4qGA74wVSqjAp61WAlso don't examine the texts on the site to much, they will normally be rewritten today or tomorow by my girlfriend.They schould be understandable but probably gramaticair not fully correct English. (I wrote them and English is not my native language, lol)So if you need some advertisement for your site or just want a chance of winning those 100.000BTC or both, visit following site:http://bitpixel.bitcoin.nl Good question, I googled on Ingsoc and came to the following wikipage:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ingsoc A small donation button: My idea too, just type in the amount on your smartphone, type in the adress, cashier can see instantly the payment and done.I don't see why we need paper bitcoins and deal with al the troubles involved with it, printing, scanning, trust,... and it isn't eco friendly.So I go for smartphone or maybe card, paper bitcoins doesn't have a future imho, but I can be wrong offcourse. ok, I confess, I requested a total of 0,10 cent, allready sended 0,05 back, but I'll send the other 0,05 also back. When can I expect my 50 coins?   you're blacklisted buddy, we'll watching you  ...joking offcourse    What if they just use different proxy's, than the checking the first byte of the IP is useless.You could make a registration form on the site where they first got to activate they're email address, and than get a login code.After login than they can request the free coins, of course there is a limit of one request for one email address and you keep on checking the ip.So if you want a lot of coins, you first got to register a lot of email adresses and than you got to register with all those addresses, you really got to have no life to do all that trouble just to drain down the Faucet  I received it, tnx for the donation  here you go: Hope, this is what you mend? tnx btw, for pointing out that topic, didn't saw it till today heh, the stars? to let it look like a coin? no real symbolic meaning in them.But I like your idea of the 0's and 1's, could work, will give it a try later on.nice page, like the multiplying coins  Shouldn't be a problem to make it with that coin, I will make it this evening  tnx all  I've added a simple "we accept bitcoin" button If you open a bank account, do you expect that the bank puts daily 100 on your account, just because you have an active account with them?No, you got to work to fill your bankaccount, the same with bitcoins, if you want them, than trade something for them (goods or services). It's just something like euro's and dollars, a way of paying for things, but instead of paying with creditcard, paper, coins,..., you pay with bitcoins. That you get some bitcoins for helping the network is a nice little bonus, you could see it as the interest the bank gives you for renting them your money. In bitcoin you don't rent your money but ur cpu.If you could daily generate a lot of bitcoins, they would btw be worthless, so whats the difference, if you got to generate a month for 50 coins and you can buy something for 50 coins or you generate 50000 in a month and for the same thing you got to pay 50000?Btw, I got from 24/07 till now generated 50BTC and I got a khash of around 1600.I've made some graphics for the community and put them here and got in one day 26BTC from donations.So forget the generation, just do what you are good in and sell it for coins, or give it away freely and maybe you get some donations. (I prefer the last business model but that's up to you offcourse) You have in the poll: BeligumIf you could change the i and the g from place, it's perfect. And continent would probably be a better choice, else it is going to be a long list after some time  I have some sparetime  ...but I guess my girlfriend will be a little bit less happy with the idea Belgium  The list is pretty limited btw  
