shop no longer available... bump   send me your offer!   got more starbucks? o.o size of community is not really a good way to filter them out given that many have airdrops and then end up with many thousands of followers or channel members that don't really contribute and are just in it for the airdrop. adding link to a few lists decentralized exchanges: https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=2906237.0 https://coinsutra.com/best-decentralized-exchanges-dex/https://media.consensys.net/state-of-decentralized-exchanges-2018-276dad340c79  will there ever be non-edu codes available again? ;_; ohai! looking to buy Uber codes, preferably from an established forum member or using Paxfulty!   ok then  non-edu -_____________- good to hear back from admin  i'm gonna start trying out a few of the top pools listed here http://sumopools.com :/ on to next pool :p can't really use the form if the whole site is down... sent pm! could this be considered criminal activity by the SEC? prolly been mentioned before (somewhere in the last 30 pages): babypips.com  getting to Legendary rank  do you guys have chat or irc?
yeaaa..... fresh new account for this kind of product is too risky best wallet is a paper wallet is this about a garbage or recycling ICO or something? just a wee bit, but it does evens the playing field  https://www.google.com/search?q=NYSE:KODK&tbm=fin#scso=uid_g-lYWrDkOcWQgge5y7igDw_5:0it was just a way to cash out of kodk stock :p lesser shithole countries (territories actually) at least get paper towels thrown at by the President wondering.... does price always go up after people get their paychecks on fridays? so does this mean DOGE $1 then? simple: there's more uses/applications compatible with Bitcoin than all other coins/systems. that could change... but it is still like that. bitcoin is the mother coin. i have yet to see an altcoin-only ATM :p so far so good! love the realtime stats tempted to setup a few VMs with the vulnerable Electrum version installed, no adblock or noscript, and let them run wild on the internet crawling the sleaziest sites i can imagine for a few hours, and just see what i catch  this is why we can't have nice things. read the instructions and compile yourself if you want 0% dev donation, you might learn something along the way in the process.tip the fucking devs, don't be a freeloader. lol who just added like 600khs to the sumo pool? 😂😂😂 lol this guy again heh suspended already on rocketr banned again?  if only this was legit ;_; proof?  yea its still super low just noticed the raise to 0.0002 are fiat withdrawals really taking months to complete?
got several codes from @aziernest, all worked great!  ..bump.. sent pm. bump  you again  you do know that i still want to buy right?   👀 👀 let me know by PM when you get non-edu events and more Google credits in stock. thanks!  sent! pm sent! event? sold  pm sent!bump  also looking to buy AWS codes  do you have any bulk discount for stickers? also looking for AWS credits  =   1% blocks, every day  bump for great justice sold  seller sent first, code is valid and was successfully redeemed. you are almost running out of stock will you be bringing more events?
sent PM! considered adding a social login feature? cryptocompare does it, and they recently nagged me enough to convince me to do social login :p that would also give you more user data than just simply collecting username and pass. also, put some ads on it, even if it's just referrals to Coinbase or something  unless you have a few thousand smartphones, it's not profitable. got feedback from other forum members? check ur PM! thanks for your offer, but the post says non-edu  waiting for code   busco todo tipo de códigos AWS non-edu.envía PM!    got x2 HH codes on seller's Selly page. both redeemed valid  hoping the combopack price goes down so i can purchase more! looking to bulk buy Amazon AWS codes, non-edu only. expiration date can be any month 2018.you can sell to me one single code, or 100 codes!looking for both quick sells and long term relations.i can pay in btc, ltc, eth, doge, clams, useless-ethereum-tokens, etc.post here first, then i'll PM you.thanks  new codes added to the post dont show up in selly  hey there  got a few questions: do you have combo packs? can you sell directly outside Selly? do u accept ETH and LTC, or only BTC? OP were u able to resolve this? tentacles the most important word is regret as in not having hodl'd enough   got some codes on PokemonGoArena's Selly page, and all worked great  left some feedback there too! went ahead and paid first, got 2 codes from Graber, both of em work perfect  'I want to link my Bitcointalk name with BTCJam's. Verification code: 5e69b51f-e8f6-4906-8cb9-895e878dce95'    
ddr1? access, preferrably in country with lax copyright laws   can someone sell me a seedbox for btc  workstation of the day   ty, let me know by post here, or highlight me in any of the btc-related irc channels on freenode. of course   i'm @ 00918 (San Juan), so take shipping to here in consideration. usps is fine.only pentium 4+ and ddr1+ please.also, if you a small matx/mini-itx portable case/pc (like cube cases), offer up Smileythanks! very nice read, error.   i remember all the magazines and printed directories of the web.  like big phone books but full of URLs, tiny descriptions and sometime screenshots.  surfing on 9.6k and 14.4k was fun  but all good things come to an end, http://www.wwwdotcom.com/    you guys test too close, choose a server farther away to see if the connection is good enough when connecting to overseas servers.what good is having 100mbit fiber to home when you only get few tens of megabits when connecting to servers a few thousand miles away... win7 32 on netbook, server 2008 r2 on desktop, ubuntu server on second desktop, and crux on an old g4 mac. http://lmgtfy.com/?q=something&l=1now you know.   no way to start the day... looks like an office connection or a server inside a datacenter   u'd be surprised  i'd avoid the big-name e-colleges and go instead (if you insist on online studies) with online divisions of traditional univs. e-studies will sometimes cost even more than attending in person. (avoid university of phoenix and the like)have a look at PBS Frontline's "College Inc." http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/collegeinc/?utm_campaign=homepage&utm_medium=proglist&utm_source=proglist spend your money wisely.btw, what field of study you loooking at? much better now, upload still sucks. i'm currently on an open wifi (prtc dsl), if no wifi is available i connect by ATT 3G tethered via bluetooth from a samsung flight2.  the cap for non-smartphones is 5GB, smartphones get only 2GB then $10 extra GB.  at home i used borrow the neighbors' wifi using this:ancient wrt54g-tm, dd-wrt mega. just moved to a new place, might change to a fancy new Ubiquiti bullet http://www.ubnt.com/bullet no need to say exact location (unless you post speedtest.net results).how do you get internet? cable? dsl? 3G? wimax? fiber to home? office lan? campus wifi?i'd like a thread with pix of your gear and speed results  
do not want. truecrypt volume backed up to private folder on wuala cloud + to friends computers with crashplan gps jammers cheaper on dealextreme i'm afraid to even be posting here  brb, a black van just pulled up and two men in suits are at the door... did you pay for that server or did you get it for cheap, Dangler?  can you run irc clients/bouncers on slice host? saludos a todos desde PR  si alguien necesita alguna traducción envíame un mensaje privado al inbox.quizás esto sea el primero paso y termine compartiéndolo en un thread aqui en el foro   thanks for the tip vladimir.sent my whole bitcoin balance over to you right now  fancy a sneakernet? isn't shipping a few dvds full of mp3s faster than most connections? hmm. very fucking clever.   i want about 50, but they should have a little tiny text that reads at least bitcoin.org or bitcoin.it or bitcoinme.comi wouldnt want to have to sharpie the url in   trust? some nice specs/features you asking for.what old cheap electronics are you looking for? how is it better than noscript?  if i had a list of every domain that ghostery blocked and left all of those as untrusted in noscript, wouldn't it be the same? so for social networking, it would be like having thousands of facebook nodes, with every friend's data on their own plug servers? do i have to join to see what content is available? i pledge 0.01btc to this btw Planet Money is a nice NPR podcast, been listening for some time, check it out at  http://www.npr.org/blogs/money/ congrats on your first legal sale   does the facebook code work for existing (old) facebook ads accounts? For desktop I run Server 2008R2 converted to workstation (c2d, 4GB, garden variety of hard drives) and win7 on the netbook (aspire one).  Sometimes boot up PuppyLinux on the netbook.  Everything else local is virtual machines.  On the production servers hosted offsite I run CentOS and Ubuntu Server. i recognize most of your deal from a certain extreme website   they have to be!will you carry more computer/networking related gadgets?
