Thanks for the info, tavi. I've been looking for this letter since our enchanted Tux announced he was going to the "authorities". First this creep leaked our identities, then he called in the DEA. From Wikipedia:Judas Goat: A Judas goat is a trained goat used at a slaughterhouse and in general animal herding. The Judas goat is trained to associate with sheep or cattle, leading them to a specific destination. In stockyards, a Judas goat will lead sheep to slaughter, while its own life is spared. Judas goats are also used to lead other animals to specific pens and on to trucks.The Bitcoin idea was excellent, but the people involved just couldn't handle the responsibility. Game, set, match. Party over.  One more attempt. Maybe somebody out there is reachable.It continues:Don't argue with me. Argue with the guy in the black robe. Maybe he will be impressed with your knowledge of legal jargon. I'm sure not.This is so unnecessary. All it takes is a rational survey of the terminology and issues, and an agreement on which terms are proper to describe Bitcoin. But everybody is such an expert... What letter? The Goxmeister is bringing in the DEA now?!!This guy is a loose cannon. First he gives away the customer database and passwords, and now he's bringing in the DEA???Whisky tango foxtrot. I want to see that letter! OP, you correctly identify the exchange as the weak point of the Bitcoin system. The King does not like competition, and will come down on the exchanges with every tool in his kingdom.Just wait until The King makes it profitable to rat on exchanges! Do you see any tools here today? You have no idea how hard I fought this one back in the "early days" of Bitcoin, but I got hooted down. The Bitcoin community has stepped in shit up to its ankles, and there's no way to wipe it off now.Bitcoin is a program, it is an algorithm, it is a convenience to keep the community's accounts in order.Bitcoin is not money, it is not cash, it is not dollars, it is not currency, it is not legal tender. These are buzzwords the Establishment uses to keep their franchises safe from competition.Bitcoin is not "worth" Dollars, or Euros, or Pogs. But it can be traded for them.There was no good reason to misuse any of the above loaded terms. There were plenty of other options. But the Bitcoin community was invincible, and could call things whatever they damn well wanted.Now that the Bitcoin community has brought in "The Authorities" to solve their dumbass error of divulging customer identities on Mt.Gox. We will see just how shortsighted this policy of tweaking the nose of the legal system will turn out to be. MagicalTux, first you gave away the keys to the store. Then you brought in "the authorities", who will be using every bit of information they can gather against this Bitcoin community. And you are less than forthcoming about what actually happened. You might want to consider what would happen if you were to make these little mistakes in Chicago of the '20s, or maybe in Central America today.I lost nothing, and certainly do not call for violence. I do hope that you will lose every Bitcoin you ever gained, hand over the Mt.Gox project to someone who is competent, understand what a fuckup you are, and live a long and happy life. I think I agree with the rollback. I'm not really sure.But I won't give Mt.Gox a break because :1. They gave away private customer information to an outside party, who then spread it across the net.2. They apparently have called in some authority who will doubtless be asking for even more information.3. Have not been as transparent with us about these issues as they have been with those who might use the information to take down Bitcoin and us Bitcoin users. And the question is who has the authority to prosecute?I think it's not a good idea to give anyone that authority, especially one of the world's present governments, but that's just my opinion. Thread hijack. I have no problem with something like this being deleted.I may or may not agree with the subject, but the form is improper, and only adds to the noise level. A contract is a contract. Its form is irrelevant.If the parties do not agree that the contract has been fulfilled, who you gonna call, Ghostbusters?I think it is stupid to call in the government. Look at the mess they have made with their own fiat money.But it seems that half of the people here will not be happy until Big Brother comes to settle their arguments.Too bad they won't stick with their own fucked-up money and legal system, and leave Bitcoin alone. Well, I AM somewhat libertarian, and I agree with the OP. Valid comment is being spiked, while juvenile babbling is left untouched. I can tell the difference, and I wish the mods could too! Referral to SEC/JSDA, huh? If you wanted to kill off Bitcoin, what more could you do than to call in Big Government?I wish you folks would just stay with the fucked up Federal Reserve/Euro system that you allowed to happen, and just leave Bitcoin alone. Don't we wish! First, that was a really stupid thing to do; to give out our privileged account information to outsiders, to be spread across the internet.Second, to expose the Bitcoin community to the authority of the state.Third, I call Royal Bullshit on you, MagicalTux: Name the jurisdiction and venue, or it didn't happen. Should the "I'm MtGox, here's my side" thread have been locked?I say no! We were starting to get to some issues that Mt. Gox tried to soft-pedal.Like giving away the customer info, to have it spread across the internet. Like "calling in the authorities". Who the hell are they? Do we want them subpoenaing around for more?Why doesn't the admin just ban Synaptic, and instantly remove half the juvenile content of this forum?Questions, questions. I know you're just having fun, but your "alternative company" is too close to the name one of our most venerated, and reliable vendors. Can you change it?-----On a totally different note, I think that everyone here will agree that Synaptic is an obnoxious little prick. Can we vote for him to go away? MagicalTux, I wanted to support you in this matter, but I learned a couple of disturbing things in this "my side" thread. Do I have this right: You gave an outside party access to your customer's private information?And then you called in the FBI?If it is true, that you divulged our information, and caused it to be spread across the internet, then you are a moron. But if you called in the FBI as you say you did, then I take it all back. Nobody is that fucking stupid. You are a Judas goat.Google it. +1Ebay = PayPal = Federal Reserve lackeyBring on the "the blooming new alternatives",  please! I'm sorry for all the grief you receive, The Madhatter, for providing your service. It's the penalty you pay for being useful.Now, you'll have a new crapload of complications with this Mt. Gox thing. I sure hope you don't get discouraged. You've been straight with me in the past, and I'd like to do more trades with you in the future!silverman Dumb analogy.
Freaking BRILLIANT idea of the month, TKE406!Maybe we can have the Feds regulate the rest of the Bitcoin industry too? Which SCOTUS decision am I referring to?? How freaking lazy can you be? It's called Google. Use it.Here's another clue: What does line 75 of your 1040 form say, and what does the "Sign Here" box declare, under penalties of perjury? Can we rely on this document to establish your status as a taxpayer, and the amount that you owe?Don't come back without an answer. No stopping some of these guys. jgarzik just sold out his two gurus! Chapter and verse, all three of you, or go away.creighto: "If you really believe that our system is based upon voluntary assessment and payment, try to refuse.  And when they drag you in front of a federal judge, try asking the court to cite the law that grants any of them the authority to do so.  Or the legal definition of "taxpayer" under the federal code."I actually do believe this Supreme Court decision, creighto. And further, I know how it can be properly plead, though I don't expect the average taxpayer to get much mileage from it. Because he self-identifies, doesn't he? Do you see what you're up against?Even though our system of taxation is based upon voluntary assessment and payment, not upon distraint (you might wish to Google that phrase) the IRS can usually find useful idiots like the two above who "know what the law means" to sell you out. Just ask them the IRS definition of "income", chapter and verse, if you want to see how bright they are.  Yes. You will need to understand your own product before you try to sell it.I see a problem with all three features--irrevocable payment, low fees, and micro-payment capabilities--they are all dependent on outside services. How are you going to control any of that? Should you control any of that? Should you CLAIM that you control any of that?But that's OT. Sending letters to businesses can be a great promotional tool. I just caution you to learn from what just happened with EFF: A messy promotion of things Bitcoin doesn't even do!  Yes. Whether you call it PR, or ethics, or risk planning, or just having a clue, language does matter. Especially when you use it to persuade others of your service.I've made my point abundantly. And now I resign. Either carry the ball or don't. There are two factors to consider; your liability, and your tax rate. The rate is determined by your income, and the income is calculated in U.S. dollars (Federal Reserve Notes, actually). If you are unemployed, then you are definitely liable, so the key to your question would be the amount of Bitcoins, expressed in Federal Reserve Notes, and termed as U.S. dollars. If they are equivalent, and if you are using Bitcoins to bypass your fair share of taxes, then you are a tax cheat.But I know of no equivalence between Bitcoins and FRNs. They belong to two unrelated accounting systems. As long as no one says anything blatantly stupid, such as "Rate of BTC to USD = $0.25", the Bitcoin will be useless in determining your tax rate. I agree that we should all have a drink together, and that this debate does seem to be endless, but I disagree that this is pointless, and think rather that this debate is vital to the survival of Bitcoin.First, let's remind ouselves that the question is "is Bitcoin money?", and I welcome creighto's agreement with my view that it is not. I'll go along with his statement that "bitcoins are a new/unique form of currency unit," although I am not wild about using the term currency either. "To even call them a commodity is granting them more attributes than they posses" is a nice, restrictive statement, and I'm all in favor of restricting things. It makes them easier to manage. I also like kiba's "Nobody is advocating on how to decide how much bitcoins is worth, what the proper use of bitcoins is, etc al. What people like me are doing is trying to DESCRIBE REALITY aka scientific definition, not prescribe some rules that bitcoiners shold be following." Which is exactly where I am going with this. If we state that Bitcoins are to be traded for dollars, or worse, that Bitcoins are "worth" so many dollars, somebody at some time is going to rely on our own statements and demand performance, in a real court, with some of our members actually sitting there while the issue is decided. Bitcoin has no provision for converting itself into world currencies. To claim that it can is fraud, and we should discourage our members from doing so. Bitcoin does not own or control Mt. Gox, Bitcoin 4 Cash, mybitcoin, or any other Bitcoin exchange. They operate independently, and Bitcoin should realize that their independence is a good thing. It insulates Bitcoin from the wrath of the currency frauds, who will surely object to this new upstart horning in on their territory.Ditto for enforcement of contracts. Bitcoin has no provisions for keeping the public honest, other than keeping their books straight. No courts, no jails, no wars. It's simpler that way.So, is Bitcoin money? No, it isn't. It doesn't WANT to be money either! And it isn't the world's police force for monetary fairness, either. So, let's stop claiming that it is! people act as if... (so?).What people believe partially make up economic reality. (Yes. Theirs!)Money is not defined legally,.. (actually, it is. In multiple citations.)The court provide bad services. (The courts shouldn't be needed for Bitcoin to perform its function.)What it does is act like money. (In what way does an accounting program act like money?)It's a form of intellectual property,.. (It's as intellectual as an inch, or a kilometer.)...but the paper object isn't the property. (You're making my argument, creighto.)"Money (even gold) relies on some sort of centralised court or protection agency that enforces property rights." (Do you propose that Bitcoin do this? How?)Neither bitcoins nor gold needs the protection services of governments nor courts to perform their primary functions ... (Yes.) ... as a trade medium. (No. How is a number a "trade medium"?)The main page refers to Bitcoin avoiding the neccessity of a 'trusted third party'.  That third party is any institution that both parties trust to enforce the terms of the agreement (i.e. contract) upon the other should the deal turn sour.  This can be courts or governments, but can also be private institutions such as banking, Paypal, or whatever.  Thopse private institutions may (or may not) be limited in what kind of punishment that they can dish out to a bad player, but usually they also have the implicit backing of the courts via contract law anyway.  However, there is an overhead for such institutions; both in actual funds and in surrendered liberty/information. (Yes. But Bitcoin doesn't work like that. Bitcoin only keeps the records straight. The clients use whatever outside agents they wish.)This is exactly why third party institutions are, thus far, so neccessary for online commerce; and why such institutions will likely come to exist within the bitcoin economy eventually as well. (Within Bitcoin no, but within the Bitcoin economy, yes.)-----I'm giving these statements a very shallow treatment, but so far I see no compelling reason why we should not put an imaginary wall between what is Bitcoin the program, and what is Bitcoin the community, the traders, and the economy.If we make this distinction, we will see that there is no need for Bitcoin to ever go over its wall, to meddle in the "proper" use of Bitcoins, to decide how much a Bitcoin may be "worth", or to enforce private contracts.And I think that is a good thing. Oops! I confused the FSF with the EFF. Sorry! This is the essence of our discussion: How can we guarantee payment?The old way: Trade for something of value (silver, gold).The crooked way: Use government chits, and the government will enforce the payment (U.S. dollar).The Bitcoin way: Accounts are accurate, honest, and convenient (based on Math). No one can phoney the books--the system Just Works. It's more voluntary than the other systems, yet has none of their drawbacks.Note that Bitcoin is just a system of accounting, and could be used for purposes other than trade. To call it money, or cash, or "worth" something is to complicate it needlessly. If someone wants to trade bitcoins for Pesos, or for Yak fur, or just hold on to them, that is their free choice. All trades are ENTIRELY SEPARATE FROM THE BITCOIN SYSTEM. Keep it simple, people! There is no reason to put Bitcoin into the commercial arena, with the accompanying legal meathooks. There is no reason to call Bitcoin money, or cash, or to say Bitcoins are "worth" X number of dollars, because they're clearly not; Bitcoin is just a P2P, distributed accounting system. Nothing more.Why ask for trouble, and invite the crooked Enforcers in where they don't belong? Bitcoin is NOT money, so don't call it that!-----Full disclosure: I am also fresno. I created the fresno persona to handle my political activities while I ran the Silverman site. Now that I am no longer exchanging Bitcoins as a business, "fresno" is no longer active. Know everything you can about your customers:http://news.slashdot.org/story/10/10/04/1454231/Free-Software-Foundation-Turns-25 Bitcoin is a P2P computer program. It is not a currency, a dessert topping, or a floorwax. No. The key to acceptance is not a slick mass-mailer. The key is to understand our market's needs, and to understand our own product. Anyone standing outside of our egos can see that we have done miserably on both jobs. Not that Bitcoin is a bad idea, we just don't have a professional product. Let's not take it on the road until we get it right. Probably because we failed to show any benefit to EFF or to their community. We had an opportunity to introduce a new system of accounting, which could revolutionize payments on the web. What we showed them was forty bucks--IF they hassled with our software and sketchy exchange service. Somebody trade the Bitcoins into money, so they can get something out of this exchange. I'm unclear on who is acting as spokesperson in this matter, his/her authority, and what information has been exchanged with the EFF. We were led to believe that this was a group effort, and traded over a hundred posts composing a letter that we could agree on, yet it appears that communications have been held since that we are not privy to.I am especially concerned with the statement that "they definitely understand that they can exchange their BTC for USD." Did someone in a responsible position make this policy, or was this an ad lib? Do I understand correctly? mizerydearia is our spokesman, and received the following from an EFF rep:Did we reply to this? From the same email address? Are they aware of the bitcoin.exe program and website, or just of mybitcoin.com? (And is mybitcoin.com our project? Has mybitcoin.com been reachable from the 'net recently?) Does EFF know what they can do with their donated Bitcoins? IOW "Who are you, and what's in it for the EFF?" Pestering them about a Bitcoin button is not a good idea. It was a gift, not a bribe.Just give them the Bitcoins and follow up in two weeks. Paid my 50 Bitcoin pledge.BTW, my email domain seems to have expired. I'll have another one soon, or PM me at this forum.Silverman (not quite back from vacation)-----Bitcoin is now backed by silver!http://pz64g5mpskogeox7.onion/~silver/https://tor-proxy.net/proxy/tor/browse.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fpz64g5mpskogeox7.onion%2F~silver%2F&b=14 Okay. I'm on vacation. Cover for me until I get back.
