So instead of0 connections    0 blocks     0 transactionsit would be0 connections    Latest block: 0     0 transactionsThat just doesn't look right.I think the way Satoshi explained it makes the most sense: the genesis block may be technically a block but inside the chain it's nothing more than a reference point.It's like the zero for numbers. The zero of course is a number itself but when counting something it's just a reference point. Well, at least humans count like that  +1Offtopic: Does this forum have some kind of upvote plugin or something? You can specify the data directory using scripts (AFAIK you can't use a shortcut on Windows because it requires an absolute path to the .exe).Shell script for Linux (make executable with "chmod a+x scriptname"):Code:#!/bin/shbitcoin -datadir=./dataBatch script for Windows (save as *.bat or *.cmd):Code:bitcoin -datadir=.\dataIf you know how to do it, you can also apply gavinandresen's port/rpcport patch or wait for it to be included in the official client (may take a while). Thanks! Maybe I should continue posting a changelog for every release Edited. Unfortunately we don't have an official changelog yet (except for the SVN revision descriptions).Here is my unofficial changelog:fix: makefile.osxchange: enable SSE2 in 64 bit buildschange: connection rules- always make 8 outbound connections- only one connection per a.b.*.* rangeadd: switch "-maxconnections=#" (discussed here)change: JSON-RPC API prints floats with 8 decimal placeschange: "bitcoind help <command>" instead of "bitcoind <command> -?" (based on a patch by jgarzik)add: JSON-RPC "gethashespersec" (based on a patch by lachesis)add: "version" and "hashespersec" fields in JSON-RPC "getinfo"fix: "-datadir=<path>" with relative path (bug described here)change: autostart disabled by default except on Windows (requested here)fix: occasional "vector iterator not dereferencable" assertion when compiled with msvcfix: readlink compile warning on Linux buildfix: BSD detection (bug described here)add: "-paytxfee=#" switch (explained here)Please tell me if you know of any other forum threads discussing the bugs/changes so I can add them to the list. Wouldn't it make sense to enable connections to multiple a.b.?.? peers that are in the same subnet? That could add some speed.EDIT:What I meant was that disabling the connection limit to nearby nodes could help keeping the network latency low. I agree. We also need an easier-to-use changelog than the commit log. I like the way the µTorrent team does it: http://forum.utorrent.com/viewtopic.php?id=78100 Looks great EDIT:And it's getting better every day. "Supernodes" with lots of connections would be useful in scenarios where a buyer gives the seller control over some money and the seller needs to quickly send the transaction to a lot of nodes to make it sure the buyer has a very dim chance to double-spend the money before a block containing it is generated. Cryptography at its finest Could you explain how this would work on a technical basis? +1 for quick bug fix. I'd like to be able to do that, too.
