Congrats! How much time did it take? Who knows! I would not make predictions...only time will show    funny but trueBitcoin is unpredictable There are also some negative predictions so who knows.... Ok, what market situation are you waiting for this? will you reopen them again when the crisis is over? I do not see the problem that  Any thread should be moderated or do you want the same mess here as in twitter? Pple just write there pointless posts with one word   Ok, no problem, I understand. Why so many packages ouf of stock on your website? Any news? How is the price? Strange thing. When I checked Twitter, there were only tweets about withdrawals and a lot of off topic talks So you have some special  for verification? How many people? Is mining on CPU available too? Great! To be honest, I thought you'd never come back! What are your plans for the near future? I plan to buy some alternate crypto and participate in a couple of bounties Here is the bounty thread https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=3081207The allocation is stated in the first post  Tell me, please, where can I find the latest news about the company?  On the website https://market.space/en/ Practice as much as you can Can I transfer your tokens before the end of ICO?For example, I made a purchase and now I want to make a present to someone with your tokens. But ICO hasn't been finished yet. Could I transfer tokens? Does this project have any big private investors??Like investment funds or something?
Will that be an Open GL code? I have the same questions. You wrote that no supercapacities are required to host in your system. Why d'you need professionals then? Why so small  community? The project looks promising. Wish you success (or better community manager) By "ambassadors" you mean advisors or kind of sale representatives? Just follow the steps below, super easy!, no need to do muchStep 1: create an account - https://goo.gl/ir8iFCYou will get bonuses for registering with my referal so its up to you.Step 2: download the soctop bot free programStep 3: add a lot of FAKE account, if you have a lot of accounts you will earn a lot of coinsStep 4: wait to earn coinsStep 5: when you have a lots of coins click "Add a task +" then you can choose to use them or Instagram, Facebook, Twitter etc..I earn 4000 per day only with 9 accounts (1 coins = 1 follow or 1 like) THAT MEANS 4K LIKES|FOLLOWERSVideo Tutorial: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HxrEfFfracQ  You can use the non referal too if you dont need bonuses or smth: non referal link - https://goo.gl/ir8iFC Just bought $600 worth of BTC from him.. paid with PayPal a lot but worth it! Hello, I have $600 in PayPal and I want to exchange them in BTC. (my paypal is verified)Escrow accepted (buyer pays the fees). PM Me.sold to @sardasa I'm interested! PM me please. I also note that the content at https://www.bitvps.com/update.txt has been removed.Does anyone have a copy please ? Does anyone have a contact email address for investors to use ?Looking at the current www.bitvps.com site, I see the Investors page has been removed.I would like to discuss an investment issue with the BitVPS operators. I note the investor relations section hasn't been updated for quite some time now. Given the latest dividend figure, some detailed information on what's going on with the company financials is beyond due. @gewure ...Did you receive that response through the claims page of the GLBSE website or via an email to the email address you registered on the page ?If it was via email, what was the email address you received the response from ? (I'm trying to determine whether or not I have received any emails relating to my claim.)TIA From what email address should I expect to receive correspondence on this matter ?I've yet to receive any confirmation of completing the account closure process (did this shortly after the shutdown of GLBSE was announced) and I've yet to receive any payments to the address I gave during that process.I'm most concerned about ensuring my ownership of assets is correctly communicated to the asset issuers. Interesting. Why did you retract ? I would be interested.More competition for the existing exchanges is always good. Hopefully it would drive more rapid improvements in reliability, availability, functionality and value for money in them all. This.Building up a new account to scam the community again. Beware. I echo those comments. Given the anonymous nature of the currency, forum and GLBSE, such attributes / behaviours are key to any long term success. Absolutely.Thoughts from the CEO on costs of development work to make this a much more reliable service please. Excellent idea. This is just the sort of novel and quirky (at less from my perspective as an English city lad) opportunity I would consider investing in.I love that BTC could facilitate a business relationship that would probably not be possible otherwise.I have a bunch of initial questions - more sure to follow :O) ...How much would your time be per hour ?How long would you want to run this operation ?Do you have someone you can pass/sell the equipment onto once you decide you want out so the operation could continue ?How would the equipment be powered ?How much would it cost per hour to power ?How much would the chemicals cost per gram of obtained gold ?How much of the year can be spent operating ? (suitable seasons ? suitable weather ? ...)How much per hour would you have to pay to perform a run in the area(s) you are considering ?What are your low, medium and high estimations of the amount of gold in grams you expect to obtain per hour of operation ?What materials other than gold could be obtained in the proposed prospecting area(s) ?You mentioned the possibility of processing more material each day if you had help ... what are local labour rates for such an activity ?
I wouldn't touch a PPT based asset without a corroborated link to a user of the forums with a very good reputation.There are far too many charlatans around. Why do you think the PPT.A ... PPT.E asset contract have the following ..."These bonds will be partially insured and backed by a cartel of some of the most reputable and well known BTC lenders in the lending forums: BurtW, PatrickHarnett, dollartrader, hashking, imsaguy and ineededausername."In this example, there are a bunch of posts to corroborate the statement in the contracts. I was actually being deadly serious.Let's assume we trust Cryptostocks both the poster and the exchange.A unique piece of functionality I would like to see in an exchange is the ability to view the withdrawal history of the account that issued a given share. Only those holding the share should be able to do this. Notification by email would be a further enhancement. This way an asset issuer knows all investors can see exactly when and how much is taken from the company funds.Go further ... a motion is required to pass before the withdrawal can be made. Motion fixes the amount maybe even an expiration date too.Less extreme ... Another user (the company treasurer) has to co-authorise all (or a subset) of withdrawals of the company funds.Limit the rate at which withdrawals can be made.Build all configurable bits of above into the contract.Contract is locked until a motion is passed agreeing to changes.Implement most of the above and you could swipe the majority of the customers of the other exchanges in under a week. The Enron boss got 24 years in prison. What's the Bitcoin community equivalent punishment to deter repeats of such behaviour? I think the ability for asset issuers to remain anonymous is a selling point of the exchange for some potential businesses.However, I expect asset issuers to fully justify to potential investors why they should remain anonymous and accept that a greater reward may be demanded to cover the greater risk.I agree there is still room for a further exchange (or "sub" exchange) which mandates full verification and public disclosure, to the level of that seen with, for example, Companies House and Director Check in England i.e. http://wck2.companieshouse.gov.uk and http://companycheck.co.uk/company/07995878 and http://company-director-check.co.uk/director/916764162. On the tenuous assumption that BitFlowSystems was only a mining company ...50 BTC appears to have been spent on mining hardware by WiseOldOwl on behalf of the company, which being a company asset, should therefore be sold at the best price achievable.WiseOldOwl should provide receipts covering all company expenditure on this mining hardware.WiseOldOwl should arguably keep 51% of the proceeds from this, with the remaining 49% being returned to investors.I suggest WiseOldOwl seeks an offer from the cafe owners identified in early posts within the thread and raises a motion so that investors can decide whether the offer is fair value for the identified assets.150 BTC of expenditure is completely unaccounted for. This is assumed to be held in cash by the company at this date. 100% of this should be returned to the investors - WiseOldOwl has no claim whatsoever on this.To date WiseOldOwl has repaid 40 BTC to investors.In the absence of any further justification of what expenditure occurred by WiseOldOwl on behalf of the company and on the assumption that 50% resale is achieved for the mining hardware, this leaves a debt of 135 BTC to be repaid to investors.Should WiseOldOwl wish to challenge this figure, WiseOldOwl is required to provide full records of any additional expenditure identified.WiseOldOwl should work with Nefario to ensure that the ownership records of the shares in BitFlowSystems prior to delisting are recovered so that all investors are paid fairly and proportionally.I will be charging 1% interest on the outstanding debt for every week it remains unpaid starting today. I urge all other investors to do the same. Interesting idea. Please put together a business plan and post link for download here. For an investment of this size I expect to see content of the level provided in this post for example - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=82866.msg913181#msg913181As this exchange performs no validation of asset issuers and I can see no valid reason for you wishing to remain anonymous - please ensure sources to build trust / validate trust are included. I've simply asked for a full and proper account of where the investment money was spent.A whole lot more professionalism and a whole lot less deflection is required here.Show some respect, have some dignity and answer the legitimate questions of all those who put their trust in you - that is the only "favour" I will ask of you. Subbed. I'm really quite amazed by the behaviour of WiseOldOwl ...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=89114https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=89127https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=88551Everything seems like it was so difficult for him and he apparently thinks he can just return to the community having made a token repayment of the money invested in BitFlowSystems, all will be forgiven, everything will be forgotten as easily as he seems to forget and he can start out on another project without a stain on his character.I won't be forgetting this. I urge anyone considering entering into any sort of business arrangement with WiseOldOwl to read the entirety of this thread - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=18197.0I would recommend others steer well clear of WiseOldOwl until he either justifies what was done with the funds invested in that project and/or repays the investors.Not to be trusted. I urge anyone considering entering into any sort of business arrangement with WiseOldOwl to read the entirety of this thread - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=18197.0I would recommend others steer well clear of WiseOldOwl until he either justifies what was done with the funds invested in that project and/or repays the investors.Not to be trusted. Still waiting for the promised information. Cumulatively a significant chunk of investment money is unaccounted for.You talked previously of discussions with lawyers, $10,000 investments from initial investors etc ... so either this was a significant endeavour OR you don't consider the large number of small individual investments made in Bitcoin through GLBSE to be as important. You need to explain exactly what you spent our money on.If you really want to repair your reputation in this community you need to sort this out now, enough excuses.As it stands, I won't be trusting anything you do or any services / products you offer and will be recommending others have nothing to do with you either. Fantastic news. I would be willing to switch from glbse with a superior range of order support particularly expiration, max and min etc ...My only concern is trust. It will take time to earn that through demonstrated good CS, reliability etc ...Have you considered escrow of a contingency fund of a relative size to that being traded. Lodging funds with someone trusted already and demonstrably held, would be good. Bear in mind that a sizeable chunk of the potential investor population will want to remain anonymous. There are a few reasons for this; that's just the personality Bitcoin attracts (given it's properties as a currency), investing with/in Bitcoin is illegal / legally untested in the country of residence of the investor, exposure as an investor in Bitcoin / Bitcoin businesses would damage the reputation of the investor ...I would certainly aim to ensure that investor registration of any kind is not required, or accept that requiring such will limit the volume and rate of investment.I would personally consider investing in an asset which did mandate investor registration, however, I would expect additional reward for the higher risk that accompanies limiting the investor demand for that asset.Of course, much of the reasoning for investors wanting to remain anonymous is equally applicable to asset issuers, however, again, I think it appropriate that investors expect additional reward to compensate for the higher risk that generates too. I'm all for competition but someone with less than double digit posts has an awful lot of trust building to do before they can reasonably expect anyone to risk investing through their platform.You got the approach with fee structure correct unlike other competitor exchanges - no "joining fee". However, you seem to have made a mistake with your fees too ...Every one of them is greater than the equivalent fee on GLBSE (https://glbse.com/portfolio/fees) and you charge fees for services that GLBSE doesn't.Clearly GLBSE is the major player in this market, so your fees have to be very similar or your service needs to offer something significant that GLBSE does not - so what do you offer that warrants that differential ? Yes, a single payment was received from WiseOldOwl by Nefario representing a total of ~17% of the investment made by those buying in at the IPO price of 0.01 BTC.The BitFlowSys asset was removed during the GLBSE 1.0 to GLBSE 2.0 transfer.I lost a total of ~5.22 BTC. Nothing major but still felt conned. However multiplied across all the investors when BTC was trading at ~$18, it was a pretty significant sum of money, and will be again in the future. A significant loss for the community. Once you give a satisfactory and full explanation of what assets / expenditure the remaining 83% of my investment was spent on, I'll decide whether I'll ever trust you again. Subbed.Personal note - research and comment on whether escrow is necessary. What premium will these be offered at over the price on the other exchange ?
Absolutely not.There are obvious genuine reasons for not wanting to verify ...Projects/businesses seeking funding for activities which are legally untested (or outright illegal) in the country of operation - remember Bitcoin itself falls into that category in many - e.g. now almost certainly Ethopia - http://allafrica.com/stories/201206180068.html.One of the main reasons I am involved with Bitcoin is to ensure that the capital of everyone (not just the banksters, oligarchs, dictators ...) is able to flow freely - I would almost certainly withdraw my support of GLBSE should any such move be made.I fully understand why GLBSE provides the optional service of verification for asset owners and actively encourage it - it is an essential means of maximising investor confidence and should be viewed by asset owners are a superb differentiator, however, it should never be made mandatory. Time for asset owners to justify there lack of transparency. I've got plenty more to invest when asset owners act to nullify some further risk for me. Interesting. I'm liking all the new opportunities coming up on GLBSE. Will be following your progress and hopefully investing. Verification isn't about guarding against impersonation, it is about having sufficient details to collectively take legal action should this turn out to be a scam. Unless the activities the fund will be investing in are going to be "grey" from a legal perspective (e.g. I fully understand why the owner of the BitcoinTorrentz asset remains unverified), I see no reason to protect your privacy.Without that full verification, you will get little interest from those with significant funds to invest and the fund will be all the worse for it.Maybe a better way of approaching this is to ask why you feel the need to remain anonymous ?  I'll require full verification be completed before I'll contemplate investing.Besides that, please share your business background. What history/experience do you have as a venture capitalist ? What's the biggest success and biggest failure to date ? What do you consider sets you apart ? What makes this fund different from the many other venture capital style funds available and GLBSE platform in general ? Why would I want to place a further level of risk between me and the ventures ? Your question makes no sense. I suggest you rewrite it. Agreed the sentence can be interpreted either way - over to mjcmurfy to clarify whether we are being asked to consider an INCREASE in dividend frequency to once every two weeks or a DECREASE in frequency to once every two months.Price wise I would be comparing to this service - https://www.giganews.com/signupThen add a premium for the true anonymity provided from BTC payment for the service.Looks to me that the current 0.05 BTC/GB price is about right - attractively low to encourage a building of the user base and repeated custom.mjcmurgy ...   What is happening with the server hosting ?   When does the existing contract end ?   Is that still being provided by you at no cost to the BitCoinTorrentz.com company ?   How much longer will that continue ?   How much further can the userbase / usage expand before it will have to obtain it's own server hosting (presumably at the same location) ?   Should we consider obtaining it's own server to improve uptime / reliability ?   Do you feel that is impacting userbase growth / usage at all ?   Do you think it would be beneficial to increase advertising spending ?   What maximum monthly increase in userbase / usage could the service (you, the server and the software) cope with ?   How do you think we should go about achieving that ? (Is part of the driver of your question on whether the price should be dropped motivated by that ?)   Essentially I'm asking if the price were to drop by an "extreme" amount (P%) and we get an increase in usage of >P% (so that overall profit is greater) - what breaks first ?      The monthly (?) data limit for the server, the bandwidth limit for simultaneous torrent download, the bandwidth limit for simultaneous HTTP completed file download,      the software, your ability to deal with customer support issues (questions, complaints etc ...), the toleration of other users / services also using the server ?   The last thing I would want at this time is to drop the price and see an unsustainable increase in usage resulting in the free server resource being withdrawn.   I'm trying to think ahead to the company operation a year, 3 years and (ever optimistically) 10 years from now :O) What are your projections of how usage will change with such a price change ?How did usage change with previous price changes / deals ?Are the Usage Statistics for this month available ?What are your longer terms plans for the company ? Expansion, new services, new features etc ... ?My gut feeling on the price is that unless competition for the service appears, the price should not be dropped.The completely anonymous download service this company provides is still unique as far as I am aware.Regarding the dividend schedule, given the company is still relatively young, I would be expecting to see dividends (and perhaps more importantly Usage Statistics) continue on the monthly frequency, so investors can keep a close eye on how their investment (and the company and you) is/are performing.A move to dividends every 2 months would, at this stage of the company, unfortunately, be a driver for me to de-invest, possibly completely. That comment was only in regard to the jokey comment ...I would expect significant assistance from GLBSE should any verified asset owner behave in a similar fraudulent manner as Tawsix did.Personally, I wouldn't risk much at all in any unverified asset owner unless there was an extremely good justification for why they are unverified - for example the pot growing asset being discussed.While my own financial loss from investing in SIN was minimal, I am extremely annoyed by the damage it did to investor confidence in Bitcoin, GLBSE etc ...Tawsix has to be punished for that and actively prevented from repeating his behaviour.The optional verification process should prove to be an excellent guard against such - hopefully we won't need an acid test.I am curious which specific assets Sukrim was referring to, though my appetite for mining related investment is minimal to non existent at this time. Subbed. More stock exchange competition. Excellent. I'm sure I remember seeing a young man doing a piece to camera inside an SUV style car. It was parked in some car park so as to protect his location. Still be useful to get a copy as evidence and for further investigation. If they are verified then I would expect considerable assistance from GLBSE. We are paying for a fully released service now after all and upholding the integrity of the exchange is paramount to continued success/existence. Did anyone take a copy of the video he made?Some grabs from that and Tineye with suitable filters ...Revenge is going to be so sweet. Pissing off so many people at such a young age was not a smart move. Would love to invest in this (sick of mining funds - no imagination) but the 20 BTC fee to join the exchange is prohibitively expensive.With Bitcoin where it is today, I can't afford risk investing anything more than an additional $1000 in total.No way am I paying 10% of that to the exchange.Too greedy.Made even worse by the fact that the only investment available on the exchange that I would currently want to invest in is S.BVPS.Catch 22 - too few investments - too few investors - too high fees - too small market. Subbed. I like the proposal and will keenly follow it's development. Certainly more interesting than yet another GLBSE mining fund :O) I've reposted my sell order at 0.21 BTC / share.When can we expect further purchases to refund investors ? Subbed. Should prove very useful. Thanks for sharing. Excellent news. Will you be releasing the code under an open source licence ? I would require this in order to run any node of such an exchange - same as the Bitcoin client itself. Will you operate in competition with GLBSE or through it ? Potato / Potatoe, Tomato / Tomatoe :O) ... I get what you mean though ... all incorporated into the current risk assessment ;O)I'd quite like to invest a bit in the BIOETHANOL asset too, but there is a similar lack of verification and information in general.Meh ... BTCs waiting guys/gals ...
Do horses always keep the name they start out with in US racing ? Once you are verified on GLBSE I will begin investing.I want some exposure to rare earth elements, however, I am not willing to invest anything in an asset which is completely unverified.The amount I will invest depends on the risk which depends completely on how many of the verification steps you complete.When do you expect to have completed one of the verification steps and when do you expect to have completed them all ? Maybe this is stupid and soppy but I would like to make a payment (5% or so of what I had invested) towards some form of treat for her for the effort she did put in during training etc ...I've no idea whether something like these are recommended http://www.thesaddleryshop.co.uk/P/Super_Tasty_Crunchies-(2842).aspx, I'll leave you to decide what's most suitable for her.Please confirm your GLBSE username and I will make the BTC transfer through that.Your efforts are much appreciated and thanks for bringing something new and different to GLBSE.I hope we can try again with a different horse at a later date or maybe even a selection of horses to spread some of the risk around.As a sign of my faith and confidence I pledge 250% of my original investment to any new horse(s) you choose. That sounds like a good plan.Would also assist in building up trust and confidence while at the same time exposing investors to the type of assets such a fund would eventually take on.My understanding is that most REITs pay quarterly dividends. Are there any that pay more frequently or should we start to encourage GLBSE investors to be a little longer term in their investing ? I really like this idea.Maybe have a percentage of the properties where tenants pay rent in BTC if the idea proves less palatable for other investors. Nothing is stopping you from investing in 1000btc and hoarding them too.Think about such a fund if you would like to own a small piece of many properties, while starving corrupt Banksters of as much of your wealth as possible. Of course. Stupid me. I hadn't considered indicating subscription like that but makes excellent sense. What does this mean?Seen it a few times now. I would be interested subject to the same and only with the conversion option detailed in post earlier. A 50,000 BTC fund is small ?Fair enough. What experience and credentials as a fund manager do you have ?How long have you been involved with bitcoin and using GLBSE ?Trust isn't such an issue as before, as I assume you will be fully verifying with GLBSE ?What monthly dedicated time commitment will you be making ? Please state hours.I may be willing to provide access to trading tools which could improve your performance as a fund manager but let's get the basic questions out the way first.This is the sort of fund I am looking for. Warning griefer detected. Hide by default but provide an ability to include them if the user chooses. BUMPI have update the URL I am using for the current difficulty and the way the JSON for exchange rate is parsed - suitable values should now be provided by default.Unfortunately, the replacement provided by blockchain.info for the blockexplorer q API has no nethash method so the functionality utilising that has been discontinued for the time being. If someone knows of a suitable replacement for that URL, let me know and I will add it back. Well I for one sold my LIF.A shares to Peter at what he led us to believe was the best price we could hope for. If there are any remaining LIF.A assets, I will be seeking my share of their realised value.What a fucking mess.PETER - Your management fees were for professionally operating and winding up these funds. Do your fucking job, rather than expecting others to clear up your mess. To be blunt Nefario ... a far greater than reasonable number of companies listed on GLBSE have gone belly up with the CEO vanishing with all the invested money. That is of the ones that looked reasonable to begin with and discounts those that were obviously scams from the beginning.The "poster child" LIF shares were the final straw for many existing or potential investors.UBX was lauded as a "poster child" too and has ended equally badly.Early adopters have collectively lost massive amounts. They would be your best form of advertising.Frankly, the success rate needs to be better than those listed on the mainstream fiat currency stock exchanges, to offset the inherent risk that the Bitcoin currency itself has. I am starting to wonder if that is ever going to be possible, as I don't think the implied ROI can be achieved long term by any business. No, it is not stupid. However, what is stupid is commenting on the actions of other people without bothering to read the previous posts ...I put a sell order up at the price I am willing to accept, notified Peter via this thread and Peter has not yet filled it.I noted earlier that requesting payments be sent to an address was less than ideal, however, it appears someone, possibly Peter, sent the requested payment to the address specified by another investor. Given the lack of communication with Peter, I am certainly willing to try the same. Fair enough.@Peter - My silence will cost 5 BTCs. Please send to this address 13Wu7W7jmjQot7xnqogHYSmUmR1MzyB3YE I really disagree with that position.Following on from that, will GLBSE be introducing a minimum age for asset issuers ? If so, what age verification will GLBSE be performing ?I am all for youth opportunity but you shouldn't be able to "just lose interest" when other people have invested their hard earned money.Further, this company has a significant cash reserve. What steps will GLBSE be taking to ensure investors get back the most they can of their money ?A robust reaction by GLBSE to this behaviour is required. I don't think there should be any further dealing outside of GLBSE.Actions have been significantly lacking in transparency as it is. The independent records of share transactions provided by GLBSE are very necessary going forward. Thanks for the heads up Obsi. I will donate once I've got some spare BTCs. Cheers.
Love the set of videos of Satoshi's Daemon on Youtube (http://www.youtube.com/user/EvansTBRacing).Great to see the improvements in our horse.Pleased with my investment in this. Bump.Just want to give Bitcoin Swami a final opportunity to maintain his reputation here. Anyone know what's happened to cuddlefish ?I believe he did worked with Nefario, so I am assuming he isn't one of the many GLBSE asset scammers. Bump.PBJ - Are you still there ? Bump. Another month passes.Is this going to be yet another asset issuer who fails to keep promises ? Wow. Just realised how many investors have ask offers up for less than 0.25 BTC. You guys are incredibly forgiving. With the information that Peter has come forward with thus far and his behaviours to date, I am not accepting anything less than 0.25 BTC / share.My ask offer is up as 20 at 0.25 BTC - I expect Peter to honour it.There is definitely a place for a stock exchange which ensures quality in the assets it lists through far greater verification/validation of asset issuers.Unless GLBSE makes significant improvements in this area, it won't be them taking that place. I have sold my LIF.A shares. Although the losses I have suffered were high in % terms, they are reasonable with regards to what that fund was investing in.With regard to below, personally, over the last 6 or so months, I did see Peter asking the volume and type of questions I would have expected of someone running the sort of investment funds he appears to have been running.I find the removal of such posts, and many others, together with the removal of the blog content and lifunds.com content, unusual to say the least. These are not the behaviours of someone who wishes to remain 100% transparent in their actions.The losses that would be realised from the selling of my shares in LIF.CX to the current bids are unacceptable without a significantly more detailed explanation. Further, I can't be expected to make a fair and reasonable ask offer, without knowing why so much was lost. I don't understand how the LIF.CX fund can go from paying a reasonable dividend one week, and then the following week have lost 90+% of it's value - assuming the current bid orders are Peter's.@Peter - I would really like an explanation on that.@Peter - Could you please confirm which of the LIF, LIF.A, LIF.B and LIF.CX bids are yours ? Agreed.More explanation is necessary. This is extremely disappointing.It is also unclear whether the current bids for the LIF.A and LIF.CX assets are Peter's.I would like clarification on that from Peter. That's a failing of the GLBSE system itself. It shouldn't be necessary for those creating a motion to specify the asset it is related to - that information is almost certainly part of the data associated with the motion already.Raise it as a "feature request" with the GLBSE team. Hi Optimal.You've made a mistake with your sums ...That buy order repaid 36 of my 66 bonds.That leaves 30 remaining.I've put a sell order up for those 30 at the 0.69117647 BTC price.I trust you will be buying these very shortly to conclude our business. @TiniebrasI'm not posting here for your enjoyment. I am posting here because this is the communication channel Tawsix opted to utilise for communication between himself and shareholders. I am "shouting" and "yelling" because Tawsix is refusing to listen to the shareholders.Had I been given the information I have repeatedly requested, which I am fully entitled to as a shareholder faced with the question of whether the company I invested in be liquidated, I may well have voted for liquidation. Unfortunately, due to Tawsix's failings, I wasn't given that opportunity. No reason why that information is being withheld has been given by Tawsix.I just want the figures required to perform an accurate calculation along the lines of what you made in your post below.That is not unreasonable in the slightest.Why should Tawsix ignore shareholders ? For future reference, GLBSE is currently fully accessible and the depth for OPTIMALBITCOIN asset is as follows ...ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-client$ ./bmc.py depth OPTIMALBITCOINEnter passphrase: bids --:-- [[1, 80000000]]asks --:-- [[3, 89999990], [1, 100000000], [11, 100000000], [10, 100000000], [25, 100000000], [10, 100000000], [54, 100000000], [2, 110000000]] WHAT THE FUCK WOULD WE BE SELLING ?!?COMPANY ASSET LIST NOW YOU LAZY SOD !!!!!!! Do you think Tawsix has the technical competency to operate a FPGA cluster ?Do you think there is sufficient confidence in Tawsix among the current investors in SIN and the wider Bitcoin investment community ?FPGA boards are an even more risky proposition than the GPU mining rigs, given the high risk that Tawsix won't have the long term commitment necessary to run the boards long enough to achieve any reasonable ROI for investors.If Tawsix had proven himself capable of delivering on the promises he made during the IPO - commitment, openness, honesty, transparency, frequent communication, consulting shareholders, reliable payment of dividends, strong returns on investments made by shareholders ...If Tawsix hadn't tried to justify unfair acquisition of shares with bills for items / services he stated would be free ...I wouldn't think twice about further support and investment in him.As it stands, I want ...(1) Secured, shareholder only communication through a suitable medium chosen by Tawsix and notified to shareholders through a "fake motion" on GLBSE(2) Complete list of all company assets(3) Copies of purchase receipts for all company assets showing purchase date and price(4) All company assets liquidated(5) Copies of sale receipts for all company showing sale date and price(6) Proceeds distributed to all legitimate shareholdersI don't consider any of that unreasonable. Indeed it is all standard procedure in the winding up of a company.The longer Tawsix takes to complete these, the longer the assets are sat idle earning the shareholders nothing and the less the shareholders get in resale for their assets.Chances are I will then invest my share of the proceeds back into a competitor (who I would expect to be moving to FPGA boards in the short/medium term) who has met their promises to shareholders, showing themselves to be professional and competent. @dmcurserThanks for bringing this to the attention of myself and the other shareholders. Much appreciated.@OPTIMALBITCOINI'd like a response from you on this. Nefario states in the linked thread on the GLBSE forums that he spoke to you recently. Are you saying that he did not ?Nefario will be able to provide details of when the relevant accounts were accessed. At this stage, it appears you were able to remove the sell order if you wanted to.The costs of your failure to do so should not be beared by those who invested in your endeavour in good faith.EDIT : with -> who I wouldn't trust Tawsix in any further business dealings. He had a chance to prove himself, a second chance, a third chance ... nothing.I'd vote liquidation right now, but I am obviously entitled to know what's being liquidated before I agree to it.Tawsix seems to think dragging this out longer will weaken the resolve of shareholders - I see quite the opposite. @Bitcoin SwamiAre you still buying back shares from shareholders to repay them ?What do you consider a fair price ? I'm unsure what would be fair given the BTCUSD change, the dividends paid to date and not knowing what return on purchase price you achieved for the company assets.I'm assuming the share price in BTC should have increased proportionally to the drop in USD value of BTC - but this depends on the BTCUSD exchange rate you achieved when you purchased hardware.Although my personal loss, assuming I get nothing more than the dividends to date is manageable, I'm mindful of your understandable desire to preserve your reputation following this. PBJ - what's the latest status ? Have you recovered from the unfortunate problems yet ? What's the total cost and what can your investors hope to recover ?
Bumping again. I'm hoping WiseOldOwl will follow up with Nefario on this ASAP. It is a shame this is taking so long to be resolved. Doesn't reflect well on the parties involved. I am watching your activities and I am impressed so far. You certainly seem to be taking steps to ensure you don't make the mistakes that other mining companies have made.If I see a consistent and reliable set of dividend payouts over a reasonable period - at the moment I am thinking two months, coupled with a continuation of your professional, honest and fair approach, I will be investing. Tawsix - I'm still waiting, as are your other shareholders. I expect a response as swift as the response you gave to the "why don't you buy FPGA boards". What are you hiding from us ? Yes still active. I would move halve my trading and cash there. The competition - in terms of price, reliability and redundancy of both exchanges - would be great for traders.GLBSE were great in the beginning but I am becoming less and less convinced they should remain the sole exchange now.Competition is good for everyone, it gives buyers of services alternatives and drives sellers of services to do better. I refuse to accept any punishment for the actions and behaviours in the business relationships between Optimal Bitcoin Mining Corporation and others.I am responsible ONLY for the actions and behaviours in the business relationship between Optimal Bitcoin Mining Corporation and MYSELF. Any issues you have with the GLBSE stock exchange are purely between yourself and GLBSE. You should seek compensation from GLBSE for all reasonable losses you incur.The significant downtime is not just impacting you - I have been unable to trade (both buying and selling) shares when I wanted to - I have suffered losses as a result too, however, I took reasonable steps to mitigate the risk of such losses (which I considered to be HIGH given the clearly stated BETA status of GLBSE) - something any business does as a matter of course. The term bond is very clear.I agreed a contract with you which very clearly states that I will receive 1 BTC for the significant number of bonds I purchased from you at the time when they were first issued.I have not purchased any subsequent bonds.You are massively damaging any possible future business I (and I suspect many others) will consider conducting with you - including further bond purchases, other investment in your business (other businesses) and purchases of products / services you offer through your businesses. This is possibly the best form of anti-advertising you could possibly have come up with.I demonstrated massive faith and trust in you, considering you to be an honest and trustworthy person.The "rules" you mention are the contract terms and conditions we both agreed to when I purchased the bonds. Tawsix - you've still not detailed what hardware is being liquidated potentially. If you refuse to respond because you doubt I'm a shareholder, then I demand that you post a fake motion linking to somewhere private that you are willing to freely share information and respond to shareholders. Considering Tawsix was taking weeks to respond to shareholders questions here, I consider that 3 day motions show nothing but contempt for the shareholders. TAWSIX - You make it sound like such a lot of effort, so much work. You were running, badly for much of the time, a couple of gaming spec computers and a pretty easily configured piece of software not NASA control centre.Enough with this crap. How does a non-US citizen go about joining a class action suit ? It's likely that the owner(s) have stopped using GLBSE, lost access to the relevant account(s) or have simply accepted full loss. I trashed/lost a few of my accounts while I was playing around with the service and functionality in the early days. I suspect there may well have been a Dishwara share in one of them.So forget amount the last few shares, it may well be impossible for the owners to sell them and they rightly expect nothing from you for those.  MATTHEW - Before you continue criticising others, I suggest you reread the 43 pages of this thread. The numerous actions and inactions of Tawsix are fully documented. Investors, particularly those who put in significant sums are clearly justified in their anger and mistrust. As others have said, the motion is pointless without knowing exactly what the assets of the company are. I'm not going to vote until I have that information. It is unprofessional and unfair for Tawsix to withhold that information any further. I'm rapidly moving back to the position that legal action is the only way this is going to be resolved. Ultimately those with the most to lose are GLBSE - if Tawsix gets away with the USD and/or gets away without punishment, the damage to investor confidence is substantial. Without investors there is no GLBSE. I'm surprised and disappointed we have heard pretty much nothing from them. I'll let you decide what you think is best for the situation. You see that Notify link at the bottom of the page ? ... ;0) At this stage, I would say I am 90% confident I know Tawsix's true identity. However, I am all for second chances, so he has a week to demonstrate a willingness to treat the shareholders the way they deserve.To be frank though, I have already pulled the vast majority of my investment, taking a relatively insignificant hair-cut, leaving me with a reasonable number of shares to be able to critically comment.So, I am very much in spectator mode here, little to lose but very curious to see how others react to the behaviours being exhibited - I am as much interested in Bitcoin for the psychology / sociology aspects of its use (and that of the community around it) as anything else - I find it fascinating. I would be happy to evaluate such information and decide whether I vouch for you or not.Encrypt the information with a password of your choosing. Send the encrypted information to my email address - benny.walsh@gmail.comand PM me on this forum with the password you chose. Nefario is intentionally not the only person supporting GLBSE."ColdHardMetalOur company secretary, also our accountant, drafted our bylaws, rules and regulations. He is my right hand man and the second in command."                                                                                                                                                      https://glbse.com/contact.rhtmlThough I do agree that the contact details should be fully updated to reflect the fact that ColdHardMetal should be supporting customers.I suggest asset creators contact ColdHardMetal through PMs in this forum - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?action=profile;u=2834Tell him the contact details of that page need updating when you do.
I will need to see evidence that you are any more trustworthy, competent, experienced and/or professional than Tawsix.Why should I invest in you ?I will need to know significantly more about you and what you offer.You still aren't listed here - http://companies.herokuapp.com - even though that was pointed out to you more than 2 weeks ago.At an absolute minimum I require every section completed in a company listing.You still haven't posted your bylaws at the address in the contract - even though that was pointed out to you more than 2 weeks ago.These are not the behaviours of a professional who is seeking investment. It is time for either a sacking of Tawsix as CEO or a hostile takeover by one of the other companies.$15,000 is a considerable sum, particularly for those who don't live in the Western world.It is also a sum which attracts considerably higher penalties for theft/fraud, should the other shareholders decide to take that option too.I realise Tawsix is new to much of this and relatively young, however, he is legally (never mind morally) obligated to respond to the questions he is receiving here and the emails he is receiving at . He may believe himself to be hidden but he is truly not - a basic set of Google searches retrieves significant amounts of recent information about his true identity and location - ample to launch a legal case in the USA, should it prove necessary - all of which I have archived. Last chance for him to respond. What is your relationship with the website bitcoincharts.com ? Indeed it is and, for clarity should it be necessary, it certainly isn't you Peter nor Dishwara.There is a distinct absence of professionalism around many of the GLBSE listed companies.I'm not sure why, maybe it is the relatively small user base for Bitcoin, although I would have expected the "early adopters" to be pretty intelligent, skilled (particularly in areas where they seek investment from others to operate), reliable and competent.I still see significant opportunity for GLBSE investors and those offering investment opportunities though I am surprised that it is taking as long as it is for sufficient quality to materialise.Personally, I have enjoyed the opportunity to gain skills I couldn't in the "mainstream" investment world and look forward to developing these further as Bitcoin and GLBSE grows, transferring them into the "mainstream". +1I am very impressed with the way in which you have handled this Dishwara.Even though your first business failed, you have shown yourself to be trustworthy and honest - never claiming to have skills you did not and trying your best.I value what you have done and I hope you will take what you have learned from this experience and prosper in the future.I hope you were able to get justice following the attack and terrible treatment you endured - would you care to share the name and location of the business, so others can ensure they never have dealings with them ?Good luck. I am interested and like the approach you are taking, particularly the significant shareholder voting you intend to utilise.Together with regularly maintaining the identified spreadsheet and text files, please ensure that the vote text and results are made fully public as soon as possible after each vote - this will help to build my perception of how trustworthy you are (your post count is far too low at the moment).Once I have seen a sufficient amount of this, I will make my decision to invest. Did you really just say that Tawsix ?Your 100's of man-hours (and I have seen little to no evidence to suggest anything like that amount of effort has been expended in this operation) have been handsomely compensated by the profits you have been taking, which have been generated as a result of the significant total investment from the SIN shareholders."Our mission is simple: provide an alternative to those who would like to enjoy the income of mining but do not have the money, time, or expertise to operate a dedicated mining rig on their own.  By combining our resources, we can overcome certain limitation that the average individual faces."If you truly had to spend 100's of man-hours, then you never had the expertise you claimed you had at the beginning, which is dishonest at best and fraud at worst.The SIN shareholders collectively own a significant set of assets and I suspect they will shortly be seeking to realise the market value of those assets through liquidation.Many would not hesitate to utilise the full extent of the law to achieve that. Some may well even be lawyers themselves.I suggest you start treating the shareholders with the respect they deserve. Link is here (live and archived) ... make sure you reward the efforts made with a Bitcoin donation too ... http://www.ustream.tv/channel/bitcoin-weekend New alert option provided following user feedback. This is now available - see updated first post.I will adjust the time of day at which the report is sent over the next few weeks, so it is optimal for the majority time zone of subscribers.I will also be developing and providing an ability to customize it to exactly what time of day each individual subscriber desires. This should now be resolved. Let me know if you see any further problems. I would like to obtain a loan of 5 btc please. What would your prices be for HTTPS downloading ?I have some potential customers BUT they want HTTPS for the additional privacy. (They would also require HTTPS to the website itself) What are your thoughts on how the POC went? I don't represent cib.You posted part of a conversation that should have remained private, so I wondered if you would post more.Looked like Zenland wasn't sure who it was complaining at the time - thought I would help him identify you. I consider you one of the best bellweathers on here.No pressure ;0) And your email is ? You do know how Facebook started right ?Regarding the slander ...Equally applicable to individuals.I'm just waiting for something aimed directly at me. I was paid to do testing work for GLBSE - see here : https://glbse.com/contact.rhtmlGuess that means I make money from GLBSE.Anyone that knows me in real life, knows full well that I don't invest my time in something unless I believe in it and consider it worth spending a portion of my finite time on this planet on.There is more than one owner of GLBSE - which you could ascertain from some basic due diligence - it is trivially easy to discover - because there is nothing to hide.You have not perform any of the necessary investigation you should have before making the statement you have.I would tread extremely carefully - you are running the very real risk of being convicted of slander by the various individuals and the businesses you have made statements against so far.(Edited to include the link I missed out) How much are you willing to pay for said service ?
Question for Littleshop ...Have you previously contacted cheaper in bitcoins regarding this order issue ?When ?What response have you received to date ? If you produce a professional quality business plan for this, such as I would expect from a "real world" investment opportunity, which demonstrates to me you are serious and competent, I pledge to match whatever Peter L initially invests in you up to the BTC equivalent of £250.If you deliver ~10% annual return over the first 6 months of operation, I'll double my investment. If you deliver ~10% annual return over the next 6 months, I'll double my investment again.I want Bitcoin to succeed and I will put my hard earned money where my mouth is.If you can offer me three verifiable examples of your solid reputation via sites such as Ebay etc ... I will double the investment pledges made above.Feel free to PM me. That is a whole lot of judgement for someone who doesn't have the courage of conviction to put their name to the piece.Any chance GLBSE or any of the companies slandered get to face their accuser ?Or is identification just something the author feels they can demand of others but not demonstrate of themselves ? *** There is absolutely nothing stopping you from creating a competing stock exchange !!! ***In fact, if you do and it is as functional as GLBSE is right now, I personally pledge to invest £1000 across the companies listed on it and test it for you for free, once it has run for the same period of time that GLBSE has to this date.I pledge to repeat this for each further year it continues to run.Crack on or quit your jibber jabber. We are paying him plenty to do exactly that.He is taking the piss. ... delivery was cheap enough. I suspect this means smaller shops every couple of hundred miles. Sure. I'll add that next. Okey dokey.I'll investigate tomorrow. Probably some sort of encoding mismatch.What OS and release are you on and what browser / email client are you using ?Also, what encoding is your OS set to ? I reckon go with leaving that "functionality" for now and see what usage it gets, verses usage by the one registered user - consider it the "first one's free" method of advertising. Once they are hooked, they may well acquire their own account, to obtain the more (ahem) questionable content - i.e. their own personal tastes in porn. For me, the frequent and informative communication through that spreadsheet was a key reason for my initial and subsequent investment,As a mining company I think the effort of daily communication and div payout is necessary.Once this company is sufficiently developed I would be happy with say five times the content every two weeks. What are other investors thoughts on this?  Fantastic response so far. Many more subscribers than I had expected. :O) LOL No pun intended? ;0) Still waiting on answers to the questions posed. Very interesting service.I will be watching this thread closely before deciding on whether to invest or not. I am ready to make further investment in IBB. Before doing so I want more information, in the form of roadmaps for the "joint ventures". Announcing GLBSE AlertThis is a new beta service which will alert you via email to events which take place in GLBSE.The first event option is to be alerted when a new asset is listed on GLBSE.This will save you trawling through the Twitter feed for trade or sell tweets for new assets or remembering to check BitcoinCharts regularly.I built the service for my own use but believe there is value in making it available to other users of GLBSE.You will receive an email alert with simple content similar to the following ...---------------------------------------------------------The following new shares were listed on GLBSE ...    SDMTrading details of newly listed shares ...    Asset : SDM    Issues : 10000    Issues on sale : 3886 (38.86%)    Min ask : 9900000    Max bid : 4000000    Last trade : 4000000---------------------------------------------------------I have plans to increase the range/style of alerts you can receive, combining various conditions to decide whether to alert, and increase the capacity of the service, if there is sufficient demand.This service is provided completely independently of GLBSE. I have no access to the GLBSE user database and have no way to correlate GLBSE user activities to email addresses. Your activities on GLBSE remain completely anonymous.I hope this service can help in some small way to stimulate usage of GLBSE, trading in GLBSE listed assets and transacting in Bitcoins.To subscribe to this service simply send an email to glbsealertemails+subscribe.newasset@gmail.comPlease use this topic to discuss this service further - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=42454.0 I've not decided on what I will keep the polling period at yet, still experimenting.Once a day is far too long in my opinion - potentially that would mean an alert wouldn't be triggered for an asset until just under 24 hours after it was listed.At the moment it is every 10 minutes, which I think is a reasonable level.I do intend to take it down to seconds, to make other services I intend to provide more valuable - maybe this will mean a premium account payment for GLBSE (to support the extra server usage / traffic this would create) and consequently a premium account for this and the other services - very much TBD.An alert goes out for the initial asset listing (with the long hex string) and an alert goes out for the ticker listing too - I may extend the service to give an option to ignore initial asset listing, if people want it - personally I want both alerts.There can be trading activity for an asset within the up to 10 minute period before an alert goes out - I treat such activity as a good indication of the investment potential of the newly listed asset. Excellent. They have now committed a crime.Looks like the bitcointalk.org server is hosted in USA.What's the US equivalent to the UK's Computer Misuse Act ? GLBSE Alert* Development and maintenance of this service is only possible through your kind donations - please give generously - 1GchXXA9keBVsKx4NXqBjyBytxrLGpuRDx *This is a new beta service which will alert you via email to events which take place in GLBSE.The first event option is to be alerted when a new asset is listed on GLBSE.This will save you trawling through the Twitter feed for trade or sell tweets for new assets or remembering to check BitcoinCharts regularly.I built the service for my own use but believe there is value in making it available to other users of GLBSE.You will receive an email alert with simple content similar to the following ...---------------------------------------------------------The following new shares were listed on GLBSE ...    SDMTrading details of newly listed shares ...    Asset : SDM    Issues : 10000    Issues on sale : 3886 (38.86%)    Min ask : 9900000    Max bid : 4000000    Last trade : 4000000---------------------------------------------------------I have plans to increase the range/style of alerts you can receive, combining various conditions to decide whether to alert, and increase the capacity of the service, if there is sufficient demand.This service is provided completely independently of GLBSE. I have no access to the GLBSE user database and have no way to correlate GLBSE user activities to email addresses. Your activities on GLBSE remain completely anonymous.I hope this service can help in some small way to stimulate usage of GLBSE, trading in GLBSE listed assets and transacting in Bitcoins.To subscribe to this alert simply send an email to glbsealertemails+subscribe.newasset@gmail.comFollowing user feedback, a further alert option is now available ...Exactly the same as above except the email is sent every 24 hours rather than immediately - perfect for those who just want a record of what has been listed over the last day.To subscribe to this alert simply send an email to glbsealertemails+subscribe.newasset.daily@gmail.comIf you would like a bespoke alert for a particular event - please email glbsealertemails+bespoke@gmail.com with details.* Development and maintenance of this service is only possible through your kind donations - please give generously - 1GchXXA9keBVsKx4NXqBjyBytxrLGpuRDx *
Fair enough.Unfortunately, I think everything Bitcoin is off by around a factor of 10 at the moment ... the Bitcoin userbase, the USD value of BTC, the GLBSE userbase, the number of GLBSE listed companies, the amounts in BTC getting raised from IPOs ... I'm sure they are all correlated and if I knew how ... maybe I am just being too impatience :O) WiseOldOwl ...Can you please summarise the finances, expenditure and remaining assets of the company to date ? Can you please elaborate on the refund schedule ?For what it is worth, I have placed an ask up for my 629 shares at 0.009 BTC each - meaning a 10% loss on the small amount I could afford to invest.If you wish to refund me at 90% by buying these back please do so, or if someone else wants to make an easy 10% ... Firstly an apology ...It seems I may have misinterpreted your earlier statements - I mistakenly thought the totality of the issued BZ shares represented 25% of the business Bitcoin Bazaar.I now realise that the totality of the issued BZ shares represents 100% of Bitcoin Bazaar and that you own 750,000 of the 1,000,000 shares issued to date (i.e. 75%).Apologies to everyone else for any confusion my confusion may have caused ;O)Moving on ..."And how much will you be investing on your p(r)oject?"Can you please state how much cash you will be putting into the company ?As an investor, I can accept that you might not pay the full amount for your 75% of the shares, but I would most certainly require that a significant sum is put into the business and risked by you.This will also help to demonstrate to other investors a suitable level of commitment of your time to the business too.Regarding your other answers to my questions - I am happy with the majority of the responses, particularly your intention to obtain LLC status - this will be very significant in gaining sufficient trust from investors, to reach the funding levels you need to get started.The only major concerns ...     You do not consider that you have any competitors - I am worried why exactly you thought this and wonder if you still do ?     You are valuing the business very highly - while it shows a level of ambition, without any trading figures to back it up ... it is a high value for an idea.Assuming funding meets the levels stated earlier - what are your financial and user base projections for your first year of trading ?The business has significant costs to meet in USD, particularly during the initial startup - how are you intending to manage the risk that BTC volatility presents ?Where do you expect the business to be in 1, 3 and 10 years ? There was to be a motion on whether the profits from this month's mining would be reinvested into the company or not. Also the communication with investors has been more than adequate for the first month and a bit of a startup - have you ever invested in a startup before ? Rancidi was bitching about excessive communication ... and I see he is back to provide further digs - sigh ... some of the people, some of the time.Did you read the business plan ? Did you provide any constructive criticism on it ?There is clearly still a market for what PBJ is going to be offering here and company assets to more than support the last trade price - seems the votes (through the bids and asks of GLBSE for PBJ) support this too. I would certainly buy more shares at the price you traded at.While checking for a raised motion, I note that it looks to me like the motion functionality of the GLBSE server is currently broken, at least it is through the 2.0 version of the Python client.Any others having problems with motions through the web client ? (I don't have any access to my BTC wallet at the moment to test with an additional PBJ share in the web client) Neither.There are always non monetary costs to "free".Even if it is just the lack of professionalism, as shown here.What is your objective in making public one side of a story in which your offer of "free" services and products was rejected?It has harmed your reputation - I'm now less likely to consider using your products and services, even with zero monetary cost.I get offers of "free" business services all the time and ignore almost all of them. I certainly don't expect those offering to then go and tell all my past, present and future customers and investors - which is exactly what you've now done.  Cheap negative advertising then. Congratulations.Hope you find a buyer for your products and services. You expect far too much far too soon.For now we should reward the small scale businesses that demonstrate professionalism, realism and honesty, while providing frequent, quality communication with shareholders and meeting the deadlines for dividends etc... that they agreed to.From these we can build to the higher value investments you seek. I'm hoping that's where LIF.VC, BST or IBB come in.I think we need to demonstrate a healthy demand, to stimulate the supply. Excellent. Thanks for the swift response.I shall be diversifying into LIF once I've seen some healthy returns from my recent LIF.A and LIF.B investments.I am also very interested in the LIF.VC and will be intrigued to see how you position it against IBB and BST.Thanks for bringing some quality investment opportunities to GLBSE. Quick question if I may ...I understand that LIF.A and LIF.B shares own a part of the shares / other assets that have been purchased with the BTC funds raised through their sale.What assets does the holder of shares in LIF have part ownership of ? FYI - I've spotted a typo / suggest an improved on your website - "Dividend" -> "Dividend per share" on this page - http://lifunds.com/b.htm What's the latest on this entry in the finances ? ...     bitcoin2cc   2x$200 visa NEVER DELIVERED, contacted support no responseThey still seem to be operating, as the website is functioning and available.Doesn't seem to be any significant number of posts suggesting a scam.Also not clear on the $600 that was delivered by them through earlier purchases - I assume this has been banked somewhere ?Smart move in trading the BTC/USD if so ... maybe now would be the time to buy BTC unless their is a specific reason to keep that much USD available. Peeps, I'm sorry to say, but I'm outta here. I'll be back when the share price reflects the return vs risk or vice versa. EDIT : Excellent. Thanks for that. Further evidence regarding comms and professionalism ;O)Okey dokey.I don't see any problem with that, as long as you make a real clear post to this thread, when you change from paying 5000 of your shares a dividend.At the moment, that is where the vast majority of your financial competitive advantage over SIN is coming from.You are light years ahead of SIN in terms of communication and professionalism.I far prefer your daily dividend approach.I have purchased 60 shares in SMM with funds from the sale of most of my SIN shares - it will be interesting to see how many others reach the same conclusions and investment decisions.Thanks for bringing a higher quality of investment opportunity to GLBSE. In addition to the Ignore "button", it would be highly beneficial to have an indication that a post has been edited after posting.Beyond that, it would be fantastic if each version of the post was also available.Also, to address some of the other concerns - a mandatory "justification" for why a particular post or topic was removed by a moderator would be useful to. I am interested to know too. Will be interesting to see how the performance of my portfolio compares to these - I may well give up spending my time on management and just pay you the 5% - that said I sort of enjoy it ;O) I have a further, very significant in light of the behaviour of other GLBSE company CEOs, set of questions ...(21) What other businesses do you own / partly own ?(22) What other businesses do you operate / partly operate ?(23) What is your current occupation ?(24) How many hours per week will you aim to commit to BZ operations / activities ? Could someone post the dividend/share for each of the days on which a dividend has been paid please ?I am trying to do a competitive analysis of SMM vs SIN and unfortunately the Google Spreadsheet for SMM only gives the total dividend payout rather than the more useful dividend/share figure. I can infer the total number of shares which are receiving a dividend from that total payout but I would like the actual figures themselves for the analysis.Thanks in advance. Seconded. The lack of communication with investors was really starting to spook me. Hopefully we can expect a lot more info on what's happening from now on.It would be great to see some figures on usage and revenue, now the site has been operating for a while - I'm in the mood for a little more investing ;O)Aren't we nearing a dividend payout ? The contract states quarterly. Certainly looking forward to it. I am certainly interested in investing in this sort of Bitcoin company - it is great to see another investment opportunity on GLBSE in something other than mining :O)Before I invest, I have some questions which I would like you to answer ...(1) Who are you ? What is your background ?(2) What other user names do you use / have you used on this forum ?(3) What makes BZ unique in the marketplace ?(4) Who do you consider the top 5 competitors to BZ ?(5) How will you compete against each of them ?(6) What is your target merchant ?(7) What would be the average annual revenue in BTC of a typical merchant ?( What would be the average annual profit in BTC of a typical merchant ?(9) What, if any, restrictions would you place on what a merchant can sell through BZ ?(10) What will your pricing model be for these merchants ?(11) How do you intend to promote / advertise to these merchants ?(12) How have you reached a current valuation of 40,000 BTC for BZ ?(13) Where is BZ registered ?(14) How many people are employed by BZ and what are the terms of each of their employment ?(15) What assets does BZ currently own ? (What would the shareholders be acquiring a 25% ownership of ?)(16) When do you intend to start allowing merchants to operate through BZ ?(17) Who owns the remaining 75% of BZ ?(18) Do you intend to pay dividends to share owners ? If so, at what frequency ?(19) What business information will you make available to shareholders ? At what frequency ?(20) What is your objective in selling 25% of Bitcoin Bazaar through GLBSE ?
WiseOldOwl ...Could you please go back and review what you have (or rather haven't) said to the investors, particularly over the last two months. This thread represents the sole method of communication between them and you.What you are now saying is a significant turn around in both tone and content - almost to the point where I wonder whether the account has been compromised.You might want to consider the impact on your reputation of what you are saying and doing right now.  What has our contract got to do with these "large investors"?Why has it taken till now for you to decide GLBSE is unfit for purpose?I assume you will provide an opportunity for all existing investors to join these "large investors" in this separate project?Just so we are all clear here ... you are saying none of the funds raised from sales of BitFlowSys shares has been withdrawn from GLBSE?What has funded bitcoinbux.com?  Looks like the hashrate graphs are going to be discontinued from September 1st - http://shrp.me/sin/What are you doing about this Tawsix ?If these are lost, I think the damage to investor confidence might be irreparable.Uploaded with ImageShack.us Seconded.Rannici - go do something productive - I suggest self sterilisation. What's the latest on the company ? Seconded.For the compensation he is receiving we should be seeing 15+ hours of work from him each week. If this is still the RMA process then get your arse into gear and start complaining. Also name and shame the company, so we and the wider Bitcoin community know to avoid them.Next step is for shareholders to reconsider the dividend vs CEO compensation balance.It is clear that the projections on ROI period made in the original video presentation are well out - what are the reasons for this? Though Rannici could certainly improve their constructive criticism skills, the exchanges do provide an excellent opportunity for PBJ to demonstrate his ability to deal with difficult and challenging situations skilfully, professionally, swiftly and honestly.My confidence in PBJ, as both a person and in the role of CEO of this company, is growing with every post and hence so is my confidence in the investment I have made to date.Rannici - Would you be willing to take a short position on the PBJ share with me providing the counter position ? What would your terms be ? "When I tell friends and family about bitcoin they're keen but then they ask how they can get some. This makes it simple. Very simple. No? WHat am I missing?"ATMs are a great idea but something that they can use right now is textcoin.co.uk.My friends/family are completely used to the concept of buying something through an SMS text message, like ringtones etc ... so the transition to buying Bitcoin using this method is simple and painless.The premium (almost entirely due to the 25% that SMS gateway processor company charge) is unfortunately the inevitable cost of the convenience.Some have stuck with textcoin.co.uk for buying BTC and others have moved to other exchange methods.I think more services like this one, across the world, will be a significant driver of mainstream adoption of Bitcoin. I thought the same and wondered if I had missed something.Maybe Centimine is buying back? What would you recommend investing in instead? Possibly, I haven't yet used this service, so I won't comment on it's quality, but try getting the service from Amazon anonymously and paying in Bitcoin.For Bitcoin businesses, the more costs they can meet through Bitcoin the better and the lower the volatility of Bitcoin price as a result. I think Nerfario is quite right with the approach he is taking.Far too many of the currently listed companies provide no financial reports whatsoever and communicate monthly or less.This is ludicrous.How many hours do you think the CEOs of these companies are putting in ? What hourly rate are you therefore paying them via your investments ?When GLBSE was first launched and during the following months, I was happy reward these new CEOs with investments that I wouldn't even consider in the "fiat world" ... I considered I was investing in the long term future of GLBSE, the businesses and the wider Bitcoin project - encouraging them all.Personally, that grace period is now over. Now I've realised what the problem is ...You are assuming the only use people would put "remote GPU use contracts" to is mining Bitcoins ... there are numerous uses for GPU clusters - Bitcoin mining is just a tiny fraction of what people are doing with GPU clusters.Take a look at the OpenCL and OpenGL projects.If I only needed a GPU cluster for a couple of hours in total, I would definitely consider making use of something like this, at the right price.Perhaps OptimalBitcoin would like to reply with how the machine specs available at $1.50/hour compare to the equivalent provided by Amazon in terms other than Bitcoin mining performance ..."Cluster GPU Quadruple Extra Large 22 GB memory, 33.5 EC2 Compute Units, 2 x NVIDIA Tesla Fermi M2050 GPUs, 1690 GB of local instance storage, 64-bit platform, 10 Gigabit Ethernet"You also have the benefit that you can pay for these in Bitcoin ... I could easily see a Bitcoin business formed around using these in a "on-demand" fashion for something like an online video encoding service for example.OptimalBitcoin might also want to consider further time/money investment in promotion/advertising of these "remote GPU use contracts". Is this something only the asset creator can do ?I'm not sure why I am even considering doing this myself, given Tawsix is getting 50% of the profits, as compensation for doing exactly this stuff but I thought I'd ask nonetheless. In light of recent events, I, as an investor, want to be able to accurately value this company. The base value is formed from the value of it's assets - you and the mining machines.As part of the work for your compensation this week I ask again that you produce a detailed financial record, in the form of a spreadsheet detailing all company assets and make this available to all shareholders.I don't want to hear anything about 'business confidentiality' at this stage I am deciding whether I remove my investment from this business.You have one week to produce this.I will be calling for a vote if this deadline is not met. Have you looked at http://bidbitcoins.com and http://www.biddingpond.com ? The difference I would expect in such an arrangement, is that the BTC deposited into the "savings account" would not be at risk (beyond the risk that the bank fails completely and becomes bankrupt / insolvent OR the owners vanish with all the money) ... whereas the share price could easily be below that at which I bought when I need to sell (equivalent to withdrawing my savings from my savings account).Once IBB is of a sufficient size, I could easily see them offering, if the religious restrictions permit it, such a savings account which pays a much lower interest than the dividends (e.g. 10% of what you would receive as dividends from an equivalent amount invested in the IBB shares) with the savings deposited (equivalent to capital invested in shares) not being at risk at all.You can get exactly the same level of risk vs reward by investing just 10% of the amount you would have deposited as savings into the IBB shares. As previous posts seem to indicate that unrented GPUs are mining rather than switched off / idle - they are getting a return at all times ...Let us be generous and assume 3 x 5830 GPU gives 1000 MHash/s ... that's ~0.6BTC / day (at current difficulty of 1805700.8361937), so ~$6.60/day (at $11 USD/BTC).The current quote for the "remote GPU use contracts" is $1.50/hr for those 3 x 5830 GPU, so $36/day.Whenever there is an offer for "remote GPU use contract" that is greater than ~$0.46/hr, it makes more sense to stop the mining and have them work on the "remote GPU use contract". Fair enough.I have one simple question. Who owns bitcoin.org.uk and the forum operating on it ? It is a response to a request to allow a thread that was off topiced to get back on topic without the above discussion impacting it.Please feel free to ignore this thread completely - I expect it only to be of significant interest to those who have been quoted, if at all.
 New thread for this off topic discussion - https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=37458.0The following messages should be moderated out of this thread - they have been quoted in the first post of the new thread (I have sent a PM to the moderator) ...https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg451427#msg451427https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg451480#msg451480https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg451574#msg451574https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg451794#msg451794https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg451955#msg451955https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg452166#msg452166https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg452832#msg452832https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg453162#msg453162https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg453381#msg453381https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg453672#msg453672https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg454288#msg454288https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg454351#msg454351https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg454432#msg454432https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455137#msg455137https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455266#msg455266https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455293#msg455293https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455309#msg455309https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455363#msg455363https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455542#msg455542https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455776#msg455776https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455852#msg455852https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg455980#msg455980https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg456007#msg456007https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg456061#msg456061https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg456670#msg456670https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg456841#msg456841https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg457916#msg457916https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg458966#msg458966https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg458996#msg458996https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg459321#msg459321https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg459332#msg459332https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=8167.msg459540#msg459540 NetTecture ...Why are you so determined to undermine the efforts of others?So far you have come across as an insulting and angry person.I suspect that either you feel threatened by the competition one or more of the GLBSE listed companies represent or your own Bitcoin related business has already failed and feel they are responsible in some way.If you have no intention of investing in SIN then kindly leave the thread so that others who want to / have can conduct our business in peace.We are not children and are more than aware of the risks we take by investing.Start your own thread if you want. I'll happily debate this stuff with you. Went right over my head I'm afraid - too young ;O) ... Google informed me - http://www.ibras.dk/montypython/episode25.htm Nope, not at all. I merely thought that, as an apparently fellow open-minded person with regards to economics / finance, you might enjoy reading/debating on a forum that has a greater focus in those areas too.I am starting to re-consider my support for the concept of "interest" and explore other solutions to the issues it seeks to address - hence my support for and investment in IBB. I'm interested. I'd also like to offer my services as a tester. I have a strong background in all aspects of testing.  If you aren't on it already, head over to housepricecrash.co.uk. The forums there are very rich for those looking to expand their understanding of economics and current affairs relating to it.I am often there, though post only infrequently (PatientlyWaiting).As with any forum there are some "more curious" posters but we learn to live with them ;O) No I lied completely.http://www.telegraph.co.uk/earth/energy/nuclearpower/8630832/Energy-prices-without-reform-well-all-be-in-the-dark.htmlThe "big 6" have posted record profit increases throughout, whilst simultaneously chronically under-investing in the infrastructure and raising the prices they charge by 3-4 times RPI every year.The latest price rise was for electricity and was 16-18%. These rises are now impeding the ability of the UK to recovery from recession and leading the latest increases in the RPI figures.It is classic short-termism. The Government generates no wealth whatsoever.It is funded 100% through taxation - either direct taxation of the wealth of individuals or the indirect taxation of the wealth of individuals by the taxation of private sector businesses - which increases the price individuals have to pay for goods and services. In this specific case, the UK energy suppliers are now charging everyone more for the energy they use to cover the costs of the tariffs which the UK Government have required they pay - without such tariffs everyone would be paying less for the energy they use.Anything you get "free" from the government has been paid for through taxation of individuals.Thus, this is merely a tax rebate for those fortunate enough to be in the position to install solar power generation equipment - owners of land - specifically those with buildings that have south facing roofs.It is distributing wealth away from the poor to the rich.That said, I currently support the move away from a reliance on fossil fuels for energy generation. You don't state timezone that is applicable for the listed times on the bitcoin book. Use case - international users who have no idea what country you operate in. I don't see any book for bitcoin, which is what brought me to this thread. Clicking the boldened Bitcoin link (which links to http://67.23.248.86/viewevents.php?leagueid=8) gives a 404 error.Circled(ish) in red here ...I'm not logged in to any account and have not yet created an account. Use case is - new potential user browsing to see what odds are available. Ignore it then mate.Could be owner of a competitive GLBSE company / competitive miner trying to put you off continuing, someone who made a mistake converting from BTC to the values used in GLBSE ...Personally, I think the price of 0.11 BTC / share is reasonable enough at $1.5 / £0.90 a.t.m.Grow slowly and organically from utilising the income share sales at that price brings, report strong results and pay good dividends (all of which grows trust) and the remainder of the issued shares will sell in time.How long were you expecting it would take to sell the 22050 shares at 0.11 BTC - 0.12 BTC ?How much BTC are you aiming to raise from selling the 22050 shares ?I may be in the market for VPS soon. What spec at what price per month are you thinking of offering ?  Do you mean the bid (1 @ 420000) or ask (100 @ 10900000) ?ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-client$ ./bmc.py depth PBJEnter passphrase: bids --:-- [[1, 420000]]asks --:-- [[100, 10900000], [46, 11000000]] Bump - I'm toying with the idea of porting to some of the other gadget frameworks. If I get 5 votes for any particular gadget framework (e.g. Windows Sidebar) - I'll port to that too. Absolutely. As stated that is a calculation based on all previous difficulty changes.You might find this useful - http://www.google.com/ig/directory?url=pastehtml.com/view/b1cx89lyr.htmlAs you can see, only the last 3 difficulty changes are significantly statistically different from the historical average.I might well add a drop down next to difficulty change textbox, covering the options from the gadget, if there is sufficient demand for it. Bump Thank you for your responses Michael.I have made a modest investment of 10 shares.I look forward to making further investment over the coming weeks as PBJ develops. Something which does puzzle me still is the chain presented to web browsers (I've checked with Chrome and Firefox) is as follows ...server certificate ...Subject : CN = glbse.com, OU = Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R), OU = See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11, OU = GT03597358, O = glbse.com, C = IE, serialNumber = ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ijIssuer : CN = RapidSSL CA, O = GeoTrust, Inc., C = USintermediate certificate ...Subject : CN = RapidSSL CA, O = GeoTrust, Inc., C = USIssuer : CN = GeoTrust Global CA, O = GeoTrust Inc., C = USroot certificate ...Subject : CN = GeoTrust Global CA, O = GeoTrust Inc., C = USIssuer : CN = GeoTrust Global CA, O = GeoTrust Inc., C = US... and that appears trusted by them. However, that isn't the chain presented to openssl and gnutls - is this because they are negotiating differently from the browsers ?I note that the chains presented to web browsers for https://encrypted.google.com and https://login.yahoo.com matches the chains presented to openssl and gnutls. Weird. Seconded.One step at a time ;O)I think it is just the twitter feed which is unsecured. Should just be a case of replacing the http://search.twitter.com URLs with https://search.twitter.comLink to the Market Charts might also be a problem. I'd need access to the server itself to test.
The web client is fine for humans, but I am developing applications to extend GLBSE functionality and utilise it as a backend for other services - so verification that those applications are really talking to the server they expect to be is very important. I went checking on RapidSSL site for the relevant intermediate CA certificate and found an "installation checker" ... https://knowledge.rapidssl.com/support/ssl-certificate-support/index?page=content&id=SO9556If you test glbse.com with that "installation checker", it confirms there is an invalid chain and details what resolution is required - you actually just need to replace your current intermediate certificate 1 with the one they provide in the report.Download the required certificate from here - https://knowledge.rapidssl.com/library/VERISIGN/ALL_OTHER/David%20A./Rapidssl/Secondary%20Intermediate.txtI had problems just copying and pasting from that text box of the "installation checker".Your chain will then be ...server certificate ...subject `serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij,C=IE,O=glbse.com,OU=GT03597358,OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11,OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R),CN=glbse.com'issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust\, Inc.,CN=RapidSSL CA'intermediate certificate 1 ...subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust\, Inc.,CN=RapidSSL CA'issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,CN=GeoTrust Global CA'intermediate certificate 2 ...subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,CN=GeoTrust Global CA'issuer `C=US,O=Equifax,OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authority'Give me a yell once you've done that and I test it out for you. Or Yahoo, with a longer chain ...ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/new_test/black-market-client$ openssl s_client -CAfile /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt -connect login.yahoo.com:443CONNECTED(00000003)depth=3 /C=US/O=GTE Corporation/OU=GTE CyberTrust Solutions, Inc./CN=GTE CyberTrust Global Rootverify return:1depth=2 /C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance EV Root CAverify return:1depth=1 /C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance CA-3verify return:1depth=0 /C=US/ST=CA/L=Sunnyvale/O=Yahoo! Inc./CN=login.yahoo.comverify return:1---Certificate chain 0 s:/C=US/ST=CA/L=Sunnyvale/O=Yahoo! Inc./CN=login.yahoo.com   i:/C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance CA-3 1 s:/C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance CA-3   i:/C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance EV Root CA 2 s:/C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance EV Root CA   i:/C=US/O=GTE Corporation/OU=GTE CyberTrust Solutions, Inc./CN=GTE CyberTrust Global Root---Server certificate-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----subject=/C=US/ST=CA/L=Sunnyvale/O=Yahoo! Inc./CN=login.yahoo.comissuer=/C=US/O=DigiCert Inc/OU=www.digicert.com/CN=DigiCert High Assurance CA-3---No client certificate CA names sent---SSL handshake has read 4474 bytes and written 319 bytes---New, TLSv1/SSLv3, Cipher is AES256-SHAServer public key is 1024 bitSecure Renegotiation IS supportedCompression: NONEExpansion: NONESSL-Session:    Protocol  : TLSv1    Cipher    : AES256-SHA    Session-ID:     Session-ID-ctx:     Master-Key: D8C808E8BCD16151231DFCEBC6AF1A8AACBA5B464AB5EB8DF5B7DF07C5E0BF7C1F42AF61328907B 8B2E94971760D3B35    Key-Arg   : None    Start Time: 1312129871    Timeout   : 300 (sec)    Verify return code: 0 (ok) Compare with Google ...ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/new_test/black-market-client$ openssl s_client -CAfile /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt -connect encrypted.google.com:443CONNECTED(00000003)depth=2 /C=US/O=Equifax/OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authorityverify return:1depth=1 /C=US/O=Google Inc/CN=Google Internet Authorityverify return:1depth=0 /C=US/ST=California/L=Mountain View/O=Google Inc/CN=*.google.comverify return:1---Certificate chain 0 s:/C=US/ST=California/L=Mountain View/O=Google Inc/CN=*.google.com   i:/C=US/O=Google Inc/CN=Google Internet Authority 1 s:/C=US/O=Google Inc/CN=Google Internet Authority   i:/C=US/O=Equifax/OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authority---Server certificate-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----subject=/C=US/ST=California/L=Mountain View/O=Google Inc/CN=*.google.comissuer=/C=US/O=Google Inc/CN=Google Internet Authority---No client certificate CA names sent---SSL handshake has read 2144 bytes and written 307 bytes---New, TLSv1/SSLv3, Cipher is RC4-SHAServer public key is 1024 bitSecure Renegotiation IS supportedCompression: NONEExpansion: NONESSL-Session:    Protocol  : TLSv1    Cipher    : RC4-SHA    Session-ID: 5269009FC24EF94B0C80BE4C78369CAC34793554D0E09C90F1F3FD4471DACCA9    Session-ID-ctx:     Master-Key: D2F3F86EF29FA4F2A8675476E3546664D85DD819542104AB6F861C590CCC48CD98F4F5131918902 05F80D7CC7284A295    Key-Arg   : None    Start Time: 1312129735    Timeout   : 300 (sec)    Verify return code: 0 (ok) Yep, the latest set of changes allow the client to work, without any verification of the SSL certificates.However, I am interested in getting SSL certificate verification in the client working again, as that is important, particularly for software for trading.I've spent some time researching and believe I have a reason for the problem ...pycurl utilises libgnutls. We can utilise gnutls-cli to check what's going on when GnuTLS is used to connect to glbse.com server ...ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/new_test/black-market-client$ gnutls-cli --x509cafile /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt glbse.comProcessed 142 CA certificate(s).Resolving 'glbse.com'...Connecting to '195.200.253.239:443'...- Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman parameters - Using prime: 1024 bits - Secret key: 1023 bits - Peer's public key: 1023 bits- Certificate type: X.509 - Got a certificate list of 3 certificates. - Certificate[0] info:  - subject `serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij,C=IE,O=glbse.com,OU=GT03597358,OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11,OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R),CN=glbse.com', issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust\, Inc.,CN=RapidSSL CA', RSA key 2048 bits, signed using RSA-SHA, activated `2011-07-26 20:43:11 UTC', expires `2012-07-28 13:33:05 UTC', SHA-1 fingerprint `06b65248bef97357fb9dfd648671261ee7f4ed9c' - Certificate[1] info:  - subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,OU=Domain Validated SSL,CN=GeoTrust DV SSL CA', issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,CN=GeoTrust Global CA', RSA key 2048 bits, signed using RSA-SHA, activated `2010-02-26 21:32:31 UTC', expires `2020-02-25 21:32:31 UTC', SHA-1 fingerprint `bae30b15dbb1544cf194d076b75b7bb9e3d6b760' - Certificate[2] info:  - subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,CN=GeoTrust Global CA', issuer `C=US,O=Equifax,OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authority', RSA key 2048 bits, signed using RSA-SHA, activated `2002-05-21 04:00:00 UTC', expires `2018-08-21 04:00:00 UTC', SHA-1 fingerprint `7359755c6df9a0abc3060bce369564c8ec4542a3'- The hostname in the certificate matches 'glbse.com'.- Peer's certificate is NOT trusted- Version: TLS1.0- Key Exchange: DHE-RSA- Cipher: AES-128-CBC- MAC: SHA1- Compression: NULL*** Verifying server certificate failed...This suggests the reason for the failure is a missing certificate in the chain presented by the glbse.com server.So chain presented as a result of negotiation for GnuTLS is as follows ...server certificate ...subject `serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij,C=IE,O=glbse.com,OU=GT03597358,OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11,OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R),CN=glbse.com'issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust\, Inc.,CN=RapidSSL CA'intermediate certificate 1 ...subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,OU=Domain Validated SSL,CN=GeoTrust DV SSL CA'issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,CN=GeoTrust Global CA'intermediate certificate 2 ...subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,CN=GeoTrust Global CA'issuer `C=US,O=Equifax,OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authority'So the chain is broken between the server certificate and intermediate certificate 1.I believe that if the certificate with ...subject `C=US,O=GeoTrust\, Inc.,CN=RapidSSL CA'issuer `C=US,O=GeoTrust Inc.,OU=Domain Validated SSL,CN=GeoTrust DV SSL CA'... is inserted into the presented chain between the server certificate and current intermediate certificate 1, then no additional certificates will need to be shipped with the client, as the `C=US,O=Equifax,OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authority' certificate is present in the "standard" ca certificate bundle provided with most OSes.This should just be a matter of configuration on the glbse.com server.Same result can be concluded from an equivalent command for openssl ...ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/new_test/black-market-client$ openssl s_client -CAfile /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt -connect glbse.com:443CONNECTED(00000003)depth=0 /serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij/C=IE/O=glbse.com/OU=GT03597358/OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11/OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R)/CN=glbse.comverify error:num=20:unable to get local issuer certificateverify return:1depth=0 /serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij/C=IE/O=glbse.com/OU=GT03597358/OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11/OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R)/CN=glbse.comverify error:num=27:certificate not trustedverify return:1depth=0 /serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij/C=IE/O=glbse.com/OU=GT03597358/OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11/OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R)/CN=glbse.comverify error:num=21:unable to verify the first certificateverify return:1---Certificate chain 0 s:/serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij/C=IE/O=glbse.com/OU=GT03597358/OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11/OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R)/CN=glbse.com   i:/C=US/O=GeoTrust, Inc./CN=RapidSSL CA 1 s:/C=US/O=GeoTrust Inc./OU=Domain Validated SSL/CN=GeoTrust DV SSL CA   i:/C=US/O=GeoTrust Inc./CN=GeoTrust Global CA 2 s:/C=US/O=GeoTrust Inc./CN=GeoTrust Global CA   i:/C=US/O=Equifax/OU=Equifax Secure Certificate Authority---Server certificate-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----subject=/serialNumber=ihbeLvU08wDc8R9L8WnCx/p8NSlr31ij/C=IE/O=glbse.com/OU=GT03597358/OU=See www.rapidssl.com/resources/cps (c)11/OU=Domain Control Validated - RapidSSL(R)/CN=glbse.comissuer=/C=US/O=GeoTrust, Inc./CN=RapidSSL CA---No client certificate CA names sent---SSL handshake has read 3840 bytes and written 319 bytes---New, TLSv1/SSLv3, Cipher is DHE-RSA-AES256-SHAServer public key is 2048 bitSecure Renegotiation IS supportedCompression: NONEExpansion: NONESSL-Session:    Protocol  : TLSv1    Cipher    : DHE-RSA-AES256-SHA    Session-ID: 811D3E85204DFA23243755401CB5D600C3B25F15369B1F82D1355AEF9A5BC38E    Session-ID-ctx:     Master-Key: 19C2F072E2A174ADD41A9164FB5AD9C1811001A8796B4A8BDC65A1CEE28C9C3D0F9832FF5677627 CC1F737CBDB5F11D5    Key-Arg   : None    Start Time: 1312129418    Timeout   : 300 (sec)    Verify return code: 21 (unable to verify the first certificate)Thoughts  Anyone else seeing the following error ? ...ben@ben-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-client$ ./bmc.py balanceEnter passphrase:Server error: server certificate verification failed. CAfile: server.crt CRLfile: none.This is with a fresh local clone of the git project, as per below. Thirded. Until I see sufficient hashrate for the investment I have made so far, I won't be making any further investment. Is your company floated / going to float on GLBSE ? Cuddlefish ...I'll give you a tip as well ... get researching the textcoin.co.uk threads and get marketing on / working with the textcoin.co.uk site ASAP - there is a significant synergy between the two companies which could be significantly profitable for both. Cuddlefish ...Latest trade occurred at 1 BTC / share - a significant drop.I think some improved "investor relations" is required - how about a monthly financial update and business review. I think such communication is essential particularly as a non-dividend paying share. Can we get an update on progress and financials (customer numbers, revenue, costs, profit) please ?Also, when can we expect a dividend payout ? I am potentially interested in buying more bonds, however, I need some financials from you ...How many customers have you had so far, what is the total revenue from them and what is the total profit ? I am certainly considering an investment.You appear to be aware of what is happening in mining at the moment and where it will / needs to go.You also seem to be aware that it can not be the only area of operation for a Bitcoin business and already have sensible plans for the future.Obviously, the level of risk I perceive will determine the amount of investment I am willing to make.So, some questions, as part of my DD, so that I may judge the risk here ...Is your real name Michael Smith as per the contract on GLBSE ?What other real life details are you willing to share to establish trust between yourself and your investors ?What other, if any, accounts do you own / have you owned on this forum ?What background do you have in IT ?What background do you have in providing IT services / products to customers ?You mention employees ... what is your current business, where is it based, what does it do and how long has it traded ?What previous businesses have you owned ?Please feel free not to answer any of these questions but bear in mind that investment will suffer accordingly. How is the website coming along ?I can see remnants of some site here through Google search - www.geoblip.pl/Default.aspx - but I am assuming that was just a development draft of some sort. Not considering ... I have.If you look at the current depth and trade history for Bond-RonGross on GLBSE, you will see the risk which others have attached to loaning to ripper234/Ron and see others already loaned too.PM me if you have any difficulties / questions on using GLBSE - I will be happy to guide you. I have updated BMC Tools to reflect this change ... http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=31174.msg394368 Updated mainly for change to bitcoin-history command output (dividend source was added) and to add comments & expand entries retrieved to 999999 in prep for bots.All links in first post current. I would hope OP would be negotiating a reduction in the 25% cut the phone companies are "stealing" as they expand in both size and country coverage - one of the main ways to maintain future competitive advantage and keep customer loyalty. Some investment in the other companies listed on GLBSE perhaps ...IBB looks like a good investment in terms of both benefits to the Bitcoin community and potential for profit.The company has already made investments in two other companies, which have listed on GLBSE (BO and BST).Both of these seem to have aims of earning wealth from effort, stimulating trade in Bitcoins.Mining had its place, in stimulating interest in Bitcoin in the earlier stages, but I think it is done now, time to build demand for Bitcoin rather than build the supply any further.Disclaimer - I am long IBB through GLBSE. I thought the mark up was a little high, but investigating the implementation, the SMS payment processor "behind the scenes" is taking 25% of every payment, and that is a low amount, there are plenty that demand 40% of every payment.This means that after they have taken their cut, comparing to britcoin.co.uk right now (£8.35 / 1 BTC), the OP is making a slight loss on the £5 / 0.45 BTC package ( ( 5 x 0.75 ) / 0.45 = 8.33) and making ( ( 1.50 x 0.75 ) / 0.1 = 11.25 which gives 11.25 / 8.35 = 1.34... = +34% ) on the £1.50 / 0.1 BTC and £3 / 0.2 BTC packages.That doesn't account for others costs of provision, website costs, development costs, maintenance costs ...For the simplicity, swiftness, accessibility and potential anonymity, I don't think that markup is unreasonably high.As it scales up I would expect the markup to fall and new competition from other providers of the same service.
I have developed a set of python scripts to complement the existing bmc.py script which forms part of the Black Market Client (BMC) command line tool for use with GLBSE.The project is available here ... https://github.com/bennywalsh/BMC-ToolsThe initial three scripts are available here ...     https://raw.github.com/bennywalsh/BMC-Tools/master/spread-asset-history.py     https://raw.github.com/bennywalsh/BMC-Tools/master/spread-bitcoin-history.py     https://raw.github.com/bennywalsh/BMC-Tools/master/spread-market-history.pyPlease raise issues with the scripts (bugs, feature requests etc ...) on the github site.I am intending to develop some scripts for automating BMC operations and possibly some trading bots in the future.I am also taking requests for scripts to enhance BMC further - let me know what you want.Details on BMC are available here ... https://gitorious.org/black-market/black-market-client Here is a bespoke version for you jackjack ... http://www.google.com/ig/directory?type=gadgets&url=pastehtml.com/view/b1esfeav7.htmlNo charge for the tailoring ;O) Just wow. I assume you just didn't bother to either look at the screenshot or view the gadget page.Please have the decency to remove your post.You can also remove the other similar posts you have put on other threads.This gadget presents the user with a set of calculations for the average change in difficulty for mining Bitcoin and utilises an entirely different backend servlet to achieve this.Please feel free to reuse my code and/or the backend servlet in whatever you want to do - it is running on a free Google App Engine account, so your usage won't cost me anything extra and if it furthers/improves/helps the Bitcoin community in some way, all the better.I merely fancied implementing a Google Gadget, as I had never done so before and decided to do something I thought might have a wider audience than just me, by expanding on the servlet code I had developed for my detailed calculator.Thanks Kermee and Klaus. I have developed a Bitcoin Average Difficulty Change Google Gadget for use on iGoogle, Blogger, etc.It is currently beta and will be further developed as user requests come in.Aim will be to maintain previous versions so users can stick with older versions if they dislike any particular change.Link to the Gadget in the Google directory ...http://www.google.com/ig/directory?type=gadgets&url=pastehtml.com/view/b1cx89lyr.htmlAll donations appreciated - 15KUzYQ2g7EJjTcEfY4dKe9JdQdM1cLSW1All feedback welcome. Definitely not the first bitcoin short - take a look at bitoption.org - site really needs an overhaul for usability but it allows shorting of bitcoin if that's your thing. Can we get an update on this please ? Excellent news. I have been very impressed with the company so far.I have doubled my investment from 10 to 20 shares. Not a massive amount but a significant vote of confidence from me, given my small BTC holdings :O)One suggestion I would like to make ...    Could you maintain a loan book through a Google Docs spreadsheet detailing;    borrower ID, loan type, loan amount, (for personal loans){ loan period, expected gratuity, actual gratuity, loan reason }, (for business loan){ business type, equity stake }If you have privacy concerns for the borrowers, then borrower ID can be just a number which is unique to that particular borrower.If you have commercial sensitivity concerns, perhaps share the document link through a motion on GLBSE rather than publicly here.I think this would be beneficial to investor confidence and help to stimulate further investment, as the loans are repaid and fantastic performance of the company is demonstrated.I am sure the details in the spreadsheet could be expanded - what would other investors like to see ? It is working at the moment. I based on this https://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=18485.0 and given the calculator is working on days ...I will re-adjust over the coming months.As ever this stuff is only ever going to be an estimate and I would far rather be pessimistic than give users high expectations. Cheers.Forgot that had a semicolon too - seems my versions of both Firefox and Chrome tolerate it not being there. Bump and request for feedback - either here or via bitcoindeveloperleague+bitcoindetailedcalculator@gmail.comReally impressed with the usage this is getting, hope you are all finding it useful.Should have some free time this weekend to implement some suggestions. No problem for me. I'm not in any rush - just wanted to make sure you were aware. The python client worked for an hour or so 8 hours back but now seems bust again. Has bitcoind crashed again ? We are certainly going to get a flush out of miners, if the difficulty keeps rising at the rate it is with little or no increase in USD/BTC rate.That said, those in strong positions (SIN company ) will be able to buy up all the equipment that miners giving up dump, on the market, driving down their costs of production.It will be survival of the fittest - those with BTC reserves and strong wills will live, the rest will die. The beauty (?) of capitalism.Mining is a tough business indeed. Maybe it is also pointless with such little demand for BTC.I think effort / resources / BTC would be much better invested in building BTC businesses and services, rather than mining yet more BTC - but short term greed prevails among the miners, who are basically only fighting each other, as always.Half the reason I created the calculator in my sig, was to try to inject some realism into those mining / considering mining - particularly through the mining contracts. Here is the HTML debug file it is still spewing ... https://docs.google.com/leaf?id=0B_IBpuiJ-K5FZDcyYTBiMmItNWQ1MS00MmRmLTljNGUtMWY2NjcxMDQ5ZmJi&hl=en_GB Updated to provide regularly updated exchange rate and additional calculations of total USD return, electricity usage, electricity cost, total profit ... Updated to provide an average difficulty change value which is regularly (it is actually every minute because I want to stress Google App Engine a little) calculated from all previous difficulties.Also ...Changed the interface to remove the scrolling problem.Added graph - how useful are these ?Added additional explanation text.I am happy with the precision and will actually be increasing it as time progresses - I reckon my prediction is quite a bit better than giszmo thinks.Keep the feedback coming all is useful, even the badly phrased stuff ;O) Python client still seems to be broken. You don't. Bug / design request has already been raised on the GitHub page for the project. Bump
Done. Here's a better calculator for those mining/thinking of mining or purchasing/thinking of purchasing mining contracts ...     http://bitcoindetailedcalculator.appspot.comRather than assume constant difficulty (as the http://www.alloscomp.com/bitcoin/calculator.php does) it adjusts for the current historic difficulty changes every 10 days for the number of days you request a report for.Original thread - http://forum.bitcoin.org/index.php?topic=27550.0 Done.You can find a Google App version of this calculator here : http://bitcoindetailedcalculator.appspot.com/Please let me know if you find any bugs or have any requests for improvements.Zodiac1233 - I have kept the donation address you specified. A cut of any donations would be much appreciated ;O) Lets see if I can make a Google App out of the source. Please do. The more users who can get benefit from them the better. My experience. HTC Magic ...App downloads and installs as quickly as most other apps.However, seems to take some time to download the compressed blockchain and needs to be left as the running app to do so.Checking through GitHub project I see these are all raised bar the download rate, which I guess is a result of every man and his dog currently trying to ;O)Will update once I've managed to receive and send - going to wait the the blockchain download to complete first. Needed to generate a spreadsheet from my various histories, so knocked up some python scripts to convert the existing (bmc.py 2.0) output to CSV format.Decided to bung them up on gitorious too ...     https://gitorious.org/bmctools/bmctools/blobs/raw/master/spread-asset-history.py     https://gitorious.org/bmctools/bmctools/blobs/raw/master/spread-bitcoin-history.py     https://gitorious.org/bmctools/bmctools/blobs/raw/master/spread-market-history.py     (Main - https://gitorious.org/bmctools)I'm sorting by Time for each of the histories currently, as that was most important to me. Very easy to adapt to sort by any of the other fields though.Any questions please ask.No comments on quality - I haven't used python for a long time and they are functional NOT pretty ;O) If you stated on the page that a JavaScript miner was attached to the page and why I doubt anyone would have an issue. Excellent. Another bug / design request - medium priority ...     For dividend entries in the history command, identify the share which is generating the dividend.This will make checking dividend payments much easier, particularly as the range of shares increases. Tawsix ...Until / if the GLBSE system reports where a dividend originated from, can you please place the following in the first post (keep the total payout to date value if you want - I realise that has impact too) ...     Date, Total Payout, Payout / shareThis makes it much easier to check that dividends have been received correctly into the GLBSE accounts.This isn't a trust issue with you, it is a necessary bit of admin, when everything is so beta still a.t.m. Much lower priority bugs / design requests ...     Sort the entries in the three history command responses by timestamp.     Display the timestamp in a "human readable" format. That seems to have fixed the problems with the three history commands.However, it had no impact on the DISHWARA order problem - I still get the incorrect error that the share is reserved. I can still place sell orders for the other assets I own.I am still unable to sell that last share and need to soon - obviously it is important to be able to sell shares when I need to :O)For some reason the share still appears to be reserved for some other order, but I definitely have no such order.Nefario ...     Can you investigate and tell me what order/transaction is reserving my share, as it is not one I have open ? That order/transaction needs to be cancelled and I assume only you can do so.     I have also tried transferring the share - I also get the incorrect error that the share is reserved.     Once this erroneous "lock" on the share is removed, I should hopefully be able to sell it finally ;O) Has the latest version of the command line client been posted here ? - https://gitorious.org/black-market/black-market-client/blobs/raw/master/bmc.pyThat still reports "bmc.py 2.0" as version.I am still having exactly the same problems with the bitcoin-history, asset-history and market-history commands.I am also still unable to place a sell order for my last DISHWARA share.Please see previous posts in this thread and PMs for all details.As I said, no html debug files are generated when re-producing either of these problems.Let me know what else you need. Vladimir ...Getting really disgusted by your profiteering from the Bitcoin community. At your prices you are already making an obscene margin. Now you swoop in like some vulture offering 75% of a fair value - by definition unfair. Go pick over someone else's carcass. Truely shameful.Please don't reply with some bullsh!t comparison to some rare alternative way to invest dollars which would have lossed everything. Reply with a comparison to mining using my own purchased kit, compared resell value of the kit, compare break even points, compare your prices with those of your competitors and justify the massive difference. No I have purchased 1 BTC worth for now.Unfortunately, I was a little late to the Bitcoin game ;O) I have made a modest purchase of IBB shares.I am looking forward to making further investments as I see the organisation develop.From a sociology perspective, it will be interesting to see what donations are made by those receiving the 0% loans.I hope we can help those in need.I hope we can help build many new Bitcoin businesses and innovations.To our future success ! How will the decisions on who to invest in, how much to invest and what equity stake to require, be made ? Will all such decisions be made through the motions system on GLBSE ? The more who adopt and utilise Bitcoin the less the problem of inflation represents - algorithmically produced inflation and deflation through attrition seems far better than inflation derived from a few central bank heads with control of the international money supply.From the description in the first post, Musharakah and Mudarabah seem suitable for our current predominately capitalist world. Thank you for your answers.If two people (A and B) asked for a loan of 5 BTC, identical in every way except that A had previously taken a loan of 5 BTC and paid back 5 BTC while B had previously taken a loan of 5 BTC and paid back 5.25 BTC - who would get the loan ?
As a non-muslim, I am unclear on these loans and the cultural/religious expectations/traditions ...Who are these loans intended for ?Could a "consumer" obtain a loan (e.g. I want a loan of 5 BTC to buy an iPod) ?What would the expected / average 'gratuity' be on such a loan ?Could an "entrepreneur" obtain a loan (e.g I want a loan of 5 BTC to bulk buy 250 apples which I will sell at a market this week)If the 250 apples sold for a total of 6 BTC (20% profit) at the market, what would the expected / average 'gratuity' be ?If the 1000 apples sold for a total of 5 BTC (0% profit/loss) at the market, what would the expected / average 'gratuity' be ?If the 250 apples sold for a total of 4 BTC (20% loss) at the market, what would the expected / average 'gratuity' be ?Could a "speculator" obtain a loan (e.g. I want a loan of 5 BTC to buy a set of classic vinyl Cliff Richard album which I expect to be able to sell for 6 BTC at the record fair I am going to tomorrow)If the set of records sold for 6 BTC (20% profit) at the record fair, what would the expected / average 'gratuity' be ?If the set of records sold for 5 BTC (0% profit/loss) at the record fair, what would the expected / average 'gratuity' be ?If the set of records sold for 4 BTC (20% loss)at the record fair, what would the expected / average 'gratuity' be ? Nefario - I also tried with a newly registered account and got exactly the same error with each of the three commands, suggesting either a problem with the bmc.py script and/or the system configuration.For reference, here are the system details ...     bob@bob-laptop2:~$ python --version     Python 2.6.5     bob@bob-laptop2:~$ uname -a     Linux bob-laptop2 2.6.32-32-generic-pae #62-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 20 22:10:33 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linux     bob@bob-laptop2:~$ lsb_release -a     No LSB modules are available.     Distributor ID:   Ubuntu     Description:      Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS     Release:      10.04     Codename:      lucid Tawsix ...How many rigs can the electrical supply support and how many rigs can be cooled using the cooling methods currently being employed ?Pictures of the current set of rigs and the space itself would be very encouraging to new investment too. All sounds good Tawsix. I look forward to the first report.Given the purpose of the company, I understand this position and agree with it - there is value in the research that has been performed by Tawsix while "employed" by the company.However, in lieu, I think it necessary that an estimate for the value of these assets be stated in each report.Shareholders need and deserve to know the $ value of the hardware assets of the company, which could be liquidated tomorrow, if the worst was to happen (e.g. something akin to what has happened recently with DISHWARA), as per the proposed new contract. Tawsix ...I think it would be beneficial to record dividend payouts on the first post in this thread, updating in the same way you are for the hash rate.It will be very helpful in encouraging further investment / new investors. Agreed.I still want to see a Finance Sheet as per that provided by UBX (but also including dates for each entry)The Asset List shareholders appear to now be requesting would then by compilable from the Finance Sheet.For me personally, the Asset List is a significant input to the assessment of the value of the company and hence each share (particularly mining companies) and is a key differentiator between the SIN shares and shares in mining contracts (e.g. CM400).A link to a Google Docs spreadsheet shared on a "if you have the URL" basis rather than fully public could easily be provided to shareholders via a "mock" motion on GLBSE. The Finance Sheet is still missing dates for the transactions too. I am looking at making further investment in UBX. Some company performance information will be helpful ...     Where can I see the statistics on user base growth over time, usage figures over time, etc ... ?     What are your thoughts on changing the listing fee to a % of the BTC being sold rather than the flat 0.5 BTC on the Ubitex site ?          Looking at the order books of the various exchange sites, I suspect such a high relative charge is dissuading users from utilising the site.     What are your short, medium and long term plans for marketing and development of the Ubitex site ?     What are your short, medium and long term plans for Ubitex Music ?     Where can we view latest development version of the Ubitex Music Client ?     What other projects are in the pipeline for Ubitex ?     When can we expect the next dividend payment on the UBX shares ?Please communicate the link(s) / content via a "mock" motion on GLBSE, if you prefer not to post such commercially sensitive info in public.Also, the Finance Sheet needs fixing - the balance column is incorrect from cell D13 down. I am also having a problem making a sell order for the last of one of my shares. I would like to know if anyone else has encountered anything similar ...I own X shares of asset Y.I can successfully place a sell order for X-1 shares of asset Y.When I attempt to place a sell order for the last share of asset Y, I get the following error message ...     bob@bob-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-black-market-client$ ./bmc.py sell 1 <asset-name> 9999999999     Enter passphrase:     Problem: You do not have enough unreserved assets to make this order, please cancel another order to allowSeems to be specifically limited to my shares in asset Y, as I can successfully place sell orders for my full quantity of shares in other assets. Attempts to place further sell orders then give the above error message, as would be expected.I guess a problem with the reservation logic. However, I have been juggling a couple of accounts and transferring assets between them, so maybe the state of this particular account is less common than "normal".Nefario - I will PM you with the user id, specific share, order and quantity details - I don't want to take on any risks by publishing private details in public. Is anyone else seeing a problem with the bitcoin-history, asset-history and market-history commands on the 2.0 version of the bmc.py client ? No html files were generated. Couple of bugs to report for the new Python client ...--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------bob@bob-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-black-market-client$ ./bmc.py bitcoin-historyEnter passphrase:Traceback (most recent call last):  File "./bmc.py", line 388, in <module>    app.run()  File "./bmc.py", line 368, in run    self.branch(args)  File "./bmc.py", line 359, in branch    return getattr(self, args.command)(args)  File "./bmc.py", line 262, in bitcoin_history    ret = self.request('history/bitcoin',{'entries':args.entries})AttributeError: 'Namespace' object has no attribute 'entries'bob@bob-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-black-market-client$ ./bmc.py asset-historyEnter passphrase:Traceback (most recent call last):  File "./bmc.py", line 388, in <module>    app.run()  File "./bmc.py", line 368, in run    self.branch(args)  File "./bmc.py", line 359, in branch    return getattr(self, args.command)(args)  File "./bmc.py", line 271, in asset_history    ret = self.request('history/assets',{'entries':args.entries})AttributeError: 'Namespace' object has no attribute 'entries'bob@bob-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-black-market-client$ ./bmc.py market-historyEnter passphrase:Traceback (most recent call last):  File "./bmc.py", line 388, in <module>    app.run()  File "./bmc.py", line 368, in run    self.branch(args)  File "./bmc.py", line 359, in branch    return getattr(self, args.command)(args)  File "./bmc.py", line 279, in market_history    ret = self.request('history/market',{'entries':args.entries})AttributeError: 'Namespace' object has no attribute 'entries'bob@bob-laptop2:~/bitcoin_stuff/bmc/black-market-black-market-client$ ./bmc.py --versionbmc.py 2.0--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Let me know if you need any more info. Interesting idea and very creative - I like it.Quick questions ...What would be the cost of delivery of the coins ? Is it free and paid for from the 5 free shares you would take ? What about international customers ?(I'm assuming you are proposing that the "company" merely represents a fund raising exercise rather than an asset-holding company)Trust and reputation. As ever in Bitcoin, these are worth more than the Bitcoins themselves ;O)Beyond your activity on this forum what trust/reputation have you built outside the forum ? dishwara - once the GLBSE exchange is back up, I suggest you sign a piece of text (perhaps the content of the last two posts) using the private key that pairs with the public key which was placed in the contract.xml file placed on GLBSE.This will confirm to all shareholders the content of the last two posts came from the CEO of the company DISHWARA, as listed on GLBSE.Rather than, for example, some person who has managed to acquire access to the account of the user dishwara on this forum. Maybe you should ;O)Apologies if I have offended.I am trying to calculate my "steady and predictable BTC income stream" and doing my due diligence on the historical, medium term and short term difficulty changes, before I go ahead with an investment.PS : Don't knock the mathematicians, they are the only reason Bitcoin exists after all ;O) Me too. I'm looking at these contracts and got all confused ...I'm trying to work out what my expected total BTC payout would be from a 4 month 1 GHPS contract.I understand the difficulty changes every 14 days. Is there somewhere I can get the historic changes in the difficulty ?If I can find that figure and assume I got to keep the rig for ever, I can use the sum to infinity calculation as follows, right ? ...     1 / ( 1 - ( 1 / ( 1 + difficulty change ) ) ) x 14 (days of each period) x 1.15 (current daily payout from 1 GHPS) =  total BTC payoutLet's assume for now that it is high (10%) that would give ...     1 / ( 1 - ( 1 / ( 1 + 0.1 ) ) ) x 14 X 1.15 = 11 x 14 x 1.15 = 177.1 BTCSo that's £1760 / 177.1 BTC = £9.94 / BTC at least (as I'll only have the 1 GHPS for the 4 months rather than forever)Is 10% a safe estimate for the difficulty increase ? Thank you for your answers. Much appreciated.I now own 500 shares. Further bigger investment very likely when the first dividend is paid out.I look forward to making our company one of the best in the Bitcoin community. When can we expect the prices for each 200 MHPS to be adjusted to reflect the last set of changes in difficulty ?Will the prices be updated for each subsequent difficulty change ?At the current $500 / 200 MHPS they appear to be a very expensive way of obtaining BTC.Why would I not just purchase the BTC at the exchanges ? What does taking one of these mining contracts provide over that ?I am interested in investing in these mining contracts, but either the price for each 200 MHPS needs to fall considerably OR the MHPS for each $500 needs to increase considerably. I am tempted by this, however, I have a few questions before I invest. I think these results from these will also help to encourage others to make an investment ...     You mentioned USD investors in the initial thread, which I am assuming are the two investors you mentioned here.     What assets/cash does the company currently hold as a result of the funds raised from these two investors ?     You mention "The backing is the equipment, money, and labor i already have invested." for the 51% of the shares you own.     What assets/cash does the company currently hold as a result of this ?     What liabilities does the company currently hold ? You mentioned debt earlier - are there any as of now ? What the retainer arrangement with the programmer ?     I am not clear on your plans for the websites bitcoinbux.com and betterbitcoinbureau.info.     Can you put together a business plan covering what you intend to do with these ?     How do you plan to bring income into the company through these sites ? Please ensure this includes projected user growth figures and revenues.     I am more clear on the mining side of the company but it would also be extremely helpful to have that documented in the business plan too.     Please include plans for how you intend to deal longer term with the move from GPUs to hardware designed specifically to mine Bitcoins.     Are the websites bitcoinbux.com and betterbitcoinbureau.info owned by the company now ?     I am uncomfortable with the two USD investors having greater control (29%) than the other shareholders excluding yourself (20%).     I think this is particularly important as the during the initial stages of the company a lot of decisions will need to be made through votes and you have already stated they     do not understand Bitcoin - something I personally feel essential for such large owners of a Bitcoin company. How could you change this situation before 12/31/2011 as I     feel that will act as a significant drag to investor takeup ?
No probs :O)I've been developing software for 10+ years. Lots of software test experience.If you would like me to assess anything else before making it live just PM me.I might accept payment in UBX shares ;O) Spelling and style corrections ...     On the My Profile page ...          Recieve should be Receive          Btc should be BTC - that form of capitalisation appears to have become the standard throughout the forums and other businesses/sites.Suggestions ...     The Location entry on the My Profile page needs improvement.          At the moment the defaulted location is in longitude, latitude format. This is not particularly useful to users.          At the moment I appear to be able to type anything in the text box and save my profile. There is no feedback to the user what the entered value has been          interpreted as.               Display a world map with a pin identifying the current value for location and let them choose from that. Then once they have chosen record internally as               longitude, latitude.          Expand the "Btc addr:" text box to display the complete address rather than just the first part of the value the user has entered.     Add as many additional social network interaction links to the Get Social section of the Discuss the Order page as possible.          We need to get the order book bursting with orders as soon as possible. Without the critical mass the site / business will not take off. I think that section is a          very good way of easily allowing users to promote their orders but it needs expansion. Research the http://www.addthis.com widgets and identify whether          that is the most useful and swift way of achieving the aims of the "Get Social" section. With regard to the last entry, can you maintain a USD balance on the Finance Sheet as well as the BTC one please.I fully understand the reasoning behind buying and selling Bitcoins, given so many of the operating costs of the company are in USD.However, personally, I would rather, as a Bitcoin company, we take the risk of maintaining the strength of the Bitcoin - if every Bitcoin company sold all their Bitcoins tomorrow, then the supply would flood the demand, crashing the currency completely. I'm certainly interested in investing. I am eagerly awaiting the detailed letter you mentioned. 100% agree with Nefario on this.The shareholders own the company - this includes the "computing power" and much much more. Reinvested my dividends too. Very happy with the achievements of our company thus far. Simple put options to reduce/eliminate exchange rate risk is a world away from CDOs, MBSs, CDSs and the bailouts of those issuing/holding them, resulting in socialised losses and privatised profits.Those exachange rate related put options have been around since the first traders set sail for foreign shores. Together, bitoption.org (which allows for shorting of BTC). members who sell "put options" on this forum, and similar activities, should bring about a reduction in volatility over the coming months.You could even participate yourself in bringing about some of the stability you desire, by buying put options and paying the relevant premium in BTCs, to reduce / remove exchange rate risk. See the bitoption.org FAQ. You could pass on the premium you are charged for this in the BTC price you charge to your customers, allowing them to decide whether the higher price is worth the benefits they get from paying using BTC.Otherwise, I think we either just have to accept that the price discovery phase is continuing in the market, together with the volatility that comes with that or do as emugoo suggests, potentially choking the growth in use of Bitcoins. To be frank, we, as shareholders, should already know the answer to whether the hardware has already been paid for in USDs through the sale of BTCs.A "Finance Sheet" as produced and maintained by the CEO of UBX ...https://spreadsheets1.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?authkey=CI7mlYUF&hl=en&key=tzRaH8DOs49Pbvg3h2NMXNw&hl=en&authkey=CI7mlYUF#gid=0... for DISHWARA would certainly improve the likelihood of further investment from me and, I suspect, others too.Ideally, I would also like to see dates added for each entry too - something I have requested as a shareholder in UBX too.The CM400 asset "owner" maintains an excellent equivalent here ...https://spreadsheets2.google.com/spreadsheet/ccc?authkey=CN3s45YH&key=tPbfdCrHmt_YDG3wo1c_92A&authkey=CN3s45YH#gid=0... though, at this stage, the expected return on an investment of 0.01 BTC, means I have only acquired a token number of those, more as an encouragement to create similar assets in the future and test Nefario's GLBSE system further. Thanks for the update on that Nefario. Set up Notifications for your account here on this and similar threads for shares you have invested in - saves any laborious manual checking of threads.Alerts to announcements made through GLBSE can then been posted here - thus only shareholders have access to the information, until it is shared publicly by posting the content here - something I think only Tawsix should ever do, for such information.Responses to the announcements made through GLBSE should be made via PM to Tawsix (or other similar private method).That said, I am actually a little apprehensive about the private communication to existing shareholders ...Does it not rather go against the "Highly transparent" commitment of our company, stated in the Youtube presentation.As a publicly traded company, I would hope we wouldn't want any "insider trading" or similar. I am currently a shareholder.Three things are currently preventing me from making any further investment ...(1) The lack of any Finance Sheet for the SIN stock - see and for two excellent examples for UBX and CM400 respectively.(2) The lack of any dividend payout or dividend schedule. There was previous discussion of monthly and then daily dividend payouts. What's the latest on this ?(3) The lack of any SLA as highlighted by padrino.Take this as intended - constructive criticism. I have already invested - I am happy with the achievements of our company and the risks I can ascertain thus far.What I hope, is that with these three issues resolved, we can increase the confidence of potential investors and for potential further investment by existing shareholders.This will get the remaining IPO shares sold and hopefully put some upward pressure on the share price, as the actual and perceived value of our company grows. I would like to make a request, as a shareholder ... could you please add dates to the Finance Sheet ? Yep. Until there is a specific function from GLBSE let's go with a mock motion and have an alert to the mock motion posted here. Hope Nefarious is going to start rewarding us for these development ideas ;0) As an investor too I agree. How to achieve though? So I'm now a shareholder.Someone earlier in the thread mentioned a "Finance Sheet". Where can I get access to that ? All orders on GLBSE (bid and ask) were cancelled by developer of GLBSE, as a necessity for adding functionality to prevent "spam" orders.SIN asset owner will to to "re-sell" the shares they own, to get trading started again. PM sent. Thanks. Damn !!!I managed to overwrite my existing .blackmarket3.rsa when I was prepping to try the web client.What's the process for recovering the account it was attached to ?I know the user ID and the password. I can also state exactly what the current contents of the folio is. I can also tell you what the deposit address was.* Can I also get a bug raised to cover the python client shouldn't write the .blackmarket3.rsa file, if one already exists. * I am interested in investing in UBX stock.At the current 14 BTC / share, with 2000 shares issued, the company is now valued at 28000 BTC.Where can I find investor information ? Company development plans ? Financial statements ? Dividend announcements / dividend plans ?
