Not going to re-sell it ever.I really just don't want people thinking that I hacked it.  Quickseller's comment kind of insinuates that.  Timelord's feedback is much more appropriate because it comes with an explanation, not just a vague accusation that can easily be misinterpreted. It takes 20 seconds to re-adjust the feedback and make it more accurate.  I don't think it's too much to ask. Where would I get a signed message from?There are only 2 posts on this account and I don't see what value it would serve as I'm not going to pretend like I am the original owner. I am not.  I bought it. I didn't hack it.There was a sale thread.  I bought the account.  It is being used as a collectible/novelty account.  Users should not trade or trust this account.It could be that the original owner decided to come back and sell the account.  It could be that the seller hacked it, but that doesn't mean that I hacked it as your feedback seems to point towards.Why not just leave feedback that accurately portrays what has happened?Leaving "probably hacked" gives the wrong impression and the only damage that you are doing is to me.   This is speculation though and doesn't add any value to the feedback system.  It only taints the collectible (the account).It has 2 posts from the original owner which does not have any ties to any business, organization or anything that could be used to leverage the account pretending to be the original owner.I have no problem with what you're trying to do.  My only gripe is that you are focusing on a guessed hacking accusation from the seller instead of leaving feedback that accurately describes what has happened.I do not dispute that this is a bought account.  I am more than fine with people marking it red to warn users not to trust or trade with this account (as they should).  The guessing should be left out though. Hello.This account (UID=6) is the oldest regular account here on Bitcointalk.It was bought as a collector's item.It will never be used for any transactions and therefore I do not care if it's painted with red and in fact if it's not against the rules, I would encourage others to mark the account red as a bought collector's item that you should not trust or try to trade with.The only problem I have is the accusations that it's been a hacked account.  There is no sufficient proof for this and is only pure speculation. This account will never be used to trade, buy, sell, transact, or raise any bitcoin of any sort so it should not be tainted with speculated claims that doesn't even serve as a safety measure for other members.This feedback is absolutely fine: "Account being sold. Do not rely on age of account to equate to being trusted."Timelord2067 and Quickseller's feedback involving hacking accusations should be adjusted. Closed.  Bid noted. Thanks.  Ends in 9 hours  Noted.The BIN for this account is 0.15 BTC. Let me know if you'd like it now. If not, I'm going to sleep for 7 hours. I never use this so I figure why not try to sell it. No marketplace history so no point negging because the sale is public. This is just for collectors Starting bid: 0.001 BTC.MINIMUM INCREMENT: 0.005 BTCBin: none.Let's go mate >Good, however used computer farms can be cheap. I recommend considering FPGA based solutions. Please, i respectfully demand being appointed as a full member.You see, i am one of the oldest members. I saw the potential of bitcoin from the start, i stayed up restless in my bed in 2009, thinking of the libertarian utopia that would await us. And i made an account here. So it began. And i made topics. However, now i have unfortunately been subject to newbie treatment, which is perhaps unjust, i would recommend you reconsider this. solid ideas, too bad i have been subject to these, despite being the oldest member of the forum, and a loyal supporter of the bitcoin idea since the start. I assume you mean prices..  They deflate when hoarding happens, as does the money supply.And why would a deflationary currency be untrusted? Quite the opposite, i would trust it more than any inflationary alternative, regardless of the math behind the deflation rate, lol.  I think that since bitcoins primary utility will (at least for the forseeable future) be as a sort of underground currency like egold, for less-than legal activities like tax evasion and underground business rather than generic money substitute. As such, currency exchangers should cater to that crowd and offer anonymous bitcoin-dollar exchanges where the clients are..  People need to buy food and goods right? And more savings leads to lower interest rates, which incentivise people to borrow more and move toward interest rate equilibrium We would all be way richer and more developed in the present, had the inflationary meddling taken place in the last century. You see, high savings rates decrease real interest rates, which makes high order capital industry investments profitable, which otherwise wouldnt be due to their low return. These high order capital industries in turn make lower order industry and consumer goods cheaper, and lead to increased productivity.There will be monetary inflation and, monetary inflation causes interest rates to be below their market level, thus creating speculative bubbles and malinvestments as the resulting capital industri invesments arent supported by actual time preferences.MONETARY INFLATION = BUSINESS CYCLESBad idea mate, monetary inflation causes business cycles.Overall, a lotta ya'll would do good to brush up on some real economics, that is Austrian Economics. Rothbard's MES is a and thorough good start.http://mises.org/rothbard/mespm.PDF
